 The Process and Beneficiaries: From work intended principally to inform the scholarly community about the circumstances, physical survival and significance of Magna Carta, Vincent's enterprise has extended into a far wider attempt to disseminate knowledge amongst the general public, to advise government bodies (UK, Channel Islands and Australia) and national Archives (UK, USA and Australia), private business (Sotheby's) and individuals (not least the libraries, corporations, cathedrals and other institutions that own originals of Magna Carta or the Forest Charter).
The &#163;910,000 AHRC grant (&#163;350K to be spent by December 2013) is intended to broadcast these discoveries even further afield, bringing to light further new material on the reign of King John, on the circumstances and survival of Magna Carta, supplying information for the public and a forum for public discussion of perhaps the most important document in British history.
Not only have previously undiscovered Magna Cartas been brought to light (in Oxford, London and Faversham, widely reported in the international media), but the treatment of the document in the twentieth century, and its ongoing cultural, legal and political significance, have been spotlighted in a way not previously possible.
The public interest that this work excites is demonstrated in the regular coverage afforded it by national and international media.
One particularly widely reported incident involves Vincent's work on the 1300 Magna Carta belonging to the Faversham Town Council (see Sunday Times, 13 November 2011, http://www.thesundaytimes.co.uk/sto/news/uk_news/Society/article820351.ece).
This was previously insured for a mere &#163;10,000, but has now been revalued into the multi-millions, with an entire visitor centre proposed to house it, and a commemorative volume of essays commissioned in celebration.
In 2011, Vincent was able to demonstrate to the Baillis of both Guernsey and Jersey that Norman customary law, first written down c.1300, incorporates several elements borrowed from the 1225 Magna Carta.
In order to guard themselves against English statutory law, the modern Channel Islands and their offshore trusts claim the protection of the customs of medieval Normandy.
It is of no small legal and commercial significance to discover that these customs are themselves infused with the spirit and indeed the terminology of Magna Carta, the first and most important of English statutes.
The Impact/Benefits: Although the AHRC's 'Magna Carta Project' is still ongoing, the following impacts can already be claimed:  The New York sale realized $21.3 million: the highest price ever paid for a single sheet document, supplying some indication of the extent to which the document continues to command public awareness throughout the Anglophone world.
Vincent's catalogue, which was an integral part of the sale, supplied the first ever full census of Magna Carta manuscripts, including photographic copies and descriptions of all of the twenty or so surviving originals of the charters.
It has been followed by further consultancy work for Sotheby's and for other commercial operations within the field of rare books and manuscripts.
Wealth creation is merely one of the impact factors here.
Besides the very real commercial benefits to Sotheby's generated from Vincent's work, owners of Magna Carta manuscripts have for the first time been able to assess both the significance of their own documents, and the broader context against which those documents must be set.
Cultural capital is thus reinterpreted.
This has led, in the case of the Magna Cartas housed in Oxford and Faversham, to the far more elaborate display of such documents, and a far greater appreciation of their significance.
Tourism is stimulated.
As a result of his recognition as a leading expert in the field, Vincent has delivered many broadcasts and public lectures on Magna Carta, including Melvyn Bragg's In Our Time broadcast on Radio 4, and a much-visited podcast for the British Library.
This enhances the public sense of the past, both nationally and internationally.
The new translation of the 1225 Magna Carta that Vincent first published in his Sotheby's catalogue has since been adopted as the standard version supplied online to accompany publicity for the original Magna Cartas housed in the American National Archives in New York and the Australian Senate in Canberra.
Education is informed, and public bodies are encouraged to rethink the management of their resources.
Vincent's catalogue, his OUP Very Short Introduction, his booklet for the Australian Senate, and his other published works have led to his involvement in efforts by the Magna Carta Trust, chaired by Sir Robert Worcester, to co-ordinate celebrations and public awareness towards the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta.
Vincent sits on the academic committee of the Magna Carta Trust, intended to co-ordinate Parliamentary and other celebrations.
Policy makers are informed, at national government level, not just in the UK but elsewhere throughout the English-speaking world.
Journalists and the general public have answers to questions that were previously unanswerable (How many Magna Cartas are there, and where?
How many times was it reissued?
How does the physical artefact `Magna Carta' relate to the legal or constitutional principles it embodies?).
Vincent regularly answers media queries of this sort, and has advised at least a dozen production companies looking for television angles on the Magna Carta anniversary celebrations.
Lawyers, not least the Baillis of the States of Guernsey and Jersey (addressed by Vincent in 2010 and 2011 in St Peter Port and Cerisy), have access to new sources of information on one of the key documents in British constitutional history.
Vincent's AHRC project funds the work of three research assistants who together are not only supplying a major public data base and information resource assisting with the organization of a public exhibition and conference for the British Library, the principal focus of celebrations of the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta.
Under Vincent's supervision, they are also responsible for uncovering previously unknown information about King John, including nearly three hundred previously unprinted royal letters.
Some of this material has knowledge transfer potential, not least for what it tells us of royal beastliness or profiteering.
It is already beginning to appear in the public domain.
Vincent's principal research assistant (Dr Hugh Doherty) not only helped with the Sotheby's catalogue, and with ongoing work on King John, but was invited, on the back of his work with Magna Carta, to act as historical advisor to a Hollywood film - `Snow White and the Huntsman' - released in 2012 (in which he has a walk-one part as 'Archbishop', and whose gross box office takings are today in excess of $381 million).
This in turn led to an invitation to act as advisor to two other Hollywood productions, the Angelina Jolie film 'Malificent', and Kenneth Branagh's 'Cinderella', the last of these still in production.
Further such projects are in train.
In such ways has medieval expertise been brought to a vastly wider public.
Magna Carta and the reign of King John have enormous popular resonance.
The new information gathered about King John, his laws and his chancery are of long-lasting significance to the public as to the academic community.
They have both great reach and internationally recognized significance.
