 Liddiard and Sims' research on Britain's anti-invasion landscapes was chosen as a portfolio case study to promote `Virtual Past', a commercial venture specialising in the computer reconstruction of historic buildings and environments, set up by the School of History in collaboration with UEA's Computing School.
The ensuing `Walberswick Project', funded from within the School, focussed on the defence of the village of Walberswick in 1940 and its surrounding countryside.
The principal output was a visual showpiece project, made freely available via the web (thus far more than 100,000 `hits'), with four computer-generated animations, each showing a different aspect of Walberswick's wartime defences.
In order to enhance the user experience, separate sections of the website provided historical background and access to online original documents, maps and photographs.
The historical information on the website was entirely written by Liddiard.
A project education pack (http://www.walberswickww2.co.uk/teaching-pack/) for use with the National Curriculum Key Stage 2 was written by an education specialist, Dr Lesley Walker.
Volunteers from the Walberswick community assisted in the recording of standing buildings.
The construction and population of the website took place in the twelve months from February 2009, and generated sufficient material to make a launch possible in October that year.
The website launch coincided with a feature on Radio 4's Making History programme and press coverage by regional television and newspapers.
The project won a `Highly Commended' award, in the Best Representation of Archaeology in the Media category at the British Archaeological Awards 2010.
In the same year, Liddiard received a CUE East Community Engagement Award for the project's contribution to public engagement.
More significantly, international impact followed.
As a direct result of the Walberswick venture, Liddiard and the UEA School of History are now involved with the Province of Zeeland (Netherlands) and a consortium of partners from four European Union nations (Belgium, the Netherlands, France, and the UK).
These relationships led to a sustainable heritage project entitled `World War Two Heritage', and an major application to the EU Interreg IV Two Seas Programme for which Liddiard was the PI, an application that was in 2011, with matched funding totalling 4,209,180 euros awarded over three-years (INTERREG IV A 2 Seas Programme (7th Call) (Project Code: NL_WW2_Heritage) `World War Two Heritage.
Awarded 6.6.11).
This project also employed Sims as project researcher and provides an international basis for Second World War heritage tourism, promoting the shared history of the partner nations through cross-border co-operation in the development of tourist trails, visitor interpretation, published guides and web-based resources.
Further business has since flowed in to Liddiard and Virtual Past.
This includes a commission from the company Lyndsay Design on behalf of the Bishop's Palace Wells, Somerset, to create a digital model of the Palace through time (contract &#163;18,000).
This was part of a wider programme of enhancing visitor interpretation.
The completed model was delivered in September 2012.
A similar model was commissioned from Leeds Castle in Kent (contract &#163;69,000), completed in June 2013.
In 2012 Virtual Past successfully tendered for a contract to create digital models of six Norman castles (Caen, Colchester, Falaise, Hastings, Norwich, Rochester) as part of an EU-funded project (INTERREG IV A 2 Seas Programme) `Norman Castle Connections'.
Liddiard was instrumental in winning the bid and his expertise is being fed into the historical animations, for delivery in March 2014 (contract &#163;113,000).
Benefits  Walberswick has grown from a local history project supported by a website close to the world of computer gaming into a 4 million Euro Interregional IV project whose findings have been disseminated to an international audience and have been incorporated into cross-border visitor interpretation at a range of museums and public ventures across the North Sea region (see the Interregional IV website at http://www.worldwar2heritage.com/).
This funding has also facilitated the production of the infrastructure required for sustainable historic tourism, including display boards, podcasts, educational resources, and the training of guides.
The success of the Walberswick project has helped to ensure the commercial viability and ongoing success of UEA's School of History `Virtual Past' venture, in turn enabling a computer modeller (John Williams) to be employed on a permanent contract, with at least four further modellers employed for fixed-term contractual work.
The venture has so far generated nearly &#163;500K in outside sponsorship: a impressive example of wealth creation.
The Walberswick website offers a free, publically accessible online resource for the study of Second World War coastal defences, with world-wide reach.
To date, the website has been consulted on over 100,000 occasions by users in over 20 countries.
A measure of the website's impact has been the need to create an oral history section, which was not originally planned, in response to the enthusiastic response by members of the public with personal memories to share.
The user comments left on the site have been unanimously positive: `a fantastic resource', `great', `really informative', and other such plaudits.
The online education pack has been used by several schools from east London in preparation for year 5-6 fieldtrip to the area as part of Keystage 2 teaching, with Sims leading `war walks' of the area.
The project has delivered high-quality academic work on wartime archaeology to those bodies currently responsible for managing the region's biodiversity.
The results of academic work, together with supporting documentation, now inform the work of public policy-making bodies, including Natural England, The National Trust, and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, responsible for managing substantial sections of the Suffolk coast path, and the nationally significant bird reserve at Minsmere (see testimonials listed below).
Having begun as a very small speck on the local landscape, the Walberswick project has not only achieved international impact, but has made a major contribution to UEA's emergence as a centre for the study and exploitation of electronic resources in heritage and landscape archaeology.
European bids have followed, most notably those from Wells, Leeds Castle, and the consortium of castles in Kent and Normandy.
Virtual Past has been developed into a business that straddles the divide between commerce and scholarship, with substantial and growing annual turn-over.
Expertise first honed in the world of castles and the Norman Conquest has meanwhile had surprising but nonetheless mould-breaking relevance to the history of World War II.
