     The findings described in this case study of a new gene-nutrient       interaction involving riboflavin, a folate-metabolising gene and blood       pressure are innovative and novel.
Although of recent origin, the work has       begun to make sizeable impacts because of its benefits for both the       prevention and treatment of blood pressure in genetically predisposed       individuals.
These novel findings have not only led to important publications but also       the filing of a series of patent applications which have since granted in       Europe, China, Mexico and Eurasia with applications pending in the US and       Japan [1], both of which have important implications for       personalised nutrition.
Our initial papers in this area (notably McNulty         et al 2002) have had impacts in health and welfare and informed       dietary guidelines; at grass-roots level, our works have contributed       important evidence to the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition's       (SACN) 2006 report [3] and, further afield, the findings of McNulty         et al 2002 informed the Australian National Health and Medical       Research Council's Nutrient Reference Values, 2006).
[4].
Public awareness of the health benefits of riboflavin is constantly being       raised on a global scale.
Our publications (notably Wilson et al 2012)       have attracted considerable media coverage, from BBC News to German and       New Zealand radio stations [5].
Our most recent publication (Wilson         et al 2013) has already been captured on social networking site       Twitter [6].
Various websites, all of which promote new       developments in micronutrient research and are aimed at consumers,       healthcare professionals and policymakers, have reported the team's       research and include NUTRIFACTS, nutraingredients and talkingnutrition.dsm       [7].
Public engagement activity has gone beyond `business as usual' and key       investigators have been invited to deliver findings at prestigious       international events, hosted by major players in industry and healthcare       (e.g.
DSM Nutritional Products, Nestl&#233;, IADSA, World Hypertension League).
The focal point of such events is to promote treatments of       non-communicable diseases globally and translate them into policy.
Considering the major-risk posed by high blood pressure, evidence       indicates that disease prevention is being enhanced by our work.
The UK's       Blood Pressure Association ran a report, in a 2012 edition of Positive       Pressure Magazine [8], encouraging patients to take their       vitamins; this report was informed by the findings of Wilson et al         2012 and has already stimulated interest amongst patient-groups.
Innovation within the food industry is proving most significant; for       example, findings from Horigan et al 2010 were integrated into a       2010 Food for Thought article (a Netherlands-based magazine aimed at food       industry decision-makers) [9] and an invited article featured in a       2011 edition of AgroFood Industry HiTech [10].
It should be noted       that the patent licensing is currently under discussion with Nestl&#233;, the       world's leading food company [2].
Financial support (&#163;322K to       date) from DSM Nutritional Products Ltd., the world's leading ingredient       company, is facilitating the exploration of mechanisms and further work to       support the patent.
DSM's ongoing commitment to our novel discovery is       evidenced by a number of outputs over the last 2 years which include       regular press and web updates [11].
