     There are two strands to the impact of the research during the current       REF evaluation period.
The first is the continued impact of the project       undertaken for Trade Partners UK on Trade Development in the Eastern       Region (TPUK 2003).
This developed the internationalisation `Tool Box' for       SMEs and refined the development of the `Passport to Export'.
When EEDA       was disbanded in 2012, some of its functions were taken on by UKTI.
The       role of the UKTI is to work with UK-based businesses to ensure their       success in international markets, continues to use the `Tool Box', and the       `Passport to Export' programme remains an important part of their service.
Case studies on the UKTI website testify to the nature of this impact.
The second strand is manifest in a collaborative project on acCURAte       Business in the cure and care market (CURA-B).
On the strength of our       research on SMEs, internationalisation and regional development, in 2009       LAIBS was invited by Suffolk County Council to join an application to the       European Regional Development Fund for funding to enhance regional       economies through innovation and international trade in the healthcare       sector.
The outcome was the CURA-B project (2011-2014) involving 10       partners from regions that border the North Sea in the Netherlands,       Belgium, France and UK.
CURA-B's goal is improving trade and innovation in AT (i.e.
technologies       that support independent living for citizens who are ageing or have       chronic illnesses).
Its approach and composition were shaped by the body       of research on SME internationalisation by Mughan, Lloyd-Reason and       colleagues.
Specifically, the focus of the project is on improving       regional infrastructure through collaboration between regional development       agencies (i.e.
EEDA), local government (i.e.
Suffolk County Council),       health and social care providers and knowledge actors, including those who       are partners in the project.
We continue to bring our underpinning research to bear on the project's       practices through participating in the project management team.
Building       on insights and findings from our underpinning research, the project has       implemented ways to help SMEs in the AT sector to overcome the       considerable barriers to domestic and international trade.
These include       the establishment of regional networks, networking events and trials of       new technologies and services.
We have introduced the concepts of the       business model canvas, business-ecosystems and the triple helix to enable       non-academic partners to re-think the design and delivery of services and       support for internationalisation.
As a project partner, we also provide       coaching for the project's pilot studies, thereby demonstrating the value       of disinterested knowledge actors in regional support systems.
Through this project, our underpinning research has influenced the       approaches, practices and understanding of regional development agencies,       local authorities, and health and social care and SMEs, as follows:     As a direct result of participating in this project, two of the regional       development partners have set up new networks for cooperation and learning       between SMEs and health and social care providers, one of which is the       East of England Assistive Technologies Network (EEAT), established by the       NHS innovation hub Health Enterprise East.
In addition to regular network       events, EEAT has organized a `Dragons' Den' to meet the AT needs of       Suffolk County Council and identified 30 suitable SMEs to participate.
Positive feedback from SMEs testifies to the importance they attach to       this Network as a neutral space in which to meet healthcare and social       care providers.
These activities, including the Dragons Den event, will       continue after the project has finished.
Similarly, the economic       development agency N.V. Economische Impuls Zeeland has established the       Sant&#233; Zeeland network.
These networks, which will be sustained beyond the       end of the project (March 2014), would not have come into existence but       for the CURA-B project.
The project has thus had direct impacts on how       support agencies and HEIs engage with Assistive Technology SMEs in our own       and partner regions.
The work of bringing SMEs, providers and HEIs       together will also continue with a new &#8364;460,000 ERDF project, Biz-4-age,       on business opportunities in healthy aging and internationalization.
As a direct result of participation in this project, partners are       conducting trials of new technologies and services.
The regional       development agency of North West Flanders and VIVES University College       Bruges are working with an SME to assess the effects of innovative       `tunable white' lighting technology on dementia.
Bruges regional       development agency and VIVES University College Kortrijk are developing a       portal for non-medical services for the elderly, and the Zeeland regional       development agency is piloting the use of a UK test for the detection of       dementia.
A consortium of Zeelandic SMEs will also establish a number of       concept homes to stimulate innovation in the field of healthy ageing.
West       Suffolk Hospital is using `new to the UK' Bluetooth blood-sugar monitors       from the US.
In all of the above, the LAIBS project team is offering       coaching on business-model thinking and cost-benefit analysis, including,       for example, gathering evidence of the likely benefits of the blood-sugar       monitor to the NHS Trust.
Beyond the immediate project partners, the project is also having an       impact on SMEs through their participation in the trials, and in the       project's cross-border conference, who testify that they are now more       effectively engaging with growing AT markets.
