     The impact of this research spreads across a range of entities from       government agencies responsible for exporting support, trans-national       governmental bodies interested in economic growth and       internationalisation, academics, educationalist and entrepreneurs.
Moreover, as its latest developments in Romania and South Africa       illustrate, this is an area encompassing past, present and future impact.
Professor Lloyd-Reason's appointment as key strategic advisor on the OECD       and Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation (APEC) 44 country study on removing       barriers for SMEs looking to access international markets led to interim       reports which were presented to the OECD Working Party on SMEs in Brasilia       and Paris.
The final report was presented at a high-level OECD conference       in Greece and culminated in the production of the OECD-APEC Action Plan       (2008).
This Action Plan aimed at the 44 participating governments, the       European Commission and the World Trade Organisation, and remains the key       document driving global policy with regard to government support of SMEs       seeking to access international markets.
The significance and reach of the impact was developed further with a       contract (2010) from the Romanian Ministry of Labour (&#8364;988,000), to       transfer best practice in embedding entrepreneurs into the fabric of the       academic curriculum.
This project, in conjunction with the Academy of       Economic Studies Bucharest, has had a significant impact.
The knowledge       gained from the research has underpinned the establishment of a new School       of Entrepreneurial and Management Studies in Romania and the development       of a new Masters programme which has recruited 260 students.
From these       developments, the programme has led to the creation of 132 new start-up       businesses by the entrepreneurial students on the Masters programme.
Encouraging new start-up entrepreneurial businesses is regarded as       critical to economic growth within Romania and this Masters programme       represents a central pillar in the policy supporting this aspiration.
The       reach of this impact will be developed through a follow on project,       ANTREMAN II.
Thus, the new School will now be rolled out and established       in the 10 universities across Romania, with a target of 1,320 new business       start-ups across the country capable of having a significant impact on       economic growth within Romania.
The reach and significance of the research has developed further in that       two recent UKTI South African contracts were awarded.
One has already       resulted in bringing 10 South African businesses to the UK and at least       one UK-SA trading partnership being established.
In 2013, the Bridge       International project was secured (&#163;371,000).
Funded through Barclays Bank       PLC, the initiative is a five-year project to develop South African       businesses capable of trading internationally.
In the first year, 30 South       African businesses will be selected and brought to the UK to meet       potential trading partners.
Funding for the following four years of the       project has already been allocated and ring-fenced and in year two, this       process will be repeated but with 30 UK firms being taken to South Africa       to meet potential trading partners.
In years three, four and five, the       project will then be rolled out across Sub-Saharan Africa.
This is the       single biggest capital investment in a project to date made by Barclays       Bank PLC in South Africa and represents a central plank in the       international business development initiative to help economic development       within the country.
By the conclusion of the project, it is anticipated       that 150 South African businesses will have been assisted in the       internationalisation of their business activities with the significant       positive impact this would have on economic development within South       Africa.
The research began in 1995 with the European Union work exploring the       developments of entrepreneurship in central and eastern Europe and policy       advice to the European Union on barriers to trading internationally.
This       was then operationalised through the work undertaken in Romania and the       transfer of knowledge to South Africa.
The consistent themes are to grow       and internationalise SMEs and the concomitant entrepreneurial management       development to support this.
Significant impact has already been delivered       in Romania and this is set to increase considerably within Romania and       South Africa through current and future developments from the on-going       research and knowledge base created.
This case study is illustrative of       our approach to impact in making a direct link between research, shaping       and influencing policy, fostering enterprise development and the delivery       of practical interventions that develop professional capacity with long       term beneficial impact on the economy and society.
