     Research undertaken within NICHE in collaboration with others has       highlighted the prevalence of low vitamin D status, not just among the `at       risk' groups, but throughout a large proportion of the general population.
This work has had a major global impact in setting dietary reference       intake (DRI) values for vitamin D, which are dietary recommendations       specifying the average daily requirements for nutrients for the general       public.
Most notably, the data emanating from the work at Ulster, in       collaboration with University College Cork (Cashman et al., 2008,       2009), were vital in establishing a scientific opinion to set the new DRI       for vitamin D produced by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the National       Academies in the U.S [1].
The IOM, which is the international body       responsible for agenda setting of dietary recommendations, is the most       influential committee for other organisations such as the European Food       Safety Authority (EFSA) and the UK Scientific Advisory Committee on       Nutrition (SACN) to follow regarding change in policies.
The IOM       recognised that sufficient scientific evidence of high quality was       available to warrant a review of the 2007 DRI for vitamin D, and       subsequently published a re-evaluation in 2011, following a comprehensive       assessment of more than 1000 studies and reports on potential health       outcomes.
On the back of this significant research, the IOM deemed it       necessary to raise the DRI for vitamin D for younger adults (19-50 years)       from 200 IU/day to 600 IU/day and older adults (51-70 years) from 400       IU/day to 600 IU/day.
These revisions represent recommendations for a       significant increase on current population intakes and highlight the need       for food-based vitamin D deficiency prevention strategies.
DRI recommendations are utilised by various stakeholders, including       national nutrition and healthcare policy makers and public health       officials and practitioners to counsel individuals about dietary intakes       for health benefits; the food industry for food product development and       nutrition labelling; and the catering industry for dietary composition of       meals provided to schools, hospitals, nursing homes and prisons.
This       newly revised DRI will provide the food industry with an opportunity to       develop fortified foods/beverages that can help to improve vitamin D       status in the general population.
The AHRQ-Ottawa Evidence-Based Report on Effectiveness and Safety of       Vitamin D in Relation to Bone Health, requested by the National Institutes       of Health, formed a large part of the evidence utilised by the IOM in the       recent DRI review.
The aim of this report was to review the published       literature to identify the potential indicators of health outcomes,       specifically bone health, to provide evidence in the determination of       nutrient requirements for vitamin D. Data from Ulster (Barnes et al.,       2006) were included in this review and the data were assigned a Jadad       score of 3/5, consistent with high quality [2].
Within the UK, dietary recommendations on vitamin D were last reviewed in       2007.
However, SACN will meet again in 2014 to inform the Dietary       Reference Values (DRV) for vitamin D intake and are anticipated to make       similar recommendations to those by the IOM.
A risk assessment of the       vitamin D status of the UK population is currently being conducted and       includes an assessment of the relative contributions of diet and cutaneous       vitamin D synthesis to vitamin D status and a review of the associations       between vitamin D status and various health outcomes.
It is indicated in       SACN minutes [3] that the high quality research from Ulster will       form a large part of this review.
In addition, these data have also been       used by the Health Council of the Netherlands, an independent scientific       advisory board which advises the government, to update the vitamin D DRV       in the Netherlands [4] and by the European Food Safety Authority       (EFSA) [5] to endorse health claims on the role of vitamin D for       the reduction of osteoporotic fracture risk.
Ulster's research investigating vitamin D status during pregnancy,       including an assessment of the effects of supplement use, has been crucial       in evolving stakeholder opinion on the importance of the vitamin and how       best to optimise status for both the mother and child at this critical       developmental time period.
This work was of particular interest to the       media (scientific and general) and has been used by food companies such as       Avonmore Dairy to promote and market their products enriched with vitamin       D to pregnant women and their children as a means of improving status [6-7].
Furthermore, this work has been and continues to be used as evidence to       assess and influence health service policies and practices related to the       promotion and prescription of vitamin D to pregnant women, infants and       premature babies across the UK and Ireland [8-10].
