     The impact was initially focused on localities in Leeds and West       Yorkshire, with University staff and students working together with museum       professionals to optimise the educational potential of science, technology       and medicine collections through geographically informed research.
Subsequently, the adaptation of similar research-based approaches in the       museums sector on a national scale has built on the success of these       initiatives,including further collaborations and the development of public       learning resources     A) Yorkshire Museums and their Staff     Through strategic targeting of funding, especially of the AHRC's CDA       scheme, Gooday, Topham and Radick developed collaborations       with curators and other museum professionals to train Leeds- based PhD       students.
Their subsequent research revealed new place-based value in the       collections of three local museums:     Thackray Museum: Claire Jones (PhD 2006-10) helped staff       to understand their medical trade catalogues (the largest collection in       Europe) as historical objects in their own right.
In a post- project       interview, the Joint CEO reported that Jones's work had enabled the       Thackray "to consider ways in which greater public access to the         catalogues might be facilitated" (A).
Leeds City Museum: Mark Steadman (PhD 2007-13) identified several       extinct specimens hitherto unrecognized in the museum's collections,       including a complete skeleton of the moa.
In interview, the Head of       Collections reported that Steadman's research had influenced "the         development of learning programmes for formal and informal audiences,         identifying areas for further research, and sparking further public         enquiries."
There were even benefits for the professional       development of staff, including a curator whose published paper on the moa       "would have been impossible without [Steadman's] research."
(B)     Stephen Beaumont Museum: Mike Finn (PhD 2008-12) has collaborated       with this Wakefield museum, holding items from the former West Riding       Asylum.
Using its pathology records, Finn has shown how the asylum's daily       practices were interwoven with research on brain function which made it       famous in the 1870s.
In a post-project interview, it was reported that       Finn's research "had bolstered work on constructing a business case to         advocate support for the museum", and that, "the museum is now         able to develop interpretation that juxtaposes historical with         contemporary experiences of mental health treatment."
Finn has       continued this collaboration with AHRC impact funding.
(C)     B) Leeds-area Public Audiences via the Leeds HSTM Museum     The HSTM Museum (http://arts.leeds.ac.uk/museum-of-hstm/)       , under the Directorship of Claire Jones, has been used to enhance       public engagement with the history of science focused on local themes.
Objects from the collections are publically displayed around the       University campus, and are used off-site in jointly curated exhibitions.
Public lectures and educational resources relating to collections by Gooday       and others are available online.
(D)     Bragg and X-ray crystallography: In March 2013, Museum staff       presented a programme of events for school, adult and family audiences in       connection with the University's celebrations of the invention of X-ray       crystallography and as part of the Leeds Festival of Science and National       Science and Engineering Week.
(E) Supported by the Wellcome Trust,       the programme was extended to run at Leeds City Museum in July 2013, and       prompted a BBC Radio 4 interview with Visiting Fellow Dr Kersten Hall,       along with two Leeds-based senior academics, in which historical aspects       of the Bragg's work were discussed (F).
"Lights on at Lotherton": In July 2012, Museum staff collaborated       with staff at Leeds Museums and Galleries (LMG) on a new form of school       science instruction inspired by Gooday's `Domesticating       Electricity' research.
In the pilot workshop held at Lotherton Hall,       nineteen year-5 pupils from Grange Farm Primary in Seacroft (an area of       multiple deprivation) took a worksheet tour of the house and its       electrical furnishings, handled vintage electrical apparatus from the HSTM       collections, made lampshades and took part in a debate.
One of the       teachers commented: "The pupils found it fascinating to see how         electricity was incorporated into the home ... We, as teachers, also         learned a lot and have now incorporated elements of the workshop ...         into [our] own teaching."
(G) Lotherton Hall staff have       incorporated elements of Gooday's research within a new permanent       exhibition about electricity in the country home (attracting 6797 visitors       in June and 5044 in July 2013), for which he presented a complementary       public talk in May 2013.
A `science comic' of the domestication of       electricity has also been produced as a further educational resource.
(H)     C) Applying the Leeds Model Nationally     Further events and collaborations have extended the reach of the impact,       to the national level.
Thus, Jones presented a paper (now       published) on the Leeds approach to museum professionals tasked with       interpreting academic heritage at the Universeum conference in Norway       (June 2012).
The workshop `University Engagement with Museums and       Audiences' was also convened at Leeds in conjunction with the Science       Museum in January 2013 as part of AHRC-funded research network, `Public       History of STEM'.
In July 2013 the School hosted the Science, Technology       &amp; Industry Subject Specialist Network Conference (funded by Arts       Council England), which included a presentation by Gooday and       tours of the HSTM on-campus displays.
In addition, since October       2012, Gooday and MacDonald have worked on the Kew Observatory, in       partnership with the Royal Society, resulting in an online resource that       won first prize in the British Society for History of Science's 'Travel       Guide' competition in July 2013 (I).
Looking to the future, the       success of the Lotherton Hall project has attracted the attention of       Cragside (National Trust), expressing interest in an initiative for using       NT country houses to teach electrical science.
