     Our research led to new national legislation and a major shift in       national biosecurity policy in Ecuador, together with the implementation       of new biosecurity measures for the Galapagos islands.
Context: Galapagos biodiversity is unique and has an immense       economic value to Ecuador as it drives a large part of the Ecuadorian       tourist industry, which is the 3rd largest contributor to       Ecuadorian GDP (contribution estimated at US$1.24 billion for 2011: World       Travel &amp; Tourism Council &#8212; Travel and Tourism Economic Impact 2012:       Ecuador).
Moreover Galapagos biodiversity has a priceless global       scientific and cultural value for the role it played in the formulation of       Darwin's theories, and as a natural laboratory for modern evolutionary and       conservation science.
Biosecurity issues are the primary threat to the       sustainability of Galapagos biodiversity, therefore it is critical to have       appropriate science based biosecurity protection measures in place for the       archipelago.
Overview of how the research led to impact: The underpinning       research identified critical pathways for West Nile Virus introduction,       and other ecological risk factors, and recommended specific biosecurity       mitigation measures to reduce the risks of infectious West Nile Virus       vectors and hosts being transported to the islands.
The initial stimulus       was the 2004 West Nile Virus workshop.
After the workshop, the local       stakeholder participants considered the potential threat to Galapagos of       such concern that they initiated lobbying of the Ecuadorian government and       airlines to develop the necessary changes in government policy and       legislation.
The workshop also identified research priorities which Goodman       led from Leeds.
The subsequent research provided the empirical evidence to       substantiate the risk factors first identified during the workshop.
Together, the workshop report (Proceedings of the Galapagos West Nile       Virus workshop, Galapagos National Park Headquarters, Puerto Ayora, 29th       April 2004), and papers arising from the later research (1-6,       above), were used to inform legislative and policy changes, which have       been in force (see below) throughout the REF period.
Once these       legislation and policy changes were in place, the institutions went on to       implement the recommended mitigation measures to enhance biosecurity for       Galapagos.
Our team (Goodman, Cunningham and Cede&#241;o) supported the       relevant institutions with technical advice and provided the supporting       scientific evidence throughout the lobbying process, and the       implementation of the new mitigation measures.
Specific impacts: A summary of the impact is given below.
Some       activities took place 2004-2007, these are not claimed below as REF       impact, but they are presented as part of a continuum which led to the key       impacts in the REF period of the implementation of the biosecurity       measures recommended by the original research.
i) Changes in Ecuadorian national legislation: Following the April       2004 workshop, Galapagos stakeholders immediately began lobbying the       Ecuadorian government's Ministry of Environment, requesting that the       policy changes recommended by the West Nile Virus workshop be reflected in       national legislation.
The lobbying was primarily driven by UN Global       Environment Facility project staff based in Galapagos, and a local       independent conservation consultant to the Galapagos National Park       Service.
This continued to 2006 when the change in legislation was enacted       [A-E].
As recommended by the 2004 workshop, the new national       legislation on aircraft biosecurity (which has been in full force       throughout the REF impact period) required disinsection treatments on all       aircraft flying to Galapagos [E], banning of direct international       flights to Galapagos [E], and restriction to Quito and Guayaquil       as the point of origin for all Galapagos flights [E].
The       Ecuadorian Civil Aviation Authority was responsible for enforcing the       legislation, requiring compliance from Ecuador's 3 major airlines serving       the islands.
ii) Lobbying, technical consultation, and implementation of mitigation         measures on aircraft: Prior to the REF period (between May 2004-Dec       2007), we supported a lobbying and technical consultation for the uptake       of mitigation measures by Ecuadorian airlines (TAME, AeroGal, LAN).
The       lobbyist helped the airlines source the materials and procedures necessary       for the disinsection treatment of their aircraft.
From September 2008       (ongoing to present), this resulted in the adoption of a World Health       Organisation approved disinsection treatment on all aircraft flying to       Galapagos [F]; the banning of direct international flights to       Galapagos; and restriction to Quito and Guayaquil as the point of origin       for all Galapagos flights [A-C].
In addition to the changes to       practice by the 3 airlines (which together fly more than 150,000       passengers per year to Galapagos), compliance and monitoring procedures       were established by the relevant government agencies (Civil Aviation       Authority, Ministry of Environment; [A-C, F].
iii) Development and implementation of West Nile Virus emergency         response plan: During 2006 Goodman &amp; Cunningham were       commissioned to produce an emergency response plan for West Nile Virus (by       UN GEF project).
Testing and implementation of the plan took place in       2007.
The plan was adopted by all Galapagos management agencies from 2008       onwards, and remains to present as the official response procedures should       West Nile Virus be detected in Galapagos [A-C, G].
The response       plan influences practice by all the Galapagos management institutions, and       potentially the whole population (&gt;30,000 people) in the event of an       introduction.
iv) Lobbying, technical consultation, and implementation of mitigation         measures on boats: Beginning in 2007 the lobbyist used our research       to drive the uptake of `insect zappers' on tourist boats travelling around       the archipelago to reduce accidental transport of insects between islands.
This practice was adopted from 2008 onwards, and now continues to be used       by all tourist operators to present [A-C].
At the time of writing       lobbying by stakeholders is ongoing for the introduction of disinsection       procedure for cargo ships travelling to Galapagos.
Together the practice       changes relating to aviation and boat travel influence a tourist industry       worth 100s of millions of dollars per year [A-C].
v) Wider recognition of disease threats and increased investment in         biosecurity control capacity: Our research contributed to the       recognition of introduced diseases as a major threat to the Galapagos by       the Ecuadorian authorities and wider international community including       UNESCO.
Between 2007-2010, UNESCO placed the Galapagos on the `List of       World Heritage Sites in Danger'.
The risk of West Nile Virus and       inadequate quarantine procedures were cited as part of the justification       for this [H].
During the REF period, there has been increased       investment in biosecurity infrastructure and personnel by the Ecuadorian       government leading to restructuring of the Ecuadorian agricultural health       and quarantine agency and establishment of the Agencia de Regulacion y       Control del la Bioseguridad y Cuarentena para Galapagos, which now has       responsibility for Galapagos biosecurity.
The increased investment is       ongoing, but is estimated to exceed US$10 million during the REF period [A-C].
Improvements in biosecurity measures contributed to the removal of       Galapagos from the UNESCO at risk register in 2011.
Although not listed as a formal impact, there has been intense media       interest arising from the underpinning research and the issues it raises       relating to Galapagos biosecurity.
There have been 100s of newspaper and       internet articles (including features in major national newspapers in       several countries) about our mosquito research, plus TV and radio       interviews globally (e.g.
Goodman and Cunningham were interviewed       for Sky TV News, and the story was broadcast globally) and in Ecuador [I].
The coverage would suggest an increased public awareness of Galapagos       biosecurity issues.
