     (4.1) Public green spaces are regularly visited by millions of people and       make a major contribution       to local economies and the health and happiness of urban citizens and       visitors.
Increased       understanding of the historic importance and heritage value of these       underpins their vital social       and economic functions and helps to promote social and civic identities.
Professor Elliott has made       considerable efforts to disseminate his work on landscape history beyond       academia and to engage       with community groups, local government bodies and other external       organisations.
This work       facilitates better understanding of the cultural, historical and       scientific significance of green spaces       and their social functions, enhances public enjoyment of &#8212; and engagement       with &#8212; these and       informs management plans and development.
His studies have helped to shape       the restoration, re-interpretation and management of parks and have reached a wider audience       through public talks,       museum exhibitions, community projects and publications.
For instance, a       special issue of Garden         History (2007) on the cultural and historical geographies of the       arboretum co-edited by Elliott has       been widely distributed.
1,600 copies were sent to members of the Garden       History Society,       subscribers to Garden History and additional purchasers, whilst       many copies were also distributed       by the conference speakers internationally and through Institute of       Chartered Forester's website       (from 2011) and by other digital means.
Elliott's research has informed       the restoration and       management of public parks in Derby and Nottingham and he was consultant       and contributor to       the BBC Radio 4 `Parkmasters' series presented by Dr. Tristram Hunt (2007,       repeated).
In 2010, at       the invitation of BBC History Magazine, Elliott nominated the       Derby Arboretum as one of the       hundred most important British historical places and was interviewed for a       companion volume       published by BBC Books in 2011 which reported in the Derby Evening         Telegraph in November       2011 and Elliott was interviewed by BBC Radio Derby at the Derby       Arboretum.
(4.2) Elliott's studies on landscape history have also impacted upon the       education and       development of the arboricultural profession and campaigns for the       conservation and management       of historic tree collections.
In October 2011, Elliott was invited by       Institute of Chartered Foresters to       lecture on `How Britain's Great Arboreta have shaped Forestry and       Arboricultural Knowledge' as       part of their annual National Study Tour at Kew Gardens.
The ICF is the       royal chartered body for       forestry and arboricultural professionals in Britain which provides       support to members, guidance       and information to the public, as well as training and educational       development for members of the       profession.
In 2013 Elliott was again invited by the ICF to lecture at Kew       on `The History of British       and Irish Estate Arboretums'.
This conference was entitled `Castlewellan       Arboretum: the last great       garden restoration?'
and highlighted the heritage and botanical importance       of Castlewellan       Arboretum and Annesley Garden, Co. Down, Northern Ireland, aiming to       foster academic and       community-supported restoration projects.
The conference attracted a large       audience and the       proceedings (including Elliott's lecture presentation) have been widely       distributed through the       Barcham's Tree Company website.
(4.3) Elliott's studies of landscape and the history of science have also       had a significant public       impact through the work of Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage Site,       Derbyshire museums and       Derby Local Studies Library.
He is a member of the DVM World Heritage Site       Research and       Publications Committee which advises the Partnership on educational and       cultural matters and       publications and has overseen the establishment of an educational trust.
He is also a member of       DVMWHS Research Steering Group which is currently defining research       priorities for academics,       local history and heritage groups across the Valley and beyond.
As a       member of the Joseph Wright       of Derby National Steering Group, Elliott has assisted the in       interpretation and development of the       Wright collection and the foundation of Derby Museums Trust.
For the       HLF-funded `Enlightenment!
Derbyshire Setting the Pace in the 18th century' project,       Elliott has provided support and advice to       museum curators concerning the choice of scientific instruments and other       objects that ought to be       acquired and supplied pre-publication copies of chapters from Enlightenment,         Modernity and         Science book to inform the acquisition strategy.
The project has       also encouraged volunteering       opportunities, workshops, special exhibitions, summer walks and other       activities involving Elliott       and Derby University students.
Elliott was invited to speak at a public       conversation on the impact of       the British Enlightenment at a `Lunar Society Museums at Night' event at       Buxton Museum, 13 May       2011 alongside Dr. Kim Sloan and Dr. Frances Carey of the British Museum       and Jonathan Wallis       of Derby Museums.
Over 70 people attended this event, which exceeded the       gallery capacity       whilst over 87,000 visitors have visited Enlightenment exhibitions in the       county, over 5,000 people       have benefitted from related educational activities and events and there       have been over 30,000       blog hits.
Elliott also contributed material on `Provincial Museums and         Cabinets of Curiosity' to the       exhibition The Visual Poetry of 1001 Objects (January 2012-January       2014) at Derby Museums       which re-discovers and reinterprets some of the reserve collections,       whilst the one-day       interdisciplinary conference that he co-organised at the Enterprise Centre       in Derby on the East       Midlands Enlightenment (June 2013) in co-ordination with Derby Museums       Trust brought together       members of the general public, museum, library and heritage professionals       and academics,       helping to forge closer links between universities, external organisations       and the general public       and to engage new audiences in the regional history of Enlightenment.
(4.4) Finally, the public impact of Elliott's research in this field is       also evident in the AHRC-funded       Nottingham Green Spaces Community History project which has reinforced       engagement between       academia, local government and heritage and community groups.
In       partnership with Professor       John Beckett of Nottingham University, Nottingham City Council, the       Friends of the Nottingham       Arboretum, Friends of the Forest and the Nottingham Women's History group,       and through the       work of two research fellows, the project has encouraged greater public       involvement in shaping the       future development, management and uses of Nottingham green spaces and is       having a significant       community impact.
The project has encouraged community groups and       volunteers to research,       identify and transcribe source materials which are being used to inform       information boards,       websites and an exhibition in new visitor centres at the Forest and the       Arboretum.
Community       groups and audiences have been engaged by a variety of means including the       creation of a project       website, regular public meetings, public talks in the parks, the       production of postcards, posters and       other publicity material and the use of social networking sites.
Elliott       has given the annual public       anniversary lecture at Nottingham Arboretum bandstand in 2012 and 2013.
