     National guidelines &#8212; impact       The 2007 floods are estimated to have cost the UK &#163;3.2 billion.
Part of       the UK's response to tackling urban flooding on this scale was the       adoption of the Flood and Water Management Act (2010).
This requires SUDS       to be considered on all new and re-developments and states that Local       Authorities are responsible for their adoption and maintenance.
National       best practice guidelines are required to support consistent interpretation       and implementation of this requirement across England and Wales.
Our       research on the water quantity, quality and risk management of SUDS is       incorporated within the on-going revision of national best practice       guidelines for surface water management (1, 2, 3) by CIRIA which will be       used by all 478 Local Authorities in England and Wales and surface water       management practitioners (covering a population of 56.6 million).
Our       paper on the use of risk-benefit analysis to support the assessment of       risks to public health and safety (underpins the risk assessment approach       in the revised manual; 1, 3) was selected by the Society for Risk Analysis       for a media outreach campaign; it subsequently attracted global attention       (4).
Policy development &#8212; impact       Our research is currently informing policy development in 2 key areas; the       mitigation of diffuse urban pollution and the application of an ecosystems       approach.
The seminal diffuse pollution behaviour work undertaken       throughout the 1970s and 1980s informed the thinking of environmental       regulators and practitioners throughout the UK (1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9).
As practitioner-demand for knowledge shifted from understanding to       managing the issue (evidenced by the award of EU, Research Council, EA and       industry funding of &gt;&#163;2.2m), our research on diffuse pollution       mitigation has underpinned the role of SUDS as water quality measures and       continues to inform policy development through its use by bodies appointed       to advise e.g.
Defra, the EA and DCLG (6, 7, 8).
As a result, our diffuse       pollutant unit area loading model was trialled by the EA (2006-2007),       utilised within the Defra Integrated Urban Drainage studies (7) and       contributed to the identification of SUDS as appropriate urban diffuse       pollution mitigation measures in all 11 river basin management plans       developed for England and Wales under the EU WFD (2).
Our research on the       impacts of catchment urbanisation is cited as informing the 2010-2015       United Utilities wastewater business plan (9).
With regard to ecosystem       services policy, our novel work on SUDS as multiple ES providers led to       our invitation to co-author the urban chapter of the UK National Ecosystem       Assessment (NEA; 11).
Our input ensured that the role of SUDS is       identified within the UK NEA with its findings cited as informing the       development of the recent Environment White Paper.
This directly led to       our involvement in the Defra NEA `follow-on' project (&#163;7500; 2012-2013)       which aims to operationalise an ecosystems approach within all UK       Government sectors.
Our research on their multifunctional role is also       informing the development of Scottish policy.
For example, a direct quote       from Lundy and Wade (2011) was used to frame a key research call issued to       underpin pertinent Scottish policy development (12).
We subsequently       successfully applied to undertake this research (CREW; &#163;7000; 2012-2013).
Best practice and pedagogic outreach &#8212; impact       Our research also informs best practice at an international level.
Our       participation in Learning Alliances and International Advisory Boards       (e.g.
within the EU FP 6 SWTCH, ScorePP and the EU TEMPUS I-WEB       (2012-2015)) projects) led to our research being utilised by practitioners       to support, for example, the development of integrated urban water       management visions in the UK, Brazil and Poland.
It is leading to       commercial impact through our on-going collaboration with Arup to bring       our SUDSloc tool to market (10; &#163;6800).
Within the context of       international pedagogic initiatives, our research contributed to the       development and delivery of the first Bologna-compliant water resource       management Masters programmes in Russia currently being delivered at 4       Russian universities (EU Tempus NETWATER; 2010-2013).
Building on this       success, we were recently awarded further EU TEMPUS funding (I-WEB;       &#8364;928,266) to lead the development and implementation of Bologna-compliant       integrated water management MSc and PhD programmes at 3 universities in       Kazakhstan.
Teaching materials include training on water quantity, quality       and amenity aspects of SUDS and, in combination, involves the retraining       of 132 staff and the training of 70 students.
Whilst the discrete economic impact of our research is impossible to       quantify on a stand-alone basis, a Defra report calculated that the costs       of mitigating diffuse urban and transport pollution in line with EU WFD       requirements to be in the region of &#163;2.7 million per year (equivalent       annual value).
It also identified SUDS as appropriate low cost, effective       options for the treatment of such diffuse pollution, broadly indicating       the magnitude of costs associated with the field in which we demonstrate       we are recognised leaders at a national and international level (1, 2, 3,       5, 8, 9).
