     Experts and global leaders in health matters have used the collaborative       research undertaken in the Seychelles by researchers at Ulster to revise       the guidelines on fish intake during pregnancy.
A report of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on the Risks and       Benefits of Fish Consumption [1] concluded that maternal fish       consumption contributes to optimal neurodevelopment in their offspring and       that the neurodevelopment risks of not eating fish exceed the risks of       eating fish for up to at least seven 100g servings per week and       methyl-mercury concentrations up to at least 1 &#181;/g.
Data from studies       undertaken in the SCDS were central to these conclusions and the work of       Davidson et al.
2008, Strain et al.
2008 and Lynch et         al.
2011 was cited in the report.
This report was a landmark in       global recommendations for maternal advice on fish consumption during       pregnancy.
Maternal advice in most countries has recommended that fish       intake should be limited during pregnancy because of the concerns of       methyl-mercury neurotoxicity to the foetus.
The report recognised that       eating fish is part of the cultural traditions of many peoples and in some       populations fish is a major source of food and essential nutrients.
This       report was the first time in an official advisory publication that the       direct benefits of the n-3 fatty acids, from fish eaten during pregnancy,       were indicated to outweigh any possible risks of methyl-mercury on child       development     Following the FAO/WHO report, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) [2]       was asked by the European Commission (EC) to consider these new       developments regarding methyl-mercury toxicity and evaluate whether the       Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) provisional       tolerable weekly intakes (TWI) for methyl-mercury were still appropriate.
This request recognised that the SCDS Nutrition Cohort had indicated that       n-3 PUFA in fish may counteract any potential negative effects from       methyl-mercury exposure.
It also recognised that beneficial nutrients in       fish may be the confounding factor that accounts for the positive outcomes       in the SCDS study compared with the adverse outcomes in previous child       cohort studies.
In light of these findings, the Panel on Contaminants in       the Food Chain (CONTAM) established a revised TWI for methyl-mercury.
The       Panel also concluded that, if measures to reduce methyl-mercury exposure       are considered, the potential beneficial effects of fish consumption       should also be taken into account.
All six key references in section 2       were evaluated and used in this scientific opinion, which is being used by       the EC to update European recommendations.
In the most recent Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2010 [3], it       was appreciated that a variety of seafood in the amounts recommended       outweigh the health risks associated with methyl-mercury.
There was some       relaxation, compared with the Advisory from the Environmental Protection       Agency (EPA), with respect to the advice given to pregnant women on fish       consumption.
Women were still advised not to consume the fish with the       highest methyl-mercury content and limit consumption of white tuna because       of its methyl-mercury levels.
The work of the SCDS has also been cited in various websites associated       with industry [4] and websites giving advice to clinicians [5]       and health professionals [6-9], albeit citations to the specific       key references in section 2 are not always given.
The Seychelles Child Development Study is the largest epidemiological       prospective study of nutrition and toxicology.
The results continue to       inform policymakers on the risk-benefit analysis of fish consumption       during pregnancy.
