     Informed through their research, Cain and Boulter utilise this commitment       to essentialism to help       enable improved education outcomes for school children.
These impacts are       demonstrated       through their work to improve not only the social mobility of students       from working class       backgrounds but also benefitting school children of all backgrounds by       boosting their intellectual       confidence and ambitions along with appetite capacity for independent       learning.
Throughout the 2012-13 academic year Cain has been working with a group       of thirty year 12       students (lower sixth form) at Highcrest Academy, a secondary school in       High Wycombe.
Highcrest is a non-grammar school in a selective educational authority       with the majority of students       from working class, ethnic minority and family backgrounds where there is       little experience of       higher education.
Cain holds a Philosophical Enquiry session with the       students each week; the       sessions do not involve presenting the students with a philosophical       argument and expecting them       to internalize it but encourages them to understand, through philosophical       debate, the nature and       implications of their own essentialism, particularly with regard to the       issue how much they       essentially differ from people who appear different from them in terms of       accent, dress, behaviour,       social background, and such like.
The sessions are highly targeted,       focussing on topics of real life       significance (for example, the role and legitimacy of stereotyping in       everyday life, the extent of an       individual's responsibility for their own educational and professional       success, the meaning and       extent of discrimination in contemporary Britain, the legitimacy of       positive discrimination, and so       on).The ultimate aim of the sessions is to boost the confidence and       academic aspirations of the       students so that they are more likely to apply to strive to go to       university and are more ambitious in       their applications.
Cain has now completed a first year of working at Highcrest and has had       extensive debriefing       conversations with the Assistant Headteacher.
On the basis of interviewing       the students involved in       the Philosophical Enquiry sessions she has concluded that significant       positive benefit has taken       place for those involved.
All of the students have been stimulated by the       sessions and this has lead       to a general rise in intellectual confidence, the ability to reason       logically, and the capacity to       engage in independent learning.
In addition, the sessions have had a       transforming effect on a       number of students who had been identified by the school as highly able       but underachieving due to       a lack of confidence.
These students are now firmly committed to applying       to go to University,       something that they hadn't previously envisaged doing.
As a result of the       success of the       Philosophical Enquiry sessions this academic year Highcrest have invited       Cain to continue the       sessions next academic year with a broader range of students and view the       sessions as an       important element of their drive to increase the proportion of their       students who go to University.
In addition to the work with Highcrest Academy, Cain and Boulter have       built a relationship with a       second school, namely Chenderit School in Banbury.
For the past two       academic years the head of       Philosophy at Chenderit school, has brought a group of 15 A Level       Philosophy students on an       annual day-trip to Brookes where they have engaged in a Philosophical       Enquiry session lead by       Boulter; the enquiry sessions are underpinned by Boulter's metaphilosophy       in that they explore       tensions in the world view of the students that have real life       implications through their relation to       issues of individual responsibility, fairness, moral conflict, pluralism,       social inequality, and so on.
As a result of the success of these sessions in boosting the engagement       and intellectual       confidence of the Chenderit students, Philosophical Enquiry has been       incorporated into the       Chenderit approach to teaching Philosophy at A level.
The success of this has led Chenderit, under the instigation of Head of       Philosophy, to initiate a       project of using Philosophical Enquiry throughout the school (beginning       with year 7 students) to       boost the capacity for reasoning and independence of thought of all       students that aims to address       Chenderit's concern that many of its students are not fully fledged       independent learners operating       with enquiring minds Chenderit have invited Cain and Boulter to       collaborate on this project and       they have met with school representatives to devise a syllabus which will       be implemented from       September 2013 and Cain will work with the school in supervising the       project and will lead some of       the sessions.
