     The impact of the research came through an exhibition, Objects of       Affection: Pre-Raphaelite Portraits by John Brett, which was shown at the       Barber Institute of Fine Arts, University of Birmingham, 30 April-4 July,       The Fine Art Society, London, 20 July-4 August, and the Fitzwilliam       Museum, Cambridge, 14 September-28 November 2010.
Christiana Payne's       research for her book, chapter and article on John Brett (see above)       underpinned the idea behind the exhibition proposal and the list of works       to be exhibited.
Further research was done on individual portraits and       photographs in order to write the exhibition catalogue entries.
The exhibition was a great success.
10,976 visitors saw it at the Barber       Institute, with an estimated 800 visiting the Fine Art Society showing and       a further 16,386 the Fitzwilliam showing (the Fitzwilliam figure is based       on an email from Jane Felstead, Visitor Services Manager: `the total       visitors during the period were 65,545 and it would appear that between       20-30% of visitors seem to visit our exhibitions').
It received very       favourable reviews and the entries in the Barber Institute visitors' book       are most enthusiastic.
The associated events at Birmingham, which included       readings from primary sources and dramatic and musical performances in       addition to the study day and gallery talks, were well attended and       enthusiastically received.
The focus group transcript shows that most       visitors to the exhibition had not heard of Brett before their visit.
This       was corroborated by the visitor survey: 139 visitors were surveyed, of       whom 80% had not heard of John Brett before their visit.
96% of those       surveyed felt that they had learnt new things about Brett and his work       after visiting the exhibition.
Some were particularly impressed by his       seascapes, others by his family photographs, with the majority agreeing       that the portraits were of high quality and added greatly to their       knowledge of Victorian art in general and the Pre-Raphaelites in       particular.
The visitor survey analysis showed that 90% of visitors felt that the       exhibition, Objects of Affection met their expectations.
98% felt that       there was just the right amount of information displayed on the text       panels and labels; 96% felt the level of information (i.e.
too       academic/not academic enough) was just right.
Sample comments: "method of       providing information was fantastic", "beautifully presented and       informative", "fascinating how personal information was included", "[I       liked] the information given for each portrait and the way it was       presented."
130 visitors wrote entries in the Visitors' Book at the Barber Institute       showing of the exhibition.
Sample comments include the following: "A       wonderfully enriching experience", "enjoyable and illuminating", "a       wonderful discovery for New Yorkers", "very inspiring", "absolute delight       to discover this talented artist", "a revelation", "inspired and       uplifted", "a wonderful revelation", "I've learned a lot", "inspirational       exhibition", "food for the soul".
The writers included visitors from       France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Russia, South Africa and the USA.
Assuming that these visitors were representative of the total numbers of       visitors, an estimate may be made of the exhibition's impact on tourism       and therefore of its contribution to the local and national economy.
6 from outside Europe (4.6%)       7 from continent of Europe (5.4%)       7 from north of England (5.4%)       4 from Wales (3%)       6 from Devon, Southampton, Isle of Wight (4.6%)       14 from London and South-east (10.8%)       16 (additional to above) from radius of 50-100 miles (12.3%)     Assuming that 40% of visitors came specially to see the Brett exhibition       (a reasonable assumption at the Barber Institute, where the temporary       exhibitions take up a high proportion of the gallery space and are       highlighted in all publicity materials), that average expenditure on       travel and refreshments was &#163;50 per head, and that overseas visitors spent       an average of &#163;100 on accommodation:     Travel and refreshments &#163;101,198.72       Accommodation &#163;43,920     The total expenditure boost to local and national tourism generated by       the exhibition's showing in Birmingham, therefore, with 10,976 visitors,       may be estimated at &#163;145,118.72.
If similar amounts are added for the       London and Cambridge showings (with a further 17,186 visitors), the       overall economic benefit would be well over &#163;300,000.
The sales of       catalogues and exhibition-related merchandise will have added to this       economic impact.
The success of the Brett exhibition has also had an impact on museum       policies and practices.
The Barber Institute followed it up with a further       exhibition on a relatively unknown artist, Thomas Fearnley, again making       use of a partnership with a university academic from outside Birmingham.
The British Museum changed two of its entries in its online catalogue as a       result of the exhibition.
Tate Britain included the Brett portrait of       Christina Rossetti in its exhibition, Pre-Raphaelites: Victorian       Avant-Garde (2012) and another portrait, The Lady with a Dove, which was       not previously on show, has been given a prominent place the new Tate       Permanent Collection Galleries, which opened in 2013, and an entry in the       most recently-published Companion Guide to the collection.
