     Ray Lee's `Siren' brought together a synthesis of different artistic       traditions, emitting pulsing       electronic tones and defying the conventions of art, music and theatre.
`Siren' demonstrates that       research insights through a series of sound sculptures to evoke history       and function can       demonstrate benefits to economic, public and cultural life.
These can be       evidenced through not       only influencing creative practice and artistic expression but also by,       contributing to economic       prosperity and enhancing processes of memorialisation.
The impacts from       `Siren' have been on-       going, since it first performance in 2004; however the following narrative       details selected examples       from 2008-2013.
Since 2008, `Siren has been performed more than 120 times throughout the       world at key venues       such as the Walker Arts Center, Minneapolis, USA (7 Performances); Under       the Radar Festival,       New York, USA, (9 Performances); PUSH International Festival, Vancouver,       Canada, (16       Performances); Auckland International Festival, New Zealand, (20       Performances); Melbourne       International Festival, Australia,(16 Performances)4.
The work       generated a wide range of       unsolicited responses evidenced through reviews, articles and interviews       in print newspapers and       magazines and on-line blogs and journals.
Alexander Ferguson, in a 2009 review for Plank in Vancouver, describes       the movement of the       audience as they navigate their own route around the work: `Sometimes I       linger with the higher       frequencies.
Other times I back myself against a wall and let the force of       the bass register       overwhelm me.'
Writing in The Age, Melbourne, 2009 the reviewer Jessica       Nicholas states: `We       are literally watching sound as it moves through space.
Since Lee offers       no interpretation of his       work, audience members are free to form their own associations.
For me,       the experience was akin       to a guided meditation &#8212; a carefully choreographed ceremony where science       and artistic       endeavour unite to create a mesmerising journey into the nature of sound.'
As the work ends and the room is returned to silence Sun&#269;ica Ostoi&#263; of       Kontejner - bureau of       contemporary art praxis, Zagreb writes in 2008, with a clear reference to       John Cage: `In the fade       out the artist leaves us to real and imaginary echoes that are slowly       transformed into the sound of       our nervous system and our heartbeat - to silence as we know it.'
Meg       Walker, in issue 90 of       RealTime Arts magazine, 2009 writes: `The silence that follows is both       full and hungry: my ears       feel superbly sensitized, yet want more.
'5     Details of the impact can also be evidenced through the large quantity of       video clips posted to, for       example, YouTube.
Thirty-eight clips of Siren are easily accessible       through YouTube, of which       thirty-six have been posted by audience members and by venues around the       world, independent to       Ray Lee, with a combined viewing figure as of June 2013 of 23,510.6     There were also a number of associated education programmes during the       touring period of       `Siren'.
Of these two have documentary evidence of responses from young       people and students       who experienced the work.
In 2009 `Siren' was included in a comprehensive       education pack       produced by The Melbourne International Arts Festival 7.
Of those venues that organised education programmes the Wexner Arts       Center education       programme has left a fascinating record of how the young high school       students from Ohio       responded to the work in 2009.
Michael, a student at Upper Arlington High       School in Columbus,       Ohio said: `I had never before seen, felt, or heard anything like "Siren"       and all that it encompassed       before and it was in a word, breathtaking.
"Sirens" is an experience that       one cannot explain but       something one can only feel.
I don't think I am alone in saying I could       feel it once again.'
When it       was presented at the Walker Arts Center in Minneapolis in 2009 the work       was included in the       semester's Sound Art Class at Minneapolis College of Art and Design.
`ande8344' posted that:     `The overwhelming aesthetic of this work left me reconsidering my notions       of how sound and light       interact within perceived and imagined space.
'8     `Siren' generated &#163;124,051 in fee income from twenty-seven different       venues in addition to       &#163;25,201 in grant income from the British Council and The Arts Council of       England.
The impact of       `Siren' will continue through the development of `Chorus' a new piece by       Ray Lee9 first performed       at Oxford Castle in November 2012.
Chorus creates an utterly immersive       sound installation on a       monumental scale and suitable for audiences of up to 1500 people in       outdoor locations, Chorus       features spinning tripods 5.5metres high, towering over the audience heads       and creating an       arresting image in city squares, parks and urban and rural locations.
The       work is informed through       the insights initiated by `The Theremin Lesson'; it will continue the       on-going benefits of research-       informed sound sculpture practice established through `Siren' to a wider       audience.
