     Professor Gold`s impact rests on a portfolio, centred on London 2012,       which demonstrate a close involvement with public and policy debate.
The       relevant activities come under three categories: knowledge transfer;       expert advice/consultancy; and public understanding and broadcast media.
(References to the corroborative sources listed in section 5 below are       noted, as before, in square brackets; with written or media sources by       Roman numerals and people by Arabic numerals.)
i.
Knowledge Transfer     Sponsored by Podium, the co-ordination and communications unit created by       HEFCE and the Skills Funding Agency to support academic researchers in       their work relating to the 2012 Games, Professor Gold was a founding       member of an interdisciplinary team that was established to study the       steep learning curve that the four-yearly movement of the Olympics and       Paralympics from one host city to another imposes on the Organizing       Committees responsibility for staging the Games.
Proceeding with       unprecedented cooperation from the key Games-making agency&#8212;the London       Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (LOCOG)&#8212;the key data came from       in-depth interviews conducted with senior members of LOCOG at four       junctures between November 2011 and December 2012, thereby spanning the       planning, implementation and wrapping up phases of the Games.
John Gold`s       particular area of responsibility was closely based on his urban       historical expertise, being concerned with the key Olympic venues, both       stadia and villages.
He and Dr Vassil Girginov (Brunel University)       co-wrote the final report for the project, which was delivered to Podium       in May 2013 and published on its web-site in June 2013.
Its analyses       pointed to the exceptional nature of LOCOG as a fixed-term task force       organization and the demonstrable importance of knowledge acquisition for       its functioning, with recommendations based on the forms of knowledge that       it tended (or was required) to produce, and the way that its structure       fostered knowledge transfer.
[5.vii; 5.3, 5.4].
ii.
Expert Advisor and Consultant     Professor Gold has served as specialist advisor/consultant on a number of       occasions including:     i.
Acting as invited chair and rapporteur for a high-level meeting       entitled `Olympics and Paralympics 2012: Creating a UK Legacy for the       Future, Today'(24 March 2010).
Organised by the events organisation       `Inside Government', the meeting included a front-bench spokesman from the       Department of Culture, Media and Sport, the Shadow Minister for Sport and       the Olympics, and representatives from business groups, the Olympic       boroughs and Podium.
Feedback thanked Professor Gold for delivering       `challenging, informative, thought-provoking speeches at the forum' and       for his `willingness to openly answer delegates' questions' [5.7].
ii.
Serving in 2009 as a consultant to a putative Winter Olympics bid       under discussion in Troms&#248; (Northern Norway) &#8212; one of four Norwegian       cities then contemplating candidacy for the 2018 Games.
Invited due to his       expertise with regard to the experience of previous centres that had       staged the Winter Games, he was asked specifically to address (a) the       likely consequences for Troms&#248; if it was chosen to arrange the winter       games and (b) the challenges involved.
He met members of the local bid       team, gave a public address that pointed to the difficulties such a bid       would encounter on logistic, environmental and political grounds, and       addressed a subsequent closed seminar.
The visit attracted wide reportage       in the regional press and broadcasting media [5.vi; 5.1].
iii.
Contributing to the Economist Intelligence Unit`s prestigious report       on London 2012 entitled Legacy 2012: Understanding the impact of the         Olympic Games, which was published during the Games.
His       contribution concerned the need for greater precision in measuring legacy,       noting the need to blend qualitative and quantitative methodologies in       order to build more self-critical bases for assessing legacy, to promote       better event planning, and to facilitate greater accountability [5.i].
iv.
Acting as invited discussant for a meeting at the Japan Foundation in       London (June 2012) at which Tokyo`s plans for the 2020 Olympic and       Paralympic Games were outlined by bid team member Yasushi Aoyama.
Professor Gold assessed the bid`s strengths and the nature of the legacy       that might be anticipated, as well as making comparisons with the legacy       strategies used by London and other previous successful host cities in       framing their bids.
His participation and insights, especially in       sketching parallels between London and Tokyo, were commended as making       `the discussions richer and deeper' [5.iii; 5.2, 5.5].
iii.
Public understanding and broadcasting media     Professor Gold has always undertaken activities that transcend the normal       boundaries of academic discourse about staging the Olympics.
During 2012,       while giving nine keynote presentations to academic gatherings in Britain       and overseas, he also contributed widely to events outside of the academy.
These included, for example, the `Abandon Normal Devices' festival in       Manchester and `After the Party', a gathering at the Royal Institute of       British Architects' bookshop in Portland Place London (both September       2012).
His reputation as an expert commentator has been recognised by the       frequent work that he has undertaken for the press and broadcasting media,       both nationally and internationally (including Time magazine and       major circulation newspapers in North America, Western Europe and       South-East Asia) [5.ii].
His domestic broadcasting credits include Radio       3, Radio 4, BBC TV (national and regional), Carlton (ITV), BBC 1       (Scotland), local radio and cable TV [5.6].
Internationally, his       broadcasting credits include :            Sami Radio, May 2009, interview on the Troms&#248; bid and its         environmental implications, especially for the fragile mountain         environments.
US National Public Radio`s `Only a Game' (April 2012), commentary on         sporting legacy and environmental sustainability [5.v].
Australian Broadcasting Corporation's National Radio influential and         long-running discussion programme, 'Rear Vision', which examines the         historical context of current news events.
Professor Gold contributed         substantively to the hour-long edition entitled 'Transforming the City         through the Olympic Games', broadcast in April 2012, which dealt with         the linkage of London 2012 to urban regeneration programmes [5.iii].
It must be stressed that involvement in all the above categories       continued after London 2012.
The preparation of further evaluative reports       for the major stakeholders based on knowledge transfer, continuing       contacts with Games organisers (especially after the successful       application of Tokyo for the 2020 Games) and requests from media for       analyses and commentaries on forthcoming sporting mega-events (e.g.
the       2014 Commonwealth Games), inter alia, point to the continuing       community value of Professor Gold`s historically based analyses of Olympic       legacy [5.5, 5.6].
