     The case study highlights three substantive examples of impact arising       from the referenced body of research on accountability.
While these are       relevant to the REF period, they arise from long term active engagement       between the researcher and the audience beyond academe.
Example one is of significant high level conceptual impact on the       deliberations of the 2011 House of Commons Public Administration Select       Committee inquiry, `Smaller Government: what do Ministers do?'
The inquiry       examined ministerial accountability, particularly in the light of the       government's intention to devolve, wherever possible, responsibility for       public service delivery to local level.
The Committee fully engaged with       Woodhouse's research as it relates to levels of accountability outlined in       her book, Ministers and Parliament (1), and developed by her in       subsequent work.
Its report explicitly drew on and cited this research to       frame its recommendation to the Government for the inclusion of       `redirectory responsibility' within the Ministerial Code, the document       which sets out the duties and responsibilities of Ministers.
This, it       believed, would be `a legitimate aspect of ministerial accountability in       the context of a more decentralised state' (7), allowing accountability at       local level, the government's aim, while ensuring a line of accountability       to Parliament through the minister.
The refusal of the government to       implement this recommendation does not detract from the conceptual impact       of Woodhouse's research on political debate.
Over the years, it has made a       significant contribution to select committee attempts to persuade       government to clarify and improve the mechanisms by which Parliament can       hold ministers to account; this specific example demonstrates one such       contribution (8).
A further example is the House of Lords Committee of the       Constitution's request in 2013 for Woodhouse to appear before it to give       her views on the workings of the 2006 Inquiries Act (9); she was adviser       to the House of Commons Public Administration Select Committee's inquiry,       Government by Inquiry, and co-authored its report (10).
Example two relates to the direct instrumental impact of Woodhouse's       research on the development of a robust standards regime in the National       Assembly for Wales whereby its individual members can be held to account       for their conduct.
As a result of her research on accountability and the       mechanisms by which it could be achieved, Woodhouse was asked by the       Assembly's Committee for Standards to undertake a review of national and       international standards regimes and, on that basis, to make       recommendations on the Assembly's regime.
Her report, published in 2001       (11) (subsequently known as the Woodhouse Review), recommended, inter         alia, that the office of Commissioner for Standards for the Assembly       should be placed on a statutory footing and have its responsibilities and       powers enhanced.
Although the Committee for Standards accepted the       recommendations, the Assembly could not be asked to give them effect as       the power to do so resided with the Westminster Parliament.
The Government       of Wales Act 2006 changed the situation as it included a provision for the       creation of a statutory Commissioner by way of an Assembly measure.
As a       result, in March 2009 the Committee (12) proposed a statutory       Commissioner, as recommended by Woodhouse, which was accepted by the       Assembly.
The first statutory Commissioner took up post on 1 December       2010.
Example three illustrates broader international reach and conceptual       impact.
Woodhouse's research on ministerial accountability has been       regularly cited in Australian debate over many years and continues to       impact today.
A 2007 report to the Prime Minister by the Australian Study       of Parliament Group (13) explicitly adopted the Woodhouse framework for       levels of accountability in its recommendations and despite (or because       of) government's resistance to clarifying the responsibility of ministers       to Parliament, this framework has continued to feature in debates about       accountability in Australia.
For example, Woodhouse research was used in a       2008 Australian Parliamentary Paper to illuminate the issues faced by the       Australian Parliament in holding the government to account (14) and Hear         Our Voice: The Democracy Australians Want, published in 2012 by the       Australian Collaboration (a consortium of National Community       Organisations)(15) explicitly refers to the Woodhouse principles on causal       and role responsibility and the Woodhouse responsibility framework.
These examples of Woodhouse's research informing national and       international debate on accountability and governance show impact as an       ongoing process extending over a period of time through to the current       reference period.
