     Following the developmental research and its dissemination though       non-academic conferences (e.g.
Moore 2010b) the PPDS framework is now part       of the international benchmarking and certification EarthCheck EC3       programme (Source 5.1) and is applied globally (examples given in Sources       5.2, 5.3).
EarthCheck is the world's largest certifier of sustainable       travel and tourism operators, having more than 1000 clients in over 60       countries.
The programme provides benchmarking, certification and       performance improvement systems to help businesses improve profitability       and operational efficiencies.
Published case studies have been used to       challenge, develop and improve internationally accepted sustainability       indicators.
These indicators are used in the design process, project       planning, and management activities across a wide range of mixed- use       precincts, communities and tourist resorts.
PPDS is now in commercial use.
The PPDS framework has provided a means to overcome on-going impacts       including environmental vulnerability (Source 5.4) over-exploitation,       energy dependency, population loss, social depredation, debt, and economic       volatility.
Discussions between EarthCheck and Royal Thai Government officials and       representatives of Pattaya City Thailand have taken place to further       exploit the success of the PPDS framework system.
Both were seeking to       improve the quality of life in one of the notorious tourist areas where       exploitation of young women and boys employed in the sex trade had become       rife.
The discussions have led to the development of an international       consortium incorporating SMEs and local Authorities from Asian countries       including Indonesia and Malaysia.
The primary aim of the collaborations is       to seek to address the issues of disparity and promote strategies for the       creation of sustainable process-based supply chains using process-based       framework systems.
The PPDS framework, along with the related tool Building Planning and       Design Standard (BPDS) arising from this research are now being utilised       to offer a means by which major refurbishment of listed buildings in       cities can be undertaken in a sustainable and ecologically sensitive       manner (Source 5.5).
For example, the City of Melbourne's Tourism       Environmental Action Plan 2009 - 2013 addresses the challenge of growing       tourism demands in the City.
Challenges include increased tourism activity       that puts pressure on the environment by consuming increased resources and       energy whilst generating increased waste and carbon emissions.
A feature       of the City's governance is that its hotels now achieve accreditation       using this internationally recognised system.
EarthCheck Pty, who advised       and created the vision for the promotional organisation Destination       Melbourne, recommends the PPDS framework and standards.
Whilst recognising       that tourism underpins the socio-economic wellbeing of Melbourne by       generating more than $10 billion in expenditure and employing 160,000       people, this cannot override the principles of sustainable development.
The sustainability achieved using the PPDS and BPDS framework standards at       the Rialto Hotel Melbourne (Moore, 2010a) has led to their prescription as       voluntary regulatory frameworks for use on precinct and building       proposals, including heritage buildings, in Melbourne City business       district.
The evidence from the Rialto case study indicates that these       standards offer the potential of lower environmental and social impacts       along with lower life cycle costs and higher returns on investment       capital.
Early research showed that many developing countries and small island       states in the Australasia region have experienced some of the largest       increases in world tourism demand.
Furthermore, travel and tourism provide       a means of socio-economic restructuring.
PPDS has led to extensive       elimination or mitigation of the negative ecological impacts linked to       tourism and its accompanying resort development and on-going facility       management.
The successful utilisation of the Framework is now being       extended to a major regional governmental undertaking in Thailand where       the City of Pattaya, through the Mayor's office, is to use PPDS processes       to interconnect and drive the redevelopment of the regional travel and       tourism industry.
The PPDS approach is being further deployed by a SwitchAsia funding bid       by the Unit, supported by Thailand's Designated Areas for Sustainable       Tourism Administration (DASTA).
DASTA is a national government       organisation headed by the Prime Minister of Thailand in consortium with       EarthCheck Pty; the founding member of this alliance of government,       industry and research organisations.
The project develops the PPDS themes       to revitalise impoverished precincts to become good places to live, raise       families, retire to or simply visit.
The design-brief to end-user       philosophy of PPDS will encourage respect for the environment and its       bio-diversity within new or refurbished development projects.
