     The categorical demonstration, for the first time, of substantial       under-estimation of food intake in randomly selected individuals was       revolutionary at the time.
Not surprisingly, the nutrition community was       not initially convinced that bias in self-reported food intakes was a       major problem in dietary surveys and the paper by Livingstone et al       (1990) provoked a critical letter to the British Medical Journal (1).
However, as more validation studies were undertaken and published, the       initial findings were substantiated and there is now universal recognition       that mis-reporting in dietary surveys is pervasive.
This issue, including       citation of the underpinning research, has now been highlighted in a       spectrum of reports and reviews published worldwide (2-5).
Now regarded as seminal work, the research has prompted a major paradigm       shift in the way policy makers interpret dietary intake data to establish       Dietary Reference Values for Food Energy and Nutrients and develop Food       Based Dietary Guidelines for Healthy Eating.
Firstly, the papers by       Livingstone et al 1990; 1992) led to a radical shift in       thinking about dietary assessment techniques and initiated a new era in       research in the field.
In continuing collaboration with the MRC Dunn       Nutrition Laboratory, Cambridge, researchers in the Northern Ireland       Centre for Food and Health went on to pioneer a cost effective way of       enabling researchers to critically examine their own data through       comparing energy intake data with estimated energy requirements based on       Basal Metabolic Rate (Black et al, 1991) This concept has been       hugely influential in spreading awareness about under-reporting and has       allowed dietary data to be examined in a much more critical way than       hitherto.
The application of these principles has ensured a more critical       and informed interpretation of national dietary data [e.g.
the UK National       Diet and Nutrition Survey (NDNS) (6); the US National Health and Nutrition       Examination Survey (7) which are widely used to establish nutrition       policy, to track progress toward achieving health and nutrition       objectives, to provide reference information on nutrition intakes, to       develop dietary guidance and to study diet-health relationships.
For example, average reported energy intakes in the UK are consistently       below the estimated average requirement, while paradoxically, the       prevalence of overweight and obesity has been increasing.
However, this       anomaly is likely to reflect under-reporting of food intake given that it       has been estimated that under-reporting in the NDNS is approximately 25%       of energy needs and is particularly pronounced in the overweight and obese       (8).
Consequently, in the face of compelling evidence about the extent and       magnitude of under-reporting of national dietary data, both the US       Institute of Medicine (2005) (9) and the UK Scientific Advisory Committee       on Nutrition (2011), when revising their respective energy reference       values for specific population groups, considered that it was no longer       tenable to base these on self-reported food intake data (8).
Another major problem in examining food intake data to derive Food Based       Dietary Guidelines for Healthy Eating is that of selective under-reporting       (either frequency of intake or serving size) of foods which are generally       perceived to be "bad for health".
This reporting bias could either       attenuate or exaggerate associations between nutrient intake and health       parameters.
For example, systematic under-estimation of dietary fat may       overestimate the positive association observed between percentage energy       from fat and health outcomes such as cancer and heart disease (10).
Thus       differential biases in dietary reporting could have unpredictable       consequences and emphasise that improved assessment of dietary intake in       epidemiological studies is imperative for the future development of       evidence-based recommendations for diet and health.
In summary, the research described in this case study has been pivotal in       demonstrating that one of the most fundamental and intractable problems we       face in human nutrition research is our inability to measure what people       actually eat.
Poor validity of dietary assessments has fundamental       implications for nutritional epidemiology and dietary surveillance.
Biased       under-reporting of food intakes will inflate estimates of nutrient       inadequacies, attenuate risk estimates, obscure diet-disease associations       and ultimately generate misleading evidence on which to base public health       policy about healthy eating.
