     Douglas-Fairhurst's research has enhanced understanding of Dickens       for a wide variety of audiences, refreshing and challenging conventional       readings of the writer's life: numerous reviewers have observed the       striking revisionism of the biography (Ref.
i).
Becoming Dickens       sold 11,000 copies in all formats (slightly over 9,000 in hardcover), and       is described by his editor at Harvard UP as `financially successful'       (profits not disclosed) (Ref.
1).
A measure of its reach is       international media coverage: the book was reviewed over 100 times by       newspapers in countries including the UK, USA, Australia, India, Croatia,       and the UAE.
It was featured on an edition of the BBC2 Review Show       entitled `Charles Dickens in Biography' (average viewing figures c.       450,000), and was the focus of a special edition of the Australian radio       programme `Lingua Franca' (ABC Radio National Australia: average listening       figures c. 45,000 in 5 cities, with additional listeners nationwide and       worldwide via the internet).
The biography has been studied by numerous       book groups, including the Sewanee Book Club (Tennessee), the American       Association of University Women Book Groups (Pennyslvania Branch and       Schenectady NY Branch), and the Friends of the Palo Alto Library Book       Discussion Group (California).
An indicative comment comes from Indian       novelist and blogger Chandrahas Choudhury, who argues that Becoming         Dickens shows that `If the reason we are attracted to biography is       the allure of the drama of human self-fashioning seen from the inside,       then these rewards can just as well be gleaned by the choice of a suite of       years, and not the whole life.
...
The excitement of this method &#8212; that of       the partial, but pointed, biography &#8212; is that it is defamiliarising,       hovering not above its subject but beside it' (Ref.
ii).
The international         impact of the biography is further evidenced by its translation into       Chinese.
Douglas-Fairhurst enriched debate about Dickens's cultural         significance in the bicentenary year (2011-12) through numerous       interactions with media and the public.
He participated in an hour long       discussion of Dickens's life and legacy with a panel including Simon       Callow and Salman Rushdie on PBS's Charlie Rose Show (average       viewing figures c. 300,000), first broadcast in February 2012 and repeated       on Christmas day 2012 (Ref.
iii).
He authored articles in several national       UK newspapers with a wide circulation, including (as part of the Guardian's       build-up to the bicentenary of the birth of Charles Dickens) `My Favourite       Dickens: Great Expectations' (Guardian, 23 September 2011)       and `Dickens on Screen: The Highs and Lows' (Guardian, 23 December       2011); also `The Sparkler of Albion: The Many Faces of Charles Dickens' (Daily         Telegraph, 26 September 2011); and `The Roads Not Taken' (New         Statesman, 10 October 2011).
Douglas-Fairhurst wrote blog entries       for two popular American websites run by the Campaign for the American       Reader: `The Page 99 Test' (Ref.
iv) and `My Book, The Movie' (Ref.
v),       and contributed an analysis of the best Dickens novels and criticism to       the Smithsonian Magazine (Ref.
vi).
He also filmed a podcast for       the Podularity website (Ref.
vii).
He was featured on the cover of the       magazine Oxford Today (to which he contributed an article on       parallels between Dickens's world and our own), and recorded a free access       introduction to Dickens for Oxford University's `Great Writers' project       (1786 hits by the end of the audited period).
Face to face engagement with the general public includes the event `Why       Dickens?
', co-hosted by Douglas-Fairhurst with Prof John Carey at the       British Academy, which attracted a capacity audience of 230 and prompted       vigorous discussion about the development of Dickens's career and his       contemporary relevance.
Douglas-Fairhurst spoke on numerous occasions       about Dickens to audiences of between 20 and 200 people in a variety of       settings (including schools, churches, literary societies, libraries, and       literary festivals) across the UK.
He gave invited lectures to general       audiences (students and members of the public as well as academics) in       London, Durham, York, Leicester, Bologna, Hong Kong, New Orleans,       Virginia, and Indiana (total audience attendance c. 2000).
A       representative response comes from an attendee of the Aye Write!
literary festival, Glasgow: `"Why Dickens?"
This seemingly straightforward       question was the premise of the excellent talk given by Robert       Douglas-Fairhurst ... [which] proved him an inimitable Dickens scholar ...       [H]is knowledge and insight into Dickens the man made for a entertaining       and informative evening' (Ref.
viii).
Several of these engagements drew on       Douglas-Fairhurst's specialist knowledge of Dickens's London: for example,       his contribution to the series of `Talks on the Thames' hosted by Somerset       House (Ref.
ix).
Douglas-Fairhurst has made significant contributions to film and         other creative industries, using his expertise on Dickens and       Dickensian London to assist sound new interpretations.
In 2010 he       was appointed historical advisor on a major 3-part adaptation of Great         Expectations, co-produced by the BBC with PBS Masterpiece.
It was       viewed by millions across the UK when it aired over Christmas 2011 as the       flagship programme in the BBC's Dickens season, the three episodes       garnering audiences of 7.57m, 7.19m, and 6.97m (ranking 11, 12 and 13 in       BBC1's popularity ratings for the week ending 1 January) (Ref.
x).
Douglas-Fairhurst read successive drafts of the scripts, commented on       their historical accuracy, suggested revisions to the dialogue, discussed       the novel's historical context and major themes with the director (Brian       Kirk), answered queries from the design team, and was available during       filming to advise actors.
Much of this knowledge was acquired while       researching the edition of Great Expectations (the edition has       sold over 60,000 copies to date, to the value of &#163;125,900 for OUP), but       the research for Becoming Dickens also had a significant impact on       the visual style of the film.
According to producer George Ormond, `Robert       was invaluable in helping us realise Great Expectations.
He fed in       research as we developed the script, advising on everything from what kind       of drinks Mrs Joe might serve at Christmas to Pumblechook, to Dickens'       obsession with dirt, to what a London street might feel like.
Brian Kirk       ... and I spent time with Robert discussing details of the production like       how best to realise Dickensian London, and what the world of the marshes       might feel like.
Robert's advice and research was made available to and       used by every department, from costume, to design, to hair and makeup'       (Ref.
2).
The effectiveness of the contribution to high quality         broadcasting is evidenced by the many awards it garnered, including       3 Baftas, 4 Emmys, and 2 Royal Television Society Awards.
Douglas-Fairhurst assisted the BBC's promotional activities by publishing       two articles in the Guardian (see 3.2 above), contributing to a       feature on fashion inspired by Miss Havisham (`It Girl', Interview         Magazine, August 2011), and participating in a Dickens Day at       Foyles, where he discussed (to an audience of c. 100) the problems of       adapting classic novels for the screen with screenwriter Sarah Phelps       (Ref.
xi).
Douglas-Fairhurst was subsequently (December 2011) an informal advisor       and on-screen contributor to BBC2's `Mrs Dickens's Family Christmas',       exploring Dickens's early life and the factors that led to the failure of       his marriage.
This programme (viewing figures 1.5 million) used Becoming         Dickens as one of its principal research resources, influencing both       the script and the visual style (the claim is corroborated by the       programme's executive producer, Basil Comely (Ref.
3)).
Further advisory work for creative content producers includes the       provision of an original framework for the project `Our Mutual Friends'       undertaken by film production company Film and Video Umbrella (a       commissioning agency and client organisation of Arts Council England) to       accompany a series of specially commissioned artworks connecting Dickens's       legacy with modern social media (see http://www.fvu.co.uk/projects/group-details/our-mutual-friends/).
Steven Boden, director, reports that `Robert was a great supporter and       advisor on the concept': `Our Mutual Friends was a new initiative for us,       and, arguably, one of the first projects of its type to try and integrate       and mobilise social media creatively, rather than just promotionally,       within a conceptual/curatorial framework'; Robert enabled us `to compare       the "dustheaps" of Victorian London that feature in the Dickens novel with       all the digital detritus we accumulate today, and the salon-society social       whirl that embellishes and punctuates the book with the flurry of social       media activity as characterised by the contemporary phenomena of Twitter,       Facebook etc.'
(Ref.
4).
