     The Oxford Prophecy Project proved a catalyst for the Panacea Society's     surviving members to re- orientate their aims as a funding body towards     greater public engagement.
Members of the Oxford Faculty of Theology played     crucial advisory and practical roles in this process of re-orientation.
Former members of the Prophecy Project, Jane Shaw, Christopher Rowland, and     Gordon Allan, were each appointed as trustees by the then surviving members,     on the basis of working relationships established during the research     project and their proven interest in the history of The Panacea Society and     its antecedents.
As trustees, Dr Shaw, Prof. Rowland and Mr Allan have since     aided the evolution of the Panacea Society into a modern charity (now The     Panacea Charitable Trust) with a deliberate concern to engage in grant     awards for projects with social and health benefits to wider society, in     addition to research in higher education [i].
Allan and Lockley have     been central to a further initiative to open up the historic site of the     Panacea Society in central Bedford to the general public by turning several     buildings into a permanent museum exhibition (The Panacea Museum) explaining     both the history of the Society and wider millennial and utopian religion to     a public audience [ii].
A foundation of the Oxford research project was the organizing and       opening of the vast archives of the Panacea Society's own history, and its       substantial materials relating to other modern religious movements.
Through cataloguing these archives, distinctive themes in the Society's       story and elements of its preceding tradition were brought to prominence.
These not only informed the academic works produced in the Prophecy       Project, but, through the influence and encouragement of project members,       provided a thematic basis for the Society's choice of new funding purposes       as a charitable body.
One such theme is mental health.
Mabel Barltrop, the       founder of the Panacea Society, had once campaigned for greater compassion       and openness in the treatment of mental health patients, following her own       experience in an Edwardian asylum.
Since December 2010, the Panacea       Charitable Trust has established a unique policy of block grants to the       Bedford Council for Social Services with a particular concern for mental       health services.
These have been administered by the Bedfordshire and       Luton Community Foundation (BLCF), whose chief executive states: "BLCF       feels that this programme has been highly successful to date...The       Foundation feels that it has been allowed the flexibility to make awards       to groups that support mental health issues that other funders may not see       as being in that category....We feel that the return on investment where       almost 2,500 people have been supported to date is of great benefit to the       town of Bedford and its residents."
Examples of how funded groups have       assisted individuals include: a teenager with a rare disability and       trouble with expressing his feelings and frustrations overcoming       depression and gaining confidence through a theatre project; and building       the self- esteem and social skills of a bullied school refuser who, after       being absent from school for three years, now has aspirations of going to       university.
Another instance involved a new mother dealing with grief and       post-natal depression who had also recently fled domestic violence.
Her       referral was urgent and the service co-ordinator was able to offer       intensive support immediately thanks to this funding [1].
Materials discovered in the Panacea Society Archives, together with the       broader academic research findings of the Oxford Prophecy Project, each       directly informed the most significant initiative for public engagement       undertaken by the Panacea Charitable Trust: the Panacea Museum.
While the       Panacea Society has long been part of the modern culture of Bedford, its       history and activities have been largely unknown.
Even though millennial       religious movements and wider apocalyptic sentiments are phenomena well       recognised in public discourse, they are frequently misunderstood in       theological, sociological, and historical terms.
Indeed, the insights of       academic research in this field are only rarely communicated to audiences       outside academia, thus proliferating misconceptions.
In the period 2010 to       2012, under the guidance and expertise of the named members of the Oxford       Faculty of Theology, the Panacea Charitable Trust sought to rectify both       these situations.
In addition to its other funding programmes, the Trust       established a permanent exhibition seeking to inform and educate a general       audience in the variety of apocalyptic and millennial forms of       Christianity in the modern period.
The Museum opened on the site of the original community campus of the       Panacea Society in August 2012.
It combines a series of rooms and       buildings restored to their appearance in the 1930s &#8212; when the religious       community was in its heyday &#8212; with an extensive exhibition presenting the       research of the Oxford Prophecy Project.
All the text panels and many       exhibit labels were written by Philip Lockley, as was the museum guide       book, complemented by comments by other members of The Prophecy Project [iii].
The museum explores not only the role of prophecy and millennial       expectations in the Christian religion, but also claims to religious       experience, psychological responses to faith and doubt, and the role of       symbol, ritual, textual interpretation and charisma in religious groups.
The Museum opening has received significant coverage in the local press.
Several articles, such as those in `Bedfordshire on Sunday' [iv]       and the `Castle Quarter' [v] recognize the extent to which the       Panacea Society has been a long-standing `mystery' for Bedfordians, and       now pay tribute to this mystery being `revealed' in the museum.
The museum       was also reviewed on the Religion in Museums website, being described as "a         fascinating new museum of religion" with some "most remarkable         exhibits" [vi].
The new Panacea Museum is now recognized to       form a part of Bedford's `cultural quarter', so called because the Bedford       Museum, the Cecil Higgins Gallery, and the John Bunyan Museum all face the       same street.
Negotiations have now begun with these institutions and the       Bedfordshire Museums Outreach Officer to secure accreditation for the       Panacea Museum.
In line with its charitable educational aims the Trust       has, since 2011, contributed to a grant supporting the first professional       curator at the next-door John Bunyan Museum and Library [vii].
The Museum is staffed entirely by volunteers, and is therefore only open       by appointment or on advertised open days.
In the first 12 months, the       museum has attracted 23 pre-booked visits from community groups and held 7       open days.
The total number of visitors is 1890, including the following       audiences and constituencies:            Staff from local and regional museums and archives services       Local History societies       Community and educational groups, including several branches of the         Women's Institute, G.O.D.
[`Growing Old Disgracefully'], University of         the 3rd Age       Local school groups &#8212; St Thomas More School; Biddenham Upper School:          Feedback from visitors is overwhelmingly positive.
Comments written in       the Visitors' book or recorded elsewhere indicate a strong level of       interest, a sense of surprise at learning so much, and appreciation for       how complex ideas are presented in an accessible way.
As one visitor       writes:       "Better presented than the V &amp; A" [viii].
Email       feedback includes similar points: "We had a super day and really         enjoyed ourselves.
I can't fault the Museum at all &#8212; everything is so         well presented with great interpretation and well-pitched text panels         for context."
[2].
Questionnaires distributed to a few       visiting groups elicited comments such as "Very well put together.
Interesting insight into the history of Bedford" and "I would         have to come back again to take it all in" [3].
