     Professor Goodman's research insights - conveyed to a wide audience       through numerous public lectures, his involvement in the creation of the       third episodes of the BBC series Ancient Rome: the Rise and Fall of an         Empire and the BBC documentary Mothers, Murderers and Mistresses,       and especially as detailed in Rome and Jerusalem which has been       widely read outside academia - challenge many common assumptions about the       history of anti-Semitism and the history of the policy of western powers       toward Palestine, and so have influenced the public understanding of       contemporary issues related to the Middle East, as well as the public       understanding of religious communities in a multicultural and civil       society.
Goodman's book Rome and Jerusalem continues to sell well with       over 35000 editions sold in hardback, paperback and ebook format across       the Old British Commonwealth.
Foreign editions are also available in       France, Italy, USA, Germany, The Czech Republic, and Poland[1].
The range of reviews the book has received on public forums such as amazon.co.uk       demonstrates the effect it has had on readers' understanding of the themes       involved.
In 2009, Tallscotin stated that "[t]hose who have a fragmentary       knowledge of either Roman or Jewish history will find his book makes       helpful connections.
The scope of the study is impressive as is the       authority with which it is written.
It is also very accessible in its       writing style".
In 2012, Matthew Hosier wrote, "[t]he fact that the Temple       was never rebuilt is a greater anomaly than I had previously understood.
...The main theme through this book is to unpick why Roman hostility       towards Jerusalem was so disproportionate.
...[The book is] very helpful       in gaining a deeper understanding of the social, political and religious       background to the birth of Christianity, and the development of Western       civilisation".
Jeremy Bevan also commented, "there's no doubt this is a       major contribution to how we understand the dynamics of an encounter than       changed history decisively, and I have no hesitation in recommending it"[i].
Professor Goodman has further propagated his research findings to a wide       audience, from schoolchildren to much older members of the public, through       an impressive series of public talks and lectures.
In Oxford, he convenes       weekly public lectures during term times on general topics within Jewish       Studies during term times on Wednesday evenings at the Centre for Hebrew       and Jewish Studies in Yarnton Manor.
These lectures generally attract an       audience of between 30 and 60 people.
He also organizes similar public       lectures in London on behalf of the Centre.
These lectures are held in       either the London Jewish Cultural Centre or the Jewish Museum, and       generally attract audiences of approximately 100 people.
He is chairman of       the Anglo-Israel Archaeological Society, which exists to bring to the       attention of the public in England the importance of archaeological       research in Israel and its environs, both through lectures (in the British       Museum, UCL or KCL) and through publication of Strata, the       Society's journal.
Since 2008, he has twice spoken at the Godolphin and Latymer School       Classics Breakfast Club in London, to an audience of about 70 each time.
His most recent visit was in October 2012; afterwards, one audience member       was compelled to write, "Thank for a fascinating talk on Friday morning.
It has really stimulated my interest in this area and I look forward to       reading your Rome and Jerusalem and The Roman World, both       of which I have just ordered"[2].
It is probable, however, that the research has had its greatest impact on       English Jewish readers, since most requests to give talks come from Jewish       groups.
The organizers of these talks are often explicit that they have       been encouraged to send an invitation either by having read Rome and         Jerusalem or by having heard a lecture by Professor Goodman at       Limmud, a British-Jewish educational charity.
Lectures for Limmud       generally attract an audience of 100 or more, and Goodman spoke for the       charity on `Ancient Limmud: toleration of variety within Judaism in Second       Temple times' in Leeds and Warwick in 2009[ii].
Other talks delivered by Goodman include: the Michael Weitzman Memorial       Lecture in 2008; `Varieties of Judaism in the Ancient World' to Stanmore       and Canons Park Synagogue, Middlesex[iii]; `Writing a       history of Judaism', to around 30 people at the Jewish Historical Society       in July 2012; and `The destruction of the Temple: the ancient origins of       antisemtis', to an audience of approximately 25 people at DAVAR (a Jewish       cultural group in Bristol) in December 2012.
In 2006, Goodman acted as historical advisor for episode 3 of the BBC       drama Ancient Rome: the Rise and Fall of an Empire.
At the time       this programme was watched by 3.3 million viewers[iv],       and since 2008 438 copies of the DVD have been sold in the UK[3].
He also participated in episode 3 of the 2013 BBC documentary Mothers,         Murderers and Mistresses: Empresses of Ancient Rome, discussing the       life of Berenice.
This programme made it to the top 10 of BBC 4 shows for       that week[v].
Goodman is considered an important scholar in his field and many of his       publications are incorporated on undergraduate reading lists.
Some prime       examples were evidenced following a series of public and university       lectures in and around Sydney and Melbourne, Australia, in April 2013.
Professor James McLaren, Associate Dean (Research) at the Australian       Catholic University stated that Goodman's publications "are set as       readings for specific topics and as part of the general bibliography.
His       research has also informed and help[ed] shape the way subject matter is       presented in lectures"[4].
In reference to a taught unit       on the Dead Sea Scrolls at the University of Sydney, for which Professor       Goodman's publications are also included on the reading list, Associate       Professor Ian Young attested that "Martin's theories play a significant       role in my approach to this course".
Professor Suzanne Rutland, also of       the University of Sydney, added that "Professor Goodman's deep scholarship       of the Second Temple Period and Roman world has been impressive and       inspiring to staff and students alike.
He gave two lectures to my Jewish       Civilisation class in the course `Palestine: Rome to Islam'...
He helped       to provide the students with a deeper understanding of these developments,       and also challenged some of the more orthodox interpretations of the       situation in Judea in first century CE...
I know that my students gained a       lot from his approach and I shall be incorporating the material from his       handouts into my lectures in the future"[5].
