     The Griffith Institute (GI) has a major role propagating information       about ancient Egypt in society, directly through its website, Facebook,       and Twitter presence, as well as through the facilities it makes available       to content-providers in many sectors and diverse social groups, including       audiences in contemporary Egypt.
The many databases it maintains online,       such as Tutankhamun: Anatomy of an Excavation, form primary points       of access and interest for non-academic organisations and the general       public.
With ancient Egypt holding a major position in popular culture in       the West and, increasingly, in the Middle East and Asia, much public       interest in Tutankhamun is fed by fanciful material available in print and       television media and elsewhere on the internet.
By contrast, the Institute       provides accurate, accessible, and authoritative information about all       aspects of ancient Egypt through online and print media, as well as making       resources accessible in visual forms including film, television, and       exhibitions.
All this information is grounded in the research undertaken       in the Institute for the TB, Archive, and OEB.
Informing educational activities and teaching       The website is used heavily by a variety of different groups including       primary schoolchildren: ancient Egypt is taught as part of Key Stage 2       History.
Highly positive feedback from users is frequently received; for       example, in 2009 a grandmother wrote to the Institute regarding her       grandson's project on Tutankhamun: `I want to thank you again.
My grandson       put a copy of the e-mails that we sent and your response in the scrapbook.
His booklet was the best of the class... His teacher wants to keep it for       an example in future classes.'
Permission is regularly granted to teachers       to use material, such as the famous Harry Burton photographs of the tomb       of Tutankhamun.
In early 2011, a UK primary school-teacher requested       Burton photographs for class teaching, and after the GI staff suggested       some additional material, the following response was received [1]:       `They have been totally spell bound by this topic and beg me every day for       more lessons on Tutankhamun...
Following your great idea to include the       plans I had a great idea for the pupils to mark out the outline of the       tomb on the playground, which will cross over into numeracy...
I will now       have to check and see if the dimensions of the Canopic Chest and       sarcophagus are in Carter's notes.'
As well as at least 100 visits to the Archive each year by academic       researchers from all over the world, numerous behind-the-scenes tours are       offered to groups of interested public, such as the Danish Egyptological       Society, the Society for the Study of Ancient Egypt (Canada), and the       Essex Egyptology Group [i] who have a unique chance to view the       collections and hear from the Institute's researchers.
Images and diary extracts from the Archive are widely used in print       media, including children's books and teaching resources for schools and       museums.
Permission has been granted for a great variety of materials such       as: The Children's Museum of Indianapolis's (USA) request for educational       material for school visits (2008); a Brazilian school history book by       Pueri Domus Escolas Associadas (2010); and Checkpoint English Stage 8       for Cambridge University Press (2012) [2].
Widening public understanding of Egyptology       The richness of the research materials that the Institute places online       have made the GI website one of the world's most heavily consulted       Egyptological websites (e.g.
276,479 unique visits in 2012; more in 2013)       [ii].
The Institute itself has been the subject of articles in       contexts including a July 2010 piece in the Guardian, `Tutankhamun       - the secrets of the tomb go online' [iii] and a May 2012 article       in the Smithsonian, `Howard Carter: Famous Archaeologist,       Not-So-Famous Painter' [iv] publicising its work and collections       to wider audiences.
GI images have been used as stills in TV documentaries, including in 2011       Egypt's Lost Cities, the first showing of which was watched by       4.92m people and was the 12th most popular programme on BBC 1 that week [v].
The Archive itself has also been used as a filming location and resource       for many documentaries, including Tutankhamun: Cursed Pharaoh and         Queen in 2009 for NHK (Japan) and Ultimate Tut, a Blink       Films special two-part programme from the PBS series Secrets of the         Dead in 2013.
The presenter, Egyptologist Chris Naunton,       specifically mentions and links to the GI in his blog post discussing the       programme [vi].
The Institute's Facebook page (http://www.facebook.com/griffithinstitute),       launched in January 2012, showcases the depth and diversity of the Archive       holdings and offers a point of entry for its research materials.
Facebook       allows direct public engagement with and discussion of these resources.
Thus, a set of postings by the GI in April 2013 of artefact drawings held       in the Archive made by Sir Flinders Petrie (1853-1942), one of the       founders of modern archaeological practice, resulted in the identification       of the objects' current locations in museums following online discussions       by members of the public.
The GI has then communicated this information to       the relevant institutions, who have added the data to their records [vii].
Enabling a better presentation of cultural heritage       Archive data has been central to national and international exhibitions,       from Tate Britain's The Lure of the East: British Orientalist Painting       (June 2008), and Pharaoh: King of Egypt, a travelling exhibition       from the British Museum (Newcastle, Leeds, Birmingham, Glasgow and       Bristol, July 2011 to June 2013; touring internationally from 2014), to       the use of Tutankhamun photographs in an exhibition at the International       Museum of the Arabian Horse (Lexington, USA, 2009) and in a student-led       exhibition at the Faculty of Archaeology, Cairo University (April 2012).
Since 2008, an exhibition of exact replicas from the tomb of Tutankhamun,       Tutankhamun: His Tomb and Treasures, has been a key disseminator of       accurate information about the tomb, based on the archive, and has       travelled from Zurich to Barcelona, Brno, Brussels, Malm&#246;, Manchester,       Seoul, and Berlin.
In addition to copies of archive material in the       exhibition, many sketches, plans, and detailed notes of the excavator       Howard Carter were used in making the replicas.
Oliver Rosenwald of Semmel       Concerts, organiser of this exhibition, reports: `It would not have been       possible to implement this project in a quality-driven way using richly       illustrated graphics, films and catalogues without the archived material       of the excavator's estate, which has now been made completely available       online.
This is thanks to the excellent work of the Griffith Institute and       the friendly cooperation of the archive management and their employees.'
[3].
In 2009, the Institute provided images of original excavation documents       and photographs for display in the restored Carter House in Luxor, Egypt,       now a visitors' centre [viii].
Providing an accessible source of high quality images and information         for various commercial uses       The Archive's use and dissemination in popular books and articles extends       beyond Egyptology.
For example, various Burton photos are used in the       history of board games and woodworking Erwin Glonnegger, Das         Spiele-Buch (2nd, ed., Ravensburger Buchverlag Maier 2009;       9783473556540).
Sketches of the nineteenth century traveller Edward       William Lane were used in Venetia Porter's exhibition catalogue Hajj,         Journey to the heart of Islam (British Museum 2012; 9780714111766) [4].
Hundreds of GI images have been used as stills in TV programmes such as Great Continental         Railway Journeys (2.21 million viewers, March 2013; BBC), to popular       entertainment such as The Supersizers Eat...
The Twenties (Silver       River Productions for BBC, July 2009; viewed by 2.26 million), and a       special feature for the Doctor Who DVD for BBC/2entertain (40,000 copies;       Summer 2010).
Burton photographs are the basis of a well-selling British       Museum replica of the ivory casket from the tomb of Tutankhamun [ix]       and a replica Isle of Man coin (2008).
Contributing professional advice and sharing skills       Tours are regularly given to undergraduate and graduate student groups,       for example from Reading Continuing Education,       Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit&#228;t Munich, and K&#248;benhavns Universitet [x].
Each year, the Institute hosts academics and curators from the Middle       East, Egypt, and Sudan as part of the annual British Museum Curators       International Training Programme (ITP) [xi].
Feedback recorded by       the British Museum includes: `I enjoyed our visit to the Griffith       Institute very much.
It has a fantastic collection and its website has       proven an indispensable tool in our day-to-day research work at the       Egyptian Museum' (Marwa Abdel Razek, ITP 2012); `The trips we went on to       Oxford and Cambridge were very helpful in learning about the activities of       some institutions there such as the Griffith Institute, which has an       excellent collection of old photographs of Arabic cities during the 18th,       19th and early decades of 20th centuries.'
(Hayam Ahmed Mohammed, ITP       2009) [5].
The website is consulted by professionals in universities, auction       houses, and museums, including the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, the world's       premier collection of Egyptian antiquities, which relies on the       Institute's `Museum Lists' to supplement its cataloguing system.
Archive       photographs were used in the aftermath of the 2011 revolution to determine       the extent of damage sustained when displays in the Egyptian Museum were       attacked, and to assist in the restoration of damaged artefacts [xii].
