     Lane Fox's research on ancient Macedonia has in numerous ways had great       cultural and       pedagogical impact in promoting the study of and interest in ancient       history as well as continuing       economic impact.
In 2010, Lane Fox recorded 14 lectures on Alexander for       the main publishers of       cassette teaching systems in the USA.
[i] In that year,       he also talked on Alexander for the BBC TV       World version of their international series Ancient Worlds (an       enlarged version of the original UK       series presented by Richard Miles) and for Neil MacGregor's BBC Radio 4       series History of the         World In 100 Objects (Episode 31: Coin with head of Alexander); his       contribution was then adapted       and included in MacGregor's best-selling book.
In 2011, Lane Fox       contributed to the in-house       British Museum video for the major exhibition Afghanistan: Crossroads         of the Ancient World,       discussing the impact of Alexander and his Successors.
He also gave public       lectures on Alexander       at Indiana University, April 2009 (conference on Two Conquests of         Iran: Alexander and the Arabs);       in Amsterdam, September 2010, for the Alexander der Groote       exhibition at the Hermitage Museum       in Amsterdam (he also reviewed the exhibition for the Financial Times);       and in Sydney, Australia,       January 2013, for the exhibition Alexander the Great: 2000 Years of         Treasures at the Australian       Museum.
The most substantial impact of Lane Fox's research on Alexander in       particular has been through       his role as main adviser to the controversial 2004 Oliver Stone film Alexander.
Besides its cultural       impact (attested in continuing online discussions), the film has had a       continuing economic impact       through various DVD/Blu-Ray re-releases, including the longer 2007 version       Alexander Revisited,       which has sold more than a million copies).
Lane Fox also had a strong       impact on the making of a       separate historian's disk accompanying a Blu-Ray release of a new version       of the film.
This film,       produced by Gary Leva (Leva FilmWorks), involves interviews with Lane Fox       and five other       historians in the UK and US, all recruited by Lane Fox.
The Ashmolean exhibition Heracles to Alexander the Great offered       considerable cultural and       pedagogical benefits to its visitors (43,464 people in all) and aided the       positive economic impact of       the University (tourists who visit Oxford each year spend on average &#163;65       each, supporting 13,700       jobs).
[1] During the course of the exhibition, 4,050       copies of the exhibition catalogue were sold (it       was reprinted twice) and 5,763 copies of the exhibition guide book (it was       reprinted three times).
The exhibition implemented the vision of the Ashmolean Museum &#8212; `Opening       minds to the joy of       learning' &#8212; with cutting-edge graphics, accessible texts, and dramatic       design effects (e.g.
the       funeral pyre of Queen Eurydice and the lifesize reproduction of the       `hunting frieze' from the tomb of       Philip II).
By providing a strong visual and material background to the       family of Alexander the       Great, it helped stir interest in the art, archaeology, and history of       regions in the periphery of the       Greek world for the period between 1200 to 350 BC, thus opening up new       opportunities for study       and the dissemination of knowledge (e.g.
Art as Power): one Oxfordshire       school pupil commented       that the exhibition `gave me a new insight into Hellenistic rulership and       fired my interest in the       workings of the Classical World'.
[2] This cultural       benefit was reinforced by a programme of lectures       and tours.
Galanakis was responsible for delivering public lectures and       around 50 tours.
There was       also a series of 10 public lectures by Oxford academics and invited       speakers (attendance for each       lecture was between 80 and 120 people).
The benefits of increased historical knowledge about Macedon and about       the process of historical       research were promoted by the wide media coverage that the exhibition       received.
[ii] Before it       opened, it was a recommendation in the local, national, and international       press, and called by Dr       Kottaridi `the most important Greek cultural event in many years'.
The       exhibition itself was widely       reviewed in the UK and abroad: rated a `must see' by Bettany Hughes, one       of the `Five Best Art       Shows' by The Independent and the `Show of the Summer' by the Sunday         Telegraph; it received       full page reviews in German papers, and was recommended by the Wall         Street Journal Europe as       possibly `your only chance to see' the new discoveries.
Lane Fox also       wrote a major review of the       exhibition in the Financial Times.
The exhibition was also       featured in the BBC4 series Guilty         Pleasures: Luxury in the Ancient Greek and Medieval worlds presented       by Michael Scott (June       2011).
Throughout, much attention was paid to Lane Fox's reaction to the       new archaeological       discoveries in the context of his long-standing research expertise on       Macedonia.
The Guardian       critic Maeve Kennedy's online article (6/4/11) focused on Lane Fox' speech       at the press opening.
European TV and press also carried extracts from his speech, and they have       been replayed       persistently in Greece since.
[iii] Quotations from his       speech were also used in France to promote       the Louvre Mac&#233;doine exhibition, Nov. 2011.
Further cultural and pedagogical benefits arising from the exhibition       were the opportunity to       promote the financial support for the Ashmolean Museum and to support       cultural interactions       between Britain and Greece.
Owing to the success of the exhibition, Lane       Fox was invited to give       the main speech at the dinner of Ashmolean donors in November 2011.
Lane       Fox also gave the       main speech to open the exhibition before the Greek Ambassador, the UK       Minister of Higher       Education, and about 400 other invitees.
The exhibition had a particularly strong cultural and political impact in       Greece.
In July 2008, when       the exhibition was first planned, Lane Fox and Kottaridi were the major       contributors to a 60-       minute television documentary at Vergina made by Photis Constantinidis       that was shown on Greek       TV.
There was very strong coverage of the Ashmolean exhibition in Greece:       e.g.
Kathimerini       (17/4/11).
[iii] The Ashmolean exhibition was also the       impetus for the conservation of many of the       new finds from Vergina.
The publicity created by the exhibition has helped       to promote the case for       a new Museum at Vergina to display the new finds (almost 90% of the       objects displayed in the       exhibition are now back in storage); as yet this ambition has not been       realised owing to the       financial crisis in Greece.
[text removed for publication]
