     Enriching cultural life and expanding public understanding:       The main cultural and pedagogical benefit of the Oxford research on Euboea       lies in the increased       historical understanding of a formative period of Greek history and of the       complexity of intercultural       relations between Greece and the Near East.
User groups that have enjoyed       the cultural and       pedagogical benefits of this research on Euboea include: the people of       Lefkandi; museum visitors;       readers of accessible academic history; audiences at public lectures; and       viewers of history       programmes on television.
Lefkandi[1]       Lemos' research has had strong reach and significance at a local level       through its effect on the       local population at Lefkandi.
Her work has made the local population       understand better the       importance of the site and their local history.
Lemos collaborates with       the Lefkandi cultural society       in organising lectures and exhibitions on the history of the area to raise       awareness of the local       history and protect the archaeological site.
In September 2010, the local       community was invited to       an open day with a guided tour of the site and a lecture attended by at       least 600 people; at this       event Lemos was awarded a medal by the local authorities for her       contribution to the conservation       and the history of the area.
The popular Greek novelist Christos       Chomenidis, whose 2010 novel       Logia ptera (Flying Words) features Lefkandi, has also       appeared at these local events.
In 2011,       Lemos displayed in the village of Lefkandi an exhibition of photographs of       the excavations that had       previously been on display in the outreach room at the Stelios Ioannou       School for Research in       Classical and Byzantine Studies in Oxford.
Lemos' large-scale excavation       also includes the       participation of many students, including students from outside Oxford who       have gained       pedagogical benefits from her study seasons.
Museums       Finds from Lefkandi are on display at the Museum of Eretria, which in 2012       had 8832 adult and       5472 school visitors.
Lemos displayed her Lefkandi research at a major       exhibition on Eretria, held       first in Athens at the National Museum and later in Switzerland.
[i]       Lefkandi finds and text by Lemos       were published in the catalogues produced for the exhibition in Greek,       French and German.
[ii]       Lane Fox also wrote a major review of the Athens exhibition for the Financial         Times (3/6/2010).
There is also a section on Al Mina at the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford (1.2       million visitors per       year) that puts pottery finds from the site in the context of       Mediterranean networks.
Other       exhibitions to which items from the Lefkandi excavations have been loaned       include: `Greeks and       Phoenicians in the Crossroads of the Mediterranean Sea', Museum of       Thessaloniki (December       2011-September 2012); `Princesses of the Mediterranean Sea in the Dawn of       History', Museum of       Cycladic Art (December 2012-May 2013).
Books       In Travelling Heroes (first published in 2008), Lane Fox built on       the successes of his earlier books       (most recently the popular general history The Classical World) to       present in a way accessible to       the general public a scholarly analysis of the results of recent       archaeological investigations.
Evidence of the impact of his research lies in the success of both the       book and the TV programme.
The UK [text removed for publication] edition received reviews in major       serious newspapers and       magazines:[iv] Paul Cartledge in The Independent       called Lane Fox `one of our most original, daring       and arguably life-enhancing' historians of ancient Greece,[v]       and Tom Holland in the Spectator       wrote that it 'reads as grippingly as any thriller'.
[vi]       The US edition, published by Knopf in 2010       (paperback 2011), was also widely reviewed [text removed for publication].
The book has also       been translated into three European languages.
[text removed for       publication].
It again received       major reviews;[ix] the German newspaper S&#252;ddeutsche         Zeitung listed the book as 4th choice for       non-fiction.
[x]     Lectures       Lane Fox has given a number of public lectures on the research treated in       the book, e.g.
an Irish       Academy Lecture, Dublin, November 2009 (150 capacity) and a British Museum       Public Lecture       combined with the Annual Lecture for the British School at Ankara,       December 2009 (250       audience).
Television       The reach of the cultural and educational impact of Lane Fox's research       was increased by a 90-       minute TV programme Greek Myths: Tales of Travelling Heroes.
[3]       Lane Fox was approached by       the BBC to make and present this programme as a result of his standing as       a widely-read ancient       historian and, in particular, of the success of the book: Richard Klein,       Director of BBC4, read the       book in hardback in early 2009 and sent a Producer, Susan Jones, to       discuss with Lane Fox       whether it could be filmed as a coherent documentary.
The book was then       used for the filming in       autumn 2009 without a separately commissioned script: Lane Fox is credited       as both writer and       presenter.
The programme included a discussion between Lane Fox and Lemos       filmed at Lefkandi.
The first showing in November 2010 on BBC4 had an audience of 436,000,       well above average for       a 9 pm documentary on that channel; the fact that the audience increased       rather than declining       during the course of the programme is further evidence that it was seen as       a positive benefit by       those watching it.
Together with five repeats in the following two weeks,       it had an audience of 1.3       million with an audience appreciation of 81/100, again well above average.
The programme has       been repeated in the UK since then (e.g.
BBC4, 24 May 2012) and sold to       many international       broadcasting companies (see below).
The success led to Lane Fox' being       commissioned by the       BBC to write a 1400-word introduction to the Online Archive of BBC       Archaeology Programmes for       their Website (April 2013).
Lane Fox also received numerous messages from       viewers in many       countries attesting to how their understanding had been transformed: for       instance, Yuliya       Yurchenko, a student at Lviv National University, Ukraine, wrote in an       email on 20 November 2010       that `I just would like to say "Thank you" for your work and incredible       video about Greek myths.
... A       lot of things became clearer for me in history, literature and religion.
That's a great support in my       studies.
'[2]     Increasing economic prosperity       The economic beneficiaries of the Oxford research on Euboea include: the       people of Lefkandi; the       publishing industry; the television industry.
The people of Lefkandi have       benefited from visitors to       the site and from students spending a study season at Lefkandi.
The       publishing industry, both in       the UK and in those countries where it has been translated, has benefited       from the profits       generated by Travelling Heroes; employment provided to translators       is another economic benefit.
The BBC has benefited from the profit generated through the sale of the TV       programme Greek         Myths.
The countries that have bought Greek Myths are as       follows: Austria; Cyprus; United Arab       Emirates; Italy; Japan; Kazakhstan; Poland; Russian; South Africa; Serbia;       South Korea; Sweden;       Taiwan; Ukraine; as well as the Scandinavian broadcasting service[4].
Lane Fox and Lemos also       both spoke about their research on Lefkandi in the worldwide version of       the BBC2 series Ancient         Worlds, episode 2: The Age of Iron, in a scene specifically       added to the original UK version to       boost foreign sales of the series.
The economic benefit is also shown by       the fact that, owing to the       success of Greek Myths, the BBC has commissioned from Lane Fox a       new series on the legends       about the dispersal of the Trojans; it is planned to film this in time for       screening in late 2013.
