     Professor Bostrom's work has led to his being invited to play a large       number of advisory and       consultation roles, to government departments, major insurance companies,       and other institutions,       and this in turn has led to his work's having a large impact on policy.
In       2009, he advised Booz       Allen, a strategy and technology consulting firm.
That same year, he       advised a joint meeting of the       Royal Society and the International Council of Life Sciences on biomedical       risk: the Royal Society       published a report from that meeting which was subsequently circulated to       the Presidential       Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues.
In the transcript of the       meeting of the Commission       at which the report was circulated, and during which Professor Bostrom was       several times cited,       the concluding summary states that `[this] was a day... for the Commission       that was rich in input...       [We] heard a lot... about value and values... [including] the value of       understanding risk... [to] many       things that we have been deliberating as a Commission.
'[i]       Professor Bostrom served as an expert       member of the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Catastrophic       Risks from 2010       to 2011, and the council went on to produce a series of proposals,       including the proposal that a       `transnational... mechanism that can identify and work to prevent,       anticipate and prepare for       catastrophic risks' be established.
[ii] In 2010, he       advised: the US State Department's Global       Futures Forum; Amlin Insurance (the Aggregate Modelling Division); BAE       Systems (the Global       Combat Systems, Land and Armaments Divisions); and the Science for       Humanity `Global Risk       Register', which uses expert advice in an attempt to achieve an       appropriate management of risks       and controls, and which Baroness Susan Greenfield, Trustee of Science for       Humanity, describes       as destined to have 'a positive impact on the economy as well as humanity'[iii].
In 2011, he advised       the MacArthur Foundation.
And that same year he advised Digital Sky       Technologies concerning       talking points for a roundtable discussion between its Chief Executive       Officer, Yuri Milner, and the       leaders of the G8 countries for the 37th Annual G8 Leaders       Summit in Deauville.
The advice that       he gave Amlin Insurance impressed them to such an extent that they       subsequently contributed       &#163;900,000 towards funding a collaborative research project between them and       the Future of       Humanity Institute to investigate systemic risk.
Professor Bostrom has marshalled his ideas to give practical advice in       several other ways.
He is       on the Advisory Board of the Singularity Institute, which aims to bring       rational analysis and rational       strategy to the challenges facing humanity and which holds an annual       summit to coordinate and       educate those concerned with these challenges.
[iv] He       co-founded the Institute for Ethics and       Emerging Technology, whose mission is to be a centre for voices arguing       for a responsible       approach to the most powerful emerging technologies.
[v]       He also founded the Existential Risk       Reduction Career Network, a community whose members discuss the strengths       and weaknesses       of different careers in terms of existential risk, share advice on job       applications and career       advancement, help one another to find interviews, and suchlike.
In July 2008, Professor Bostrom organised a conference entitled `Global       Catastrophic Risks',       concerned with the various ideas that were eventually published in that       same year in the collection       of the same name.
[vi] Several of the conference's       participants had significant non-academic       profiles.
They included: Joseph Cirincione, President of the Ploughshare       Fund, a foundation       dedicated to the reduction of nuclear proliferation; Chris Phoenix and       Mike Tredor, co-founders of       the Centre for Responsible Nanotechnology, an organisation whose mission       is to raise awareness       of, and to expedite the thorough examination of, the benefits and dangers       of advanced       nanotechnology, and to assist in the creation and implementation of the       responsible use of such       technology; and Sir Crispin Tickell, Director of the Policy Foresight       Programme at the James       Martin School.
There was extensive coverage of this conference in New         Scientist, Reason Online,       The Scotsman, Earth and Sky, and CNN.
A significant additional part of the impact of Professor Bostrom's       research derives from the way in       which he has drawn the issues of existential risk to people's attention.
(For instance, his work has       inspired the setting up of an existential risk research centre in       Cambridge, for which he serves as       an external advisor.)
He has disseminated his ideas widely through the       media in a way that has       attracted considerable public debate.
Among the highly distinguished       public lectures and other       public presentations that he has given on these issues since 2008 are the       following:            a keynote address to the Global Catastrophic Risks Conference in 2008;       the opening presentation at the Policy Foresight Programme Workshop in         2008;       a discussion with Sir Martin Rees at the Science Foo Camp, organised         by Nature, Google,         and O'Reilly Media in 2008;       the opening keynote address to the Guardian Activate Summit in 2009;       a talk to the Chancellor's Court of Benefactors in 2009;       a talk to the Future Scenarios Seminar run jointly by the         International Centre for Community         Development, the European Centre for Jewish Leadership, and the American         Jewish Joint         Distribution Committee in 2010;       a panel contribution to the Leaders of Change Summit in the Istanbul         World Political Forum         in 2011;       a keynote address at a Global Futures Forum workshop on         transformational technologies,         partly under the auspices of the US Department of State and the Italian         Intelligence         Community, in 2012.
Since 2008, Professor Bostrom has also been interviewed on the issues of       existential risk by       (among others) the Discovery Channel for Canadian television, New         Scientist, The Scotsman,       Epoca (the premier Brazilian news weekly), Kultur Zeit for German       television, Time, Die Zeit, the       History Channel and Bloomberg News for American television, Time         Magazine, Bayerischer       Rundfunk for German radio, ABC, i (a Portuguese newspaper), World         Affairs Monthly, Il Sole 24         Ore (an Italian monthly magazine), Utbildningsradion (a Swedish       Educational Broadcasting       Company), The Times Online Magazine, The Guardian, Science         &amp; Vie, Scientific American[vii],       Bloomsberg Buisnessweek,[viii] The Economist,       the BBC (television and radio), Aeon (a digital       magazine with an online blog which in this case attracted very many       enthusiastic comments) and       Huffpost Line[x] (an online journal that reaches 27       million monthly viewers) as well as in the       documentary film Transhuman by Titus Nachbauer[xi].
An interview for The Atlantic,[xii] despite       being over 5,000 words long, received over half a million reads, was       shared over 6,000 times in       social media (Google+, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter) and made the front       cover of Reddit.
An       interview for Aeon[xiii] was shared nearly 4,500       times in social media.
An article on the BBC News       website in April 2013,[xiv] following on from interviews       for Radios 4 and 5, was the most read story       of the day, with 1.2 million readers for that day, and, was shared over       13,000 times in social       media.
[1]
