     In July 2011, Peter McCullough applied for the post of `Lay Canon       (History)' of St Paul's Cathedral, London (a voluntary 3-year fixed term       post, advertised in the TLS).
The further particulars stipulated a       person with expertise in the long history of St Paul's, to bring       historical insight and scholarship to the Chapter (governing body)'s       discussions about Cathedral policy.
The new appointee was also to take a       lead in the `Interpretation Project', assisting research and planning for       a major new permanent exhibition space in the Triforium displaying       Cathedral history, artefacts, archives, special collections.
McCullough's       publications on how liturgy and preaching respond to institutional and       architectural realities were a major component in his selection.
His       research has informed all his contributions to the Cathedral's efforts in       2010-13 to bridge for visitors and worshippers the divide between St       Paul's as an architectural monument and as a living church.
His knowledge       of the period of Andrewes' canonry and (especially) Donne's tenure as Dean       has been disseminated in articles in the Cathedral magazine, talks for       livery companies, and advance planning for the contents of a major new       permanent exhibition under development.
As an expert on Donne, the       Cathedral's most famous dean, he has brought to St Paul's a re-invigorated       sense of the importance of that phase in its history, and of how Donne       revolutionised preaching and the relationship between church and community       during his deanship.
Chapter policy with respect to how the Cathedral engages with its       immediate geographical context, the City of London, and with the wider       London diocese has crystallised sharply in the light of the Occupy London       movement's making St Paul's the site for an extended non-violent protest       against economic inequality and corporate greed.
Occupation of the north       Churchyard from October 2011 to March 2012 placed considerable pressure on       normal operations and confirmed Chapter's already strong sense of the need       for St Paul's to be more effective in its outreach.
Led by a new Dean in       May 2012, the Chapter undertook a full strategy review, including of how       best to make the Cathedral's outstanding historical resources and       collections more meaningful to visitors.
As the person tasked with       interpreting St Paul's history, McCullough has played a key role in       developing and implementing the new policy.
He was appointed to the       sub-committee reviewing Education and External Relations, where he has       worked with the Canon Chancellor and other internal and external       representatives &#8212; the latter including the PPS to the Lord Mayor's Office.
McCullough was a lead proponent for appointment of a full-time archivist       to enable better access to collections for external users (including       school parties) and in-house groups (clergy and guides).
The proposal was       carried unanimously and McCullough served on the appointment committee.
He       was been at the heart of the process reconfirming implementation of the       Triforium exhibition space (temporarily on hold after Occupy London), and       was the first Chair of the Interpretation Committee.
As Chair, McCullough had oversight of the development of policy for       recommendation to Chapter, for interpretation of the cathedral (as       institution and building) to visitors through audio-guides, training       manuals for volunteer guides, explanatory publications, special talks and       lectures.
He drew directly on his research into cathedral fabric,       administration, and worship for much of the latest material, including an       extended account of the early modern period written by him for the guides'       training manual.
McCullough liaised directly with the heads of Visitor       Services and Collections to ensure that the information going to visitors       is correct and will enrich understanding of the building's religious,       political, and social, as much as its architectural, heritage.
He was a       regular contributor of accessible historical essays, all based on original       research, for Dome (the magazine of the Friends of St Paul's;       circulation 5,000) (Ref.
i).
He is also a regular contributor on       historical matters to the cathedral website.
He was appointed to compose       the Cathedral's official `Loyal Address' on the occasion of HM The Queen's       Diamond Jubilee, as well as the historical note for the programme for       Presentation of Loyal Addresses by Privileged Bodies at Buckingham Palace       (27 Mar.
2012).
He is periodically invited to preach non academic sermons,       characteristically with a historical perspective, in the cathedral and       texts are posted on the cathedral website (Ref.
ii).
A crucial component of McCullough's outreach work on behalf of St Paul's       involves speaking to London educational and political charities.
In       September 2012, for example, he co-organised and gave a lecture for a       public seminar sponsored by St Paul's Institute and the charity Our       Democratic Heritage.
`St Paul's Cross: People, Preachers, and Power' was a       day-long programme of talks and discussion about the history and heritage       of St Paul's Churchyard as a place of public speech, marking the first       anniversary of the `Occupy London' protests.
The audience (c. 50 members       of the general public) engaged in vigorous debate about the contemporary       context for maintaining St Paul's historic association with free and open       discussion of public ethics.
Full video coverage of the event was       published via the St Paul's website (Ref.
iii).
Many of these educational       events make use of McCullough's knowledge of the religious literature of       the Early Modern Period.
In May 2012, for example, he spoke for a Wigmore       Hall Study Day at the invitation of St Paul's Director of Music Andrew       Carwood, and composer Julian Philips (convenor): a 3-hour public       (pre-registered) symposium on the historical and religious context of the       music of William Byrd (performed by The Cardinall's Musick, dir.
Carwood).
He gave an invited address on `Pepys and Faith' to the annual Pepys       Commemoration Service, St Olav's Hart Street, sponsored by St Olav's, the       Pepys Society, and the mariners' guild, Trinity House (attendance c. 100).
The talk was privately published for sale in St Olav's, to benefit the       work of the parish (Ref.
iv).
Many of McCullough's educational engagements as Lay Canon are       Donne-specific.
In April 2012 he was contributing organiser to a programme       of readings, talks, and music, of and about Donne's writings, arranged       through St Paul's Forum in partnership with the charity Poet in the City.
This was a major free ticketed event attended by 1,700; video online at       http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TaPkcphHzmw       (1,820 views; 15 likes).
McCullough wrote the text for the accompanying       pamphlet (Ref.
v).
When, in August 2011, St Paul's was invited to supply a       member for a Corporation of London Art Commission Panel overseeing the       creation of a new statue commemorating John Donne, to be installed in the       redesigned Festival Gardens, St Paul's Churchyard, McCullough was the       obvious choice.
He helped to oversee the competition to select an artist.
The winner, Nigel Boonham, FRSPS, took advice from McCullough at the       design stage, incorporating his suggestion to extend a conceit of compass       points (taken from Donne's poem `Good Friday, Riding Westward'),       including, in carved lettering on the plinth, inscriptions of Donne's       biographical connections with the four cardinal points (North &#8212; Dean of St       Paul's; West &#8212; Reader, Lincoln's Inn; South &#8212; Married Ann More, Losely;       East &#8212; Born &#8212; Bread Street).
McCullough spoke at the unveiling, alongside       the artist.
(Ref.
vi)     An important beneficiary group of this impact is the membership of the       London Livery Companies.
McCullough has increased awareness among guild       members that they are the modern equivalents of Donne's primary St Paul's       audience.
On 20 September 2011, McCullough gave an address on `St Paul's       in the Age of Donne' at a Cathedral reception for the Wardens &amp;       Masters of the City of London Guilds (major donors to St Paul's).
The       Cathedral Librarian organised, with McCullough's help, a small exhibition       of Donne related material for the c. 50 attendees, drawing on material       from his research on Donne.
His talk was printed in the Cathedral magazine       (Ref.
vii.)
In similar vein, he spoke to the Bread St Ward of the City of       London in March 2013 (major sponsors of the Donne statue) about the       literary inheritance of Bread St (the birthplace of Donne, Milton, and       Herrick) &#8212; reviving, for the current governors of the ward, a forgotten       aspect of their cultural heritage.
Through a combination of the Cathedral connection and his academic       expertise McCullough is frequently asked to preach at commemorative       services: in Lincoln's Inn Chapel, (Nov. 2012) for an annual service to       commemorate John Donne; in the Chapel of Merton College Oxford (Jan.       2013), for a commemoration of Sir Thomas Bodley, attended by c. 200,       including Friends of the Bodleian); at Southwark Cathedral (11 November       2011) for a commemoration of Lancelot Andrewes, where McCullough spoke in       collaboration with the actor Peter Hamilton-Dyer.
Canon Mark Oakley, Chancellor of the Cathedral Chapter, testifies to the       importance of McCullough's research expertise as it has been put to work       at St Paul's: `Professor McCullough's contribution... has been invaluable.
At a time when the cathedral was celebrating 300 years of Wren's building       he reminded us all, and expertly informed us, of the longer history of St       Paul's, its pre-Wren life, and consequently developed within the cathedral       community and beyond a better sense of our inheritance.
This is vital at a       time when pivotal discussions about our future life and priorities are       underway.
His expertise on the history and literature of St Paul's was       never kept to esoteric alliances but communicated widely, attractively and       understandably at many levels.'
(Ref.
1)
