     Many theatrical companies, in the wake of the construction of       Shakespeare's Globe, have become interested in recreating the performance       conditions of the past.
Tiffany Stern's research on historical performance       conditions has become a template for `O.P.'
(original practices)         productions.
The New American Shakespeare Tavern in Atlanta,       Georgia, regularly puts on plays using her methods, as does the Utah       company, Grassroots Shakespeare Co., and the Toronto company the Queen's       Men Players (Ref.
i).
Her scholarship has brought about a yearly season at       the reconstructed Blackfriars theatre in Staunton, Virginia, in which       performances are mounted from actors' parts without a director (Ref.
ii).
Ralph Cohen (Co-founder and Director of Mission at the theatre) considers       that `The most important work that we have done since starting the company       25 years ago is to have instituted a yearly 3.5 month season based on the       work that Tiffany Stern has done with regard to rehearsal.
Her book by       itself would have been a major contribution to this new approach (one that       other theatres are now imitating), but Tiffany has gone far beyond that       and become our most important consultant on this work.
Annually she and       our actors share an exchange of thoughts on the season and on the issues       raised not only by director-less rehearsals but also on the efficacy of       parts (cue scripts).
These conversations in turn generate discussion and       exploration by the graduate students in our MLitt/MFA ...
I am certain       that the work Tiffany has sparked and now monitors will prove an important       moment not only in the record of Shakespeare in production but also in the       development of a dialogue between scholars and professional actors' (Ref.
1).
Sarah Enloe, Director of Education at the Blackfriars, adds that `we       frequently cite and employ her work in our workshops, lectures, and       educator resource materials such as study guides and teacher seminars'       (Ref.
2).
More recently, Stern's work has started also to be used by       companies interested in rethinking historical performance in a modern         context.
One Virginia company, Bad Quarto, has put on a modern       production - of The Vagina Monologues - using part of the       methodology described in Shakespeare in Parts and Making         Shakespeare as `a model for our rehearsal process.'
Director Tony       Tambasco elaborates: `My assistant director and I scheduled some early       rehearsal sessions to work through the monologues on an individual basis,       and then similar individual sessions later on to polish up.'
In line with       the methods Stern describes, `We had a single group rehearsal to work       through tops and tails of each monologue, and set the pace for "entrances"       and "exits" (although the entire company was on stage throughout) on the       day of the performance, ...' (Ref.
iii).
Stern's research has influenced the design and use of particular         theatrical buildings.
Dr Farah Karim-Cooper, Head of Higher       Education and Research at the Globe Theatre confirms that Stern has played       a significant role as an advisor on the Globe's Indoor Playhouse Academic       Committee, her `contributions to the Globe Architecture Research Group ...       help[ing] to shape our understanding of indoor playhouses and ... to       construct an indoor Jacobean playhouse' that will be called the Sam       Wanamaker Playhouse.
`She has contributed lectures to our public audiences       at the Globe and, in the past, provided notes/essays to our theatre season       programmes which are read by thousands of members of the public' (Ref.
3).
Stern chairs the American Shakespeare Center's Globe II Committee,       currently determining how to build an accurate replica Globe Playhouse in       Virginia.
Certain specific productions put on by major English theatre companies       have been informed by Stern's writings on performance issues of the 16th       to 18th centuries.
She is regularly referred to in O.P.
productions, and       wrote the programme notes for the Globe's production of Midsummer         Night's Dream (2008, reused 2010).
Her scepticism about       Shakespeare's hand in the lost play Cardenio resulted in the RSC's       changing the way they advertised their production: retitling it from       `Shakespeare's Cardenio' to `Shakespeare's lost play re-imagined'.
Her discussions on the subject with RSC director Greg Doran on Channel 4       news, and for a popular audience in Stratford, are available online and in       his book.
Doran reports: `I approached Tiffany Stern to help me cut       through the welter of conflicting material surrounding Lewis Theobald's       claims to have discovered a lost Shakespeare play.
She was very helpful in       identifying precisely which claims were accurate and which were       over-enthusiastic conjecture.
She was also very engaged in my attempt to       pursue the exact circumstances of the apparent special performance for the       Savoyard Ambassador in 1613.
I think we set a few hares running.
These       relationships between the theatre and academia are rare, but when they are       as open and generous as the one we established with Professor Stern, they       are very welcome indeed' (Ref.
4, iv).
Stern's thoughts about 18thC       production also shaped the National Theatre's She Stoops to Conquer,       for which she was textual adviser.
The Staff director confirms that       `Tiffany assisted with pre-rehearsal research with staff director Sam       Yates and then continued to be of help up until opening night.
Clarification of textual references and historical context were       particularly helpful' (Ref.
5, v).
Stern has introduced National Theatre       productions for Sixth Form Conferences, giving talks there on Timon of         Athens, Othello, and Comedy of Errors (the latter is       available online); she has spoken on several occasions at the Globe,       including a public lecture on `The Blackfriars Playhouse' (November 2012).
Stern's work has been cumulatively responsible for a resurgence of       interest in the `page to stage' school of criticism and performance.
The       journal Shakespeare Bulletin is publishing an issue `Rehearsing       Shakespeare' largely on the effects of her work academically and       practically (2012); the Open University is currently running a course on       her work, `Documents of Shakespearean Performance: Stage, Page, and       Manuscript in Early Modern England' (2012) (Ref.
vi); the journal Shakespeare         Quarterly had an issue responding to her work in 2005.
She has been       invited to talk at many universities: as visiting professor, she has given       talks open to the public at Vassar, Poughkeepsie, USA (2012), Utah Valley       University, Utah, USA (2012), Washington University, St Louis, USA (2010),       University of Auckland, NZ (2010; available online), Emory University, USA       (2009), University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA (2007).
She is       regularly asked to comment on Shakespeare and early modern theatre by the       Times and the New York Times amongst other newspapers; The         Economist produced a `Quick Study' article on her reading       recommendations in 2012 (Ref.
vii).
She has also had significant influence         on schools through her work as a general editor (with Brian Gibbons       and William Carroll) of the New Mermaids play series (she has edited       Richard Sheridan's The Rivals, and George Farquhar's The         Recruiting Officer).
New Mermaids tend to be the texts of choice for       for GCSE and A level texts in the UK (Ref.
viii).
Schools and other       educational institutions have also used her theatre history work, dividing       plays into `parts' and reading or performing from them, according to her       methodology (Ref.
ix).
All these forms of impact are supported by extensive public engagement       work.
Stern has given public lectures at Blackwell's Book Shop (Oxford)       and at museums on issues of material textual culture.
Subjects include       (for the V&amp;A, London) a lecture on playbills and, for the Radcliffe       Institute, Harvard, a lecture (available online) about the history of       note-taking (the Radcliffe also has an online exhibition for which she       created an `itinerary').
Stern's range and influence are readily visible       in her online presence: several of her popular talks are freely available       as podcasts (Ref.
x); various blogs discuss her thoughts - not only on       theatre but, for example, on early modern concepts of time (Ref.
xi).
Her       podcast lectures on `Shakespeare and the Stage' for the Great Writers       Inspire Oxford podcast series had by the end of the audited period       attracted 1863 downloads.
