     There are a range of indicators of the impact of the research and       outcomes described in this Case Study.
These include: (i) granting of       patents on engineering human beta-cells by electrofusion with growth of an       IP portfolio around our innovative technology; (ii) licensing of       engineered beta-cells to the biopharmaceutical industry together with       their deposit, commercialisation and sales through ECACC (recently       retitled Public Health England); (iii) demonstration of the utility of our       cell products by bio-industry and the international research community for       drug discovery programmes and generation of high impact publications.
Filing and granting of initial patent on engineering human           beta-cells by electrofusion:       Our first patent entitled "Human Insulin Producing Cell Line" that       described our human clonal beta-cell products was filed in August 2000       and subsequently granted, inherently demonstrating the minimum legislative       criteria of non-obviousness, novelty, and capability of being applied in       trade/industry.
This initial priority filing (GB0018808.6) led to growth       of our related IP portfolio to include 2 granted/issued patents (covering       9 countries) on our innovative electrofusion technology for generation of       clonal human beta-cells, which strategically allowed us freedom to operate       in the field, and provided sufficient opportunity for commercialisation       during the impact reporting period as described below.
Commercialisation and impact on non-academic end users:       In order to maximise the impact of our cells and allow other researchers       and industry to benefit from their availability, we deposited three of our       rat cells (BRIN-BD11, BRIN-BG5, BRIN-BG7), and four of our human cells       (1.1B4, 1.1E7, 1.4E7, 1.2B4) in October 2010 with the ECACC.
Testament to       the impact of availability of these unique cells, ECACC has been impressed       by the interest and uptake of our cells by both research scientists and       the bio-industry (see ECACC reference letter, Section 5 below).
Our human       cells and rat cells lodged with ECACC have generated 37 sales since       January 2011 and derived total income of &#163;23,356.
As well as the direct       impact on ECACC as an end user, arising from sales, the commercialisation       of our 4 human and 3 rodent bioengineered insulin-secreting cell lines       have proven utility as commercial and non-commercial research tools to       study pancreatic beta cell function/dysfunction, including discovery and       screening of new drugs/targets.
As detailed in separate Case Study, Ulster       has developed a strong portfolio of 12 granted patents since 2008 on       peptide therapeutics for diabetes based around initial in vitro data       evaluating the effects of innovative stable analogues of incretin gut       hormones (GIP, GLP-1 and CCK-8) on insulin secretion using BRIN-BD11       cells.
Since 2007 we have also conducted contract research on GLP-1 and       other therapeutic gut hormones using BRIN-BD11 cells for [text removed for       publication] (total income &#163;555,441).
As further evidence of the direct impact of our cells on end users in       industry, our human 1.1B4 cells have been licensed to [text removed for       publication], Sanofi Aventis and Domain Therapeutics for commercial use       (income &#163;62,567), and evaluation licenses have been granted for 8 other       pharmaceutical companies ([text removed for publication], Celther Polska,       Eli Lilly, Nordic Bioscience, Novartis, [text removed for publication],       and Tranzyme Pharma,).
The impact of our human cells on industry is       evidenced by the testimonial from Domain Therapeutics (see Section 5       below), a company who have used our human 1.1E7 cells to evaluate novel       GLP-1 therapeutics for diabetes, clearly stating in their letter how our       cells have impacted on their business.
Commercialisation and impact on academic end-users:       The impact of recent availability of our human cells and sales through       ECACC on end users in the scientific research community is already being       evidenced including, but not limited to, novel data presented in original       papers reporting: discovery of molecular pathway by which nicotinamide-       functionalised multiwalled carbon nanotubes can increase human beta-cell       insulin production (Ilie et al.
Int J Nanomedicine, 8, 3345-3353)       using our human 1.4E7 cells; and a direct effect of hypoxia on human       beta-cell proliferation and up-regulation of Reg and HGF       genes (Ota et al.
Life Sciences, doi:pii: S0024-3205(13)00513-4),       using our human 1.1B4 cells (see Section 5 below).
Other details of impact:       The impact that this research has had in the field of diabetes is also       evident through recognition and esteem.
Professor PR Flatt and Professor       NH McClenaghan (together with Professor FPM O'Harte (employed at Ulster       since 1993) were winners of the prestigious inaugural Academic Enterprise       Awards (ACES) Europe for Life Sciences presented in Stockholm, 2008.
This       is testimony to outstanding translational research and associated       commercialisation.
Professor PR Flatt was elected Member Royal Irish       Academy (2006) and awarded Dorothy Hodgkin Lecture of Diabetes UK (2007).
Professor NH McClenaghan was awarded the Physiology Society Sharpey-       Schafer Lecture (2005) for his research on insulin secretion and beta-cell       engineering.
