     Known internationally as a Leonardo expert, Kemp has had a wide influence       on public and professional understanding of the historical, contextual,       and scientific issues which surround matters of artistic authenticity.
His       findings have played a role in decisive interventions on issues relating       to Leonardo works, most notably: the two prime versions of the `Madonna of       the Yarnwinder', one of which is currently in the National Gallery of       Scotland and was exhibited in the 2012 National Gallery exhibition       `Leonardo da Vinci: Painter of the Court of Milan'; the `Salvator Mundi',       fully revealed in the press for the first time by Kemp and exhibited       publicly in the 2012 National Gallery exhibition; and the newly-discovered       `La Bella Principessa', an object of ongoing research and debate which       Kemp, both in his book (with Pascale Cotte) La Bella Principessa       and in a National Geographic film, argues is the portrait of Bianca Sforza       cut from a vellum book in the National Library in Warsaw.
The significance       of this work should not be underestimated: the `Salvator Mundi' and `La       Bella Principessa' are the first major discoveries of new art works by       Leonardo since the early twentieth century to achieve a significant degree       of scholarly support.
Contributing to the development of professional practice       Kemp's research on Leonardo da Vinci has set new standards in the       controversial area of the authentication of works by this major figure.
The art dealer Robert Simon, responsible for the sale of the       newly-authenticated Leonardo painting of `Salvator Mundi, has       acknowledged, `I have had the opportunity to discuss many issues of       Leonardo scholarship with Prof. Kemp &#8212; both involving the" Salvator Mundi"       and not.
He has been unfailingly generous in sharing his knowledge and       expertise and my own research has benefitted greatly from that [...]       Leonardo scholarship is a world unto itself &#8212; with an immense literature       and a significant, perhaps dominant component being concerned with       scientific and literary matters, as opposed to purely visual ones.
In this       regard Prof. Kemp's broad knowledge across many fields has provided a       depth of understanding to Leonardo studies that many have experienced       through his writings and lectures and that I have been privileged to enjoy       personally.
'[1] The freelance art historian Peter Silverman has       further attested, `Prof Martin Kemp has played an absolutely vital and       determining role in researching and authenticating the chalk on vellum       drawing by Leonardo da Vinci representing Bianca Sforza &#8212; now universally       known as the Bella Principessa [...] Without his brilliant insights and       courageous intervention the world would be one Leonardo poorer.
'[2]       The editor of ARTnews, Milton Esterow, confirms, `Martin Kemp is one of       the world's most respected experts on Leonardo.
He was one of a number of       distinguished scholars involved in the attribution of Salvator Mundi.
I       believe he was responsible for much of the research behind the attribution       of La Bella Principessa.
Whether you agree with him or not you must take       his opinions very seriously.'
[3]     Increasing public understanding of historical, contextual and         scientific issues surrounding artistic authenticity       Kemp's research interests a huge public audience of exhibition- and       gallery-goers, television viewers, readers, artists, and students as much       as academics.
The translation of the research through books written for a       general audience, and the corresponding high degree of controversy and       media attention surrounding the claimed identification of a new work by       Leonardo, have had a wide impact on public understanding of the       historical, contextual, and scientific issues which surround matters of       artistic authenticity.
His research has resulted in a large number of public outputs in forms       other than conventional publication, including major exhibitions, the       Universal Leonardo programme funded by Bill Gates and the Council of       Europe, and a comprehensive online portal for research on Leonardo funded       by the Niarchos Foundation http://www.universalleonardo.org/.
The longer-term impact of the initiative was the major public conference       on the scientific examination of Leonardo's painting held in 2012: Leonardo         da Vinci's Technical Practice: Paintings, Drawings and Influence &#8212;         CHARISMA Conference (organised jointly by the National Gallery,       Centre de Recherche et de Restauration des Mus&#233;es de France (C2RMF) and       the British Museum).
Claimed identifications of new Leonardo works are not unknown; however,       Kemp's reputation as the major researcher on Leonardo's work in the       English-speaking world resulted in a high degree of media and public       attention upon the announcement of the research into `La Bella       Principessa', widening the demand for and understanding of the processes       behind authentication.
With the initial announcement of the discovery in       October 2009, coverage in the UK media greatly outstripped that for a       normal art world authenticity debate, and included pieces on the BBC News       website, The Guardian and The Daily Telegraph.
[i]       Many follow-up stories ensued as the debate amongst experts increased and       further findings (such as the source book for the drawing) supporting       Kemp's argument came to light.
Alongside continued coverage in The         Guardian and Daily Telegraph, there was international       coverage in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Corriere della         Sera and The New York Post.
[ii] Extended pieces       containing interviews with Kemp, as well as detailed background to the       methods of authentication appeared in The New Yorker and on       Artinfo.com.
[iii] Numerous art blog sites also picked up on both       the debate and the methods used for authentication, including Vivante         Drawings and 3 Pipe Problem; these pieces in turn provoked       discussion and comment among followers of these blogs.
[iv]     The case of `La Bella Principessa' was picked up in 2012 by the National       Geographic, who published an article ("A Lady with a Secret") and produced       a television documentary (Mystery of a Masterpiece) as part of the       NOVA series shown on PBS in the US and then syndicated to ARTE as L&#233;onard         de Vinci: l'&#233;nigme de "La Belle Princesse" in France and Leonardo         da Vinci: Das Geheimnis der sch&#246;nen Prinzessin in Germany.
In the       US, the program was one of the top five rated NOVA programs of the year,       seen by roughly 5 million people; it is now available to buy on DVD.
[v]       The senior executive producer, John Bredar, confirms Kemp's role in the       production as `integral to the program.
Though he had no ownership or       financial interest in the drawing, his academic interest served as the       guiding force in the investigation as to the authenticity of the work.
Kemp's experience and research background underpinned a classic hunch       about the drawing, though true to his high standard of inquiry and       research, even after the discovery of compelling evidence in the national       library of Poland, Professor Kemp remained somewhat skeptical [sic] of the       authenticity of the drawing.'
The director, David Murdock, also felt       Kemp's `participation was absolutely essential for making the film.
It       simply could not have been made without him.
He provided the expertise,       the experience, the detective skills, and the eloquence crucial to telling       the story'.
[4]     Through these forms of dissemination, issues and debates surrounding the       scientific, historical, and contextual factors relating to the       authenticity of individual artworks have reached a broad audience and had       a considerable impact on the presentation of these facets of cultural       heritage.
All three works investigated by Kemp &#8212; `Salvator Mundi',       `Madonna of the Yarnwinder', and `La Bella Principessa' &#8212; are now much       better known to the public.
The Madonna of the Yarnwinder has remained a       focus of attention at the National Gallery of Scotland, with Professor       Kemp giving a lecture on the painting there on 23 February 2011 to a       sell-out audience of 200.
The `Salvator Mundi' and `Madonna of the       Yarnwinder' were included in the major National Gallery exhibition Leonardo         da Vinci: Painter at the Court of Milan, which ran from 9 November       2011 to 5 February 2012 and was visited by 323,897 people.
[vi] The       justification for inclusion of the `Salvator Mundi' was discussed by Kemp       in an article in Nature, whilst the exclusion of La `Bella       Principessa' was examined by The Daily Telegraph.
[vii]     Informing commercial valuations of artworks       All three examples of Leonardo artwork discussed here remain controversial       to a degree, and the authentications are not accepted by all scholars.
Their authenticity is of enormous commercial importance.
`La Bella       Principessa' has been the subject of a court case in New York brought by       the previous owner, and now settled out of court by Christie's; Kemp has       advised in this matter, details of which are covered by commercial       confidentiality.
[viii] He has also appeared as an expert witness in       the case concerning the theft of the Duke of Buccleuch's `Madonna of the       Yarnwinder', where he argued for the authenticity of both 1501 versions of       this composition, an opinion with a major bearing on the work's commercial       and insurance valuation.
[ix]
