     Foster's interpretation of Irish history has sparked wide popular and       academic interest.
It has been disseminated through the curation of       exhibitions and media appearances on radio and television, as well as       through numerous public lectures and publications.
All of his books have       been published in paperback as well as hardback editions, and sold widely       (Luck and the Irish sold 14,000 in hardback alone, almost all after       1 January 2008).
The public impact of Foster's work has, before the REF       period, been well-expressed in citations for honorary degrees, including       Trinity College, Dublin (2003), Birkbeck (2006), Aberdeen (1997), and       Queen's University Belfast (1998).
Foster's re-reading of Irish history       has changed perceptions of the `national story' across a wide front: it       has contributed to a new view, both of the complex and sometimes       antagonistic history of British-Irish relations, and between Northern       Ireland and the rest of the country.
His work has had a decisive effect in       contributing to a new political language between Ireland and Britain, as       can be attested by, for example, Colm T&#243;ib&#237;n (Prize-winning novelist and       public commentator), Bobby McDonagh (former Irish ambassador to Britain,       2009-13), and Mary Robinson (former President of the Irish Republic,       1990-7) [2-4].
He is a central figure in the public presence of Irish       history and culture both in the Irish Republic and in the UK, as shown       particularly in his numerous newspaper articles, interviews (for a       selection of both since 2008, see [v]), and in his collaboration in major       TV work, as section 2 below shows.
1.
Improving Public Understanding of Modern Irish History,           Culture, Politics       The impact of Foster's study of Ireland in the `Celtic Tiger' years, Luck         and the Irish, was affirmed in a range of four-star reviews in the       UK, Ireland and the USA, culminating in C&#243;lm Toib&#237;n's lead review for the       influential New York Bookforum (April-May 2008) [i].
Foster's work on key Irish literary figures has also made him a prominent       figure within contemporary Irish culture.
He has chaired and run the       Ewart-Biggs Prize, a high-profile award given to writers, film-makers,       journalists, playwrights etc.
for a work increasing understanding between       the peoples of Britain and of Ireland, North and South, since 1977 [ii].
Foster also helped found the British Association of Irish Studies       (established 1985), an organisation which has done much to raise the       profile of Irish matters in Britain, outside academe as well as within it,       and which is highly active; he continues to be closely involved in it, as       the website shows [iii].
2.
Enhancing the quality of media representations of Irish           History       The cumulative effect of the re-reading of Irish history over the last two       centuries provided by Foster's work has been reflected in a wide range of       interviews and television programmes in both the UK and the Irish       Republic.
In the REF period, examples from TV are the `One to One'       interview with Bryan Dobson on RTE, 16 June 2008; and `William Crawley       Meets...' on BBC Northern Ireland, 11 Nov. 2009.
From radio, examples are       `In Our Time' with Melvyn Bragg, Radio 4, 17 April 2008 and 26 Feb. 2009.
In particular, Foster acted as the presiding consultant and script editor       of a major television series presented by Fergal Keane, `The Story of       Ireland' (in which he also appeared frequently as a commentator and       interviewee).
It was broadcast by BBC and RTE in 2011, averaging 1.2       million viewers per episode and gaining top audience-satisfaction figures;       RTE have since repeated it twice; it achieved live viewing-figures in       Ireland of approximately 250,000 and an audience-share of 21% (the usual       figure for programmes of this sort is 5%).
The makers of the programmes       received many emails from individual people in Ireland and Britain and the       USA, praising the series for altering the perspectives they had inherited       from childhood stories.
For example, the headmistress of a school in       County Roscommon wrote on 10 March 2011: `There's a fantastic reaction to       the whole series here in Ireland.
We need more of this sort of stuff for       our young (and OURSELVES) to know and appreciate our history.
Well done to       the whole team.')
It was also widely reviewed in the press, and excited a       great deal of comment, mostly favourable (e.g.
with a review in the Independent),       and some polemical (for example, from the Irish blogosphere, `The correct       title of the series should have been, My (well really the revisionist         historian Roy Foster's) Version of the Story of Ireland by Fergal       Keane OBE...' ), which well attests to the impact the series had and to       Foster's central role in its conception [iv].
The best indication of the significance and wide impact of the series can       be found in the words of Fergal Keane himself, who wrote: `In 35 years as       a journalist I have never before experienced such a positive and enduring       level of feedback for a work with which I have been involved.
In both       Ireland and Britain, and among those interested in Irish history across       the world, the series achieved something very rare in modern television:       an informed, intelligent and fruitful debate and a real sense that wider       public knowledge of an often difficult and painful history had been       advanced.
The fact that the series has been broadcast three times in       Ireland speaks loudly for the impact it made on audiences there.
A       recurring theme in the comments from viewers is an appreciation for the       rigorous intellectual honesty of the series, the refusal to accept old       myths as historical fact.
With Professor Roy Foster as our series advisor       it could not have been any other way.
He demanded the highest standards       from all involved and in doing so ensured the success of the series.
His       influence at every stage of the process - from initial meetings, through       scripting and editing - was immense.
When young Irish people come up to me       in the streets of Dublin, Cork or Belfast to commend the honesty of the       series they are paying tribute to the rigour of Professor Roy Foster.'
[1]
