     Humphries work was published as an academic monograph which attracted a       wide audience and became the basis for an award-winning BBC documentary,       seen by a broad and international audience [5.i].
It stimulated a general       public to engage actively with family history and uncover new sources on       child labour during the industrial revolution.
The documentary inspired       members of the public to research their own family histories.
It       influenced other film-makers seeking to bring history to a wider public.
It also drew attention to the fundamental part played by child labour in       industrialising countries today.
Public understanding of history:       By combining accounts of everyday life in working peoples' own words with       a panoramic view of momentous economic change, Childhood and Child Labour       made the economic history of Britain accessible to an audience outside       academia.
This is unusual because the public's huge appetite for history       rarely extends to economic history, given that it is unfairly thought dry       and technical.
It provided a stimulus to discussion of past and present       problems and policies relating to children and their families.
Reviews       appeared in the Daily Mail, BBC History Magazine, and The         Independent (see above).
Subsequently, Childhood and Child Labour was selected by BBC History       Magazine as one of the first offerings in its new Book Club.
The       discussion of Childhood and Child Labour appeared in Historyextra.com,       the official website of BBC History Magazine [5.ii].
The research reached its largest audience and had its widest impact       through its distinct and material contribution to the documentary The       Children Who Built Victorian Britain, (BBC4) directed by Julian Carey and       produced by Christina Macaulay, which Humphries co-wrote and presented.
Humphries' research for Childhood and Child Labour, extended to include       accounts by working women and girls, underpinned the programme [5.i].
The       documentary dramatizes the events of the industrial revolution through the       eyes of child workers, depicting them not just as victims of poverty and       neglect but as active agents for improvement and progress.
A key component       of the documentary is the use of animation to dramatise the testimonies,       illustrate the nature of children's jobs and document family lives.
The       animation involved engagement with students from the International Film       School in Newport who contributed to the film.
A second pre-screening took       place at the International Film School in Newport, November 22nd 2010,       where the animators, the director and Humphries, discussed the       collaboration and the way in which the animations brought the historical       testimony to life.
The Radio Times, 29th January-4th February       2011, p. 83 and 86, and Time Out provided positive advance       reviews.
Humphries was interviewed on Woman's Hour on 31st January       2011.
Widespread interest in working-class memoirs and in child labour       created by the book and the documentary in symbiosis led to several radio       interviews and other public engagement: Analysis, Radio 4, 20th September       2010; In Our Time, 30th December 2010; Nightwaves, 14th       March 2013; Nightwaves, 10th April 2013.
[5.iii]     Transmitted twice on 1/01/2011, the BBC documentary attracted respectable       viewing figures (over 300,000) on each transmission and was shown again on       1/08/2011 [1].
The documentary continues to be viewed and discussed on       YouTube as well as via blog, email and postal correspondence.
For example,       the version accessible via http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=87eVOpbcoVo       has been viewed 49,076 times as of April 17th 2013 [5.iv].
The       documentary has been used to inform and transform children and young       people's ideas of childhood in the past and of the economic history of our       country by schoolteachers and in higher education.
For example, a teacher       from Australia wrote "I am currently presenting a 90 minute workshop to       gifted children aged 9 - 12 years, on the topic of the role of children       during Britain's Industrial Revolution.
I've made extensive use of your       book on this subject and also of the very excellent BBC 4 documentary       which I accessed via YouTube.
The overall response from children who have       attended my program - numbering around 500 - has been overwhelmingly       positive.
They are fascinated by the animated accounts from people of       their own age that are scattered throughout the documentary, and have       taken on a real understanding of the reality of their lives and the       genealogical connections that exist for many of their own families today"       [2].
Further feedback has demonstrated that the documentary inspired people to       engage with the problem of child labour: "Just wanted to say what an       excellent programme on BBC4, last night.
Felt you addressed so many issues       but above all you gave young children, working in industrial Britain, real       status &#8212; rather than the `romanticised view of child labour' even despite       the horrors of it all!"
[3]; "I would like to say to you that your work in       showing how society managed children in early 19C Britain is marvellous.
Can you do more, with BBC or any other medium available?
I never thought       that I would see, in so simple and direct a manner, available for       everyone, the realities which the Hammonds and Thompson put into       historical study, unfortunately available for a far smaller audience.
I       know that concerns for similar patterns in today's developing countries       may not fall within your remit, but what you are doing will, without       doubt, I believe, reach people who are active on behalf of children in       those countries.
Finally, while I would not make any assumptions as to       your position regarding your subject apart from the teaching of history, I       hope that such excellent work as you have produced will enjoy a life of       its own, a life I would assume to be very beneficial beyond history".
The Tawney Lecture, delivered in Durham in April 2010, appears as a       podcast on the Economic History Society website, accessible to students,       researchers and the public.
The podcast was played 380 times in 2011, 522       times in 2012, and 226 times January &#8212; mid-August 2013 [4].
Along with the       other Tawney lectures and teaching podcasts, it constitutes a vital part       of the EHS's outreach activities.
The project's success in making economic       history accessible to the public resulted in invitations to speak to       audiences of curators and conservators (Geffrye Museum, 18/03/2011), and       groups of amateur historians (Local and Social History Day School on Child       Labour, Oxford University, Continuing Education, 12/05/2012).
Conservation and Identification of New Historical Sources:       Viewers of the documentary sought advice on the value of family diaries       and memoirs and how to safeguard and possibly deposit such materials.
Humphries has obtained copies of three additional hitherto unknown       autobiographies from the nineteenth century and was allowed access to an       additional source which remains in family possession.
These will feature       in the new work on women's autobiographies and ultimately be deposited at       the Brunel University archive of working- class autobiographies, so       providing future scholars with more primary source material.
The       overriding message is that the documentary and its underlying research has       changed the way that people think about childhood, child labour and       Britain's economic past.
Impact on Historical Documentary-making:       The programme's significance was recognised at the International History       Makers festival in New York, January 2012, where it won the award for the       best history programme [5.v].
The award not only recognised the importance       and originality of The Children Who Built Victorian Britain but       will help to secure new opportunities for the production and marketing of       high quality vehicles for public education and enjoyment.
The director,       Julian Carey was there to accept the award and acknowledged Humphries'       input in his acceptance speech.
Since its original transmission, Humphries       has been invited to show The Children who Built Victorian Britain       on several occasions and discuss both the content and process of       transforming scholarly material into a documentary for a general audience,       for example as Keynote Address, Posthumus Conference, Antwerp, 2011.
Campaign Against Child Labour:       The documentary's claim that children were not mere victims but active       agents for change has synergies with the work of Save the Children       Canada's `Children and Work Programme' and, after seeing it, officers of       the organisation recruited Humphries to its Advisory Board, to help       develop child centred research initiatives aiming to include children's       own voices in debates about child labour, schooling and the formation of       human capital [5].
