     Gerth's research on the history of how consumerism was developed in China       has enabled both Western policy-makers and business leaders, and a wider       international public, to understand Chinese consumerism and its       consequences better; his ideas have, as a result, influenced policy and       practice in the private sector, helped shape and inform policy discussion,       and enrich public understanding.
Private Sector impact:     Gerth has provided expert advice to the private sector in the UK and       internationally, thereby influencing policy and practice.
His research has       influenced and assisted business leaders and journalists, keen to       understand the strategic implications of the advent of mass consumerism in       contemporary China.
In addition to numerous public and media discussions       of China, since the publication of As China Goes, So Goes the World       in late 2010 he has given a large number of invited business briefings on       the historical context of Chinese consumerism in the City of London, where       his work has formed part of the context of policy discussion for Royal       Dutch Shell, Johnson Matthey Precious Metals Marketing, and other leading       companies, including Aviva.
A Vice President of Royal Dutch Shell has       commented, "Karl's knowledge of contemporary consumer issues, coupled with       his insight based on a deep historical understanding of the PRC, brought       into our discussions elements that &#8212; despite the fact that we have been       present in China for many years as an operator &#8212; we were unfamiliar with.
He challenged our thinking about the way markets are developing and &#8212; very       important, given the brief &#8212; the changing expectations of individual       consumers (and therefore employees!).
"[1] The General       Manager of Marketing and Education at Johnson Matthey Precious Metals       Marketing has confirmed, "What he told us enhanced our understanding of       the social, economic and political development of modern China.
This has       been useful in informing our thinking about how we should negotiate the       increasingly important Chinese market for precious metals.
Since we are       particularly interested in the demand for platinum jewellery in China,       Karl's theme of the Chinese switching inevitably from being producers for       export to becoming consumers of imports was very relevant.
"[2]     Gerth's work has also influenced the content of business education in       China itself, having formed the basis for a presentation entitled, `When       China Goes so Goes the World', delivered at Zhejiang Finance University on       May 29 2011 by Dr Robert Guang Tian, Senior Editor, International         Journal of China Marketing and Vice-President of the North American       Business Press.
[i] By communicating his awareness of       the growing difficulties facing China in the next stage of growth (e.g.,       corruption and environmental pollution), Gerth is able to help business       leaders formulate strategies in real time which take these challenges into       account.
Impact on Policy Discussion:     Karl Gerth is an invited member and China Co-Investigator of Ceres21, an       Oslo-based, Nobel Institute funded program exploring the adaptation of       renewable energy technologies in the automotive and power-generation       industries across three continents.
[3, ii] This project       has included public conferences directed at business as well as academic       audiences held in Oslo (Norway), Accra (Ghana), and Dubrovnik (Croatia); a       multivolume series is in the final stages of preparation.
Gerth has also       helped organise several networks or events to widen access to his       research.
He was co-organiser of "The Chinese Renaissance in Europe", a       one day conference sponsored by the British Academy and attended by over       one hundred diplomats, businesspeople, journalists and academics, in       London, on March 9, 2012.
[4] He was Principal       Investigator for "The Past, Present, and Future of Chinese Consumerism" ,       a research consortium with East China Normal University, from 2011 to       2013.
By bringing together businesspeople, journalists, Chinese and       western academics, Gerth has helped to shape the discussion of the policy       implications of China's turn towards domestic demand-led economic growth.
Impact on Public Understanding:     Gerth's work on Chinese consumerism has been translated into Chinese       (PRC, simplified characters), Chinese (Taiwan, traditional characters),       Russian and Arabic; in all of these contexts, it has informed journalistic       and policy debate.
In China and Russia, his book has been the subject of       editorials by leading newspapers.
Under the title, "Consumerism will not       be China's mainstream ideology," the nationalistic Global Times       published an angry refutation (and misrepresentation) of Gerth's argument.
[iii] And Gerth was favourably discussed in Pravda in English and       Russian.
[iv] But while attacked by some Chinese, he has       also been an invited commentator for the China Daily, China's       leading international English-language newspaper.
[v]       Gerth has made a key contribution to the public understanding of one major       issue faced by individuals and society, namely the growth of Chinese       consumerism and its effects within the UK, in China, and around the world.
Most recently, he has contributed to BBC print, radio, and TV stories       related to China, including attempts to contextualize rapidly escalating       Chinese consumer and investment activity in the UK; he has also presented       China-related research on the implications of mass consumption in China to       business audiences.
[vi]
