     Service's research has made three distinct kinds of contribution outside       academia.
First, it has had a wide-ranging influence on the public       understanding of Russian history.
Second, it has helped ensure that the       teaching of Russian history is informed by rigorous specialist research in       the subject.
Finally, Service's work as an expert advisor to public bodies       has supported the development of public policy on issues relating to       Russia.
Public understanding of history:       All his books have been in foreign translations and Harvard University       Press has published the American editions of the History of Modern Russia,       Stalin (sales of around 15,000 copies) and Trotsky.
Lenin has been       translated into 17 languages, including Russian, and sales of translations       have topped 270,000.
The Polish edition of Comrades has sold some 17,000       copies.
His biography of Lenin won the Winner of US ForeWord History       Prize, and received starred reviews: eg, `Immensely scholarly but also       vivid and readable.
This is a splendid book, much the best that I have       ever read about Lenin...I was overwhelmed by the power and vividness of       this portrait.'
(Dominic Lieven, Sunday Telegraph).
The next, Stalin:         A Biography, was similarly strongly hailed in the media and by a       mass readership: eg, `This is effectively the first full biography since       perestroika to encompass the economic, political, diplomatic, military,       administrative and, above all, ideological dimensions, as well as the       personal aspects of Stalin's colossal life...
Gritty and unshowy, but       enlightened by Service's compelling characterisation, magisterial analysis       and dry wit, this outstanding biography of lightly worn authority, wide       research and superb intuition will be read for decades' (Simon Sebag       Montefiore, Sunday Times).
The third in the trilogy of the early       Soviet leadership, Trotsky: A Biography, won the Duff Cooper Prize       (2010) and was runner-up for the Grand Prix pour la Biographie Politique.
It too was published to critical acclaim: `Service is never unkind to his       subject, but nor is he an acolyte.
One of the great functions his book       performs, aside from being a compelling read, is to flesh out a       non-Trotskyite version of Trotsky...
There is no moralism in Robert       Service's narrative - and there is no need.
It is plain from the facts       that Trotsky was a quite brilliant historical phenomenon; and not a very       nice man.'
(Paperback of the Week, The Observer).
[5.i]     Furthermore, Service's research has led to his appearance on `high-brow'       and more `popular' radio and television programmes.
He introduced Lenin on       In Our Time and Trotsky on Start the Week on Radio 4, and discussed his       books on Sky TV and the Simon Mayo programme on Radio 5.
He has also been       interviewed about current Russian politics and Soviet history on Radio 4's       Today programme.
[5.ii]     Internationally, Service has discussed Stalin on US NPR and C-SPAN in       2004; his troika of biographies was the subject of an hour-long book       C-SPAN programme Q&amp;A with Brian Lamb in 2010.
He debated Trotsky with       Christopher Hitchens on Uncommon Knowledge in 2010, now available on       YouTube.
[5.iii] He did the same on Radio 4's Great Lives in 2009.
In June       2011 he was interviewed by Estonian Acting PM, Mart Laar, at the Tallinn       Literary Festival about the historical legacy of communism.
[5.iv] His       Stalin biography has been cited by the playwright John Hodges as an       influence for Collaborators, performed at the National Theatre, London (25       Oct. 2011-31 March 2012)     Use of Service's research in secondary schools and HEI's:       Service's books are used in A level syllabi of Pearson Edexcel (units       `Russia in Revolution, 1861- 1924' and `Stalin's Russia') and AQA (units       `Tsarist Russia, 1855-1917', `The Impact of Stalin's Leadership' and       `Triumph and Collapse, Russia and the USSR, 1941-1991') [5.v] Service's       Lenin is specified as one of four key texts for student use on the HIS1H:       AS-History Resource List.
It is described as a `celebrated biography       (that) drew on the previously unseen Lenin manuscripts' in Michael Lynch's       A-level textbook, Reaction and Revolution: Russia, 1894- 1924 (Hodder,       2005).
Brian Mimmack et al., History: A Comprehensive Guide to Paper 1 for       the International Baccalaureate (Pearson, 2009), p.171 carries a long       quotation from his History of Modern Russia on the impact of the 1973 oil       shock on the Soviet economy.
Alan White and Ben Gregory, Student Support       Materials for Edexcel AS History, Unit 1: D3, Russia in Revolution       (Collins, 2012), p.65 quote Service at length in a side panel, titled       `Essential Notes' , on whether Lenin led to Stalin.
[5.v]     Service has worked steadily on `outreach' to sixth-formers, giving a       minimum of four talks each year to organisations such as Sovereign       Education.
The latter, which draws up to 300 A-level students and teachers       to its events, said: `Professor Robert Service has worked with Sovereign       Education for more than fifteen years ... His presentations have always       been a highlight for the young people and their teachers.
We are aware of       the valuable contribution he has made to their A-level understanding and       performance.'
A History of Modern Russia and Lenin feature       as textbooks in history syllabi in universities as diverse as New York       University, Boston, Delhi, Western Ontario, Pennsylvania and Cambridge,       Southampton and Sheffield in the UK.
Supporting the development of public policy on Russia:       Service is a frequent contributor to UK political discussion of Russian       affairs.
He gave testimony to the House of Lords Foreign Affairs       Sub-Committee in 2009 [1] and led a seminar discussion in January 2012 at       the FCO's Post-Soviet Affairs Training Course.
[2] As a result of this       work, Service was called upon as an expert witness to provide historical       context in the High Court Case of Berezovsky vs Abramovich (June-December       2011).
[3]
