     Understanding Chinese nationalism in its twentieth-century context is       crucially important to diplomats, business leaders, the media and a wide       public, both within China and internationally.
It is a remarkable       testimony to both the new openness in China and to the international       standing of Rana Mitter and his collaborators that their work has received       so much attention in China as well as in the West.
Working with local government in China     Since 2007, Mitter and his research team have made significant contacts       with the Chongqing city government, which is eager to promote itself to       the wider world and to raise awareness of its wartime history.
Working       with Minister Zhou Yong and his team, including the heads of the Chongqing       library and Chongqing archives, Mitter has been involved in a variety of       activities: these include participation in a television documentary about       China's wartime role, as well as assistance in compiling materials from       British archives.
Wang Zhikun of the Chongqing library states: "This       collaboration has helped us to internationalize the understanding of our       city's history, an important cultural project that contributes to our       development within China's globalizing economy."
[1]     Business in China     Mitter was commissioned in 2012 by Jardine Matheson to write a history of       the firm's presence in wartime China.
This history will be presented to       corporate clients, detailing the way in which Jardines moved their China       office to Chongqing, and made a significant contribution to resistance       against the Japanese.
The booklet will be available both in Chinese and       English, and will be a significant part of Jardine's profile.
Adam       Williams, Director of Jardines, notes: "This project has been very useful       in helping us to link our historical presence in China to our ability to       develop business links in contemporary China.
"[2]     Impact on public policy and business strategy     Mitter's work on nationalism has led to regular invitations to provide       assessments of the origins and significance of Chinese nationalism to       policymakers and business executives, including:     - Regularly contributing advice on the role of Chinese nationalism, based       on a historical perspective, in shaping Chinese foreign policy.
He       provided such input on an ongoing basis for the Foreign Office and UK       government more widely, for instance as part of a briefing group for then       Foreign Secretary David Miliband (February 2008); a briefing group for a       meeting with Jeremy Brown MP (new FCO minister) (June 2010); the House of       Lords Call for Evidence on the EU and China (12 March 2009); at FCO       small-group closed seminars on China policy (31 October 2012, with FCO       Minister Hugo Swire MP); and on Britain's role in the EU (Oxford, 22       February 2013).
Mitter contributed orally to the discussions in the House       of Lords and at Oxford and was invited to follow up with written       contributions to the `Report on Britain's Balance of Competences in the       EU' (February 2013).
[3]     - Presentation to the Irish Institute of International Affairs (10       January 2013); this included a (closed) discussion on the role of       nationalism in shaping EU/China relations which involved briefing members       of the core Irish diplomatic team about to leave for Beijing.
- Input to new book Turning to Face the East by the Rt Hon Liam       Byrne MP while he was Shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Mitter appeared with Byrne to provide context on Chinese nationalism at a       policymaker event at the Centre for European Reform (16 April 2013), where       attendees included Simon Henry (CFO, Royal Dutch Shell), and chaired a       discussion with Byrne and BBC business correspondent Linda Yueh on Night       Waves on BBC Radio 3 (4 June 2013) on China's future as a business partner       for the UK.
Liam Byrne acknowledges Mitter's insights on contemporary       debates on Chinese welfare provision (a topic on which the UK aims to       provide expert advice to the PRC), in particular that this topic is "not       in fact new for the CPC [Communist Party of China] but stretches right       back to the party's debates during the second world war," in a trajectory       to the present day where the "recalibration of the social contract will be       at the core of the next decade of Chinese politics.
"[4]     - Presentation at a closed seminar organised by MoD/International       Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) on "China's Strategic Mindset" (2       October 2009); as a consequence, Mitter was invited by senior army       officers to speak at a closed session for officers of the 38th Irish       Brigade (Belfast) (2 July 2010).
- Mitter spoke on Chinese nationalism and its consequences at the       invitation of the Absolute Return on Capital (ARC) Global Conference, for       high-level investment managers (London, 22 May 2013) and has been further       invited to speak to similar audiences at the annual conference of the Bank       of Abu Dhabi (spring 2014) and ARC Global 2014.
Facilitating intra-Asian policy engagement     Two workshops held at Oxford (May 2012, March 2013) enabled officers of       the People's Liberation Army and policy practitioners from the Indian       Institute of Chinese Studies to discuss the significance of Chinese       nationalism in historical perspective.
One very senior officer of the       People's Liberation Army found the engagement with western scholars was       important for recalibrating his views on western attitudes toward China's       military development, and another found interaction with Indian       policymakers particularly useful in terms of understanding the variations       in Chinese and Indian viewpoints on nation-building and the role of       history; the latter wrote with appreciation for "your very useful academic       suggestions" and is currently seeking to invite Mitter to Beijing for a       follow-up conference [5].
Promoting wider public understanding of China's history     Mitter has also undertaken a variety of activities that have promoted       wider public understanding of the significance of China's history in       shaping contemporary Chinese nationalism: Mitter's discussion of the       significance of wartime experience in shaping contemporary Sino-Japanese       relations at the Commonwealth Journalists Forum (London, 22 January 2013)       was published by BBC Chinese Service online, and led to extensive (and in       part acrimonious) feedback [i].
In April 2013, Mitter spoke about the       connections between China's wartime experience and contemporary politics       on Saturday Extra, a major ABC (Australia) Radio National       programme, which stimulated feedback and discussion on the programme's       webpage [ii].
Listeners' responses included "What an interesting       interview.
Such a lot we don't know about the recent history of China, vs       being awash with European history.
"; and "Fascinating.
Could we hear a lot       more of this scholar's interpretation of Chinese history."
The debate       continued with comments on pieces discussing the book in newspapers       including The Economist, the Beijing Global Times, the       Hong Kong South China Morning Post and the Japan Times.
Comments       included acknowledgement of "the unwritten Chinese history of the US       involvement in that same war" and "One can only hope that more Japanese       citizens will awaken to the delusional underpinnings of the nationalist       path being pushed by Abe" [iii].
Finally, Mitter's book, China's war         with Japan, 1937-1945, was published in July 2013 to wide and very       positive reviews and its impact is likely to grow beyond the current REF       period.
