     Immediately after the LRB article was published, the Universities       Minister David Willetts wrote a full page letter of reply in the LRB       defending government policy (5.1).
The Times Higher         Education (THE) picked up Hotson's new interpretation of their own       Rankings in an article, flagged up in the editor's Leader, and presenting       further evidence collected by Hotson (5.2).
Half a dozen articles       developed the argument in subsequent issues of the THE, in which       Hotson was cited over two dozen times (5.3).
Rapidly propagated by       social media (5.4), the argument was taken up by the mainstream       press as well: one article in the Guardian prompted a further response       from Willetts (5.5); another example was the invitation to appear       on Newsnight on 28 June 2011.
Within a few weeks, Michael       Blastland observed in the BBC News Magazine that this argument was       becoming the new consensus: `Maybe the conclusion is never to       underestimate our ability to overlook the blinkin' obvious in search of a       quick answer' (5.6).
No less remarkable was the reception overseas.
Within weeks of       publication, unauthorised translations appeared in Chile and France;       authorised translations followed in South Korea and Spain; and extensive       summaries were published in Brazil, Hungary, Sweden, and the US (5.7).
Hotson's lectures and interviews on this and related material have       subsequently been published in Romania, Denmark, Germany, and the Czech       Republic, and picked up by bloggers in Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Italy, and       France.
When the THE published their 2011-12 Rankings in the autumn, it       was clear that Hotson's article had changed the terms of the debate.
Instead of interpreting their Rankings as confirmation that `the US is the       best of the best', the 2011 Rankings were published on with three separate       articles arguing something very different including a Leader by the       editor, entitled `The best, pound for pound' and a lead article captioned,       `US muscle reigns, but there's a world of difference in value.
The UK and       others are best for efficiency and bang for buck' (5.8).
The same       line of analysis was picked up by the broadsheet press on the same day,       most explicitly in The Telegraph (5.9).
The following week provided clear evidence that the argument had entered       mainstream political debate and policymaking when it featured repeatedly       in the debate on University reform in the House of Lords on 13       October 2011 (5.10).
Lord Krebs (Crossbench) rehearsed Hotson's       argument at some length: `As has already been said, the UK university       sector is an outstanding success.
In fact, it has been said that it is       second to the United States.
Actually, that is not quite right.
If you       correct for population size and investment &#8212; remember the United States       invests 15 times as much as the United Kingdom in universities &#8212; we have       three times the success rate, relative to investment, in the world's top       20.
If you go farther down the league table, the story is the same.
In       short, our top universities are not just globally outstanding, but, as a       whole, our university sector offers unparalleled value for money &#8212; three       times as much value for money as the American system.'
Lord Bragg, Lord       Parekh, and Lord Stevenson of Balmacara registered their support for the       same argument, while Lord Bew (Crossbench) backed up similar points with       explicit reference both to the THE and to Willetts's response to       Hotson's original LRB article.
Hotson was also invited to give numerous invited public lectures       at University College London (11/01/2012), Universities of Birmingham       (24/01/2012) and Cambridge (16/02/2012), National Council of University       Professors (London, 22/02/2012), Middlesex Business School (12/06/2012),       and the Czech Academy of Sciences (27/11/2012), and opening or closing plenaries       at the International Society for Intellectual History's annual conference       (Bucharest, 27/05/2011), at a conference marking the 400th anniversary of       the foundation of the University of St Andrews (31/08/2012), and at the       annual international conference of the Society for Research into Higher       Education (Newport, 12/12/2012).
All this further disseminated Hotson's       ideas: for example, the lecture in Bucharest was subsequently translated       and published online (now behind a pay-wall), thus reaching an even wider       audience.
Finally Hotson wrote Do British Universities Need `Radical Reform'?
[New Paradigms in Public Policy] developing the case considerably in       response to the debate, and which was published by the British Academy in       2012.
