     The first generation of translations and editions of Brecht's work was       notoriously chaotic and sometimes simply low-quality.
Kuhn's work,       intended to address this unevenness, has educational, commercial and       general cultural impact, felt above all in schools, theatres and the book       trade.
Besides translating and editing important texts himself, Kuhn has       worked closely with other translators, has engaged with schools and       theatres, and has led and participated in theatre workshops with the Young       Vic and others.
Above all, since 2002 he has been the sole general editor       of the `Methuen Drama' Brecht list, commissioning and approving new titles       and translations and initiating new publications of every variety.
Improving the quality of translation and increasing accessibility of         Brecht publications     The mediation of Brecht's work through reliable translations, both in       book form and in the theatre, makes a crucial contribution to the cultural       life of the English-speaking world.
Brecht's plays have become a       cornerstone of the Methuen Drama list, now published by Bloomsbury.
Methuen Drama publish books for theatre-goers, students, scholars,       practitioners, actors and those wishing to pursue a career in the theatre       industry.
The editorial and publishing team relies heavily on Kuhn's       expertise in reaching publishing decisions about Brecht translations.
Kuhn       coordinates and oversees the whole Brecht programme, doing hands-on       editing for many volumes.
He also provides guidance which significantly       influences the publication choices of the German publisher, Suhrkamp, and       the Brecht Estate.
`His role and expertise is unusually significant: we       work closely with the Brecht Estate on all new titles under consideration.
Tom Kuhn produces a reader report on every new play translation that we       are sent with a view to publishing it to coincide with a theatre       production.
This report is not only considered by ourselves as Brecht's       English publisher, it is sent also to the Brecht Estate who consider it       when making their decision whether to licence the publication or not.'
The       commissioning editor also states `His wide connections among Brecht       scholars have assisted our publishing programme by his soliciting       proposals from suitably qualified authors.'
[1]     Methuen Drama currently has forty nine Brecht titles in print.
Twenty-three titles have been published while Tom Kuhn has officially been       Methuen Drama's Brecht General Editor, with an additional three titles for       which he was co-editor.
[text removed for publication].
[1]     International access to Brecht through English-language texts     The impact of Kuhn's research extends far beyond the UK.
According to the       publisher, these books are also widely distributed overseas.
Bloomsbury       markets many of its titles directly in the USA and in other countries       internationally.
The share of the North American market is expanding       quickly thanks to an agreement between Suhrkamp, the heirs, and       Bloomsbury, achieved through Kuhn's mediation.
The largest       English-language market, after North America, is Australia and New       Zealand, but English is also the vehicular language by which publics in       the Indian sub-continent, Asia (e.g.
Singapore) and other regions       worldwide gain access to Brecht.
[1]     Enabling the teaching of Brecht's life, politics and theatre theory     Since Brecht is among the few classic and widely studied authors who       engage directly with economic and political questions, the availability of       the Methuen editions for educational purposes helps to nurture a       politically literate public.
Kuhn has had an immediate educational impact       through the Student Editions, which are widely used in schools, both in       Britain and elsewhere, and contain an essay on Brecht's life, politics and       theatre theory by Kuhn which is already becoming one of the standard       introductions to Brecht.
[text removed for publication]     The Methuen Drama titles feature in the Bloomsbury Drama Online Library[i]       launched in 2012, hence are readily accessible for educational purposes.
Both student editions appear online.
In 2013 Kuhn gave educational talks in connection with the RSC Galileo       production primarily for students of physics; and on 17 June there was a       `Poet in the City' event at the King's Place, London, led by Kuhn and       David Constantine, devoted to Brecht's poetry, song and its translation       into English (which attracted an audience of some 250 &#8212; schoolchildren,       actors, scholars, directors, as well as members of the general public) [ii].
This and similar programmes will visit several other cities (and literary       festivals) in the coming years.
Such wider educational and cultural       engagement is typical, and a cultural programme and outreach is an       important feature of the AHRC-funded project `Brecht into English'.
Translations of Brecht plays edited by Kuhn have been used by others for       educational purposes.
Fear and Misery of the Third Reich tr.
Willett has been toured around schools by Scene Productions a number of       times since 2008 [2] `offering students and adults the       chance to re-discover theatre in fresh, bold and imaginative ways.'
According to feedback from teachers: `Brecht is no longer feared by my       students.
'; `Excellent.
You engaged the students with both a difficult       text and techniques which are often hard for them to grasp.
Well done and       thank you.
'[iii]     Providing new impulses for the staging of Brecht's works     Brecht is an important figure in theatre repertoire, with over 30       professional [2] and many more amateur productions [3]       in the UK alone in the relevant period.
Twelve professional productions       featured translations made and edited by Kuhn at theatres around the UK [2].
Major UK and international productions were:             Mother Courage tr.
Kushner, in New York (originally 2006, dir.
George C. Wolfe, featured in John Walter's film Theatre of War         2008, and reprised Oct 2009) and at the National Theatre (Sept         2009, dir.
Deborah Warner);        The Good Soul of Szechuan tr.
Harrower, at the Young Vic         (May 2008, dir.
Richard Jones);        The Caucasian Chalk Circle tr.
McGuinness (Courtyard Theatre         (2008) Fluellen Theatre (2010) and Bruiser Theatre Co (2011)); and tr.
Beaton (2009 by Shared Experience at the Nottingham Playhouse, dir.
Nancy Meckler);        A Life of Galileo tr.
Ravenhill, at the RSC Stratford         (February 2013, dir.
Roxana Silbert).
Though it is hard to estimate total audience figures for these       productions, some examples can be given: the National Theatre calculated       that 61,000 people saw the production of Mother Courage over 61       performances, playing to 90% of box office capacity [4]; the       Liverpool Playhouse and Nottingham Playhouse audience figures were over       15,000 for a production of Arturo Ui in which Kuhn was directly       involved, of which 1 in 10 tickets went to school groups from 48 schools.
All of these were widely reviewed in the national and regional press e.g.
the Liverpool Playhouse production was reviewed in The Times 06/10/11, The       Stage 5/10/11, The Guardian 7/10/1, The Observer 9/10/11, and The       Independent 10/10/11.
[iv]     Informing improved performance and staging practices of Brecht's work     Kuhn's work on the texts `on performance' (esp.
the Messingkauf)       is helping to inform new approaches to the training of actors and to       rehearsal work.
His work on Brecht's visual imagination is suggesting new       ways of presenting the plays as not only dramatic but also visual       spectacles.
In connection with his research on Brecht on Performance,       Kuhn collaborated with the director and theatre teacher Di Trevis in       holding a series of actors' workshops at the Giles Foreman Centre for       Acting, London in January 2013.
A protocol of these and an essay on the       use of Brecht's theory in modern theatre practice were written and will       feature in the book, and a film will be appended (via weblink) to the       publication enabling others to replicate the workshops, training further       actors.
[5]     Kuhn has often worked closely with translators (Constantine, Kushner,       Bremner), with theatres (recently especially the Young Vic and Liverpool       Playhouse) and with directors (Josh Machamer, Di Trevis, Walter       Meierjohann) in a form of national and international knowledge exchange.
He has often provided advice, historical and textual expertise, and       furnished programme notes and articles for theatres, lately for The Young       Vic (The Good Soul of Szechuan, May 2008) and for the Liverpool       Playhouse (Arturo Ui, October 2011).
Kuhn's work in Brecht studies is leading to a fuller understanding of       Brecht and is shaping the whole reception of this crucial poet, dramatist       and cultural commentator across the English-speaking world.
