     A number of key recommendations made in the Review of Irish-Medium         Education have been implemented by government, resulting in       significant benefits for the Irish-speaking community.
As indicated above       (see underpinning research), acting directly on Recommendation 21, the       Department of Education for Northern Ireland (DENI) has established a       Standing Group on Irish-Medium Education chaired at under-secretary level       and all policy branches are now required to make sure that Irish-medium       education is embedded in the policy development process from the outset       (see Irish Medium Education DE Action Plan 2012, pp.27-8).
Recommendations that additional resources be made available to the IME       sector have resulted in CCEA receiving over &#163;1 million to devote       specifically to the Irish Medium sector (See DE Action Plan 2012, p.17).
As a result of the report's recommendations, &#163;152k funding has been made       available for the Irish-language youth sector (See DE Action Plan 2012,       p.17), staff within the ICSRI have delivered specialised language training       to IME youth workers, and the number of Irish-medium youth groups/clubs       has increased considerably as a result.
Our recommendations have also led       to bursaries of up to &#163;2000 being provided for teachers in IME schools to       take up places on MA courses in Irish (See DE Action Plan 2012, p.13) and       a significant number of teachers have availed of the bursaries provided to       enrol on the MA in Irish at the University of Ulster.
The recommendation       that teacher training for IME teachers should include a compulsory period       of study in the Gaeltacht (Recommendation 14.iii) has led to DE funding       Gaeltacht courses for PGCE students.
Deficiencies in the provision of       training for IME schools identified in the review (see Recommendation 14)       have been addressed in a number of key areas, for example through the       funding of increased PGCE places for post-primary and accredited training       for pre-school teachers (see DE Action Plan 2012, pp.
11-17).
Department of Education policy on funded pre-school provision has been       revised in the light of Recommendation 2, and registered Irish-medium       providers with sufficient children will now receive funding even where       English-medium provision is available in the area (DE Action Plan p.1).
Measures have also been taken to ensure sustainable provision in the IME       sector (Recommendations 6-10).
Most notably, area-based planning and       federated leadership models have been implemented, sub-standard       accommodation is being replaced and, where required, new accommodation       provided as part of DE annual major/minor works programmes (see DE Action       Plan pp.
3-7).
Key recommendations contained in Languages for the Future: Northern         Ireland Languages Strategy (NILS) have also been implemented and are       having a substantial effect upon the community in Northern Ireland.
Government has made NILS available on the Department of Education website       and encouraged all schools in Northern Ireland to download it (see http://www.deni.gov.uk/languages_for_the_future.pdf).
As a result of Recommendation 1.3 (NILS p. 13), a Northern Ireland       Languages Council Steering Committee was established (April 2013) with       support from the Department of Education.
The steering committee is tasked       with establishing a NI Languages Council to provide an umbrella       organisation for stake holders, provide advice on language matters and       oversee the implementation of the NI Languages Strategy.
Twenty       organisations were represented at the launch of the Steering Committee,       including representatives from the business sector, community       organisations and the education sector (see Sources to corroborate: NILS       website).
&#211; Corr&#225;in, one of the co-authors of Languages for the         Future: Northern Ireland Languages Strategy is a member of the NI       Languages Council Steering Committee.
Government has given its support to       our recommendation that learning opportunities for sign languages should       be improved (Recommendation 3.2, NILS p. 31, see also discussion p. 60 and       Recommendation 9.3 p. 61), and in 2012, with the support of the Department       for Employment and Learning (DEL) and DENI, a new Sign Language       Interpreter Course was established at Belfast Metropolitan College (See       evidence base).
Following our recommendations that steps be taken to vigorously promote       our indigenous languages (Recommendations 11.1 and 11.2, p.63), the       Minister for Education announced (3 October 2012) that he was providing       &#163;230,000 in funding to support programmes to encourage children, parents       and the wider community to develop their Irish language skills (see       corroborating statement from Russel Welsh, Head of Curriculum Development       DENI); and DCAL is now preparing a consultative document containing       proposals for the development of specific strategies for the promotion of       Irish and Ulster Scots (Sources to corroborate 4).
The Department of       Education has also extended its Primary Languages Programme (NILS       Recommendation 2.3) to include the teaching of Polish along with Irish and       Spanish at primary level (evidence base).
The Department of Education is       now promoting languages in pre-primary provision (Recommendation 2.2) and       in keeping with Recommendation 3.1, schools are now being encouraged to       widen their curriculum to include Content and Language Integrated Learning       (CLIL), i.e.
the teaching of other subjects and topics through a new       language.
Government has also acted on our recommendation that       non-traditional languages be promoted (Recommendation 3.3) and, with the       support of both the Northern Ireland and Chinese governments, the       Confucius Institute was launched at the University of Ulster and courses       in Chinese established (see http://www.ulster.ac.uk/confucius/launch.php).
