     David Nash's research has led to significant developments in how       blasphemy is understood and       debated in the contemporary world.
His involvement and argument for repeal       has highlighted the       need to consider the impact of blasphemy's history in Britain, the British       Empire, Europe and       America and how this impacts upon the contemporary world.
David Nash's       research is widely       considered as both ground breaking and an authoritative study of blasphemy       in the west.
The value of David Nash's work was recognised when he was invited to give       extended consultancy       to the National Secular Society in the UK.
On July 18th 2002, he gave       verbal evidence to the       House of Lords Select Committee on Religious Offences.
Dr Evan Harris was       in attendance and       was the MP who eventually introduced the Parliamentary amendment repealing       blasphemy in       England.
David Nash also subsequently submitted a 3,300 word memorandum       which was printed       and circulated within the Report.
This established a track record for the       value of the research and       its relevance to contemporary issues.
Throughout David Nash has argued the case for repeal and the final report       recognised the deep       seated issues raised by repeal.
The second of David Nash's monographs on       Blasphemy -       Blasphemy in the Christian World appeared in September 2007 to       enthusiastic reviews.
This and       other works by David Nash in the area were discussed and quoted by the       Archbishop of       Canterbury in his James Callaghan Memorial Lecture of 29th       January 2008, and by Lord Lester in a       keynote lecture.
He also disseminated aspects of his research findings in       a variety of talks,       seminar papers, keynote lectures, radio programmes (Radio Four's Beyond         Belief) and the popular       History Journal BBC History Magazine.
He has also been consulted       by journalists from Austria,       Netherlands, Germany and the United States.
All these were in the public       domain in the months       leading up to the introduction of the Parliamentary Bill into the House of       Commons.
Thus David       Nash's analysis and views have been and are widely sought by official       agencies, widely known and       quoted.
When Ireland recast its blasphemy law in 2008/9 David Nash was invited to       comment and advise       organisations critical of this new legislation.
These included Atheist       Ireland, Irish Pen and the Irish       Council for Civil Liberties.
David Nash advised Atheist Ireland in the       construction of arguments       and tactics in putting the case for the repeal of the law in Ireland.
He       wrote reports, briefing       documents and gave lectures to a range of audiences.
He spoke at an       international freethought       congress held in Dublin in 2011 alongside the foremost freethought       campaigner Professor Richard       Dawkins.
In January 2012 he spoke on a webcast.
Both of these speeches       have subsequently       been posted on YouTube (cited below) and the latter of these has been       syndicated on a number of       websites (one cited below).
These appearances were used by journalists who       subsequently       produced articles quoting ideas from these broadcasts, or from the       underpinning research       conveyed to them through interview.
David was also interviewed about the       issues in Ireland for a       podcast with an international following (The Pod Delusion) which to date,       since broadcast       (September 2013), has registered at least 12,000 downloads.
On January 31st 2012 David Nash provided a briefing to TDs and Senators       from the Irish       Parliament.
Prior to this he had begun liaising with the United Nations       Special Rapporteur on       Freedom of Religion.
The UN Special Rapporteur asked David Nash to inform       and report upon       matters in Ireland and was asked to stress in particular the perils for       international relations of a       functioning blasphemy law.
In his briefing to the members of the two       chambers of the Irish       Parliament David outlined the central issues and advised repeal at the       earliest possible       opportunity.
Two days later a Senator, reported in the Chamber of the       Irish Parliament upon the       briefing and the contribution of David Nash to advancing understanding of       the Irish blasphemy law       and its problems for the international outlook of laws against defamation       of religion.
In this speech       she requested a Senate debate on this subject, expressing the intention of       arguing for repeal of the       law.
In October 2012 David Nash was asked to speak at the Human Dimension       Implementation       Meeting) in Warsaw organised by the Organization for Security and       Co-operation in Europe.
This       was attended by a number of members of the Irish Diplomatic service and       judicial observers.
Again       this speech has been referred to by journalists and its contents used in       the construction of articles.
In June 2013, David Nash has also spoken to the Secretary of the       Constitutional Convention.
He       was also involved in drafting Atheist Ireland's submission to the       Constitutional Convention       (submitted July 2013) and this group was invited to give evidence with       David Nash to provide a       leading contribution (event occurred after the census deadline).
