     Professor Griffin's exploration of the socio-historical and ideological       dynamics of fascism and the relationship of various forms of political or       religious fanaticism to modernity has enabled not only policy and practice       impacts but also contributed to improved public understanding of       radicalism, fanaticism and extremism.
On 22 July 2011, the Anders Behring Breivik terrorist outrages occurred       in Norway, resulting in 69 deaths; Breivik had pledged to save Norway and       Western Europe from a Muslim takeover and that the Labour Party had to       "pay the price" for "letting down Norway and the Norwegian people".
Breivik was convicted of mass murder, causing a fatal explosion, and       terrorism in August 2012.
In the aftermath of the massacre and Breivik's       trial, Professor Griffin provided expert opinion to newspapers and the       media (sources 6 a-d).
On Days 28 and 30 of the trial Professor Griffin's       research was cited, by expert witnesses for the prosecution &#216;yvind       Str&#248;mmen and Nik Brandal (source 7), referring to his theory of       radicalisation (heroic doubling); explored and detailed in `Terrorist's         Creed.
Fanatical Violence and the Human Need for Meaning' (source       5).
Professor Griffin was engaged by Verdens Gang, Norway's leading       popular newspaper (2012 circulation 188K), to write an article published       in two parts `Breiviks utopi' (Breivik's Utopia) (source 6 d)       ; the article explored radicalisation, exposing how terrorist       violence differs from other forms of destruction.
A further article 'Behring         Breivik og modernitetens m&#248;rke side' (source 6c)  (Behring       Breivik and modernity's dark side), commissioned by Aftenposten,       Norway's leading quality newspaper (2012 circulation 225K) discussed how       modernity and progress, enriching for many, has become a source of       catastrophic destruction and loss for others.
Following the Boston       Marathon bombings and Woolwich assassination, Professor Griffin was       invited to give expert opinion in a number of media interviews in the UK,       Norway, and Sweden (sources 8a-b).
In November 2010, Professor Griffin proactively contacted the Home Office       with an offer to give a presentation on radicalization to the Prevent       strategy team following an interview with its director Baroness       Neville-Jones, the Minister of State for Security and Counterterrorism, on       the BBC Radio 4 Today programme that suggested a lamentable       misunderstanding of the phenomenon of terrorism it was seeking to prevent.
This Prevent strategy sets out how the UK Government aims to stop people       becoming terrorists or supporting terrorism.
Following Professor Griffin's talk to the Prevent team (February 2011) he       was approached by the Home Office official responsible for producing a new       edition of the training DVD for WRAP (Workshop to Raise Awareness of       Prevent) to be interviewed as a `historian of terrorism'.
The WRAP DVD       (released 2011) has been circulated to all Local Authorities and       public sector organisations in the UK, and has been delivered to nearly       15,000 frontline staff.
The WRAP DVD is the centre of a 2.5 hour training       package that aims to raise awareness in staff across the public sector,       who may come into contact with vulnerable people, so that they may have an       understanding of the Prevent agenda; the role they can play within it; and       some of the skills to help recognise those potentially vulnerable to       radicalisation (source 9).
The Education Liaison in the Office of the National Coordinator of       Prevent, approached Professor Griffin to assist in finding a formula which       would deliver Home Office demands for the implementation of `Prevent 2'       (source 10) in the University sector.
Professor Griffin advised him to       abandon the strategy of creating a Home Office structure to monitor       potential sources of radicalism with the cooperation of Universities.
It       was suggested that a new body should be set up, `owned' by the University       sector through the Universities UK, on which various forms of expertise       and input would meet &#8212; experts from the, Home Office, on radicalization,       Islamic theology alongside a representative of moderate Islam and an       expert on the far right.
Convinced by Professor Griffin's argument, since October 2012, the       Education Liaison has advocated implementing this strategy.
This position       received further support from Universities UK's Jo Attwooll and Geoffrey       Petts (Vice-Chancellor, University of Westminster) a key-player in the new       body, to which the Education Liaison recommended Professor Griffin to be a       part of in respect of his academic expertise on radicalization.
The       strategy proposed by Professor Griffin makes Universities compliant with       Home Office counter-terrorist policies without jeopardizing university       autonomy or academic freedom.
Professor Petts, leading academic of UUK,       met with the Education Liaison on 1 May 2013 to suggest the formation of a       new committee by UUK (following Griffin's model) to address issues of       radicalization on the campus with Home Office representation.
At the UUK       conference on Safer campuses held in 21 May he then unveiled a new UUK       working party on radicalization on campuses with Home Office support.
In       an email to Roger Griffin, the Education Liaison attributed this entente       between the Home Office and UUK directly to Professor Griffin's       intervention.
(source 11)     In May 2013 Professor Griffin was also invited to be contributor to the       application to the Research Council of Norway by the Network for the Study       of Totalitarianism and Democracy (NEST), which was founded at the       University of Oslo in 2009 by senior researchers from various disciplines       within Oslo University to investigate `Challenges to an Open Society in an       Age of Crisis'.
This project will lead to a major bid to the EU Horizons       2020 programme, investigating radicalism and extremism in Europe, tackling       the theoretical issues raised by extremism and fanatical violence.
