     Religious Discrimination:     The doctrinal legal scholarship on religious discrimination (1,2) led to       commissioned research by the European Network of Legal Experts in the       non-discrimination field for the European Commission.
This resulted in the       thematic report "Religion and Belief in Employment &#8212; Law"       published by the European Commission (3).
This, together with doctrinal       work on religion and employment (2), has had considerable and far-reaching       impact on policy debate in a variety of contexts.
For example, it is cited in the International Labour Organisation (ILO)       report on Legal prohibitions against employment discrimination available       to migrant workers employed in Europe as part of the ILO International       Migration Programme (7); and in the Equality and Human Rights Commission       Human Rights Review 2012 (8).
It has been widely relied on by non-academic       commentators such as former Archbishop of Canterbury Lord Carey (9), and       Joanna &#321;opbowska the Legal Adviser Commission of the Bishops' Conferences       of the European Community (10).
It has also been used by legal       practitioners such as The Open Society Justice Initiative legal opinion in       the German appeal hearing in Diakonische Werk Hamburg v. Ms.Fadia.
(11)       and The Church and Society Commission of the Conference of European       Churches (12).
Vickers' has also influenced policy on religious equality in Europe       through direct interaction with policy makers.
Her 2008 monograph Religious         Freedom, Religious Discrimination and the Workplace (2) led to an       invitation to give the key note speech at a conference of the EU       FP7-funded RELIGARE project in 2011, and again to contributions to the       project in 2012 and 2013.
This project engaged significantly with policy       makers at the European Commission, as well as having input from a number       of different faith groups.
It made a number of policy recommendations to       the EU relating to employment matters, including policy on the duty of       reasonable accommodation.
Vickers also spoke at the European Commission       Legal Seminar on Approaches to Equality and Non-Discrimination Legislation       Inside and Outside the EU, October 2011, Brussels (with Prof. Titia       Loenen, University of Utrecht) on a proportionality approach to religious       discrimination.
Papers were attended by members of the European       Commission, Government Representatives, and Representatives of Equality       NGOs from across Europe.
Doctrinal work on the lack of any proportionality review in the legal       protection for teachers in faith schools was used as the basis for a       complaint by the British Humanist Association and National Secular Society       to the European Commission.
The complaint argues that UK law in this area       infringes the EU Directive 2000/78(13).
The European Commission is       currently awaiting a response from the UK government to its request for       information on the issue before considering whether to take infringement       proceedings against the UK.
Vickers's work on religious discrimination (2) has also been cited in       Employment Appeal Tribunal cases on religious discrimination (Grainger         PLC v Nicolson [2009] UKEAT/0219/09.)
(14)     Equality Policy     Work on equality policy in research careers has had demonstrable and       direct impact on the content of the Funding Councils Equality Guidance for       REF 2014.
Recommendations formulated from the research on equality and RAE       2008 (4) were implemented in the REF 2014 guidance (15).
The       recommendations led the Funding Councils and Equality Challenge Unit (ECU)       to take specific action including the provision of clearer guidance to       higher education institutions (HEIs) by Equaltiy Challenge Unit (ECU)       about self-disclosure of personal circumstances and that equality training       should focus on the REF context.
In response, ECU developed a template to       be used to elicit equality-related personal circumstances and designed       REF-specific equality training.
The research also identified a need for       greater consistency in the equality guidance issued by panels and       sub-panels and this has led to the adoption of more consistent rules in       REF 2014.
For example, the distinction between clearly-defined personal       circumstances that can be dealt by adopting a pro-rata approach and       complex circumstance where a more flexible approach is taken.
The impact of this work has also been recognised by those affected by it.
For instance, Manfredi and Vickers were commissioned to carry out REF       equality training by the University of Surrey (September 2012) for those       involved in decision making in the REF 2014.
Age Discrimination Policies and Training     Research on age discrimination and retirement policies funded by HEFCE       has been used extensively in knowledge transfer workshops/training for HE       human resources mangers and trade unions representatives.
Manfredi and       Vickers were asked in 2009 by Equality Forward in Scotland to design and       deliver a workshop based on their research to HR managers in higher and       further education to help them develop policies and practice in response       to the 2006 Age Regulations.
The research findings have been used directly       in training sessions for human resources managers (Oxford and London,       2011), and has been used by solicitors in their briefings and       presentations to clients on the retirement.
Training materials have been       produced, and a web based good practice guide for the HE sector available       to the HE sector through the ECU web-site(16).
