     The Argentium Silver project team was led by Johns as a research project       in metallurgy with specific applications in craft jewellery.
The research       has led to widespread use of Argentium, particularly in the jewellery       industry.
(i) Routes to impact       The research resulted in international patent filings, trade-paper and       authoritative trade journal citations, trade fair exhibitions,       demonstrations and presentations, press coverage, academic papers,       adoption of the material by significant practitioners, and business growth       of a company.
Of the 16 patents granted and pending in Europe, USA and       further internationally, it is those connected with the joining and       bonding of germanium/silver alloys that have allowed the material to be       developed commercially and in craft silversmithing.
The ability to diffusion bond and weld Argentium Silver opens new avenues       for the design and production of silverware and jewellery.
For example,       United States Patent 6,168,071 (granted 2001) protects the intellectual       property covering diffusion bonding as a method of joining metals together       without the addition of a solder or `filler' welding material.
Craftspersons using traditional jewellery equipment can easily perform       this process with Argentium Silver.
(ii) Impact on the industry and on practice       Total tonnage of the new alloy shipped is a difficult figure to assess but       we estimate about 40 tonnes of Argentium are currently being sold       annually.
Whilst that is still a small proportion of the total silver       fabrication for jewellery and silverware globally (currently c.7000 tons       per annum) this represents a significant contribution to the specialist       market for a unique silver alloy.
The most important market for Argentium       Silver is the USA (c.3000 jewellers).
Argentium is used by a wide range of       US brands including Tiffany &amp; Co, David Yurman, JC Penney, Home       Shopping Channel, Walmart, Novell, Signet Group, and Eternal Jewellery.
Three of the high street retail outlets from which one can buy Argentium       Silver jewellery in the UK during the reporting period are: H. Samuel with       304 stores, Ernest Jones with 180 stores, and Argos with 740 stores.
Major       brands, such as Kit Heath, have now committed themselves to providing       Argentium products for British consumers, after `Responding to retailer       feedback both in the UK and the USA, ...in order to combat the tarnishing       of traditional sterling silver.
This is a first for an established high       street brand here in the UK and across the world.
This is great news for       our retailers and our consumers - for a brand already renowned for       exceptional quality, the introduction of Argentium creates a truly       outstanding offering for the UK market.'
(http://masterjewellers.co.uk/news/404/kit-heath-and-argentium-achieve-world-first/       )     However it is not through volume sales of Argentium alone that the       research has made an impact on jewellery making and the jewellery       industry.
The Argentium Silver Guild       (http://www.argentiumguild.com )       was set up in January 2011 to unite a worldwide community of Argentium       silversmiths and artisans.
It provides a place for Argentium users to       share their knowledge and experiences and to foster excellence through       good practice and inspiration, and a number of Guild members and others       have reported on the extent to which Argentium has enabled new practice in       jewellery making.
Some 49 contemporary silversmiths using Argentium, and       members of the Guild, show their work at         http://www.argentiumsilver.com/#!__gallery, demonstrating the range       of impact on silver fabrication practice - including use of Argentium by       instrument maker Landell Flutes, the adoption of Argentium in the       skeuomorphic bowls of Lucian Taylor and the innovative designs of David       Worcester Jewellery.
Samara James, a leading producer of high quality jewellery, notes that       `What this new trend in using this alloy for wedding and engagement rings       has done is to open the doors to more research being done in the field of       silver alloys so that the metal can be much better for both the jeweller       to work on and the customer to wear'       (http://www.samarajames.com/blog/2008/11/19/argentium-silver-better-for-engagement-and-         wedding-rings [entry posted on Wednesday, November 19th, 2008 at       4:53 am, filed under `Jewellery News'].
Indeed The Evening Standard         Newspaper described Argentium in their 'Design trends - silver'       article published on 28th September 2011 as `the new magic       stuff used by many new makers' precisely because of the new possibilities       discovered by craft makers.
G&amp;S Metals, one of the largest silver       jewellery retailers, notes that `Fabrication and workability       characteristics are much better than standard Sterling silver, and it can       be heat treated to achieve hardness approximately twice as strong as       standard Sterling Silver...Argentium Silver is excellent for making       durable, tarnish resistant silver products' (http://www.gsgold.com/catalogs/Argentium-May2011.pdf       ).
In short, designers and makers in both atelier craft manufacture and       jewellery retailing are readily exploiting the benefits of Argentium in       their work.
