     Through his practice of exhibition-making, drawing upon theories       developed with VCG, Bird specifically addresses how meaning and value is       fabricated and communicated through works of art in contexts of       socio-economic, political and cultural histories.
His curatorial practice       critically repositions and reinterprets artists, as seen for example in       the first UK exhibition of Massimo Vitali (Photographers Gallery, London       1997).
His most sustained research project is on the work of Spero and       Golub, tested through curating a number of high profile exhibitions:       Spero's first retrospective (ICA London, 1987); `Leon Golub Paintings       1950-2000' (IMMA, Dublin; Albright-Knox Museum, Buffalo; Brooklyn Museum,       New York; touring 2000-01); `Otherworlds: Nancy Spero and Kiki Smith'       (Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Gateshead, 2003-04).
Bird's curatorial project with the widest impact was the retrospective of       Golub's paintings and drawings created between 1950-2004, titled 'Leon       Golub' (May 6-September 12, 2011, Palacio de Vel&#225;zquez, Parque del Retiro,       Madrid, for the Reina Sofia Museum (http://www.museoreinasofia.es/en/exhibitions/leon-golub).
Bird's critical monograph Leon Golub: Echoes of the Real was       substantially revised and updated for release in conjunction with the       exhibition.
His critical lens on the new field of visual culture and his       curatorial approach found substantial expression through the curation and       co-design of the exhibition, and his concurrent revision of the book.
The exhibition had a significant number of expanded cultural effects and       repercussions.
It was the first time Golub had been exhibited in Spain,       and Bird further established the artist's international profile.
This is       specifically relevant because of Spain's historical cultural and political       context.
The city of Madrid was an ideal location.
Its radical history       found visual echo in Golub's anti-war history paintings which were viewed       in the context of Goya's work in the Prado and Picasso's `Guernica' in the       Reina Sofia.
Golub's 'political portraits' include paintings of Spain's       former dictator Francisco Franco, encouraging debate on the artist's role       as witness to traumatic historical events.
This exhibition demonstrated       the expressive and social role that painting can fulfil through imaginary       representations of violence, torture and political power; timely, given       the contemporary problematic of representation of these topics in the       media.
By creating a public space of reflection and encounter with these       issues, the exhibition raised questions about spectatorship and witness,       and made the museum a critical space.
Bird interpreted Golub's paintings       as remorselessly representing the effects of forms of political and       military power and oppression.
While Golub located himself within Western       history painting traditions, Bird foregrounded scenes of conflict and       masculine aggression as `getting at the real': visual narratives that       figured bodies &#8212; through gestures, posture, and facial expression &#8212; as       bearers of meaning and truth, allegories of our contemporary world       unfolding across pictorial space.
The exhibition inserts the paintings in the discursive cultural context       inaugurated by the Middlesex VCG working within this tradition and       bringing it into the present by realising its core values and principles       in a major museum.
The exhibition's location in the Velazquez Palace in a       public park allowed and encouraged access to the work to a very broad       audience.
Visitor numbers were over 100,000 during the three-month period.
This contributed to the overall increment of visitors of the museum, which       in 2011 saw a 17% increase over the previous year (2,705,529 visitors &#8212;       http://www.hoyesarte.com/sin-categoria/record-para-el-museo-reina-sofia-400000-       visitantes-mas_98219/), with the highest increment coinciding with the       exhibition.
The significance of the exhibition in addressing a vast,       broader public beyond the regular museum target audiences is further       attested by the exceptional response it achieved in non-specialized media.
Overall, the press office of Reina Sofia recorded over eighty separate       press items on the exhibition between May and September 2011.
Favourable       reviews appeared in major national and international daily newspapers,       including El Pais (the primary daily newspaper in Spain, with a       daily circulation of 369,707 in 2011); El Mundo (the second largest print       newspaper and the largest digital newspaper in Spain, with a daily       circulation topping 200,000 readers for the print edition and 24 million       unique web visitors per month); Il Sole 24 Ore, the prime economic       daily newspaper in Italy (circulation 287.232); The Wall Street         Journal Weekend (the largest newspaper in the USA, with a print       circulation of about 2.11 million in 2011).
Bird was interviewed by the       television channel Telemadrid, and the online news channel EuroNews and       Radio National de Espana 1 both broadcast news of the event.
Furthermore,       the official video of Bird's introduction to the exhibition had over 2,200       views on YouTube.
Here, Bird discusses amongst other things a relationship       between Golub's `Torture' paintings, the photographs that emerged from Abu       Ghraib, and the audience's identification with both victim and torturer.
The media response introduced the figure of Leon Golub not only in the       European context, but further contributed to position the work of this       artist in the broader Spanish-speaking context of Latin American cultural       discourse.
Significantly, other exhibition reviews were in El         Universal, one of the major daily Mexican newspapers (with a daily       circulation of 300,000 readers and over 3 million unique visitors to the       online version each month, the second most visited news site in Mexico),       and a weblog of Clarin, the leading Argentinean daily newspaper.
Furthermore, the catalogue to accompany the exhibition, published in both       English and Spanish (Bird, J., Isaak, J.A., Padiyar, S., Guilbaut, S.       2011.
Leon Golub.
Turner/Museo Reina Sof&#237;a) found 40% of its       Spanish edition sales in Latin America (200 copies - source: Reina Sofia).
Thus the reach of the work went beyond the English-speaking world,       particularly in Latin America.
The critical theories for considering art       works and the practices of curatorship developed by Bird and VCG were,       through the media response to this exhibition, given their geographically       broadest &#8212; and arguably their culturally hardest &#8212; test.
