     Relationship to the research     In articles, papers and performance, Boddington researches the relationship     between people and virtual environments.
She organises events around Europe     where virtual reality professionals showcase work, and the public     experiences technologies like telepresence and motion capture.
The Robots and Avatars programme produces events around Europe, bringing       together attendees from education, creative industries, public services,       work and behavioural psychologists, designers, artists, future workplace       researchers, and experts from telepresence, artificial intelligence,       health, virtual worlds, and robotics.
Robots and Avatars aims to address the needs of each partner and the       country of delivery.
For example, in Slovenia, the project has organised       robotics workshops for 4-6 year-olds, attended by 400 participants, while       at FACT Liverpool, the target audience has been teenagers.
In Slovenia, a       local need is to engage women in technological endeavours and to address       roadblocks.
These events have led to approximately 500 groups of women       around the world joining the project twitter link.
The extensive website that documents this work and shares resources has       attracted over 60,000 unique visitors over the period.
The site houses       reports, video edits, vodcasts and web pages linking to learning       experiences in schools, with 20,000 visitors recorded in the first year       (2009-10) for research resources created from live documentation.
Projects and impacts include       (a) iDiscover (2010-11) used pupil choice and enquiry-based group       learning to engage young people and prepare them for future workplaces.
The programme worked with 2,000 young people in 16 schools in three       regions (London, Manchester and the Highlands, Scotland).
body&gt;data&gt;space delivered 14 creative learning experiences for key       stage 3 &amp; 4 students in south London schools reaching 437 students in       2010-2011.
Learning experiences included areas like avatars and virtual       worlds, telepresence, online communication and social media, and taught       web-streaming, programming, problem-solving and creative group work.
This       work benefited young people, preparing them for a world of work, and       allowed them to experience virtual representations of themselves.
For       example, students developed an avatar through which they explored       cultural, gender and other facets of identity.
(http://www.nesta.org.uk/areas_of_work/public_services_lab/past_projects_public_services_lab/idiscover;         http://www.robotsandavatars.net/education/idiscover-nesta-programme/).
(b) Visions of Our Communal Dreams was an exhibition blending       virtual, physical and networked environments to explore embodiment and       collective creativity.
The virtual component was an imaginary forest       landscape constructed with the 3D application server Open Simulator (an       open source equivalent of Second Life).
At FACT Liverpool (16 March-27 May       2012), participants (54% male and 46% female, age 18 to 54 years, of which       6% were disabled) collaborated with the creative team to develop resources       for the artworks.
8 workshops were run together with 9 female students       from Weatherhead Media Arts College.
Around 30 people attended a `Meet the       artist' event.
In total, 20,360 visitors attended the events.
At Europe       House, London, 825 people visited the exhibition on 9 days in September       2012.
On the invitation of 12 Star Gallery, body&gt;data&gt;space       showcased `Robots and Avatars - UK selection' and `Collectively Engaged'       in 2 days of Forums attended by 150 people.
At KIBLA in Maribor (Slovenia)       in October 2012, more than 1000 people saw the exhibition, including 600       children, scholars and students.
Two sets of workshops were set up with       the help of 10 participants, attended by 137 children and scholars.
c) Me and My Shadow is a travelling installation, part of the EU       project Mobility of Digital Arts in Europe.
Developed with artists       Joseph Hyde and Phill Tew, and including a performance by dancers, it       involved four locations - London, Paris, Istanbul and Brussels - and       allowed the public to experience motion capture and telepresence.
Presented at the National Theatre, London, for two weeks in June 2012,       simultaneous with the other locations, it attracted 5000 visitors.
d) E-Motional, an EU-funded strand, aims to increase artist       opportunities for international mobility, with the belief that if artists       have opportunities to present at international events, take up employment       and collaborate with artists in diverse locations, their employability,       chances to attract international funding and artistic creativity are       enhanced.
This has led to an international E- Motional festival.
The       website has attracted 840 unique visitors and 419 Facebook followers.
In       London, 9 artists, 13 participants and 80 audience members benefitted from       the project.
Collectively these projects have a wide international reach and       significance, challenging the participants to reconsider their       relationship to technology and the ways in which virtual worlds and       telepresence might operate in terms of ethics, learning, work and social       interaction.
They enabled young professionals and others to acquire       self-confidence, develop their creative thinking and explore issues of       identity, communication and teamwork for the 21st century.
At the same       time the project has changed perceptions of women in technology creating       space for a `feminine presence' in a male dominated field.
As Michael       Takeo Magruder, artist-in-residence, King's College London, notes: `The       workshops show young people what is possible, what workplaces of the near       future will look like, what will be the advantages and challenges.
They       demystify this technology for young people.
Even for the students who may       not end up working in this field, the workshops offer an opportunity for       creative team work.'
Robots and Avatars has reached large numbers of participants both in the       UK and internationally and made a significant impact upon understandings,       providing connections between new technologies, creativity and education.
