     As a project in environmental arts research, this work has engagement       with civil society and public discourse at its heart.
These are the       intended consequences of research of this nature, and fit with one of our       broad aims to facilitate public engagement as a natural part of the work       of our artist-researchers: `Read's artistic representation of complex       scientific issues and natural processes is already proving invaluable in       alerting the wider public to the many changes occurring in the coastline'       (GreenSpace Taskforce Commissioner).
Here, public engagement starts at a       local level and broadens to include professional bodies and policy-       makers.
Research practice has included the construction and intervention       in the landscape, as well as the exploration of methods of community       engagement with coastal management and flood defence projects undertaken       by researchers and government agencies: `Read brings another dimension to       estuarine management...his contribution is unique...he helps scientists       and other constituencies visualize the processes that effect the river'       (Senior Coastal Officer, Suffolk CC).
Imagining Change has been       effective at stakeholder community level.
Through a studio and an academic       context, Read developed further use of drawing and mapping as a tool at       the interface between coastal science and public understanding, that       `engage(s) the public and partners in a way that regular `corporate'       diagrams cannot...as an expression of the technical hydrodynamic issues       that I understand in my work' (Senior Coastal Advisor, Environment       Agency).
The approach to impact started from the premise that since our       understanding of landscape and its value is essentially cultural (as a       `fourth pillar of sustainable development'), any attempt to drive       management strategies purely on a technological basis risks generating       acrimony at community consultation level: `Read's Arts-based approach goes       to the heart of the values we hold for the environment' (Chairman, CIWEM).
Government agencies and their consultants are often poorly equipped to       handle this engagement.
The Tidal Protection Barrier was one such       construction project that has provoked a shift in policy and practice       towards the management of habitat by the Environment Agency (EA) and       Natural England through the use of community partnerships with Read       `engaging communities in a far more fruitful way, generating practical       outcomes that may prove more sustainable in every sense' (CIWEM).
Although       this project was locally funded, subsequent projects at Sutton Hoo Salt       Marsh and Fakenham are now attracting national and regional funding from       the EA, Suffolk County Council and the Heritage Lottery Fund (Touching         the Tide &#163;800,000).
This is evidence of an agreement by national       agencies to incorporate alternative approaches to intertidal habitat       management: `the EA put aside their previous practice of producing an       Estuarine Strategy and undertook to work with Read and the DEP...a new and       rewarding dimension was offered...his interpretation highlighted the       fundamental issues and gave a different perspective which broadened the       debate' (Chair, Deben Estuary Partnership - DEP).
Through the effort made by communities to become better organised,       agencies now realise that they can no longer act in a paternalistic       manner: `Read has definitely impacted the ways in which estuarine       management is conducted...without him the process could not have happened       in the same way' (Suffolk, CC.).
Consequently this project was more than a       single community initiative &#8212; it represents a shift in the relationship       between government agencies and the public: `Read's work supports a       difficult dialogue...about how things may need to change...he does it all       with a humility and grace that I think we can all learn from' (EA).
As a consequence, through the DEP (a syndication of government and       community interests), a further, more ambitious project commenced in 2011       to restore a substantial saltmarsh area severely depleted over the past       twenty years.
This is being carried out in collaboration with the National       Trust and with funding from Suffolk County Council and EA.
Here, Read's       role has been to initiate a speculative approach to the estuary       environment where this would not be deemed financially justifiable if       carried out at an institutional level.
The artist therefore works as       creative consultant and in the first case, project manager in professional       partnership with the EA and the local Council, as well as public advocate       on behalf of local stakeholders (farming and rural communities): `Read has       made a significant contribution to the direction of our work and the       vitality and forward-looking approach of the Partnership' (Chair, DEP).
Read's commission by the AHRC to produce a specific artwork in response       to the Humber Shoreline Management Plan as part of an Impact Fellowship       with Professor Pearson (Aberystwyth) (both of whom feature in the       AHRC-commissioned film Imagining Change: Coastal Conversations -       cost &#163;25k) involved him working closely with the EA and water contractor       Halcrow to source the appropriate data and to clarify technical site       details.
The impact has thus widened to include engineering professionals.
Read was also invited to contribute to a 5 day EPSRC sandpit Innovative         Solutions to Flood Risk, 2012.
Produced with the purpose of gaining       an insight into the dynamic of the natural systems at work at Alkborough,       North Lincolnshire, the map explores the conditions that drove the       decision to realign the 440ha.
site as part of the Shoreline Management       Plan.
One of the largest flood storage schemes in Europe, Alkborough Flats       is now managed to encourage biodiversity and the development of a variety       of different habitats.
The artwork is on permanent display en route to the       Map Library in Nottingham University.
In summary, this research trajectory, with the artist-researcher also       adopting many action research roles as project manager, designer-builder,       community mediator, has led to sustained, ongoing and expanding impacts in       the way policy-makers in the coastal/estuarine management and ecological       systems perceive and deliver communication, consultation and responses       (i.e.
`defend or retreat'): `the combination of knowledge and creative       thinking that Read brings to each project is attracting attention and       winning local support &#8212; with more landowners interested in restoration and       willing to put money into future work' (Chair, DEP).
The most significant       impact has been the acknowledgement and recognition given to the catalytic       role and creativity of the artist in visualising complexity, conflict and       scenarios, for a wide range of communities of interest.
To quote CIWEM       (12,000 members): `The arts perspective can help environmentalists do       their job better by fostering enabling conditions...artists have a better       language' (CIWEM Chairman in Activating the Gap, Art &amp;       Design/Flood Hazard Research Centre Symposium (Read co-convener),       Middlesex University 24-26/6/13).
(See corroborators for quotations.)
