     4.1 Public policy and provision in Ulster Scots     Henry's work on local dialects led to her appointment by the Minister for       Culture, Arts and Leisure to The Ulster Scots Academy Implementation Group       (2005-2009) (Source 1).
The report published by the Department (2007)       (Source 2) formed the basis for the planning of an Ulster Scots Academy       and gave rise to the publication of the Glossary and Spelling and       Pronunciation Guide for Ulster Scots (Source 3).
Henry was a key member of       the group who proposed the spelling system in the guide.
In May 2013, she       was interviewed and subsequently appointed as Expert Advisor to the       Department of Culture Arts and Leisure's Ministerial Advisory Group on       Ulster Scots (Source 4).
4.2 Contributing to a wider public understanding of the social           status of dialect      The Ullans Academy, which supports local language varieties including       Ulster (particularly Dalriada) Irish, Belfast English and Ulster Scots,       has regularly consulted Prof. Henry.
She is currently working with them on       how to improve the educational achievement of working-class youths,       especially boys, who are known to be significantly underperforming in the       education system.
The Academy has recognised the implications of Prof.       Henry's research on Belfast English for tackling the stigma attached to       the varieties of English used by these youths.
Work is ongoing to       incorporate these findings into educational evaluations/assessments by       formally distinguishing their verbal skills from the grammatical system       used (Source 5).
Graduates of the linguistics degree at Ulster who have moved into the       teaching profession have consistently testified to the influence on their       own teaching practice of Henry's research and teaching on microvariation       and the syntax of Belfast English (Source 6).
This has led to the       development of the "Ulster Dialects" website which provides information on       local varieties of English, including information and teaching packs to       support teachers.
This is important in light of the statutory requirements       for Language and Literacy in the Northern Ireland Curriculum which include       the ability to "recognise and discuss features of spoken language,       including formal and informal language, dialect and colloquial speech" (http://www.nicurriculum.org.uk)       (Source 7).
Henry has also been a frequent guest on local and national radio       programmes on topics such as local dialect, `bad' language, and related       issues.
Most recently she participated in a discussion of whether       ministers of religion should use formal standard English or local dialect,       including swear words, which generated considerable interest as evidenced       by a letter from the programme producer (Source 8).
As a result of her       public engagement, she also was invited to participate in an Ofcom       consultation on the use of local languages in public service broadcasting       (2008) (Source 9).
Moreoever, those wishing to use and support authentic       Belfast English regularly consult Prof. Henry on her research.
For       example, in October 2011, the singer Van Morrison initiated a meeting with       her, through the Chair of the Ullans Academy, to discuss her research, the       influence of the Belfast dialect on his song-writing, and his potential       contribution to supporting the continued use of the vernacular (Source 5).
4.3 Shaping policy and training in Irish immersion education          Research on the acquisition patterns of Irish in Irish-medium primary       schools, funded by DENI, was published in research reports and research       summaries circulated widely within the specialism.
This research is       referenced in the 2009 Joint Policy of the Steering Group on Immersion       Education Policy (Source 10 &amp; 12) and was used in the development of       an NVQ for early years teachers and other nursery staff, for which Henry       acted as an advisor (Source 11 &amp; 12).
More recently, a number of       invited talks have been delivered under the aegis of UCoM (see below) at       conferences run by government bodies supporting Irish-medium education in       Northern Ireland (Comhairle na Gaelscola&#237;ochta) and the Republic of       Ireland (Comhairle um Oideachas Gaeltachta agus Gaelscola&#237;ochta).
Feedback       from these bodies indicated that these talks have been crucial both in       supporting the delivery of Irish-medium education and in transforming       classroom practice (Source 13 &amp; 14).
4.4 Supporting professionals in the transition of Northern Ireland           into a multilingual society      The linguistics group's research on multilingual acquisition led to the       establishment of UCoM (Ulster Centre on Multilingualism), a consultation       service for parents, early years practitioners, speech and language       therapists and other stakeholders with a role or interest in this area.
UCoM services are delivered both in person and through digital       communication channels, specifically a website and a Twitter feed (Source       15).
A particular focus of the website is trilingual acquisition, about       which much less information is available and which draws directly on the       findings of Project S. The site also features information on sequential       bilingualism in education drawn from research on acquisition in immersion       settings.
Since UCoM's launch, the linguistics team has been invited to give a       number of talks and advice to parents, community groups and various       professionals.
These have included talks to social workers, speech and       language therapists, parent and toddler groups, adoptive parents       considering adoption of an older child from abroad whose first language is       not English, teachers in Irish-medium education and major charities (for a       full list of past and future events and initiatives see http://www.socsci.ulster.ac.uk/ucom/events.html).
Feedback from these events indicates that they have had a considerable       effect in changing both attitudes and practices towards speakers of       multiple languages (Source 16).
Most notably, in March-June 2013 UCoM       collaborated with the charity Barnardo's to establish a programme of       linguistic support called Language made fun!
for multilingual       children of refugees and asylum seekers in Northern Ireland.
The programme       is underpinned by the insights into the relationship between community and       family languages that have emerged from Project S (Source 17).
In summary, this case study shows how the work of linguistics at         Ulster is transforming attitudes and practices relating to language and         the status of dialect among relevant professionals.
It also importantly         empowers local multilingual families in their institutional         interactions.
