     The Law Commission's work on Partial Defences to Murder (2003-2006),       which extensively referred to Mackay's commissioned empirical work, led to       reform proposals for both diminished responsibility and provocation       together with a recommendation that the substance of the Infanticide       defence/offence be left unaltered.
These reform proposals were then       considered by the Ministry of Justice, which engaged in its own       consultation exercise.
As a direct result of his empirical work for the       Law Commission, Mackay was invited by the Ministry of Justice in 2008 to       participate in three policy meetings to discuss the revised reform       proposals for provocation, diminished responsibility and infanticide (a).
This in turn resulted in a post-consultation report to the consultation       paper to which Mackay also contributed (b).
In 2009, Parliament passed the       Coroners and Justice Act, which enacts reformed pleas of diminished       responsibility and `loss of control' but leaves the substance of       Infanticide intact.
Mackay's work was sought by both the Law Commission       and the Ministry of Justice throughout this reform process.
Mackay has continued to expose the inadequacies of the current law of       unfitness to plead and insanity and his work with the Law Commission led       to discussions with them from 2008-2009 about including both unfitness to       plead and the defence of insanity in their new reform programme.
These       discussions culminated in both topics being included in the Commission's       10th Programme of Law Reform published in June 2008, which       refers to Mackay's work being used to assist the Commission in the reform       process [c].
As a direct result, in 2009 Mackay was commissioned by the       Law Commission to prepare new empirical studies on both unfitness and       insanity.
Both reports of the completed studies were submitted to the       Commission.
The one on unfitness to plead was published in 2010 in their       Consultation Paper on that topic where it is drawn on extensively       throughout [d].
In particular, the findings are heavily relied on by the       Commission in the Consultation Paper's Impact Assessment [e].
On 10 April       2013, the Commission published its analysis of the responses it had       received to its Consultation Paper on Unfitness to Plead, including those       of Mackay, and confirming that a final report on the topic will be       published in 2014 (f).
Mackay's report on the insanity defence was published in 2012 as part of       the Commission's Scoping Paper on that topic where it and his additional       research are extensively referred to [g].
In addition Mackay was invited       to join the Law Commission's working parties on both unfitness to plead       and insanity.
The Law Commission has asked Mackay to update both of his       empirical studies to further inform the Commission's law reform exercise.
This research will continue into 2014-15.
On the 23 July 2013, the Law Commission published a discussion paper on       "Criminal Liability: Insanity and Automatism".
Mackay is referred to       throughout, and his contribution is explicitly acknowledged in Paragraph       1.85 which states: "1.85 Professor Ronnie Mackay, a member of our Advisory       Board, has described our provisional proposals for the reform of the       insanity defence as "radical", and stated that in his view "a `radical'       change to the M'Naghten Rules is precisely what is needed".
We agree."
(j)     Mackay's broader legal research has led to the introduction of new legal       tests in 2001 and 2003 for both unfitness to plead and insanity in Jersey       law.
Although the former has resulted in litigation in 2009 in the case of       Attorney General (for Jersey) v Harding [16 Oct 2009] 2009 JRC 198,       concern had been expressed about the lack of knowledge amongst Jersey       legal and medical practitioners relating to these new tests (h).
As a       result, in February 2010 Mackay was invited as a keynote speaker at a       conference in Jersey entitled "The Insanity Defences in the Criminal Law       of Jersey", which was organised to disseminate and further explore the       implications of the two new tests.
Mackay has further disseminated his       work by numerous speaking engagements to psychiatrists and lawyers       explaining and exploring his empirical studies on mental condition       defences, including the Forensic Group of the Royal College of       Psychiatrists in Dublin and the Judicial Studies Board for Northern       Ireland, both in 2010.
In addition, Mackay was invited to give a       presentation on his empirical research as part of the Law Commission's       conference entitled "Fitness to Plead: Reforming the Law" in March 2009.
On the international front, Mackay gave the 2010 Willis Cunningham       Memorial Lecture entitled "Researching and Reforming Insanity in the       Criminal Law" at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario in Canada and in       2011 presented a seminar on the New Zealand Law Commission's Report on the       Insanity Defence as a visiting scholar at Auckland University Law School       in New Zealand.
In May 2012, Mackay spoke about his research into the       insanity defence as part of Radio Four's All in the Mind (i).
