     The primary contribution of Price's research has been its impact on the       development of national and international policy to address the imbalance       between the supply and demand for organs and tissues for transplantation.
His most notable appointment and achievement was his membership of the       Secretary of State's Organ Donation Taskforce.
Following presentation of a       scoping paper in 2008, David was invited to join the Taskforce as Deputy       Chair of its Legal Working Group.
The contributions of the group       culminated in Annex C to the Report [1].
This Report, which       included advice about future UK policy relating to consent to organ       donation, was accepted subsequently in 2008 by all UK Governments.
Price's work for the Taskforce involved participation at public political       deliberative events that were held around the country.
Following the       announcement of The Potential Impact of an Opt Out System for Organ         Donation in the UK [1] in the House of Commons (17 November 2008       Column 1WS) the Government made available &#163;4.5 million extra funding (2008       - 2010).
This was used to sponsor a major public awareness campaign to       increase organ donation rates and in April 2013 it was reported that       deceased donation rates had risen by 50% since the Government's acceptance       of the Taskforce's recommendations.
The Welsh Assembly considered and       relied heavily upon the findings of the Report in its deliberations about       introducing a soft opt-out policy to apply to Wales.
Price's second notable appointment was to the Nuffield Council on       Bioethics.
The Nuffield Council is the most influential principal medical       ethics body organisation in the UK.
Price contributed to a significant and       influential Report [2], which has impacted subsequently on policy       development mainly in the areas of incentives to donation.
Significant       media coverage followed and a range of initiatives such teaching resources       for schools, which introduces the subject and considers different levels       of intervention to encourage people to donate.
The Council has used       recommendations from the Report in evidence to the National Assembly for       Wales Health and Social Care Committee on the Human Transplantation       (Wales) Bill.
Price's appointments on Government bodies such as the NHS Blood and       Transplant and the British Transplantation Society provide further       evidence of his status and reputation in the field.
Price acted as for the       Donation After Cardiac Death Consensus Meeting [3].
The key outputs and       contributions of these bodies include: `Donation After Circulatory         Death' [3] and influential professional development materials [4].
The Report [3] was included in the National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence repository `NHS Evidence', which is accessible and used by all       NHS staff.
Price participated in a House of Lords event in 2010 to inform       parliamentarians of the salient aspects of donation following circulatory       eath [4].
The Professional Development Programme [5] was rolled out in       2010 to all NHS transplant professionals, 184 NHS Trust donation ethics       committees and 194 clinical leads across the UK.
The Joint Working Party       of the British Transplantation Society and the Renal Association in "UK       guidelines for Living Donor Kidney Transplantation" (2011) recognised       Price's esteem and expertise by referring to his two monographs on       transplantation.
Price was actively involved with the production of interdisciplinary       clinical and policy guidelines for health professionals employed in the       transplantation and intensive care fields.
These guidelines, which       included in the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence       repository `NHS Evidence' were collaborative efforts of       clinicians, nurses and policy makers.
Price's role as legal       advisor was to ensure that guidance was premised upon current law and       ethical principles [6].
The guidelines have been recognised by the British       Medical Association and the British Heart Foundation.
Price contributed two sections in the prestigious The New Oxford         Companion to Law encyclopaedia, which is designed to reach and       inform the public about complex areas in easily accessible terms [7].
