     Following presentation to the British Association in 1999 there was much       media interest [S4] and the Sheffield proposals featured in a House of       Lords debate on the Science &amp; Technology Committee's report on Nuclear         Waste [S5].
With publications [R1 &amp; R2] the interest became more       international [S4] and the impact spread in the USA, UK, Sweden and       elsewhere, as described below.
Impact in the USA.
In 2003 the Massachusetts Institute of       Technology `Think Tank' report for the US government on The Future of         Nuclear Power [S6] recommended that DBD be considered for the       disposal of US spent fuel.
In the USA, a mined repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada was originally       scheduled to take its first spent nuclear fuel in 1998.
However, technical       and political problems led to increasing delays.
Consequently, the DOE was       forced to pay substantial sums to power-generating utilities to continue       storing spent fuel at their nuclear power plants, awaiting disposal.
In       2010, the Obama administration cancelled the Yucca Mountain programme       (despite expenditure of &gt;$10 billion), and established the Presidential       Blue Ribbon Commission (BRC) on America's Nuclear Future, to conduct a       comprehensive review of waste management policy and recommend a new       strategy.
Influenced by our publications, Sandia National Laboratory (SNL)       approached Sheffield in 2010 to form a consortium partnership with MIT,       producing joint publications and workshops [S7], leading to favourable       media coverage [S8].
A major impact was that DBD became incorporated into       the Blue Ribbon Commission's thinking.
The Blue Ribbon Commission's 2012       report to the Secretary for Energy [S2] contained a central recommendation       (p.27) that "The United States should undertake an integrated nuclear         waste management program that leads to the timely development of one or         more permanent deep geological facilities for the safe disposal of spent         fuel and high- level nuclear waste."
Further, it stated specifically       (p.95) that "the Commission has identified deep boreholes as a         potentially promising technology for geologic disposal that could         increase the flexibility of the overall waste management system and         therefore merited further research, development and demonstration".
The report featured (p.31) a key diagram from one of the Sheffield       publications [R2] and cited others (p.137) in support of its deliberations       and conclusions.
The Director of Sandia National Laboratory, says       Sheffield work "led to several members of the BRC taking a personal         interest and to the substantial discussion of DBD disposal concepts in         the draft and final BRC report, including the citation of some of your         own work" [S1].
In 2012, the US DOE commissioned and funded the Sandia NL &#8212; Sheffield &#8212;       MIT consortium to prepare a "roadmap" for the research, development and       practical demonstration of the concept, with Sheffield contracted to       develop the plan and research programme.
Among the unique aspects of this       roadmap arising from the Sheffield research is the use of high-density       support matrices and the sealing of the boreholes by "rock welding".
All       of this is clear evidence of the influence of the University of       Sheffield's pioneering research [S1] on US energy policy and the future       development of the deep borehole concept within it.
Impact in the UK.
In 2007 Committee on Radioactive Waste       Management (CoRWM) was reconstituted to advise the Government on       development of policy and Prof. F. Gibb was appointed to CoRWM by the       Minister.
The Government accepted CoRWM's recommendations for geological       disposal policy and in 2008 published its Managing           Radioactive Waste Safely White Paper [S9] setting out a framework for the implementation of       geological disposal in a mined repository with deep borehole disposal       regarded as an `alternative'.
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority has       published plans for a geological disposal facility to take the first       legacy high-level wastes and spent fuel by 2075.
However, it has recently       come under significant Government pressure to accelerate implementation       and has reported [S3] on possible options in which it includes the deep       borehole disposal of high level waste in its scenario to maximise       acceleration.
The Sheffield work is clearly the source of much of the NDA's knowledge       of the concept and has influenced these developments.
Two members of the       Sheffield research team have been closely involved with the NDA (Prof. F.       Gibb through CoRWM, consulting and presenting at NDA- sponsored       conferences and Prof. N. Chapman as chair of NDA's Technical Advisory       Panel).
Impact in Sweden.
In 2012 the Swedish Nuclear Fuel and       Waste Management Company (SKB) applied to the regulator and Environmental       Court to begin construction of a mined repository for the disposal of       spent fuel at the Forsmark site.
The choice of a mined repository is being       challenged on the grounds that it is potentially not as safe, secure or       environmentally friendly as the DBD concept and is therefore not the "best       available technology".
The case against regulatory approval is underpinned       by evidence from the Sheffield publications and a report by Prof. F. Gibb       on SKB's case against the use of deep boreholes [S10].
The Court has       subsequently requested SKB reconsider the DBD concept.
The use of deep bore holes as opposed to mined repository will have a       future economic impact.
To illustrate the potential cost savings in a UK       context, the boreholes required to dispose of the country's legacy       inventory of vitrified high-level waste in the NDA's "scenario 3" [S3]       would cost around &#163;220M compared with the NDA's current plans for disposal       in a &#163;4.3 billion mined repository.
