     A.
Impact on Public Discourse     Perceptions of the English Reformation have been transformed by Duffy's       work in recent years, in circles well outside those of professional       scholars and higher education institutions.
Duffy's major published works       have been reviewed not only in academic journals, but publications such as       the London Review of Books (including a review of Fires of         Faith by popular historical novelist Hilary Mantel, 24th       September 2009), the Spectator (17th June 2009), the Tablet       (29th May 2009) the BBC History magazine (10th       August 2009), the Guardian (27th July 2012), the       Independent (19th June 2009) the Daily Telegraph       (14th June 2009) and the Belfast Telegraph (17th       September 2010).
Such exposure both testifies to and promotes wider       engagement with Duffy's research.
His work is also frequently cited in       Church debates and discussion on the cultural and aesthetic impact of       Christianity in British culture [1].
Duffy has given many public lectures on his research, frequently in       association with major exhibitions and commemorative events.
These include       talks on: (i) "The Cardinal and the Queen: Restoring Catholic England       under Mary Tudor" (Corpus Christ Church, New York, 17th       November 2008).
(ii) "The Cult of King Henry VI" (St George's Chapel,       Windsor, 7th October 2009); (iii) "Praying with Images in the       Middle Ages" (Norwich Cathedral, 6th May 2010); (iv) "King       James Bible: Dead or Alive?"
(the University of Bristol, 14th       November 2011) (v) "Sacred Monarchy in Medieval England" (the British       Library, 13th January 2012); (vi) "Latin for Lay People:       Medieval Prayer Books" (Lambeth Palace, 10th May 2012); (vi)       "Saints, Sacrilege &amp; Sedition: Religion and Conflict in the Tudor       Reformation" (the 12th Aldeburgh Literary Festival, 3rd       March 2013).
He has also been involved in a public debate ("From the World       of the Reliquary to the King James Bible") at the British Museum (23rd       September 2011).
All of the above events were to capacity audiences of       several hundred people.
B.
Impact on Cultural Life     Duffy's successful promotion of the material culture of late-medieval       religion has contributed to a new interest in this area at crucial       contact-points between the public and historical scholarship.
The Victoria       &amp; Albert Museum touring exhibition "Object of Devotion" showcased the       Museum's collections of English alabaster devotional sculpture, in a dozen       North American museums and galleries between December 2010 and September       2013 (as of 4th April 2013 c. 57,000 visitors had been to the       exhibition [2]).
Duffy's research had helped alert the public to the       significance of these alabasters, and he was asked to contribute a chapter       to the accompanying book, hailed by the Wall Street Journal (11th       January 2012) as "deserv(ing) to become a popular reference book on this       genre of Medieval art" [3].
Duffy's influence is also evident in the planning and execution of the       University of York's interactive DVD-Rom, The English Parish Church         through the Centuries, a heritage resource for clergy, colleges,       schools and the general public.
Its longest item is an eighteen minute       video by Duffy, exploring the material culture of Ranworth Church in the       Norfolk Broads: this video has circulated widely through official channels       and independently on You-tube [e.g.
4].
The Voices of Morebath has also generated engagement from many       different groups.
In Morebath itself, where an English Heritage sign now       marks the road to the village, the church visitors' book testifies to the       hundreds of people prompted to visit after reading the book [5].
Programme       5 of the former cabinet minister Anne Widdicombe's 2009 Television series       Christianity, a History illustrated the impact of the reformation       on the people of rural England by focussing on Morebath, and featured an       interview there with Duffy: similarly, programme 5 of the BBC 2 2012       series The Great British Story, a People's History, featured       Morebath centrally in its reformation episode.
A popular historian and TV       presenter has stressed the importance of Duffy's work for other recent BBC       TV series, In search of Shakespeare, and The Story of England,       as well as A People's History, and notes that "in talking to the       villagers about the story told in Voices of Morebath, it was clear       that Professor Duffy's book had had an extraordinary impact on the       community itself, and on the people's view of their shared past: a lovely       example of how history can feed back into people's lives, firing their       imaginations" [6].
Duffy's work has also had a significant impact on public perception of       Tudor England in the field of drama and other performing arts.
The RSC       Shakespeare productions demonstrate a new awareness of religious culture       in early modern England.
Their 2010 production Romeo and Juliet       featured a programme article by Duffy [7], relating English Protestant       attitudes towards Catholicism to the imagery of Shakespeare's text.
For       the RSC's 2011 production of Macbeth, Duffy wrote a programme       essay [8] on the impact of iconoclasm on Shakespeare's England.
Each       programme sold c. 25,000 copies [9].
In 2011, the RSC produced Written         on the Heart, an original play by David Edgar, marking the       quarto-centenary of the King James translation of the Bible.
The entire       cast read Duffy's Stripping of the Altars as part of their       preparation for the play, and Duffy conducted a workshop for the actors on       the impact of religious change and iconoclasm in Tudor England [10].
Duffy was also invited to provide the historical programme notes for the       2008 and 2010 choral tours of the well-known choir The Sixteen,       and for the subsequent CDs, highlighting the historical and religious       context of the sacred music they performed [e.g.
11]: he was one of the       main speakers at the 2008 "insight day" for the general public organised       by the Sixteen and of the National Centre for Early Music at the Royal       Naval Hospital at Greenwich [12].
C. Impact on Education     Duffy's research has impacted significantly on history teaching in       schools.
The Stripping of the Altars is recommended by AQA as 'the       best book for creating the picture of Catholic England'.
Duffy's study of       Morebath has been made the basis for a pioneering history syllabus       designed for year 8 students in Cambridgeshire schools, and now being       promoted by the department of Education at Cambridge University for use in       schools nationally [13].
It is has also had international impact: the book       is currently being used to introduce teachers of history there to the       importance of micro-historical studies in the teaching of history as far       afield as Kazakhstan [14].
Duffy's work on historic Catholic practices and beliefs has affected       thinking about modern religious and pastoral practice, as shown for       example by the invitation to him to be a keynote speaker at the study day       on Death and Dying, organised for clergy, and laity (especially doctors       and palliative care-workers) by the Centre for Catholic Studies at Durham       University in March 2013 [15].
