     The impact of Modern Languages research can be broadly defined in four       categories:     (i) Influencing practice in secondary schools and other HEIs:     The impact of work of Ulster researchers in the area of secondary         education is evident in LASER (Languages as a Social Enrichment       Resource), an outreach project that took place in February and March 2013       with six secondary schools where traditionally modern languages are not       considered popular subjects.
As part of this project, the Ulster team       advised teachers in these schools in the development of multimedia       resources and lessons to assist them in promotion of the study of       languages in an interesting and engaging way, also providing software and       hardware for the activities.
One school teacher highlighted `increased       interest in studying languages to GCSE and beyond' as a result of the       project.
(See Source 1)     http://news.ulster.ac.uk/releases/2013/6990.html     CEMLL has been a driver for developing language pedagogy in HE through       research into both theory and practice.
Leakey's research on task-based       learning has led to the delivery of training workshops at the Universities       of Nottingham, Ulster, Limerick and Bordeaux, attracting over 200       attendees.
Barr and Gillespie's research on staff and student reactions to and       perceptions of ICT in language learning has led to invitations to deliver       consultancy on strategic planning in universities such as Aston,       Hertfordshire and Salford as they embed multimedia technologies in the       delivery of language teaching.
One academic at Aston University reported in December 2009 that they had       made significant progress in the design and management of lab use and       attributed 25% of developments within six months to the CEMLL site visit.
(See Source 2)     CEMLL set up a national awards scheme to support excellence and       innovation and to develop resources in multimedia language teaching to       which researchers in other UK HEIs could apply.
Award winners included       individuals and teams from Queen Mary, University of London, Portsmouth,       and UWE.
http://cemll.ulster.ac.uk/site/centre%20research/evaluation     (ii) Contributing to innovation and economic prosperity through           engagement with the private sector:     Ulster's research expertise in the area of multimedia language pedagogy       has fed into improving private sector support for tourism.
In 2013, Ulster       staff developed a series of multimedia resources for a local tourist       company, SegwayNI, for a multilingual tourist guide app for the       Titanic Quarter in Belfast.
Ulster's work on this has been praised by the       company owner as it has rendered accessible a key aspect of Northern Irish       heritage to an international audience.
The app developed with Ulster's       expertise is being used by tourists from all over the world while visiting       Belfast.
(See Source 3)     Online multimedia resources derived from the CEMLL models have provided       the foundation for the design and delivery by Ulster researchers of       language courses for international businesses such as Michelin,       Bombardier, Wrightbus and Moypark.
Over 100 employees of these companies       have taken these courses, delivered in collaboration with the Confucius       Institute at Ulster.
(See Source 4)     http://news.ulster.ac.uk/releases/2012/6662.html     http://news.ulster.ac.uk/releases/2012/6587.html     In June 2013 Invest NI commissioned researchers at Ulster, in a       partnership with Interlingua NI, to develop a virtual learning       environment for the teaching of Arabic to business groups.
(See Source 5)     (iii) Contributing to continuing personal and professional         development:     Internationally, Ulster has been recognised as a leading centre in       multimedia language research.
The decision of the WorldCALL Steering Group       to award the hosting of its 2013 conference to Ulster (the first time the       event has been held in Europe) was based on the reputation of Ulster       researchers (who were named in the Steering group feedback after the award       was made).
As part of its organisation of the WorldCALL conference, Ulster       enabled modern language teachers in higher education from countries where       CALL and multimedia technologies and pedagogies are very limited to engage       with established CALL developers and practitioners to help to inform their       pedagogical approaches.
14 language teachers from Argentina, Belarus,       Brazil, Colombia, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Russia, Rwanda,       Sri Lanka, Turkey and Venezuela attended WorldCALL and received training       in key language software and on how best to embed technology in their       teaching practice.
(See Source 6)     (iv) Influencing public policy     The use of multimedia language learning methods, pioneered at Ulster, is       specifically cited as a clear example of good practice in NILS: Languages       for the Future, the strategy document co- directed by Gillespie and       adopted by NI Education Minister O'Dowd in 2012.
(Gillespie et al.
2012: 34) (See Source 7 and 8)     A number of recommendations from NILS have been implemented for example       Recommendation 3.3 is addressed by the launch in April 2012, with support       from the NI and Chinese governments, of the Confucius Institute at Ulster       with &#211; Dochartaigh as Dean.
As part of this initiative, Chinese language       courses have been devised by Ulster researchers using technology-based       pedagogical approaches.
(See Source 9)     The provision of language courses for businesses reflects the       implementation of NILS Recommendation 2.7.
(See Source 7 and 8)     In summary, Ulster's engagement with digital multimedia learning has         had a significant impact on public policy and across the secondary and         tertiary education sectors, as well as business, industry and tourism,         enhancing both language acquisition and commercial exploitation in a         multilingual environment.
