     SAPM has played a substantial role in informing the UK and Scottish       Governments' policy decisions to introduce MUP as a central feature of       their alcohol strategies.
The research has also played an important role       in stimulating and advancing public debate in the UK and internationally.
The Sheffield Alcohol Research Group's strategy for impact is one of       on-going engagement with alcohol policy stakeholders, from developing       policy-relevant research questions through to responding rapidly and       flexibly to the demands of the policy debate.
In this environment, impact       is often occurring simultaneously with, or in anticipation of, publication       of the underpinning research in peer-reviewed journals.
Our research has informed policy decisions     Scotland: 2009: In February 2009 the Scottish Government's       alcohol strategy used evidence from the English SAPM to support its       decision to pursue establishing an MUP.
It commissioned a Scottish model       adaptation, and SARG provided a results briefing to the Scottish       Ministerial Advisory Committee on Alcohol.
2010: We were invited       as expert witnesses in the Alcohol Bill (Scotland) enquiry, Scottish       Parliament Health and Sport Committee.
A first attempt at minimum pricing       legislation failed in Parliament.
2011: The majority SNP       Government came to power and introduced fresh MUP legislation.
In the       bill's explanatory notes [S1], SAPM results feature on 13 of 24 pages.
2012:       We made a further appearance at the Scottish Parliament Health and Sport       Committee and our work is referenced in the Committee's report [S2].
In       May, the Alcohol (Minimum Pricing) (Scotland) Act 2012 was passed and a       legal challenge was brought by the Scotch Whisky Association (SWA), which       in part centred on a critique of the underlying evidence.
A rebuttal by       the Scottish Government used updated SAPM results.
2013: SARG       submitted an expert witness report as part of the court process.
The Court       of Session dismissed the legal challenge, and SAPM evidence was referred       to by the judge to reject claims of a poorly-targeted policy [S3].
Our research has stimulated, and had significant influence on,           policy debate     England: 2008: Evidence briefings were invited by       policymakers in DH and Prime Minister's Special Advisors at No 10, and the       UK Chief Medical Officer (CMO).
2009: The CMO's Annual Report       cited SAPM findings and lobbied strongly for introducing a minimum unit       price [S4].
SARG gave oral evidence to the House of Commons Health Select       Committee, with SAPM estimates cited in the final report [S5].
2010:       Our research findings were used directly by NICE in making recommendations       for minimum unit pricing.
SARG gave a briefing to senior Westminster civil       servants from the Cabinet Office, Treasury, Department of Health, Home       Office, Department of Culture, Media and Sports, Department for Children,       Schools and Families and the Department of Environment, Food and Rural       Affairs.
2011: SARG was invited to a UK Government Engagement       Workshop to discuss the developing Alcohol Strategy.
2012: The UK       Government's 2012 Alcohol Strategy included a commitment to introducing       MUP, and SAPM findings were cited by the Prime Minister in his foreword to       the document [S6].
A House of Commons Health Select Committee 2012 report       on the alcohol strategy noted "The debate so far [on MUP] is based almost       entirely on the work of the Sheffield Alcohol Research Group" [S7].
SAPM       results were cited prominently by a range of bodies engaging in public       debate on alcohol policy, including the British Medical Association,       Alcohol Concern [S8] and the Alcohol Health Alliance (which includes the       Royal Colleges of Physicians, General Practitioners, Nursing and       Psychiatrists as well as Cancer Research UK).
Policy opponents also       acknowledged the impact of our research; for example, The Wine and Spirits       Trade Association described our team as "The scientists behind the       Government's policy" on their anti-MUP campaign website.
2013: A       free-market think tank published a report based on the critique of SAPM       commissioned by the SWA, with the resultant media coverage requiring SARG       to publish a rebuttal.
The Impact Assessment accompanying the Government consultation on the       alcohol strategy drew heavily on IARP results and SARG engaged with the       Home Office and DH to analyse the effect of MUP for people on a low       income.
In July 2013, the UK Government replaced the MUP commitment with       an alternative floor price defined as the level of alcohol duty attracted       by a product, inclusive of VAT.
According to ministers, MUP remains under       consideration as a future policy.
International: We have given invited briefings at a EU Commission       Advisory Meeting on Alcohol Cost Benefit Analysis, the European Presidency       Expert Meeting on Alcohol and Health, a meeting of the European Commission       DG Health and Consumers Committee on National Alcohol Policy and Action       (CNAPA) and to the senior civil servants of the National Australian       Government, the Western Australian Health Committee, and other       international bodies leading to our results being cited in policy debate       by, amongst others, the Australian National Preventive Health Agency,       Canadian Public Health Association, Irish Department of Health, the New       Zealand Law Commission, and World Health Organisation [S9].
Our research has stimulated and informed public debate     Our research has generated substantial media interest and the research       team continue to work to advance public debate thorough regular       appearances across all major UK print and broadcast media from 2009 to       2013.
Examples of public exposure to the issues around alcohol minimum pricing       and its effects are evident from our engagement with flagship radio and       television programmes, e.g.
BBC 10 O'Clock News (27/09/2009, 28/9/2009,       23/3/2012), Question Time (26/05/2011), Panorama (28/09/2012), Daily       Politics (23/03/2012) and BBC Radio 4's Today programme (18/01/2011) and       You and Yours (08/06/2010).
There has been extensive newspaper coverage on       numerous occasions, e.g.
The Financial Times (28/09/2009), The Guardian       (15/05/2009, 13/10/2009, 30/4/2013), The Independent (03/05/2009), The       Scotsman (9/9/2009) and The Daily Telegraph (14/5/2009, 24/03/2010).
SARG       researchers were also invited to contribute an article on MUP to the New       Scientist and were panel speakers at a Science Media Centre background       briefing on MUP for national media (29/01/2013).
Our research has improved patient health outcomes via changes to           healthcare guidelines     Our findings were used directly by NICE in making recommendations in June       2010 for minimum pricing and also programmes of identification and brief       advice.
SAPM modelling evidence statements underpin five of the eleven       recommendations in the NICE guidance [S10].
