     The primary impacts of the case study research have been to highlight and       improve safeguards for service users; enhance understanding of the issues       influencing the delivery of contracted out welfare to work programmes; and       improve the quality and range of the comparative evidence base available       for policy making, programme design and service delivery.
Direct impacts       have been secured through publication and dissemination of research       reports, articles and blogs in which Finn has translated his comparative       knowledge and expertise into findings directly relevant to policy design       and implementation.
The impact has been further secured through a       sustained programme of public engagement including formal presentations to       and dialogue with senior policy makers, practitioners, advocacy       organisations and user groups.
This activity has been facilitated by the       University of Portsmouth and often undertaken in collaboration with the       independent and non-profit Centre for Economic and Social Inclusion (Inclusion).
Two of the research studies were specifically commissioned to inform UK       policy development.
The 2007 DWP study on `Contracting Out Welfare to Work       in the USA' informed and was published alongside the consultative draft of       the Department's `Commissioning Strategy', finalised in 2008.
The 2011 DWP       study of `Job Services Australia' was commissioned to inform the design of       the Work Programme, with Professor Finn delivering presentations on       emerging findings to the civil service teams responsible for designing the       programme.
Not all recommendations were acted on but the report findings       ensured policy makers fully considered the implications for service user       safeguards including the subsequent decision to require Work Programme       prime contractors to put minimum service standards in place.
Professor       Finn is currently also a member of a consortium of research organisations       commissioned to evaluate the Work Programme for DWP and is responsible for       ensuring the evaluation is informed by the latest comparative research       evidence.
Several of the research studies enhanced public scrutiny.
The 2008       JRF-sponsored report on `Lessons from contracting out welfare to work       programmes in Australia and the Netherlands' focused on the experiences of       and safeguards for service users.
The 2012 NAO report on `The design of       the Work Programme in international context' informed their first scrutiny       report on the new programme, was published alongside it, and was then       drawn on in the lines of questioning pursued by the Public Accounts       Committee (to which Professor Finn gave oral evidence).
Professor Finn was       also a Special Adviser to two inquiries undertaken by the House of Commons       Work and Pensions Committee into `DWP's Commissioning Strategy' (2009) and       the `Management and administration of contracted employment programmes'       (2010).
His advice to the Committee on the terms of reference of each       inquiry and detailed guidance on the lines of questioning pursued and       recommendations made drew directly on his UK and comparative research       findings, as did his subsequent oral evidence to the Committee's 2012       inquiry into the `Introduction of the Work Programme'.
Professor Finn's collaboration with Inclusion (www.cesi.org.uk)       facilitated the impact of his research output and allowed the quick       dissemination of findings through their networking activities and       extensive internet based services.
Professor Finn has given presentations       on his research at each of Inclusion's annual `Welfare to Work       Conventions' between 2005 and 2012 and in the run up to DWP's       Commissioning Strategy he led discussions on user safeguards and services       at four Inclusion brokered confidential `Chatham House' workshops       with officials and senior managers of employment service providers.
Professor Finn has presented his research output and made recommendations       to successive British Work and Pensions Ministers and Shadow Ministers       with mixed results, albeit several findings directly influenced subsequent       policy, as around service user safeguards.
He has in particular improved       knowledge of the design and findings from comparative contracting systems       through the delivery of presentations at many conferences and seminars       attended by senior policy makers and practitioners in both the UK and in       other countries.
This has included key-note presentations to Ministers,       policy makers and the national conferences of employment services       providers in Australia, the Netherlands and the USA.
From 2009 the geographical remit of the impact of his research has       extended further, as evidenced through presentations on `making markets in       welfare programmes' to senior policy makers in Ireland and Sweden and to       Ministers and officials from a wide range of `middle income' developing       countries at events organised by the World Bank and the Inter-American       Development Bank (including for example, Ministers from Turkey, Slovakia,       and Mexico).
He has also produced two `analytical reports' for the       European Commission's `Mutual Learning Programme for Public Employment       Services' that further developed the comparative evidence base on       contracting practices.
Main findings from both studies were presented at       conferences in Brussels each attended by some 200 EU policy makers and       representatives from employment services providers.
