     Findings from the research into child weight management programmes were       reported to the Department of Health West Midlands (DOHWM) in January       2010.
In addition, a set of recommendations for commissioners of weight       management programmes and a toolkit of validated measures for use by       programme leads were also produced (Source A).
The research was       disseminated through publications which have been made available through       various Public Health England websites (Source B).
In       February 2010, the research team presented the findings from the research       at a workshop held by the DOHWM which was attended by weight management       programme leads, commissioners, health improvement specialists and others       involved in developing, running and evaluating public health interventions       from across the region including: Birmingham, Coventry, Dudley, Sandwell,       Shropshire, Solihull, Staffordshire, Stoke, Telford and Wrekin, Walsall,       Wolverhampton and Worcestershire.
Recommendations were discussed and       shared with localities to enable them to improve their practice.
A follow       up survey to assess the impact of the research (Source C)was       conducted in July 2010 as part of a workshop on the SEF which found that       the research:            Enabled Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) to improve measurement, data         collection and evaluation;       Reassured PCTs that they were commissioning effective programmes;       Led to PCTs adopting the SEF to evaluate child weight measurement         programmes when making future commissioning decisions.
Furthermore:            One PCT specified that the SEF and the University of Worcester's         evaluation tools and findings must be used by service providers.
The same PCT also used the evaluation and tools for their revised         National Child Measurement Programme service;       One PCT decided to pilot their own in-house child weight management         programme, incorporating best practice (including longer-term follow-up         and measurements) identified through the evaluation and using the SEF         evaluation tool;       One PCT decided not to continue funding their current programme which         had been evaluated as part of this work.
All West Midlands' PCTs accepted the recommendation that they should         continue to invest in child weight management programmes and that they         should use the SEF.
The research thus enabled an improvement in these programmes across West       Midlands PCTs.
In addition, however, the research has informed regional       health weight strategies (Sources D &amp; E); it has featured in       NICE reviews and guidelines (Source F) and informed the work of the       London Assembly's Health and Public Services Committee on childhood       obesity (Source G).
Findings from the Food Dudes Project were reported to DOHWM and       Wolverhampton PCT in December 2011.
Following submission of the report,       the PCT agreed to fund the programme for a further two years (until       December 2013) enabling a further 9,000 children to participate, bringing       the total number of children to 29,000 (Source H).
In January 2012, Wolverhampton PCT convened a workshop to discuss       recommendations of the report and to consider ways of taking the programme       forward in Wolverhampton and neighbouring areas of the West Midlands.
Workshop participants included the Food Dudes programme developers, local       project coordinators, staff from schools, head teachers, representatives       from agricultural groups and public health managers.
A key recommendation       of the research was the need for on-going development of the programme to       ensure its short and long-term effectiveness.
In response, the Food Dudes       Programme now includes a second key phase called "Food Dudes Forever".
This phase is designed to maintain improvements in fruit and vegetable       consumption established in the initial phase of the Programme and will run       each year in participating Primary Schools (Source I).
The report       further recommended that environmental factors should reinforce the       intervention's healthy eating messages.
This too has been taken into       account through the development of "Choice Architecture of School       Catering" scheme (Source J).
This scheme maximises the       environmental and behavioural cues for children to choose fruit and       vegetables over high-fat and sugar-rich foods.
