     Through the vehicle of the first Knowledge Transfer Partnership* in a       Department of History, Yates' research has had a major impact on the WDOAM       - a museum which was formed "to stimulate public interest in and to       encourage the preservation of buildings of architectural or historical       interest and to stimulate public interest in ancient crafts, trades and       manufactures".
It is recognised as setting very high standards in the       museum sector and is designated by Government as an `Outstanding       Collection'.
The WDOAM's collection of vernacular buildings ranges from       the 13th to 19th centuries and tells the stories about the buildings       themselves, the occupants and their historical context, way of life and       material culture.
In 2003, the museum undertook an "Access Project" which       aimed to address a critical need to improve orientation to visitors and       facilities to enable it to retain its market position and reputation as a       quality tourist destination.
Co-incidentally, and at the same time, Yates approached the then       director, Richard Harris, to suggest a collaborative project.
The result       was a KTP between the museum and the University of Reading (2005-2009),       with Yates as Lead Academic,1 to help the WDOAM in its efforts       to improve the visitor experience.
The design of the KTP was predicated on       Yates' research interests and experience, and 10 houses were selected for       investigation as representative of the WDOAM's collection.
Danae Tankard       was appointed by the University in 2005 to work on the project and applied       Yates' methodology to investigate the social and economic history of the       10 houses and to present the past to the public in deeply engaging,       enjoyable, informative and interactive ways.
This work included the       development of new visitor displays, webpages devoted to individual       buildings, presentations and a training programme for staff and       volunteers.
Additionally, the project provided the museum with the       capability to conduct this type of historical investigation for itself,       providing an ongoing benefit for future development.
Yates remained the       Lead Academic throughout the KTP, sharing her research methodologies in       throwing light on `everyday folk' in their localities, and brought it to a       successful conclusion in 2009.
The project produced excellent historical       information on the occupants of the buildings and their diverse contexts.2,3     As a result, the WDOAM has been able to convey to the public a deeper       understanding of the history of the houses, their inhabitants and the       economic and cultural contexts in which they lived, thus enhancing their       enjoyment of the museum.
Richard Harris commented: "We are regarded as       setting and maintaining high standards which people notice... Danae's       research has played and is playing an important part in how we achieve       this level of excellence."
The current director, Richard Pailthorpe, goes       further and states that the research "has had a considerable impact in key       areas of the museum's work, in particular interpretation and education.
"5     The knowledge acquired through the KTP has been embedded in the WDOAM as       detailed academic research papers, deposited in the museum archives, and       provides a reference resource for members of staff.
Furthermore, the       methodological approach and sources of evidence devised by Yates and       Tankard have become a resource in themselves for ongoing research at the       museum, thus enabling it to maintain its reputation for excellence.
Members of staff and volunteers continue to be trained in the new       resources and are better informed as a result.
This is particularly       important for the stewards in the vernacular buildings, who are there to       tell the human story of the house and answer visitor questions.
The museum publicly recognises the impact of Yates' work.
This is seen in       Richard Harris' article `Benefiting from knowledge transfer', in which he       is clear that the historian's "knowledge and experience will be of       permanent benefit to us".6 Moreover, in Building History       (pp.
61-2), it is stated that the WDOAM now has "a body of knowledge and       the means to communicate it.
"7 In the light of the new       research, the guidebook to the museum has been revised.
The visitor experience to the museum has also been enhanced and this has       had a direct impact on maintaining visitor numbers in the competitive       heritage market of the Chichester area.
By 2011, annual visitor admissions       had already risen to 140,000, an increase of 5 per cent over 2010.
The increased momentum and profile of historical research at the WDOAM,       gained through its partnership with the University of Reading, has had a       bearing on the financial support given to the museum by the Friends of       WDOAM and underpinned several successful grant applications.
For example,       a project around one of the historic properties, Tindall's Cottage,       predicated on the University's original research, was funded by the       Department for Culture, Media &amp; Sport/Wolfson Museums &amp; Galleries       Improvement Fund (&#163;50,000) and The Headley Trust (&#163;30,000).
The research has also enhanced the academic profile of the collections       and work of the WDOAM and played a role in establishing important links       between the museum and the Universities of Chichester, York and Reading.
New educational resources continue to be informed by the research and the       quality of the educational contribution made by the WDOAM was recognised       when it won the prestigious Europa Nostra Award in 2011 for the historic       building conservation training programme and was named a Grand Prix       laureate in recognition of outstanding heritage achievements.
The project has also had a significant impact on the career of the       Knowledge Transfer Associate, Danae Tankard, who is now a permanent member       of staff in both the University of Chichester, where she is senior       lecturer, and at the WDOAM, where she is employed as the museum's first       resident historian.
*A KTP is a partnership between an academic team and an external         organisation and aims to embed specific new knowledge and capability in         the organisation.
Projects are part funded by government (www.ktponline.org.uk)
