     Roberts` research has been used to better inform sentencing practices in       two jurisdictions.
In Canada, it was used in sentencing judgments to       produce a greater sensitivity to victims` interests.
In England and Wales,       it informed sentencing patterns that increasingly reflect legitimate       mitigating factors.
Its reach is sentencing law and practice in criminal       cases in these jurisdictions; it has further influence across Canada       through judicial training.
The significance of these changes is       substantial, and while Roberts` research was one of several contributing       factors, it is distinguished in the breadth and reliability of its       results, and in showing judges and policy makers that the public are       interested in 2017fit` with respect to the seriousness of crimes, but also       with respect to mitigating factors.
The ultimate beneficiaries of these       changes are the public at large.
The path to this impact was through (1)       arguments of counsel using Roberts` work, (2) judicial notice of and       reliance on Roberts` findings, (3) the use of his research by NGOs to make       recommendations, which were then adopted, for its use in judicial       training, and (4) statutory bodies in England and Wales commissioning       empirical research by Roberts and revising their sentencing guidelines in       response to his published findings.
The impact of the research on Canadian courts is marked.
[R2] was       the sole academic authority cited by the Quebec Court of Appeal in its       leading judgment of R. v. Cook (2009) which first held       that VIS constitutes a legitimate aggravating factor at sentencing.
In so       deciding, Hilton, JA said:     [68] I see no reason in principle why a victim impact statement, however       it may be prepared or delivered, cannot be used by a trial judge in       assessing whether any of its contents can constitute aggravating or       mitigating factors.
As Prof. Julian Roberts, a recognized scholar in the       field of sentencing has recently written, there is no statistical data       that suggests that doing so increases the severity of sentences.
[69] The       author also notes that it is generally preferable that the offenders hear       of the consequences of their conduct directly from those who were affected       by it rather than from a prosecutor, since this has the effect of       enhancing the possibility of the offender expressing remorse.
In such       circumstances, a sentencing judge is likely to consider the expression of       remorse as a mitigating factor, thus showing that victim impact statements       should not be regarded exclusively as a device designed to increase       sentences.
In that respect, they also contribute to the attainment of one       of the objectives of sentencing described in subsection 718(f) Cr.
C., namely, the promotion of "a sense of responsibility in       offenders, and acknowledgment of the harm done to victims and to the       community".
[C1, paras 68-69]     This decision set a new and binding precedent on lower courts and has       been followed by them, and the Cook judgment, and Professor       Robert`s research, repeatedly re-cited in their decisions.
(See, e.g.
R         v Therrien (2012) [C2] ) Other research on this subject by       Roberts has also been cited by courts in other jurisdictions, including       Newfoundland and Labrador, to similar effect; for example, [R2] is       cited in R v Keogh (2011) [C3].
A second pathway of impact flows from Professor Roberts` role in Canadian       judicial education.
In Canada, the National Judicial Institute (the       equivalent of the UK Judicial Studies Board) set up a group to construct a       national curriculum on the use of victim statements at sentencing.
Roberts       was invited to be a member of this group in 2010 and in 2011.
Using       materials from his published research, above, he co-taught three sessions       with a judge from the Court of Appeal to judges across the country.
A       printed summary of his research findings was also provided to the judges       as part of the seminar curriculum.
The Department of Justice Canada       retained Roberts to write a review of the relevant case law in the area of       victims and sentencing for the benefit of legal professionals in Canada.
The publication [C4] is distributed to legal professionals, and in       this way the findings reach not only the judiciary but also leading       counsel and other members of the legal profession.
Roberts` research on       victim impact statements has also been cited as an authority by the Court       of Appeal in England and Wales [C5].
The impact of Roberts` public opinion research in England and Wales has       come through its influence on, and use by, bodies charged with developing       sentencing guidelines for courts.
Until replaced by a new body in 2010,       the Sentencing Advisory Panel had the role of helping devise       sentencing guidelines for courts in England and Wales.
In an effort to       ensure that these guidelines reflect community values, the Panel       commissioned two large- scale research projects, one to document public       attitudes to sentencing principles and purposes, and the second to       document public attitudes to sentencing for driving offences resulting in       death.
In collaboration with Professor Mike Hough of Birkbeck, Roberts       conducted both studies.
The findings were published in peer-reviewed       journals [R5,6] as well as a peer-reviewed collection of essays       published by Cambridge University Press [R7].
Their substance was       also made directly available to the Panel.
The Panel noted that in order       to make sure its proposals were aligned with the public it commissioned       research by Roberts and colleagues.
This research thus shaped the       guidelines relating to the determination of offence seriousness and the       specific sentencing ranges for driving offences resulting in death.
The two studies were conducted in 2008-2009.
The Panel released its advice       about sentencing principles for driving offences in 2009 and its       guidelines on determining seriousness in 2010.
Relying on Roberts`       research, the Panel produced more principled and consistent sentencing,       and sentencing guidelines that better reflect community values.
[C7]       Courts have a statutory obligation to follow these sentencing guidelines,       and do so.
In recognition of his research-based expertise, Roberts was appointed in       2008 to the Sentencing Commission Working Group headed by Lord Justice       Gage and in 2010 to the Sentencing Council of England and Wales, a       statutory body which is headed by the Lord Chief Justice.
It issues       guidelines that are statutorily binding on all courts in England and       Wales.
Roberts is the only academic member of the Council and he was       re-appointed to the Council for a further term in 2013.
