     Although the projects described were IHG-specific, the underpinning       research and the projects'       outcomes and findings benefited five distinct groups: IHG, the broader       H&amp;T industry, communities       of interest, H&amp;T educational institutes and project researchers.
Impact on IHG:       Project 1: The project produced 30 BC/DR plans for all IHG       corporate sites.
The effectiveness of       the plans was tested in a real crisis situation in Japan during the       earthquake, tsunami and nuclear       disaster.
IHG has 39 hotels and a regional headquarter that were affected       and recorded no human       losses for the company and its customers throughout these disasters.
Although this was the result       of coordinated efforts of several stakeholders, TSB recognised its       positive impact both to the       company and the society.
TSB then rated the project as `outstanding' and       placed it at the top 5%       KTPs nationally [3].
Project 2: The project (based primarily on the frameworks       described in Paraskevas 2007 and       2013) developed a health, safety and security auditing methodology tested       in all "high priority" (with       regards to the Olympics) Holiday Inns.
With the help of an IHG proprietary       software it is now used       globally and is a key source of information for key risk indicators and       crisis signal detection.
Project 3: A core element of the ERM project was the development       of a risk monitoring system,       largely based on the findings and insights on crisis signal detection from       Paraskevas (2009) and       Paraskevas and Altinay (2013).
An outcome example is the "Loss Leader       Focus Programme".
Analysis of data collected by the auditing methodology of Project 2       and by the risk monitoring       system showed severe variances from occupational health and safety       standards in 16 properties in       North America.
Further analysis allowed the identification of the sources       and root causes of these       variances which enabled appropriate interventions on risk leadership,       culture structure and       communication (Project 4).
The claims in these hotels were reduced       by 40% in one year, saving       IHG an estimated $1,000,000.
An independent committee appointed by TSB       rated this project too       as `outstanding' (as was the case with project 1).
Project 4: The Risk Learning Centre is now complete with all the       existing IHG risk knowledge       codified in training programmes, operational standards and toolkits shared       by the 4600 properties       in IHG's portfolio, including a communication strategy for these training       tools.
Training and culture       changing interventions were planned using the framework in Paraskevas et       al (2013) with the       positive tangible outcomes described above.
IHG's risk training programme       won the Best Training       Programme Award in the European Strategic Risk Awards 2012 [4].
It was       recognised that       elements of the interventions proposed by the study and the work of Rachel       Wang in implementing       the proposed plan made a strong contribution towards this award.
On 28 February 2013 IHG's partnership with OSHM was awarded by the       Institute of Risk       Management's "Partnership of the Year" Global Award [5] recognising it as       a partnership that       brings "academic rigour" into business practice and business relevance to       academic teaching and       research.
The Broader H&amp;T Industry, Communities of Interest and H&amp;T           Education       The top six major companies, including IHG, together control approximately       42% of the 6.8 million       branded rooms globally, with IHG having an estimated 9.8% share.
The       Group's brands have more       leadership positions (top three by room numbers) in the six largest       geographic markets (Europe,       Middle East and North Africa, Asia, Australasia, Greater China and the       Americas) than any other       major hotel company.
Therefore changes in its Risk Management practice       have a significant       impact in the industry overall since safety and security are increasingly       becoming a selection       criterion for many travellers and therefore a competitive advantage.
IHG       uses a number of       platforms such as industry/academia conferences (e.gthe Cornell Research       Summit [6]) and       communities of interest (such as OSAC - particularly on security and       terrorism) to share its risk       management practices.
IHG is also working on developing a network of top hospitality education       institutions (OSHM,       Cornell, and HK PolyU) to shape risk management education for the       hospitality leaders of       tomorrow [7].
The Project Researchers       For her contribution and the leadership skills demonstrated during this       crisis, the KTP associate,       Catia Guimaraes, was awarded by the TSB prestigious "Business Leader for       Tomorrow" award [8],       presented to her by the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and       Skills Vince Cable.
At the       end of Project 1, Catia was employed by IHG as the Group's Business       Continuity Manager.
Similarly upon the completion of Project 2, the research associate Raksha       Singh, was employed by       IHG and is now the Risk Manager in charge of all the Group's hotels in       India.
At the end of Project 3 the KTP associate Dr Chris Chu was hired to       continue his work as IHG's       Corporate Risk Manager and was awarded by the TSB the "2013 Business       Leader for Tomorrow"       award [9].
Upon completion of Project 4 OSHM renewed Rachel Wang's contract for a       further two years of       research in IHG, to develop a framework for measuring the effectiveness of       risk training and in       extending the framework developed in Paraskevas et al (2013).
