     The adaptive findings of the experiments by the Thermal Comfort Unit have       contributed significantly to a research based approach to understanding       the relationship between humans and buildings and the potential to save       energy in a wide variety of climates.
The work of Nicol and Humphreys has       placed Oxford Brookes University at the forefront of research into thermal       comfort, contributing and influencing decisions that will have a lasting       effect on energy saving in buildings.
Contributing to Thermal Comfort Standards in Europe, Pakistan and         China       Data collected by the Unit in field-campaigns in Pakistan and the UK       contributed to the ASHRAE RP884 international database of thermal comfort       field experiments.
This database underlies the adaptive relation included       in the current version of the ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55, which defines the       range of indoor thermal environmental conditions acceptable to a majority       of occupants.
The Unit was the lead institution in the collection and analysis of data       for indoor environment and comfort in European countries (the SCATs       Project).
The Unit's meta-analysis of the data underpins the adaptive       thermal comfort section of the current Standard EN 15251 on comfort and       energy use in buildings.
The Unit's research also provided the logical       framework and the statistical analysis for this section of the European       Standard EN 15251.
The expertise of Humphreys and Nicol contributed to the Chinese       Government's first standard for thermal comfort in public buildings.
Humphreys and Nicol were invited to Chongqing, China, by Professor Baizhan       Li to advise on developing the standard.
The Unit's research models and       statistical methods were the foundation of the advice given.
The standard       was issued in October 2012.
Work for the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers         (CIBSE)       The CIBSE is the UK professional body that provides guidance on building       services engineering.
The research of the Unit has informed the committee       revising the thermal comfort section of the CIBSE Guide A, Environmental       Design, the primary resource for building professionals.
The Unit's       research had a formative influence, by providing data and conceptual       modelling, on the forthcoming edition, due to be published in 2013.
The CIBSE have also produced a Technical Memorandum which includes       technical advice on avoiding overheating in European Buildings.
It relies       heavily on data from the SCATs project and various analyses that the Unit       made of those data.
Influence of these guidelines and standards on building professionals         and building regulations       These standards and guidelines have an ongoing impact on those responsible       for the design, construction and operation of buildings.
Adaptive       standards and guidelines allow the indoor temperature to change in       sympathy with the prevailing outdoor temperature, in a manner consistent       with comfort, and therefore contribute to energy conservation and a       consequent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
They have helped       architects and building services engineers to design and construct       naturally ventilated buildings that avoid the use of air-conditioning in       an extended range of climates.
Guidance on indoor temperatures and       ventilation rates, including the method for predicting overheating given       in CIBSE Guide A, underpins the calculation methods recommended in Part L       (Conservation of fuel and power) of the building regulations for       non-domestic buildings.
Recently updated advice from the Department for       Education for ventilation and thermal comfort in new schools uses the       methodology given for naturally ventilated buildings in EN15251 and is       based on data from the Unit's European work.
The advice on avoiding       overheating follows the method developed by in CIBSE TM52.
Impact on the community of building practitioners and building         researchers:       The international Windsor conferences on thermal comfort and energy use in       buildings have drawn together increasing numbers of participants from some       40 countries, developing an informal worldwide network of architects,       building engineers and researchers, with a shared interest in adaptive       thermal comfort.
Some of these participants have contributed, and continue       to contribute, to the application of the research to building design and       to their thermal control.
The Brookes team has also been active in the Network for Comfort and       Energy Use in Buildings (NCEUB) which is a 400 member network of       architects, engineers, consultants and academics from many countries and       now organises the Windsor conference.
The Unit has produced numerous research publications, most being in peer       reviewed journals.
Nicol and Humphreys have over 300 publications between       them.
Their international acclaim in this field has resulted in       invitations to speak at numerous lectures and presentations to audiences       of architects, engineers and building researchers in UK, Australia, China,       Denmark, France, Greece, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Portugal, Japan and the       USA.
