     The impact of the research came through the event organised at the       Unversita della Terza Eta' [the University of the Third Age] (UNITRE)       Annual Conference in November 2011, where the research project received       very favourable and enthusiastic response from over 200 participants of       the Conference, who all expressed great interest in taking part in the       initiative.
Unitre have offered to collaborate by distributing the       questionnaire to their 268 regional branches in Italy.
In the summer of 2012 - following the successful British Academy       Mid-Career Fellowship, 325 questionnaires were distributed in Rome.
The       City Council supported the project by inviting the project team to discuss       it and present it to over 300 elderly gathered for an event organized by       the Deputy Mayor and by offering a main meeting room for an event       organized with the City to present the findings of the Rome project in May       2013, as well as transporting the elderly involved in the project to the       event.
Moreover, the Deputy Mayor of Rome has sustained the data gathering       in all the over 140 centres for old people present in Rome [see letter       with note of the Deputy Mayor].
Participants defined the project as `a       real opportunity' for actively engaging the elderly, while others       commented on the `enriching experience of sharing memories with others who       had lived through the same years' (Angelo Del Treste, 6/5/2013).
The Memoro website has a special section dedicated to the Lost Audiences       Project, where the pilot interviews have been uploaded in 2010.
So far,       the videos have been seen over 6380 times, demonstrating a real interest       for the subject.
However, the highest level of impact was demonstrated       through the event organised in Rome on 6th of May 2013.
The event was       supported by the City Council, which provided their main event room as       well as free transport to get the elderly involved in the project to the       venue.
The event gave Dr Treveri-Gennari the opportunity to present the       results of the project to not to only the participants but also to elderly       from several Old People Centres in Rome, City Council representatives,       University students from Film Studies and Architecture Degrees of the       Universita di Roma La Sapienza (first University in Rome), as well as film       industry representatives.
A feedback form was given to all participants       and the answers provided clearly demonstrate not only an impact on the       processes of commemoration but mainly a significant role the project       played on the relationship between the elderly of the city and their       cultural life: several participants commented on the importance of `being       allowed to remember the best times of their lives'; `the importance of       sharing their memories with a wider audience'; `how this project has given       value to the memories of the elderly'; `how this project has given them       the opportunity not to be reflecting only negatively about the past, but       being actively part of a communal process which highly regards memories       and the elderly' (Angelo Zarfani, 6/5/2013; Teresa Gervasi Rabitti,       6/5/2013; Giuseppina Muzzatti, 6/5/2013).
The Rome project also has a facebook group page       (https://www.facebook.com/groups/238705016228814/?fref=ts)       with 148 members.
Members have contributed to the page by discussing and       sharing their memories, uploading photos and suggesting possible       collaborative initiatives (for instance working on a project on mapping       closed cinema venues).
Elderly people presented at the event expressed interest in the outcomes       of the research, with which they agreed, but also commented on the       importance of such a project not only to reflect on the value of people's       memories, but mainly on the way this process has allowed them to reflect       with others on the meaning of cinema in their lives.
Several members of       the audience who had not taken part in the research were keen to find out       about the website and the publication of the outcomes because they were       interested in the results of the project.
Two actresses, as well as two       projectionists who had worked in the film industry in the 1950s took part       in the event and asked to be involved in the project (Nandy Primavera,       Lucia Modugno, Ciro Giorgini, Roberto Parisi).
The representatives of the       City Council have asked to expand this project, in order to involve a       bigger number of elderly people and this interest from the Council has       already demonstrated the importance of the project on different aspects of       the social life: one representative asked to work on an initiative which       can bridge the young and the older generation, working with elderly people       who can tell their memories to children in schools; another asked to work       on the processes of commemoration of the city, by developing a project on       lost cinema theatres in Rome, so important for the elderly people and       their cultural past.
The national press was involved: an article was       published in the main Rome newspaper Il Messagero, which sells around       230,000 copies every day and has a mainly elderly readership.
Moreover,       three articles were published on the Press Agency AGI (Agenzia       Giornalistica Italia), one of the Italian leading press agencies.
Following Treveri-Gennari's involvement in the project, she was asked to       work on a similar initiative for the Centenary of the Phoenix Cinema in       Oxford.
The CityScreen programmer for the cinema has invited her to       analyse memories of Phoenix cinema-goers and the results of this research       will be available in the volume The Phoenix Picturehouse.
100 Years of       Cinema Memories (forthcoming in November 2013).
