     National Impact:       The Royal College of Obstetricians &amp; Gynaecologists incorporated the       findings into their clinical guidelines (2006) for the management of both       severe pre-eclampsia and eclampsia, and these continued to be the national       guidance followed until 2010 [A].
This guidance was superseded by NICE       guidelines which cite the studies and recommend use of magnesium sulphate       for treatment of both eclampsia and severe pre-eclampsia [A].
We estimate       that two hundred cases of eclampsia per year are now prevented in the UK       amongst an estimated 40,000 pre-eclamptic women treated with magnesium       sulphate, and whilst deaths do occur, they are now extremely rare [B].
Global Impact:       WHO recommendations for the prevention and treatment of pre-eclampsia and       eclampsia recommend magnesium sulphate for the prevention and treatment of       eclampsia, specifically citing these studies [C].
Other national       guidelines in high resource countries also cite the studies while making       the same recommendations [D].
The Pre-Eclampsia/Eclampsia: Prevention,         Detection and Management toolkit for Developing Countries was       developed by the USAID-funded Maternal and Child Health Integrated Program       (MCHIP) as a resource of current evidence, materials and experiences from       around the world and cites the studies as the key evidence behind the       recommendation to use magnesium sulphate for the prevention and treatment       of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia [E].
A recent systematic review [F] demonstrated that in Bangladesh, India,       Pakistan, and Nigeria in addition to the UK, the introduction of treatment       for eclampsia with magnesium sulphate as a result of these trials       consistently results in a halving of the rates of maternal death.
Magnesium sulphate is now included on the WHO Model List of Essential       Medicines [G] and was recently added to the Interagency Emergency Health       Kit of recommended medicines and medical devices for 10,000 people for       approximately three months [H].
Magnesium sulphate continues to be introduced in low resource countries       internationally, as part of initiatives aimed at reaching Millennium       Development Goal 5, to reduce maternal mortality by three-quarters by       2015.
For example, a recent Department for International Development       intervention in Tanzania included the provision of magnesium sulphate as       one of four key actions [I].
