     Research into the benefits and risks of antiplatelet therapy has shown       that long-term antiplatelet therapy reduces the risk of heart attacks,       strokes and deaths due to vascular disease in a wide range of high-risk       people.
It has also shown that the benefits of aspirin do not clearly       outweigh the bleeding risks in healthy people.
This work has influenced       treatment guidelines nationally and internationally, and has led to       changes to medication labelling worldwide.
The 3 Aspirin Papers published       in the BMJ in 2004 have been cited over 4000 times, and the 2009 ATT paper       is listed amongst the most cited articles (793 citations) in The Lancet       since 2008 [A].
Public Policy     A number of national and international healthcare policy guidelines for       people at high risk of vascular disease have been influenced by CTSU's       work on antiplatelet therapy.
In particular, the 8th American       College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) guidelines [B], published       in 2008, are heavily dependent on the ATT for their data synthesis and       recommendations as is the report on European Society of Cardiology's Task       Force on Antiplatelet Drugs in 2010 [C].
These guidelines were developed       with CTSU's assistance (Professor Colin Baigent was a member of both       groups) and, taken together, these guidelines have had a major impact on       antiplatelet drug use since either the US or the European guidelines are       adopted in most countries.
The ATT work is also referenced as 'level A'       evidence in the 2013 American College of Cardiology Foundation/American       Heart Association (ACCF/AHA) guideline for the management of ST-elevation       myocardial infarction [D].
NICE guidance for secondary prevention of myocardial infarction       references the ATT collaboration results.
This was originally published in       2007 and is planned to be updated before the end of 2013.
The draft update       (July 2013) references an ATT meta-analysis as the key source of data for       antiplatelet trials [E].
The Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network       (SIGN) has referenced CTSU's work in a 2013 update to its national       clinical guideline on antithrombotics [F], and the 2009 ATT paper is also       referenced in a British Hypertension Society 2010 statement regarding the       use of aspirin in primary prevention of CVD [G].
Drug Regulation     Following the publication of CTSU's 2009 "aspirin in primary prevention"       paper, the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)       issued an update to their guidance on aspirin use for primary prevention       of thrombotic vascular disease [H].
Directly citing CTSU's research as the       motivating factor behind the new guidance, this update warned against the       routine use of aspirin in patients at low risk because the benefits of       aspirin in these circumstances may not exceed the bleeding risks.
