     Taken together, the CTSU's Heart Protection Study, Cholesterol Treatment       Trialists' Collaboration, SEARCH and SHARP studies have shown that       lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL), or `bad' cholesterol with a statin       regimen, or a statin-based regimen, reduces the risk of heart attacks,       strokes and revascularisation procedures in both high-risk and healthy       people, and that more intensive statin regimens lead to further reductions       in risk.
This work has influenced treatment guidelines and statin       medication labelling internationally.
Given the known benefits of statins       on vascular mortality, and their widespread use, it is likely that CTSU's       work has contributed to the continuing decline in vascular mortality that       has been observed in developed countries over the past decade.
All the major national and international healthcare policy guidelines on       cardiovascular disease prevention have been influenced by CTSU's work on       cholesterol-lowering statin therapy.
For example, the National Heart Lung       and Blood Institute's (NCEP) ATPIII North American guidelines [A], which       are the main guidelines used in the US, specifically refer to the Heart       Protection Study results.
The UK National Institute of Health and Care       Excellence (NICE) guidelines on cardiovascular disease and statins [B],       and European Society of Cardiology guidelines for the management of       dyslipidaemias [C], refer to CTSU's trials (HPS and SHARP) as well as the       CTT meta-analyses throughout.
By providing unique information about the       safety of simvastatin 80mg daily, the SEARCH study significantly       influenced both FDA [D] and MHRA [E] guidance on prescription of statins.
The SHARP results provide definitive evidence for the efficacy and safety       of a statin-based regimen for the prevention of atherosclerotic events       among patients with chronic kidney disease.
The Kidney Disease Improving       Global Outcomes (KDIGO) group generates internationally recognised       guidelines for the care of kidney patients, and a KDIGO Work Group (in       which 5 of the 11 members were also members of the SHARP Steering       Committee) has recently published updated guidance for the use of       statin-based regimens that is based chiefly on the SHARP trial [F].
SHARP       has also strongly influenced other guidelines, including the Canadian       Cardiovascular Society (CCS) Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Treatment of       Dyslipidaemia [G], most particularly by helping to identify CKD as an       important risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
The NHS reports that there has been a 40% reduction in deaths from heart       disease in people under 75 since 2000, and estimates that statins       currently save around 7,000 lives a year in the UK [H].
CTSU's work on       ensuring that statin therapy is used appropriately widely has undoubtedly       contributed to this saving of lives during the REF 2014 period.
Indeed,       NICE guidance throughout the REF period recommended the HPS regimen of       simvastatin 40mg as their first line treatment for cardiovascular disease       prevention in high-risk patients [B].
Due to the major public health       impacts of CTSU's research into the safety and benefits of statin use,       this work has also been featured prominently both on the internet and in       print versions of mainstream newspapers.
Recent articles include publicity       surrounding the CTT's work on the effects of reducing cholesterol among       apparently healthy people, for example in the Daily Mail [I] and on the       effects of more intensive statin regimens in the Daily Telegraph [J].
