     The key to being able to rapidly mount a study of pregnant women,       hospitalised with 2009/H1N1 pandemic influenza, was the prior       establishment in 2005 of the novel UKOSS system, which allows for rapid       institution of research into pregnancy complications in the event of a       public health emergency such as this.
For the influenza study, data were       analysed cumulatively on a monthly basis, enabling Professor Knight to       feedback results in real-time via weekly teleconferences and monthly       meetings at the Department of Health.
In this way the UKOSS findings were       central to immediate policy development, for guidance on the management of       pregnant women infected the with 2009/H1N1 virus, as the course of the       pandemic evolved [A, B, C].
The UKOSS results indicated that pregnant       women treated earlier with antiviral therapy had better maternal and       perinatal outcomes than those treated later in their clinical course or       not at all.
National advice and the clinical algorithm was changed as a       result leading to the earlier initiation of antiviral therapy particularly       for pregnant women and action by the Department of Health to ensure the       availability of antiviral therapy to pregnant women through the National       Pandemic Flu Service and Antiviral Collection Points [C].
The extent of maternal morbidity, and maternal and perinatal deaths       quantified by the UKOSS study, contributed to the change in immunisation       policy in the UK during the course of the pandemic to actively offer       pregnant women immunisation.
This policy change has now been adopted as an       on-going recommendation that annually all pregnant women should be       immunised against seasonal influenza [D, E].
The number of pregnant women       immunised against influenza in England has subsequently increased, from       118,000 in 2009/10, to 124,000 in 2010/11 and 196,000 in 2011/12 [F].
The impact of the research was achieved by the direct input of real-time       research results by Professor Marian Knight into the decision making       systems at the Department of Health for England.
Results were also shared       with the Influenza planning group at the Royal College of Obstetricians       and Gynaecologists during the course of the evolving pandemic.
Later       impact is demonstrated by the subsequent recommendation, which       incorporated the study data, issued by the European Centre for Disease       Control and Prevention (ECDC).
The recommendation states that universal       influenza immunisation for pregnant women should be offered throughout       Europe [G].
Once the pandemic had abated it became clear from data collected by UKOSS       and the National Confidential Enquiry into Maternal Deaths that 13       pregnant women in the UK had died as a direct result of 2009/H1N1       influenza virus infection.
These deaths could have been prevented by prior       immunisation.
In addition, the study results suggested that early       treatment with antiviral medication led to a 90% reduction in the odds of       admission for critical care.
The resulting substantial changes in       practice, which were instituted as a result of the UKOSS study findings,       were, and continue to be, instrumental in preventing the deaths and       serious morbidity for pregnant women and their babies in the UK and       elsewhere.
The study is referenced in guidance for critical care       clinicians [H].
It is also referenced in current media campaigns to       highlight the importance of on-going immunisation to women [I], and in       policy documents recommending immunisation against influenza in pregnancy       in countries other than the UK [J].
