     Results from the University of Oxford's Million Women Study, have changed       attitudes towards HRT       dramatically, leading to significant changes in public policy and HRT use       around the world.
This       research has also led to significant reductions in breast cancer incidence       amongst menopausal       women.
Public Policy       Results from the Million Women Study have influenced a number of European       health agency       guidelines, which now recommend that women at a high risk of breast cancer       consider alternative       options to HRT.
These agencies include the Royal College of Obstetricians       and Gynaecologists       [A], the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency [B], and the       European Medicines       Agency [C].
Culture and Behaviour       Since publication, the Million Women Study has been presented to the       public at length both in print       and online &#8212; from articles in the New York Times and Daily         Telegraph to women's health blogs and       cancer charity websites around the world.
This far-reaching public awareness of the study and its findings led to       significant behavioural       changes, predominately resulting in the swift decline of HRT prescriptions       throughout Europe and       the US from 2003.
In stark contrast to the increase in HRT prescriptions       between 1991 and 1996,       which remained stable through to 2001, sales of HRT fell by 50% between       2002 and 2005       following the publication of the WHI trial and the Million Women Study       [D].
Recent studies       demonstrate the continuing impact of this research on behaviour in terms       of continued reduced       HRT use [E, F].
One such study published in 2010 in Belgium (a country known to have one       of the highest       incidences of breast cancer in Europe), shows that the proportion of women       aged 50-69 years       using HRT in Flanders went from a 20% peak in 2001, to just 8% in 2008.
The study also showed       a decrease in breast cancer incidence [G].
Health       Due to the substantial decline in the use of HRT in many countries, the       incidence of breast cancer       has markedly decreased in women between the ages of 45 and 64.
Declines in       the rate of breast       cancer have been strongest for women between the age of 50 and 60 years,       with rates which were       previously on the incline dropping by 0.8% a year [H, I].
More recent data       [E, F, I], which were       published between 2010 and 2012, show that lower levels of HRT use and       breast cancer incidence       subsequent to the steep decline in HRT use, which followed the publication       of the Million Women       Study, have continued into the REF assessment period of 2008 - 2013.
Breast cancer incidence in       Great Britain among women aged 50 to 64 peaked in 2004 and then showed a       rapid decline over       three years, with the lower rates then persisting through to at least 2010       (the most recently       available incidence data) and being partly attributed to the reduction in       HRT use in this age group       [I].
Similarly, a report assessing breast cancer incidence in Belgium up       to the end of 2008 showed       a significant drop in breast cancer incidence, which was attributed to the       significant decrease in       HRT use in Belgium during and leading up 2008 [F].
