     Impact on International Policy       Work from UoA2 at Oxford University has provided a spectrum of studies       ranging from       epidemiological evidence of the hazards of smoking through to evidence of       the effectiveness of       quitting and the best available evidence of the success of interventions       that encourage quitting.
These studies have strongly influenced international policy on tobacco       control.
In 2008 the WHO       adopted a set of 6 strategic recommendations for tobacco control, which       they refer to as       MPOWER: Monitor tobacco use and prevention policies, Protect people, Offer       help to quit, Warn,       Enforce bans, Raise taxes [A].
Many of the key epidemiological statistics       on tobacco hazards in the       report that defined the MPOWER strategy derive from NDPH work.
The central       claim, that during       the 20th Century the tobacco epidemic killed 100 million       worldwide and that during the 21st Century       it will (on current smoking patterns) kill about one billion people, is       derived from NDPH work.
The       MPOWER package has, since 2008, been the main vehicle by which WHO has       encouraged       tobacco control.
Similarly, the nicotine replacement therapy for smoking cessation review       (NRT) provided evidence       for a 2008 proposal for the inclusion of NRT in the World Health       Organization (WHO) list of       essential medicines.
The WHO reports the review as "the largest database       on the effectiveness of       NRT" [B], approving the proposal in May 2009 supported by       CTARG's "high-quality evidence of       effectiveness" [C].
The WHO website predicts that inclusion of NRT on the       essential medicines list       will advance guideline development and improve access to NRT in developing       countries [C].
Impact on International Guidelines       The CTARG's NRT review has been cited in three key UK national guidelines       in recent years, and       continues to shape practice today.
The evidence review [D] underpinning       NICE guidance on Brief       Interventions and Referral or Smoking Cessation recommends the use of NRT       based on the       Cochrane review.
Guidelines published from the US and Australia also cite       the review, using it as       consistent evidence for use of NRT to aid smoking cessation and using it       to support the specific       recommendation that heavily dependent smokers use higher doses of oral NRT       [E, F].
Many physicians were initially reluctant to advise patients not to smoke,       as they doubted the       efficacy of the approach and were concerned it would affect the       doctor-patient relationship.
The       Cochrane review of physician advice for smoking cessation has been used in       many guidelines as       evidence for the efficacy of this approach.
The NICE Rapid Review of Brief       Interventions and       Referral for Smoking Cessation [D], the US Public Health Service       guidelines [E] and the Australian       Royal College of General Practitioner guidelines [F] all cite the review       as evidence that brief advice       from a physician is effective and should form part of routine clinical       care.
The Australian guidelines       cite the Cochrane review as the key evidence against the belief that "I am       not effective", one of 7       barriers to engagement of health professionals with smoking cessation       identified by the guideline.
Impact on Smoking Prevalence and Subsequent Mortality       Though the direct relationship between research, subsequent guidelines,       practice, smoking       prevalence (and thereafter mortality) cannot be quantified, both smoking       prevalence and male       mortality have fallen in the UK and in many other European countries       during the REF reference       period.
In the 1990's, the decline in UK smoking prevalence that began in       the 1970's had stalled.
In       1996, 28% of the adult population smoked and there had been no decline in       prevalence from 1992,       In response, the UK government published its 1998 White Paper `Smoking       Kills' which set out a       range of interventions for reducing smoking prevalence in the UK,       including a substantial       investment in smoking cessation services.
This White Paper was based on UK       national guidelines       [I] based on evidence from CTARG's reviews.
In the subsequent 14 years,       the prevalence of adult       smoking in the UK has fallen to 20%, with over two million fewer adult       smokers in the UK [G].
Similarly, before the mid-1990s there was no material decrease in EU-wide       tobacco-attributed       mortality, but in recent years male tobacco-attributed mortality in the EU       has decreased by about       10% every 5 years [H].
There is substantial evidence of the impact of the Oxford's UoA2       researchers on the policies that       have been implemented during this period, and the above highlights the use       of selected research       outputs and Cochrane reviews in recent (and current) guidelines and       practice shaping documents.
