     Our research has a two-fold impact on early childhood education.
At a       strategic level it contributes       to theoretical knowledge and informs national policy.
At regional and       local levels, our ideas are       translated into practice through our support for local authority and       school-based training and       continuing professional development.
Thematically, it centres on       Professional Development itself,       and Outdoor Learning particularly through the Forest School Movement.
Developing Professionals     The SPEEL competencies, contributing to Practice, Principles or       Professionalism, are incorporated       within the Key Elements of Effective Practice document.
This official tool       was developed to assist       English local authorities in auditing and strengthening the impact of       training of the early years       workforce.
Imported into the curriculum guidance for the Early Years       Foundation Stage       (Department for Children Schools and Families (DCSF), 2008; DfE, 2012),       these competencies       now inform continuing professional development, job descriptions, service       level agreements, and       evaluation processes.
Additionally, the Children's Workforce Strategy for       2020 (DCSF, 2008) [A]       acknowledges SPEEL's assessment of the difficulties surrounding parental       involvement.
The       associated training package supported the transition of children between       Foundation Stage and       Key Stage One (Qualifications and Curriculum Authority, 2011) [B] and       cites SPEEL as key       underpinning research.
The development of the `Essex Effective Pedagogy Evaluation Scheme' at       Essex County Council,       informed by Moyles' research, enabled further collaboration with Essex and       Cambridgeshire       County Councils and Southend Borough Council.
This resulted in `The       Effective Leadership and       Management Scheme' (ELMS), the development of which was funded by the       European Social       Fund.
Widely used for in-service training in Essex, these tools are       available nationally as a       continuing reference point for leaders and managers.
A tool for all those       in early years settings, it       enables the evaluation of an individual's effectiveness as a       leader/manager.
Its purpose is to       ensure that children and practitioners receive the best possible       experiences and direction in their       work and play, and that parents and carers can have confidence in the       particular setting attended       by their children.
Additionally, the outcomes from the 2010 British       Academy sponsored       international Conference on Curriculum, Policy and Pedagogy, with the       resulting book, informed       practitioners of new techniques to facilitate children's participation in       classroom research,       observation and assessment strategies to promote educative experiences.
On       a national level,       Moyles' research informed the Association for the Professional Development       of Early Years       Educators (TACTYC) response (2011) to the EYFS Government consultation       [C].
Beyond English       educational settings, Moyles' research influenced policy developments: the       Early Years Foundation       phase in Wales; ELMS is listed as a `key document' in a review of       resources for leadership       development on the official Scottish learning and teaching website       (Dunlop, 2008) [D]; The Early       Years Learning Framework for Australia (Commonwealth of Australia, 2009)       (Greishaber, 2010),       and, most recently, the National Professional Development model for the       early years workforce in       Northern Ireland (McMillan et al, 2012: 400) [E].
The Anglia Ruskin University Early Childhood team continue to collaborate       with Cambridgeshire,       Essex and Northamptonshire Local Authorities to support professional       development and effective       practice.
For example, Davis' impact study with Essex County Council       (2010-2013) shows that this       is making a difference to outcomes for `Every Child Matters' areas for       children in Essex.
The       research found the EYPS graduate award has had a positive impact on       children, parents and staff       and there was a strong, positive correlation between the employment of       EYPs and higher Ofsted       ratings.
Reports in the specialist press (Nursery World 3 May 2013, viewed       by 120,000 individuals       each month [F]; and Daynurseries.co.uk, 29 May 2013, 11,500 users &#8212; day       nurseries [G])       demonstrate a national interest in its message that local authority       support is `essential' for       developing professionalism.
Waller (2012) gave a keynote presentation on       the benefits of outdoor       play and learning for children and adults to 300 participants at the Essex       Early Years Professionals       Annual Conference and is now collaborating with a number of schools to       develop their outdoor       spaces.
Outdoor Learning and Forest School initiatives     Knight set up Forest School training programmes throughout the REF period       that prepared over       100 practitioners and teachers per year, to establish and maintain Forest       Schools locally.
Each       teacher works with a nominal class of 25 so this, cumulatively, represents       a considerable impact       on children.
Where children have had Forest School experience, teachers       report improvements in       children's concentration, motivation, social skills and communication that       are observable over time       [H].
One local teacher, trained by Knight and inspired by her       publications, has been nominated for       a national Learning Outside the Classroom award by his school [1], whilst       another has started a       Suffolk Forest School Network.
Nationally, Knight is Deputy Chairman of       the Forest School       Association.
In this role she has addressed Heads of Outdoor Centres at       their annual conference       (2012), led practitioner training in Keswick, Cambridgeshire and       Worcestershire, and contributed to       training DVDs for Somerset and Surrey County Councils.
Following the       impact of her research in       the UK, Knight was invited to participate in the 2011 European Outdoor       Learning and Adventure       Education conference in Finland to explain to European practitioners what       Forest School has       achieved in the UK.
This is summarised in a German text written for a       European practitioner       audience [I].
Following a Canadian lecture tour (2011), Knight was invited       to join a national round       table to develop Canadian Principles of Practice, a guiding document for       national education policy       and standards of practice in relation to Forest School.
