        Promotion of the safe care of patients through the identification and         development of supportive learning and teaching strategies for students         with diverse teaching and learning needs:     Morris and Turnbull's research led to the development of a toolkit,       initially to support learning for student nurses with dyslexia.
In       developing this toolkit, Morris and Turnbull provided evidence-based data       for clinical practitioners, in particular mentors, so that they can       support students and staff with dyslexia in the clinical setting [1].
The       toolkit has been very successful.
We have received requests from within       the UK and also from the USA and Ireland to use the toolkit.
Morris and       Turnbull's research about nursing students with dyslexia and how they       negotiate learning in the academic and clinical setting, has informed       professional nursing reports about dyslexia in nursing [A] and reports for       the Disability Rights Commission [B].
Development of educational resources to support the education of         nurses and healthcare professionals     In underpinning pre-registration nurse bioscience knowledge, McVicar's       innovative use of homeostasis as a concept for the delivery of safe care       is the explicit theme that runs through his successful co-authored text       book (Clancy &amp; McVicar 2009 Physiology and Anatomy for Nurses and       Healthcare Practitioners: A Homeostatic Approach 3rd edition,       ISBN 9780340897237967591).
When the book was first published, it was the       only one available which made the concept of homeostasis an explicit       central theme.
Many well-known texts have since adopted this approach.
The       2009 edition of the book has sold over 4,000 copies and been adopted       nationally and internationally for use in nursing/health care curricula       [2].
UK examples of this adoption include Birmingham City University; De       Montford University; Liverpool John Moores University; Queens University       Belfast; the University of Hull and the Academy for Homotoxicology (UK),       part of the Biomedic Foundation.
An international example is Curtin       University, Australia [C].
Furthermore, in training nursing and healthcare clinicians, nationally       and internationally, McVicar was commissioned (details available from HEI       on request), by the British Journal of Perioperative Nursing and the       British Journal of Nursing to write 21 educational papers that are       available online [D].
This concept was applied to other healthcare       discipline areas such as perioperative care.
McVicar's book `Perioperative       Practice: Fundamentals of Homeostasis' (Clancy, McVicar and Baird 2002) is       still on reading lists for this specialty area (eg.
Kings College, London       2013, Glasgow Caledonian University 2012) and is now available on Kindle,       indicating its impact.
Impacting on the development of education curricula, McVicar's study       (2010) recognised that the bioscience knowledge of staff nurses can       enhance the support given by nurses to students in clinical settings.
His       recommendation is that by addressing the bioscience knowledge of clinical       practitioners, through inclusion of bioscience in post-qualifying       curricula and training, students are enabled to have access to a       supportive `bioscience' clinical learning environment [E].
An American       e-book that highlights contemporary, `authoritative, and comprehensive       information' about international issues in nursing research, training and       practice wrote and published a synopsis of the research for their 2011       edition [F].
Recognising the impact of this educational approach, McVicar       and Andrew were invited by AD Instruments to present to healthcare       professionals at the Biosciences in Nursing Education Forum, June 2013 	  (http://bioscience-nursing-2013.eventbrite.co.uk/).
Supporting the national priority of patient safety and its inclusion in       education of nursing students for the Nursing and Midwifery Council UK and       international educational and healthcare organisations, Mansour led       researchers in securing our faculty as a WHO complementary site [G].
Following his contribution to the `Evaluation of the Multi-professional       Patient Safety Curriculum Guide', Mansour has been asked to contribute to       the next phase of the WHO project.
He was also invited to be a keynote       speaker, to talk about the UK perspective of the project at the `WHO       Patient Safety Curriculum Guide' session for the 29th International       Society for Quality in Healthcare Conference 2012.
The session included       the participation of experts from Greece, Portugal, Saudi Arabia and the       UK, indicating the reach of this work [3].
