     Since its introduction in 1996, Green Guide has become the industry and       legislative standard for the selection of lower environmental impact       construction materials.
From 2007 onwards, Green Guide rated materials       have had to be specified as part of the Code for Sustainable Homes       standards which are now required in order for any new residential       development in the UK to be granted Planning Permission.
Green Guide is       also cited in the UK Government's Homes and Communities (HCA) Quality       Standards (2007) and is the official UK Government Buying Standard for all       construction products.
Government Buildings       In 2009, the Government stipulated that all of their publicly owned       property should attain maximum Green Guide materials credits in order to       achieve the BREEAM `Excellent' standard required of all new government       buildings.
UK Local Authorities       Greener construction materials offer many human health and welfare       benefits in terms of using safer, less polluting, lower atmospheric       emission producing materials.
As a result of Green Guide being able to       measure and compare materials against these issues, many UK Local       Authorities have published design guides using Green Guide as a green       standard for all housing and commercial construction projects requiring       Planning Permission and Building Regulations.
For example, in the London       Mayor's, Greater London Authority (GLA) Planning Guidance notes, it is       stated that that no high embodied impact materials shall be used "...as       defined by the summary ratings set out in The Green Guide to       Specification."
(GLA, 2006; pp 37-38).
The GLA design guide also uses       Green Guide to set standards for the use of timber, insulation and the use       of recycled materials.
Similarly, Green Guide is the key reference text       for materials selection in many commercial developments such as the 1.9       million sq ft Westfield Shopping Centre in East London and other UK Local       Authority design guides including those cited below in Section 5: the       Borough of Islington, Kent County Council, North Devon (Sustainable       Construction Technical Appendix; : DVS1A and ECN15) &amp; Devon County       Council (Sustainable Design &amp; Construction Guide); Dundee (Sustainable       Development Guide for Construction), Fife, Bristol, Newcastle City Council       (Urban Design Guidance, 2010), Staffordshire, Glasgow, Edinburgh and       Oldham &amp; Rochdale.
International Standards       Green Guide has also provided a model and source of information across       many international jurisdictions as other countries have sought to develop       their own international standards for greener construction.
BREEAM and       Green Guide ratings are used in many countries worldwide including France,       Belgium, Holland, Sweden, Poland and Germany and BREEAM is available in an       international version to meet this demand.
Materials Producers       Once Green Guide began to rate materials using an A* &#8212; E scoring system,       enabling property professionals to see and compare the environmental       impacts of products, it became possible (and a commercial imperative) for       materials producers to improve their environmental performance in order to       enhance their social and green credentials.
For example, 2011 data shows       that the energy use for concrete production has fallen by around 11%       compared to the 2008 baseline.
The concrete industry has become       increasingly active in the use of by-products, secondary materials and       material diverted from the waste stream to reduce its demands on primary       raw materials.
The 2012 energy use target was achieved in 2010 when a       quarter of the energy used in the concrete industry came from material       derived from the waste stream (CPA, 2012).
Although such behaviour change       is also attributable to rising energy costs and more stringent       legislation, the impact of Green Guide's rating system cannot be       underestimated as it has become a key part of their marketing campaigns.
Evidence of this can be seen in marketing material from the concrete       industry, roofing materials producers, aluminium manufacturers and the       producers of insulation materials (see Section 5 for examples).
A lasting legacy       The authors of Green Guide have produced a number of academic papers and       reports, helping to broaden the research community's understanding of the       environmental impacts of construction products.
As stated in the London       Olympic Development Plan in which Green Guide was used as the key text in       determining the selection of construction materials, the challenge is to       continue to "identify, source, and use environmentally and socially       responsible materials... a key aspect... of delivering sustainable       developments" in order to leave "a lasting social, economic and       environmental legacy..." (ODA, 2007 &amp; 2009)
