     Oxford research on the housing market and its interaction with other       areas of the economy has guided UK housing policy over a number of years,       influencing UK housing provision and government policy to support mortgage       holders in arrears.
The research highlights the important role of housing       and credit markets in the macroeconomy and has influenced policy on macro-       economic rebalancing following the global economic crisis.
Since its initial development, the Regional Affordability Model (RAM) [R6]       has played a central policy role in guiding the advice of the National       Housing and Planning Advisory Unit (NHPAU) to regional and local planning       authorities.
From 2007 until its abolition in 2010, the NHPAU was tasked       with advising government, planners and regional bodies on housing       affordability and the consequences of different levels of housing       provision, with the aim of improving the link between demand for homes and       planning permissions for new housing.
The NHPAU used the RAM to estimate       the effect of housing supply on housing affordability, and to provide       advice to Ministers on the housing supply ranges to be tested by the       Regional Planning Authorities [for example C1, C2].
These       estimates of housing supply ranges were influential because the Regional       Assemblies had to take the NHPAU evidence into account in determining       housing provision and provide evidence should they wish to set a supply       level outside of the NHPAU range.
The NPHAU also used the model for policy       analysis and simulation of scenarios.
For example: the impact of changes       in housing affordability on the demand for social housing [C3];       the effect of the credit crunch and house price falls in 2007 and 2008 on       affordability and long term trends in the housing market [C4].
The econometric model of mortgage arrears and possessions developed by       Aron and Muellbauer [R1] is used by the Department for Communities       and Local Government (DCLG) for forecasting purposes, and has contributed       to policy responses to the mortgage market crisis since 2009.
The report's       evidence was used in support of the Mortgage Rescue and Homeowners Support       scheme, and it influenced the decision of the Housing Minister to maintain       the policy following the 2010 General Election [C5].
In 2012, the       DCLG commissioned Aron and Muellbauer to update their forecasts to       incorporate data through to Q3, 2011 [C6].
The information on the       new forecasts, indicating an improved outlook for arrears and repossession       through to 2015, was included in the briefing note for MPs on mortgage       arrears and repossessions provided by House of Commons Library [C7].
The models developed for forecasting possessions and arrears have been       given to DCLG for their own use in forecasting, and the work has been       shared with the Ministry of Justice, the Financial Services Authority       (FSA), the Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML), the IMF Stress Testing Unit,       and the Financial Stability Unit of the Bank of England.
The research by Aron, Muellbauer and Murphy on the interrelationships       between household behaviour, credit markets and the macroeconomy [R1,         R2, R5] has highlighted the role played by housing and credit       markets in the recent global financial crisis, and the potential lessons       for central bank modelling.
In 2009, Muellbauer addressed the annual       conference of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) in Basel on the       theme of lessons of the global financial crisis for policy modelling at       central banks, drawing on his research with Aron and others [C8].
He has delivered keynote addresses at numerous international meetings for       senior policymakers including: a Banque de France conference on the       macroeconomics of housing markets (December 2009); a National Central       Banks (NCB) Experts Meeting organised by the European Central Bank (ECB)       on how central banks could make better use of information on credit and       housing market developments and flow of funds data more generally       (November 2011); and the BIS-Reserve Bank of Australia annual conference       attended by senior central bankers from the Asia-Pacific region on       `property markets and financial stability (August 2012).
Subsequently,       Muellbauer was appointed to the Wim Duisenberg Visiting Fellowship at the       ECB for 2012-13, where he worked with central bank economists on analysis       of the responses of household consumption, portfolio behaviour and house       prices to credit conditions, asset prices and housing supply, inter alia,       in Germany, France and Spain.
This research now feeds into the work of the       ECB on flow-of-funds data.
The Senior Adviser to the Directorate of       Monetary Policy at the ECB describes the research as of "considerable       policy relevance for the euro area in the context of the need for       macroeconomic rebalancing and asset price adjustments (namely in the       housing market) in the wake of the debt crisis" and states that the       research findings have contributed significantly to the analysis and       briefings provided to senior policy-makers and the ECB executive Board [C11].
Further global impact has occurred thanks to Muellbauer's engagement with       the Dallas Federal Reserve.
Muellbauer's collaborative research and       publication with the Senior Economist and Vice-President at the Dallas       Federal Reserve has had a significant impact on US monetary policy towards       mortgage and housing markets [C9].
The co-authored research [R2,         R5] contributed prominently to a special briefing by the Senior       Economist and VP to the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee [FOMC] in       January 2012 and was influential in briefing the FOMC before the September       2012 decision to embark on a third phase of quantitative easing [C10].
