 The impact of the research conducted by the PRG has led to significant improvements in the lives of patients who have chronic and debilitating pain.
The Group's influence on clinical decision making is evident in the NHS Evidence R4 database (S1), which is a source of journal publications for frontline clinicians.
Outcomes of the PRG's work were used in the development of NICE clinical guidelines on spinal cord stimulation (S2).
This is significant because NICE guidance uses best evidence to promote good health and prevent ill health and is recognised internationally as a centre of excellence that is used by health professionals, employers, voluntary groups and anyone else involved in the promotion of health to inform clinical decision making and promote best practice.
Evidence of the impact of the PRG's work can also be seen in two sets of recommendations for best practice co-edited by Professor Raphael and issued by the British Pain Society: spinal cord stimulation (S3) and intrathecal drug therapy (S4).
At international level, the Polyanalgesic Consensus Conference (PCC) is an international clinical workgroup that strives to improve care, specifically for those receiving implantable devices.
Through exhaustive literature searches and clinical experience, the workgroup formulates recommendations to establish current best practices.
Multiple topics are targeted at each conference.
In 2012 findings from the PRG's work were included in the PCC's best practice guidelines for three subjects: diagnosis, detection and treatment of catheter-tip granulomas (S5, R3), recommendations for the management of pain by intrathecal (intraspinal) drug delivery (S6, S6 R7) and recommendations to reduce morbidity and mortality in intrathecal drug delivery in the treatment of chronic pain (S6, S7, R3).
The dual focus of PRG's research has demonstrated that pain relief improves after the introduction of psychological assessment for treatment with spinal cord stimulation (S7).
The cost effectiveness of a health care treatment (in this case IDDS) should take into consideration the relative cost before treatment is initiated.
(S8).
It has also underpinned the development of information booklets that are now used nationally in the treatment of cancer pain and selected pain therapies (S9).
The PRG's research programme has focused on demonstrating the efficacy of interventions.
In doing so it has made a significant contribution to the management of chronic pain and improved patients' quality of life.
The influence of the PRG's research is evident at both national and international levels and informs decision making across a range of clinical fields.
