     Fredman`s early formulation of the four dimensional model, `The Future of       Equality in Great Britain` proved convincing to the Equal Opportunities       Commission (EOC), which widely disseminated it after 2002, as a basis for       the general duties of the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) [C7].
Even at this stage it had entered the public realm, not only as a       theoretical model, but as a source of practical guidance [C4, C5].
This was reinforced in 2005 with the establishment of the Discrimination       Law Review by the Department of Communities and Local Government, which       was tasked with making recommendations for new equality legislation which       would cover all protected grounds.
This was particularly challenging for       proactive equality duties, which would now need to apply to a wider range       of grounds.
Drawing on the fruits of Fredman`s research [R3],       Fredman and Dr Sarah Spencer submitted proposals for a unified equality       duty, which included a proposal that the goals of the duty be more clearly       specified by using the four dimensional approach.
The Green Paper, A Framework for Fairness, published in 2007, accepted       these proposals [C6].
It recommended as follows:     `If public authorities do not understand what promoting equality of       opportunity actually means in practice, this reduces the effectiveness of       the equality duties in achieving meaningful outcomes for disadvantaged       groups.
We therefore want a clearer articulation of the purpose of a       single public sector equality duty .
.
.
In developing our proposals, we       have had particular regard to the work by Sarah Spencer and Sandra Fredman       on this subject and the general duty of the Commission for Equality and       Human Rights.
We have adapted the four "dimensions of equality" as identified by       Spencer and Fredman.
Addressing disadvantage&#8212;taking steps to counter the effects of         disadvantage experienced by groups protected by discrimination law, so         as to place people on an equal footing with others.
Promoting respect for the equal worth of different groups, and         fostering good relations within and between groups&#8212;taking steps to treat         people with dignity and respect and to promote understanding of         diversity and mutual respect between groups, which is a pre-requisite         for strong, cohesive communities.
Meeting different needs while promoting shared values&#8212;taking steps to         meet the particular needs of different groups, while at the same time         delivering functions in ways which emphasise shared values rather than         difference and which provide opportunities for sustained interactions         within and between groups.
Promoting equal participation&#8212;taking steps to involve excluded or         under-represented groups`          After a complex public and parliamentary debate, the Equality Act was       eventually enacted in 2010 [C1].
This incorporated the Review`s recommendations and the       Fredman model, in the following form, thus giving Fredman`s model       statutory force:     Section 149(3) Equality Act 2010, states:     `Having due regard to the need to advance equality of opportunity between       persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do       not share it involves having due regard, in particular, to the need to&#8212;     (a) remove or minimise disadvantages suffered by persons who share a       relevant protected characteristic that are connected to that       characteristic;     (b) take steps to meet the needs of persons who share a relevant       protected characteristic that are different from the needs of persons who       do not share it;     (c) encourage persons who share a relevant protected characteristic to       participate in public life or in any other activity in which participation       by such persons is disproportionately low.`     As is clear on the face of the legislation, Paragraphs 149(3)(a), (b),       and (c) incorporate Fredman`s first three dimensions of equality of       opportunity into the general equality duty.
The Act further spells out that:     `Having due regard to the need to foster good relations ...involves       having due regard, in particular, to the need to&#8212;     (a) tackle prejudice, and     (b) promote understanding.
(s.149(5))     This reflects Fredman`s fourth dimension of equality.
Subsequently, guidelines were developed for public bodies to assist them       in complying with the duty, including the four dimensional understandings       of substantive equality in ss149(3) and (5).
The EHRC has produced       technical guidance [C2], which explains each of the three       components of equal opportunity (redressing disadvantage, meeting       different needs, and promoting participation) by using clear language and       concrete examples.
It does the same in relation to good relations, which       include measures to reduce bullying, harassment, hate crime and violence       against those who share a particular protected characteristic.
Public       bodies have also developed their own internal guidelines, and the four       dimensional model of equality is now part of the standard template as       issued, for example, by the Thames Valley Police [C3].
The four       dimensional model of equality is now law throughout the UK.
