     Research into the design and analysis of scaffold structures has enabled       a better understanding of their behaviour, higher standards of safety and       in improved design.
The design guides TG20.05 and its revision TG20.087,8       are extensively used throughout the UK and, together with the suggested       revisions to testing procedures for scaffold connections, will enable       proprietary scaffold systems to also be erected safely so that the number       of scaffold collapses within the country will be reduced.
As a consequence       of the authors' involvement in the development of the Euronorms for access       scaffolding, they are compatible with the Euronorms.
Recently the group       has attracted funding from the Portuguese government to extend the       research into the reliability of bridge scaffolds, several of which have       collapsed in the last few years in Portugal causing fatalities.
The       results of this research have been presented at conferences and in journal       articles.
Although the research has been primarily applied to UK scaffolds it has       also been referenced and used by scaffold designers in developing       countries where Dr Beale through his research expertise has given seminars       to Structural Engineers9 on causes of scaffold collapses and       the improvements required for safe design (Hong Kong,2003 and 2008 and       Malaysia,2007 ).
The earlier research for the HSE has led to scaffold contractors and       users being made aware of the importance of tying and bracing on the       behaviour of the systems and to the HSE Inspectors being given a set of       strict guidelines to enforce when inspecting scaffolds.
Test results on       scaffold connections were used to help draw up the models used in       producing the design guides referred above.
The implication of looseness       on scaffold designs has yet to make an impact but the work was only       published in 2011 with recommendations for changes to the European       scaffold codes.
The testing procedures developed for rack structure10,11,12       were used in developing the procedures for testing scaffold structures and       as part of its consultancy programme the University has tested nearly       every scaffold manufacturer/distributor in the UK to enable the       manufacturers and designers to correctly determine their products'       performances (income generated in excess of &#163;400,000 over 15 years).
During the period in question about 200 reports on structural testing of       scaffolds and racking system components were completed.
Research-led consultancy work for Interserve UK13 resulted in       new design tables for `Kwickstage' scaffold structures being produced.
These tables were immediately used by competitors supplying look-alikes       although the university established that the alternative manufacturers'       products could be 10% less safe13.
Following this consultancy       the group, with Interserve, developed a new economical scaffold structure       (K2 system) requiring 20% less components and steel and being erectable in       less than 50% of the time of its competitors.
The profits from the consultancy enabled several PhD students to be       funded, many from developing countries.
Some of these students have since       gone on to become University lecturers in Malaysia 9(2),       Jordan14 (2) and India where they are using the knowledge       gained in their research and disseminating it there.
Other ex-PhD students       have become leading designers and engineers working in the UK and the US.
The extensive research into pallet rack properties has led to the       Euronorm BS EN1551215 being accepted.
It requires racking       manufacturers to take into account second order elastic effects in the       stability of the racks so as to produce safer and more economic racks.
Small reductions in the amount of material used in modern designs       (typically from the new procedures) of around 15% can make a rack fully       competitive in international marketplaces as material costs are around 85%       of the total cost of an installed rack.
Although there are only a limited       number of UK pallet rack manufacturers the University has commercially       tested the products of most of them.
In addition a state-of-the-art       computer program `Palletsoft' written by the group and marketed by the       University had international sales and is used in Australia and the UK to       produce safe, economical designs efficiently and quickly.
The looseness effects on cross-aisle stability of pallet racks have been       reported to the industry where they have caused some manufacturers to       amend their procedures.
Latest research has led to a very cost effective       way of reducing the number of rack collapses under impact by fork lift       trucks which is to insert additional plan bracing at the first level of       the rack.
Insights from the research of Dr Godley and Dr Beale, at Oxford Brookes       University, to better understand the analysis and design of slender       structures has not only informed design guides and safety policy but also       influenced construction standards in the UK and Europe with improved       practice and safety measures for construction workers
