     Context: Dental decay is the most common of all diseases       (prevalence is 1/10 of the population of       the western world, i.e.
100 million lesions per year) yet the principles       of treatment for dental decay       have remained unchanged for almost 100 years.
The earliest sign of tooth       decay is the "white       spot" lesion, visible to the clinician on the tooth surface.
There is no       current consensus view as to       how this should be treated.
Clinicians have three choices: 1) monitor the       lesion to determine       whether or not it is advancing (ie getting bigger), then excavate and       fill; 2) apply fluoride       treatments, then proceed as in (1) or 3) place a small restoration.
Ultimately,         all restorations will         fail needing to be replaced by larger fillings.
Treatment currently       costs the UK &#163;2 billion each year       within the NHS alone (Office of the Govt Auditor), driving oral health       inequalities.
Drilling is feared       by many patients, inhibiting their attendance at the dentist and so       precluding opportunities for early       diagnosis and treatment of decay as well as diseases such as oral cancer.
Leeds' self-assembling       peptide technology provides a simple and cost effective alternative to       current treatments (costs       approx.
50% of the most simple conventional filling), allowing the       clinician to heal rather than repair       dental decay.
This removes the clinician's dilemma of "to treat or not to       treat" and takes away the       need for drilling and therefore the fear of visiting the dentist.
New IP generated       The platform technology for self-assembly design at Leeds was first       patented in 1999 [B].
This       underpins a number of diverse applications, including the design of       biomimetic scaffolds in tissue       engineering.
Following Leeds research using self-assembling peptide       technology to treat artificially       created decay lesions in extracted human teeth, an applications patent was       filed in 2002 in Europe       and the US [B].
Later Leeds research comparing different peptide designs       in respect of their ability       to nucleate mineral crystals and to regenerate bone led to the filing of a       Divisional patent in the US       [B].
Impacts on commerce:     A spin-out company ("Credentis AG", Switzerland), in which       the University of Leeds is major       stakeholder, was created in 2010 [C] when the license to exploit Leeds' IP       on self-assembling       peptides in the dental domain was granted to the company [D].
The company       has now completed       two successful investment rounds with a value of 4.5 million ChF [D] and       has created a new       business opportunity for a UK company, Optident, who will distribute and       supply the products       within the UK market from September 2013 [E].
Credentis is recognised as       one of the top Swiss       spin outs [A].
The company won the prestigious Swiss Technology Award in       November 2013.
In       2012, Credentis opened a UK office in Leeds, reflecting the continuing       close collaboration with       researchers at the University.
This includes a new &#163;1.02 million       collaborative award via the Leeds       EPSRC Medical Technologies Innovation Knowledge Centre to develop second       generation       peptides for further dental applications, increasing the Credentis product       range.
Leeds       researchers (Kirkham, Aggeli) are developing new technology and       minimising commercial risk via       provision of access to a full and validated pipeline screening facility,       including (i) rational peptide       design, including self-assembling conditions, (ii) in silico       modelling, (iii) rheological testing, (iv)       screening for capacity to induce mineralisation de novo, (v) cytotoxicity       testing (vi) in situ (ex-vivo)       testing, (vii) clinical trials and (viii) stability testing, packaging and       process development.
Two new products: Curodont RepairTM and later       Curodont ProtectTM based on the same P11-4       Curalox&#174;technology containing peptide P11-4, developed and       patented by Leeds researchers,       have now entered the market in Switzerland and Germany [D].
Curalox&#174;       was granted a CE label in       2012 [D] for clinical use as a class IIa medical device and has obtained       approval for use in       Canada.
Large scale production of the first product, Curodont RepairTM         provides a fully GMP-       compliant product (100,000 patient treatments in the first run) [D].
Leeds       researchers contributed       towards this by conducting first in man safety trials for P11-4 [6],       demonstrating a clear clinical       improvement after treatment of class 5 lesions with the peptide.
In       addition, patient acceptability       was shown to be very high.
Overseas industry has invested in research and development       for these peptides (including       P11-4) via a collaborative research project supported by Geistlich       Biomaterials (Switzerland; &#163;55K)       [F] as well as support from Credentis AG.
The former sought to test the       hypothesis that self-       assembling peptides would promote bone regeneration.
Geistlich focus on       biomaterials for       maxillo-facial bone repair and the Leeds peptides have proved to be highly       efficient for bone       regeneration in an animal model [F].
Further funding to use P11-4 in       combination with Bio-Oss in       sinus lift procedures (to improve healing times and outcomes for maxillary       dental implants) has       been secured via the EPSRC Medical Technologies IKC (&#163;190K) to fund       proof-of-concept in an       animal model.
Impact on health and welfare: A new clinical         intervention (a medical device for restoration of       early enamel caries and a preventive treatment for acid erosion) has been       developed, trialled with       patients and a definite positive outcome demonstrated [6].
Leeds       researchers were involved in all       stages of product design and testing from bench to chairside.
The product       is seen by the       profession to fill the previously unfilled gap between prevention and       surgical intervention ("Filling")       [G].
