     THR is one of the most successful surgical procedures, although the       long-term survival       rate of cemented acetabular cup implants is a main life-limiting factor       leading to costly       revisions.
More than 80,000 hip replacement operations were performed in       England and       Wales in 2011, where 54% were either total or partially cemented.
The       current revision       rate for such operations is about 11%, with aseptic loosening identified       as the number one       reason cited for revision (National Joint Registry, 2012).
A revision       operation costs more       than 3 times as much as a primary THR.
In 2011 a total of 3502 cases were       revised due       to aseptic loosening at a total cost of &#163;63 million.
The increase in life       expectancy and       ageing population are expected to make osteoarthritis the fourth leading       cause of disability       by the year 2020 (Bulletin of the World Health Organization), this will       inevitably lead to       more THRs hence research towards improving long-term survival rates of         primary THRs         thereby reducing revisions will have a considerable impact on both health       and economy.
As the first comprehensive study of long-term fixation integrity of       acetabular implants in       the UK, our research has provided timely and critical information for the       orthopaedic       research community, especially for surgeons we have collaborated with, as       testified by       their letters.
The research has also been disseminated to       regional/national, European and       international orthopaedic research community through clinical meetings and       scientific       conferences, including Wessex Deanery R&amp;D conferences, British       Orthopaedic Research       Society, International Medical Symposia and the International Society for       Technology in       Arthroplasty, as well as in publications in high impact international       journals.
These have       had a significant impact on surgical practice, particularly in       highlighting the factors that       affect the long-term stability of acetabular implants in THRs (Heaton-Adegbile;         Hussell).
The research has prompted interdisciplinary explorations and contributed       significantly to       the decisions made by surgeons in selecting particular implants to use       with a varied cohort       of patients in surgical practice.
One particular subject we looked at was a Birmingham hip resurfacing       component,       which is essentially a metal-on-metal articulation.
At the time of       considerable excitement       over this type of implants, we were amongst those who cast some doubts and       reported the       weaknesses in this type of implants, citing high bone-implant interfacial       stresses and high       contact stresses on the articular surfaces, which may ultimately result in       wear and wear       particles being released into the peri-articular tissue [2, 3].
As a       result of our study, the       Portsmouth NHS orthopaedic surgeons stayed away from this type of       implants, which has       since been officially withdrawn from the global market on the advice of       the Medical Health       Regulatory Advisory Committee.
Our research on cup alignments and angulation [2, 5] has also directly       impacted on       surgical practice, as patients with an abnormal cup position would result       in abnormally high       stresses leading to impingement, earlier implant failure and higher       revision surgery rates,       hence ensuring the correct cup position is crucial in primary THRs.
Finite       element studies       on optimum cement thickness confirmed, for the first time, that beyond a       certain cement       mantle thickness there was no benefit to cement fixation, which is often a       misunderstood       concept by practicing surgeons.
The information has provided an         excellent foundation for         educating junior trainee registrars and fellow consultant surgeons       on the effective use of       cement in THRs.
More recently, following a seminar talk given by Tong       to a clinical       research meeting at the QA hospital, a possible joint MSc Course on       Orthopaedic Methods       has been suggested by the surgeons (Stapley, Hand), with an aim to       utilise the latest       research outcomes like this immediately and systematically in surgical       training and       practice.
Tissue engineering repair of articular cartilage in synovial joints       represents a potential       osteoarthritis treatment strategy superior to current surgical solutions       such as total/partial       knee replacements.
Research aims at using artificial scaffolds to repair       localised       osteochondral damage, although these scaffolds must have sufficient       mechanical       properties until the native tissues grow back; hence pre-clinical       assessments are vital to       obtain such information.
Our research on TRUFIT implant, a product of       Smith &amp; Nephew,       has produced the first series of comprehensive results on its mechanical       properties under       physiological loading conditions.
Our results show that the implant in its       current state is       unsuitable for use in weight bearing applications, such as in knees, due       to its insufficient       mechanical strength.
Smith &amp; Nephew has since withdrawn this       product from the market.
The information has also been disseminated through meetings/conferences,       which has       further informed the clinical community in changing knee treatment       strategies; and the       prosthesis manufacturers in future scaffold designs for such applications.
