     The outcome of the AVERT project enabled us to support local industries       to develop products and strategies for improving fuel economy and emission       performance of bus fleets and other vehicles equipped with heavy duty       internal combustion engines.
Some selected examples are:     a.
Development of vehicle Operating Strategy for Sustainable         transport for Regenatec       Specific insight gained from AVERT was used to develop a vehicle operating       strategy for a dual fuel vehicle, implementation by Regenatec in new       sustainable buses operating in Milton Park, Oxfordshire, for improved fuel       economy and lower emissions levels [7].
A consultancy project was also       carried out to evaluate the required operating temperature and combustion       characteristics of various plant oils in order to develop a suitable       operating strategy that can be implemented for dual fuel engines in North       Sea trawlers.
It was successfully completed and implemented by Regenatec       Ltd [8].
The annual fuel consumption per year for these types of vessels       is about 260,000 litres and with this new strategy the savings per vessel       per year is between &#163;26,000 and &#163;39,000 [8].
b.
Development of fuel borne additive for combustion control       Knowledge gained from the AVERT project by Samuel and Morrey was used to       carry out research and consultancy work with Oxonica, an Oxford based       company developing nano-scale additives.
One of the main products,       Envirox&#8482; [9,10] a fuel borne additive for diesel combustion was developed       and optimised to achieve improved fuel economy and lower emission levels       in heavy duty diesel engines for typical bus operation.
These additives       are used in operation by Stagecoach buses which has a 15% share of the       tendered London bus market [11], and these have been successfully       implemented across 10 depots in London and have achieved an overall       improvement of 5% in fuel economy for the past 8 years [11,12].
Similar       work has continued through research and consultancy work for developing a       fuel specific operating strategy with Energenics Ltd, a Singapore based       company for fuel additives.
Envirox&#8482; has now been sold by Energenics to       London Stagecoach buses [12].
Recently, Stagecoach has announced that the       savings due to the use of Envirox over 8 years was 188,000 tonnes of CO2.
It has also signed a new 3 year supply agreement with Energenics for the       additives.
Envirox&#8482; is currently used by 8,300 buses and coaches in the UK       and North America [12].
c. Fuel economy for bus fleets       The research outcomes disseminated through journal publications were used       by the automotive industry.
As a result we have received invitations from       Metrobus, Transport for London (TFL), and Jaguar Land Rover to share the       results of these findings with their research and development engineers       [13], and to educate their customers regarding the impact of driving       patterns on fuel economy and emissions.
A KTP application through Metrobus       was developed specifically to implement the optimum fuel economy strategy       on Metrobus London for the Route 10 Gatwick Fastway [13].
d. Hybrid Fuel economy for Transport for London       Recently Samuel et al with WSP, a leading consultancy in the realm of       public transport, were chosen by TFL to evaluate the fuel economy benefit       of the Hybrid bus fleet in London, and to study the effect of the topology       of the routes [14].
The knowledge gained from the AVERT project is being       used in the current project to evaluate the fuel economy and emission       performance of a number of Hybrid Bus fleets in London.
The project is       also developing a strategy that will be proposed for improving the fuel       economy and emission performance of current and future Hybrid fleets in       London.
This work will provide scientific background to TFL for choosing       appropriate routes for future hybrid fleets and also the optimisation of       hybrid routes for minimising the creation of localised emission hotspots.
e. Professional training       The outcome of this project created further interest in the Automotive       Industry; BMW Oxford wanted to train their engineers in the area of fuel       economy and emissions and therefore, enabled Oxford Brookes to install       their engines and emission monitoring systems in the Advanced Engines Lab.
A routine training programme for 20 of their engineers has been run by       Samuel in the lab since 2008.
Recently one of the BMW engineers in       partnership with our group developed a tool that can use sensed inputs       from the vehicle, for real-world driving conditions, to assess the health       of the engine for optimum operating conditions.
f. Policy       The findings of this FORESIGHT vehicle initiative directly influenced the       policy of "Cars of the Future" relating to real-world emission levels from       modern passenger vehicles and were also incorporated into the Foresight       Intelligent Infrastructure Systems Project commissioned by the Office of       Science and Technology review [15].TRL(UK), is using the data developed by       the AVERT Project to improve the instantaneous emission models used by the       Highway Authority to target mitigating measures for reducing pollutant       concentrations close to road networks [16].
