     Educational Impact     In the fields of undergraduate and postgraduate education, the research       findings embodied in The Terror have had a global impact.
Information in this area is necessarily diffuse, but an informal survey       through the H-France online community (conducted January 2012) produced       over 30 responses indicating that the text had become a key presence on       syllabi for teaching at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Institutions included: (UK) Birkbeck College, Reading, and Keele;       (Australia) Deakin, Melbourne, and the Australian National University;       (Canada) Universities of Ottawa and Regina, and Wilfrid Laurier       University; (United States) Northwestern University, the University of       Arkansas, Reed College, SUNY Albany, California State University, Los       Angeles, Fullerton and North Ridge, the University of Mississippi, SUNY       Oneonta, the University of South Alabama, Washington and Lee University       (Corroborative Source, hereafter CS, 1).
Individual feedback comments from respondents include: `your book,       judging from the response of my students, has been one of the most       stimulating and rewarding among those I assign in this course.'
(Erik       Goldner, California State University, Northridge); `the book helps grad       students and upper level history majors tackle questions of historiography       in their long writing assignment... thanks for this powerful contribution       to the field.'
(John Savage, Lehigh University, Pennsylvania); `your book       is and will be on the doctoral exam book list of every student I have who       does any reading on the French Revolution.'
(Richard S. Fogarty,       University at Albany, SUNY) (CS1).
Given that the field of French Revolution studies is a highly congested       one, with new high-level surveys and analytical syntheses appearing every       year, these results, seven years after initial publication, are testimony       to the lasting and significant impact of Andress's work on the       teaching-practices of university teachers and the understanding of their       students across the Anglophone world.
This research has also had impact on UK A-level teaching.
For the past       five years Andress has lectured regularly on the themes of his work to       sixth-form students (a cumulative audience of several thousands) at events       organised by Premier Student Conferences and Sovereign Education, the most       significant bodies offering direct experience of academic history to UK       school students.
The Director of Premier Student Conferences has noted       that Andress receives `much praise from teachers' in feedback on these       events, with the clarity and quality of Andress's interpretations       consistently acknowledged, along with their positive impact on student       understanding (CS2).
In 2010, the exam board EdExcel chose an excerpt from The Terror       as one of only three historiographical extracts for commentary on their A2       History paper on the Revolution.
Building on this significant impact, in       2011/12 Andress was commissioned by the Society for the Study of French       History to produce a revision-guide and series of audio podcasts for free       distribution to A-level students nationwide (CS3).
The launch of this       resource was accompanied with a further contribution to the Historical       Association magazine Teaching History.
Both the written and audio       materials encapsulate the key findings of the underpinning research and       make it accessible to new educational audiences.
This work has been       accessed by students and teachers not merely in the UK, but as far afield       as Islamabad, Pakistan.
Recent feedback on the podcasts from teachers       includes: `I have found them very helpful, not only for myself but for my       exceptionally bright group of Year 13 students'; `your podcast has proved       especially useful ... along with the accompanying essay, very helpful       particularly for revision' (CS4).
Through this work, and its basis in his research, Andress has a       significant claim to have a leading active impact on the educational       understanding of the French Revolution, structuring syllabi and       influencing both the construction of examinations and the pedagogical       response to them, with a reach extending from UK school students and       teachers to postgraduate students across the Anglophone world.
Cultural Impact     The Terror has had global sales of some 17,000 copies (CS5).
One       indicator of direct impact on individuals is their engagement through       ratings on the goodreads.com website, where the US edition of the work has       an average score of 4.01 out of 5.
It continues to attract individual 4-       and 5-star ratings in 2013.
This compares, for example, to a rating of       3.97 for Schama's Citizens, and 3.71 for Doyle's Oxford         History of the French Revolution, and is the highest rating of any       recently-published history text on the Revolution (figures here and below       accurate as of 10 October 2013).
Comments include `This is History at its       best', `an author who understands the relevance of their lessons for       today's world', `Fascinating and very informative...
It will make you       hunger for more' (CS6).
The impact of this research on other non-academic bodies is demonstrated       by a series of engagements explicitly arising from the public profile of The         Terror.
Oxford Analytica, a consulting company, commissioned Andress       to write a guide to the French Revolution for a major client, and the Wall         Street Journal commissioned a blog piece on the contemporary       resonance of French revolutionary experiences (CS7).
Orion Publishers       invited him to act as historical consultant on Sally Gardner's children's       fiction books set in the Revolution, The Red Necklace and The         Silver Blade.
As the author noted, Andress's contribution `was       significant, contributing to my ability to set a stimulating story in a       realistic historical context, and assisting through this additional       dimension of the work with the achievement of the very positive critical       and reader response that it received' (CS8).
In a review, the leading       magazine Publisher's Weekly specifically noted that The Red         Necklace `paints vivid, convincing pictures of the Revolution'       (CS9), and the book is rated at 3.81 out of 5 by a large sample of readers       on goodreads.com.
The Silver         Blade is at 3.93.
The conclusions of The Terror were further articulated in a TV       drama-documentary, `Terror!
Robespierre and the French Revolution',       produced in 2008/09.
The programme was broadcast on 11 July 2009 on BBC2,       and repeated on BBC4 on 24 October 2009.
Well-received on first broadcast,       the programme is currently rated at 7.8 out of 10 on the Internet Movie       Database, a global monitor of broadcast output.
As well as providing       initial background information and perspective, Andress was interviewed       extensively for the programme itself, and appeared as one of the major       on-screen contributors.
This programme, thanks to the input of Andress and       his work, was able to counterpoint a continued left-right oppositional       engagement with more subtle debate about the contexts of revolutionary       actors and the constraints on their behaviour (CS10).
