     The research-led approach to enhance the experience of an AR application,       including a Natural User Interface (NUI) for interactions, has       demonstrated economic and cultural benefits through enabling the delivery       of AR books on Playstation platforms, such as the Wonderbook.
By bringing in knowledge of how computer vision research in universities       is conducted, Dr Amir Saffari was able to recommend structural changes to       the SCEE team and a new set of tools for implementation.
Sony Computer       Entertainment Europe reported that they saved a significant amount of time       and money in development and research efforts.
The partnership also       enabled the company to bring in more computer vision expertise which would       not have been possible without this collaboration.
At the end of the       project they recruited the Associate, Dr Amir Saffari, to their permanent       staff; making a total of three permanent researchers with PhDs in vision,       and also funding three PhD students at the university.4     The Knowledge Transfer Partnership succeeded in creating a hand tracker       which surpassed the performance of Sony's existing technology for solving       this problem4.
Wonderbook is a physical book that interacts       with the PlayStation 3 via a camera, and allows the player to control the       computer through natural hand gestures; part of maintaining the illusion       of an AR book is knowing where the player's hands are when they cover the       book so that content is able to interact with the hands and be occluded       from view when covered.
In 2011, Sony signed a deal with JK Rowling to       extend the Harry Potter franchise into its own content.
The first       implementation of this was the `Book of Spells' from the World of Harry       Potter series, complete with new writing by the author, released in       November 2012.
Of her Wonderbook Book of Spells, J.K. Rowling said:     `It's the closest a Muggle can come to a real spellbook.
I've loved       working with Sony's creative team to bring my spells, and some of the       history behind them, to life'5.
The Oxford Brookes vision technology was used in Book of Spells and       Professor Torr and Oxford Brookes receive one of four external (to Sony)       credits in the game book;     "The skin segmentation system in Wonderbook was developed through       research by Professor Philip Torr and the Computer Vision Group at Oxford       Brookes University" 6.
Wonderbook was announced in June 2012 by Dave Ranyard of SCEE at Sony's       press conference during the 2012 Electronic Entertainment Expo (`E3')7,       the World's biggest gaming conference, in Los Angeles with positive       reviews "...one of the best uses of AR that I've seen to date."
Andy       Robertson, The Daily Telegraph 15 June 2012; "Wonderbook really does look       like a storybook come to life, with an art style that makes everything       look like it's made out of paper."
Sarah LeBeouf, The Escapist 6 June       2012; "Another cool aspect of the tech is how it manages to display       computer generated visuals below portions of the live footage."
iWaggle3d.com, 9 June 2012; "...the book is an excellent piece of kit, as       is the software that supports it,..." Grant Howitt, The Guardian       GamesBlog, 16 August 2012.8     The technology developed from the research insights enabled through the       Knowledge Transfer Partnership will also be applied in forthcoming Sony       Wonderbook titles such as Walking with Dinosaurs and the next in the Harry       Potter series `Book of Potions'9.
The insights rooted in the excellent research of Professor Philip Torr,       with Dr Amir Saffari, have contributed to SCEE using enhanced AR       technology in their products &#8212; "taking story-telling to a whole new level'       and further demonstrating the value of complex mathematic theory in areas       far removed from academia.
