 The 2007 research project had an almost immediate impact insofar as Hines and his colleagues were invited to present their preliminary findings from the questionnaire survey on 21 April 2008 to the Audit Quality Forum (39 senior staff drawn from audit firms, investors, business and regulatory bodies attended), a body convened by the ICAEW's Audit and Assurance Faculty, which aims to encourage open and constructive dialogue and to contribute to the work of government and regulators.
The Forum Meeting notes state "academic evidence on the recent impact of audit committees on UK audit practice is limited but an important contribution will be provided by the research begun in 2007 by Vivien Beattie, Stella Fearnley and Tony Hines" (Corroborating Source - CS1, p.6).
The questionnaire findings had already been considered of sufficient import to the profession to warrant their release in advance of the meeting as an ICAEW (Centre for Business Performance) Briefing Report (CS2) reflecting "leading-edge research on performance-related issues of immediate and long-term importance to the business community."
The ICAEW Centre for Business Performance subsequently published another briefing on the provision of non-audit services by auditors.
This argued that regulatory changes had already affected behaviour and further restrictions were unnecessary (CS3).
The publication prompted the Audit Quality Forum to invite Hines to present a paper on the subject at the 24 November 2009 Forum meeting (CS4) to promote wider dissemination among the business community.
The meeting notes report that "there is general agreement that current regulation to limit the provision of NAS is based on a thorough analysis of the related risks to audit quality" at the conclusion of the debate that followed Hines presentation.
Among the 100+ invitees who attended the Forum was The National Audit Technical Partner Deloitte (Corroborating Person &#8212; CP1) who subsequently commented in an unsolicited letter to the Vice Chancellor of Portsmouth that the research project "has had more impact upon our auditing processes than any other research in almost twenty years.
It created a rare "light bulb moment" on audit behaviour that enabled us to re-orientate how we should go about the timing of our audit process and the nature of interaction with our audit clients".
The research (particularly the 2008 ICAEW Briefing Report &#8212; CS2) had helped him realise the extent to which the latter stages of a statutory audit focused on disclosures in the annual report rather than key numbers in the primary financial statements.
Changes were therefore initiated in Deloitte's audit procedures so that disclosures were considered at an earlier stage in the process - thereby ensuring an enhanced focus on key accounting numbers in the closing stages of the audit.
The letter made it clear that the effects of the change were far-reaching: "...to put this in context we perform annually about twenty thousand audits here in the UK....the benefits are not only economic but also in terms of improved quality of financial reporting by our clients...
The benefits are not only being received in the UK, but are also being obtained as far apart as the Netherlands, Switzerland, Russia, New Zealand, Canada and Southern Africa.
It has enabled us to provide a better foundation for discussion with our regulators and our people.
"1 Following the Forum presentation, Hines was also invited to be the academic representative on the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland's (ICAS) working party on NAS and in this role contributed the insights provided by the research project.
The ICAS report that emerged in January 2010 (CS5) echoed the view of Hines and his colleagues &#8212; that there was no benefit to be gained from a complete prohibition on auditors providing NAS to listed audit clients, although debate on the issue has continued following the publication of proposals in this field by the European Commission in 2011.
Later that same year (October 2010), members of the research team were called to give oral evidence to a House of Lords Select Committee on Economic Affairs entrusted with examining whether auditors could have mitigated the 2008 financial crisis.
The Committee's report: 'Auditors: Market Concentration and their Role' was published on Wednesday 30th March 2011 (CS6).
Citations to oral and written evidence, which drew on the research project, appear in the report (paras 20, 113, 127 and 139).
Issues covered related to concentration at the industry sector level, the role of audit in capital markets, and the adverse impact of IFRS on audit.
The evidence provided contributed to the Select Committee concluding that attempts to introduce greater competition into the audit market had failed, and this prompted the Office of Fair Trading to make a market investigation reference to the Competition Commission later that year.
A central component of the ICAEW's strategy to bring academic research to the attention of practitioners and regulators is the annual PD Leake lecture and Hines and colleagues were invited to deliver the lecture in London on 21st June 2011 following publication of their research findings (Reference 2).
The content of the presentation formed the basis of publication (3).
The PD Leake discussant was the FD of British Land plc who subsequently acknowledged in an article in Accountancy that his experiences were broadly in line with the research findings (CS7).
On 17 October 2012 the Director of Financial and Business Analysis at the Competition Commission contacted the research team (CP2), stating that they were "very interested' in our recent paper" (Reference 3 - published in the Accounting and Business Review) and requested clarification of AC engagement, specifically within FTSE350 companies, to which the project team responded.
Although the Commission are not due to report until October 2013, their provisional findings released in February 2013 expressly state in Section 11.55 (CS8) that: "it is our view (supported by the views of external commentators such as Beattie (2012)) that there are limitations in the ability of the AC under the steward-ship of the ACC, at least in its current incarnation, to ensure audit quality and independence of the auditor."
