     The contribution, impact or benefit     Research conducted by CISPP (and its predecessors) both alone and in       collaboration with others contributed directly to policy-making at local       and national levels.
A programme to roll-out Specialist Domestic Violence       Courts into the architecture of the court system through the Department of       Constitutional Affairs commenced in 2005 and has continued subsequently       into the census period.
By 2010, according to the current Crown       Prosecution Service website "there are now 127 courts, across the country.
This is just one short of the Government target of 128, by 2011" http://www.cps.gov.uk/publications/equality/vaw/sdvc.html.
Locally, these reports helped to empower voluntary organisations with whom       CISPP works actively, to guide and support domestic violence victims to       influence successfully the relevant authorities to make suitable       provision.
In continuing the theme of domestic violence, the aim of the more recent       and current research conducted by CISPP has been to highlight and draw to       the attention of policy-makers the issue of homeless women, who are       "invisible" to the agencies that normally deal with homeless people,       because they do not appear "on the streets".
These women quickly discover       that sleeping rough is dangerous: it exposes them to all the risks that       accompany sleeping rough (such as violence), but also exposes them to       predatory sexual crimes.
In response they pursue alternatives which carry       their own risks, such as "sofa surfing" and forming inappropriate sexual       relationships.
The publication of the report occasioned considerable       interest in the European Parliament and the research team made a series of       presentations to MEPs on 29th November 2012, including a video       recorded interview that was posted on the EU website (see: http://www.europeandyou.com/news/1223/8/)     During the course of this research, it was revealed that the dangers were       not limited to women, but also afflicted children who had run away from       domestic violence and abuse.
Current research is exploring the nature and       scope of this problem in thirteen European countries.
Research has been       commissioned to study this issue in greater depth, but is currently in       progress and it is too early to assess its actual or likely impact.
Indicative of the impact and worth of the project completed in 2012, is       the fact that European Union policy-makers saw fit to support this further       research with significant funding.
