     The contribution, impact or benefit     The Supreme Court used the underpinning research in order to explain the       meaning of s123 in reaching its       decision in Eurosail.
Lord Hope, who presided over the Supreme       Court decision, has recently described the       significance of the meaning of s123.
His Lordship stated extra-judicially       in August 2013 (to the Banking and       Financial Services Law Association, Gold Coast, Australia, in a speech       entitled A light at the end of the         tunnel?
&#8212; BNY in the UK Supreme Court) that a: "clear definition of       the expression "unable to pay its debts"       is, of course, fundamental to any system of corporate insolvency law."
The explanation of what is arguably the most important definition in       insolvency law is impactful in the       immediate context of s123.
This provides the test for whether or not a       company is insolvent which, if       satisfied, permits the court to make a winding up order.
A possible       finding of balance sheet insolvency is a       particular concern for large pension funds which may technically fall       within s123(2) due to large contingent       liabilities and consequently be wound up insolvent even though they are       able to pay their debts as they fall       due.
If the meaning of s123 remained uncertain (as it was after the Court       of Appeal decision in Eurosail),       such pension funds would remain concerned as to their potential for being       wound up insolvent on the basis       of large future and contingent debts (that is, the liability to pay       pensions in the future).
The potential in this       context for widespread economic and social disaster cannot be understated.
The s123 definition is also incorporated by reference into a number of       other important Insolvency Act 1986       provisions (e.g.
ss 214A, 238, 239 and Schedule B1, para 11).
In       particular, it is used daily by liquidators and       administrators in proving the requirements to attack transactions at an       undervalue under s238 and voidable       preferences under s239.
These are the most commonly used office holder       transaction avoidance provisions       and bring in millions of pounds per annum into insolvent estates.
Without       a clear understanding of the       meaning of s123, such actions would be made less common and more       uncertain.
Section 123 is also widely adopted in drafting commercial agreements       where it is used as the trigger for       default permitting one party to terminate the agreement or to take       enforcement action.
It was in the context of       incorporation into a commercial agreement, governing a complex       securitisation transaction entered into by       the collapsed Lehman Bros group, that the Eurosail case was       fought.
The consequence of the Eurosail       decision cost the claimant in the case millions of pounds but did have the       significant effect of confirming that       many other such securitisations (involving many hundreds of millions of       pounds) are unlikely to be attacked       as being balance sheet insolvent based upon future and contingent       liabilities.
The Supreme Court       interpretation of s123 brings certainty to the solvency status of such       widespread and significant investment       vehicles.
It is highly unusual for the most senior court in the United Kingdom to       adopt the work of an academic as       setting the scene for its judicial debate and decision making.
The impact       of the research can be seen from the       fact that their Lordships recognised the specialist nature of the research       and the practical consequences of it       (please see the next section for Lord Hope's description of this process       in this specific case).
The beneficiaries of the research are lawyers, insolvency practitioners       and their respective clients including       major pension funds and banks.
It is critical to understand the meaning of       insolvency in order to advise both       businesses which find themselves in difficult financial positions and       office holders representing businesses       which have already entered a formal insolvency procedure.
It is equally       critical that parties to commercial       agreements (including but not limited to loan agreements) can fully       understand the terms being used in those       agreements.
Certainty in law is important to society generally especially       when the law involves such a       fundamental concept as the meaning of "inability to pay debts".
