     The key impact of Gardner's research is on the law of homicide in England       and Wales, as reformed by the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, ss.
54-56       (`the 2009 reform').
The 2009 reform clarifies the basis and narrows the       scope of the provocation defence, a `partial' defence to murder which, if       successfully pleaded, allows and requires the substitution of a       manslaughter conviction.
Gardner's contribution is restricted to the       narrowing of this provocation variant.
Gardner's ideas reached the statute book by the following route.
As       explained in Parliament (Hansard, 3 March 2009, col 422-447; http://bit.ly/18KRxa5)       section 54 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 implements, with some       drafting changes and some additions, a recommendation of the Law       Commission made in the report [C1].
The Commission makes the case       for this recommendation in paras 5.1 to 5.82 of that report.
The reliance       on Gardner's research in preferring the `reasonable emotional response'       model to the `temporary derangement' model comes at para 5.42 where       Gardner [R2] is quoted approvingly and at length.
This marks a       definite shift from the more hesitant positions taken in the earlier Law       Commission report Partial Defences to Murder [C6] but no       more general adoption of the Gardner model of provocation.
The pathway to       that shift may have involved informal discussions in Oxford instigated by       the then Chairman of the Law Commission, Mr Justice Toulson, at which       Gardner attempted to reassure Toulson of the intellectual coherence of       what he, and the Commission, was already inclined to think.
However the       impact does not depend for its verification on this element of       dissemination, since it appears on the face of the Law Commission's 2006       report itself.
The estimated reach of the 2009 reform is to about half of all       recorded homicides in England and Wales, namely all those arising out of       `quarrel, revenge, or loss of temper' as classified in Home Office       Statistical Bulletin 01/11 (http://bit.ly/pMI6W0,       page 34), equating to about two-thirds of recorded `acquaintance'       homicides (ibid).
This amounts to something in the order of 300 homicide       cases a year in which the facts raise a question of whether the accused       was provoked.
The impact extends not only to the cases where a       provocation (now `loss of self-control') defence is pleaded and argued but       also to decisions by defence counsel as to whether it should be pleaded,       decisions by prosecutors as to what plea to accept, and in rare cases       possibly whether to prosecute at all.
Research reported in 2006 (in Law       Commission, Murder, Manslaughter and Infanticide, Law Com 304,       2006, appendix C) suggested that the old provocation defence was pleaded       in about a quarter of homicide trials.
The significance of the reform, inasmuch as it is based on       Gardner's work, is that (a) it clarifies and narrows the law about which       triggers for homicidal action are capable of qualifying as provocations,       so as to exclude triggers such as crying babies and thunderstorms (which       nobody could reasonably regard as wrongdoings) and (b) it more generally       clarifies the doctrinal basis of the provocation defence so as to remove       an historic judicial vacillation between the `reasonable emotional       response' model and the `temporary derangement' model (a vacillation which       came to a head in R v Smith (Morgan) [2001] 1 A.C. 146).
The reform remains contentious and attracts both critical and approving       reponses.
This testifies to its significance.
On 14 January 2009, for       example, the Daily Mail reported: `Jealousy no defence for killer       husbands, but abused wives can escape a murder charge' [C9].
A       more sober `impact assessment' was provided by the Ministry of Justice,       who pointed out that `the narrower partial defence would lead to some       defendants who are currently convicted of manslaughter being convicted of       murder instead.
We estimate that there might be an additional 10-20 murder       convictions a year'       (http://bit.ly/12oIW4x).
The provisions came into force in October 2010.
Technical aspects of the       relevant provision have received judicial attention in R v Clinton       [C7] R v Dawes [C8].
The 2009 reforms,       arising out the use made by the Law Commissioners of Gardner's research in       the theory of criminal law, remain the law and have improved judicial and       professional understanding of provocation.
