     It is through the development of novel immunoassay tools and a very       collaborative style of working       that Brookes has made its contribution to the inhibin field.
Irrespective       of the database searched,       Groome will be found to be the most published and most cited author in the       inhibin field.
Initially       antibodies and assays were not available from elsewhere and had a       catalytic effect on the whole       inhibin field.
The patent obtained on the application of inhibin A to DS       screening [5] enabled       effective commercialisation as a clinical diagnostic tool.
Commercialisation was launched in 1998       through an Brookes/Serotec spin-out venture (Oxford Bio-Innovation Ltd),       and licenses passed on       by acquisitions first to Diagnostic System Laboratories (Houston) and then       to Beckman Coulter Inc.       Licences for the DS patent and worldwide sales of the Brookes antibodies       have been exclusive to       Beckman Coulter since 2005.
Royalty income generated for Brookes by the       sales and licences has       increased steadily each year since 2000 [a].
The assays remained unique in       the marketplace until       2010.
Impacts on Commerce:       Gross royalty income to Brookes from sales of the inhibin assays amounted       to &#163;4,937,278 in the       period January 2008 to December 2012.
For the same period, worldwide sales       reported by       Beckman Coulter totalled US$134,980,885.
In 2012 the antibodies were sold       in 61 countries.
Brookes has reinvested some of the income into providing studentships and       lab equipment to train       the next generation of researchers [a].
At least 15 students gained       doctorates in Groome's       laboratory many in areas related to inhibin.
The bulk of the income       (around 98%) derives from       sales related to Down's Syndrome screening, but some is from other       clinical applications as       described below.
Impacts on Health and well-being: adoption of a new diagnostic         technology;     Down's Syndrome Screening:       This has become the prime clinical application of the inhibin       immunoassays.
The assay was       incorporated onto Beckman Coulter's automated high throughput clinical       assay platform and the       patent protected the sales for this application.
The assay is either used       in the second trimester with       three other markers as the `Quad' test or in combination with first       trimester markers as the       `integrated' test.
The greatest use of the inhibin A assay for DS screening has been in the       USA.
The 2012 College       of American Pathologists (CAP) report [b], shows that most respondent       clinics use the second       trimester Quad test with a significant number using the full integrated       test.
The total usage of the       quad or integrated test in 2011 in the USA was over 3 million women       screened.
In the USA, it can easily be deduced that the inclusion of inhibin A in       the screening for DS has       contributed to a significant cost-saving for healthcare.
This is through       the increased detection rates       of the screening kits over the earlier `triple' test.
Modelled predicted       detection rates and false-       positive rates show that for a 1:270 cut-off, the use of inhibin A in the       Quad test has provided a 5%       increase in the detection rate while simultaneously reducing the       false-positive rate by 0.8% [c].
This improvement over the triple test was confirmed in prospective studies       in the USA [c].
Importantly, for affected pregnancies, the average risk is higher when       Inhibin A is incorporated       while for unaffected pregnancies the risk is lower [c], i.e.
the Quad test       provided a stronger       indication that invasive testing was indicated for affected pregnancies       while providing greater       reassurance in unaffected cases.
When an average DS birth rate of 1 in 700       is assumed, then with       no screening programs in the US with 4 million live births a year there       would be over 5,700 DS       births a year.
It can be estimated that lifetime care costs of a DS child       would be circa $900,000 per       child.
The 5% gain in detection as result of adding inhibin-A therefore       translates into a potential       saving of over $250 million per year.
Given the current trend for women to       choose to have children       later (where there is a high correlation between increasing maternal age       and increased instances       of DS), this will only become a greater saving.
There are also health       implications because the       amniocentesis procedure carries a 0.5-0.8% chance of provoking a       miscarriage; the greater       accuracy of the screening means that fewer women have to take that risk       [c].
In the UK, the Quad test became the recommended standard of care for       second trimester       screening in 2010 and is now offered by all but 3 of over 160 NHS trusts.
In the period April 2011       to September 2011, Quad and integrated testing increased and accounted for       72.8% of all second       trimester tests compared with a previous cycle rate of 49.7%.
This       represents an estimated       119,360 annual screening rate using the inhibin A test, out of an annual       545,445 total pregnancies       screened [d].
Female infertility investigations:       Inhibin A &amp; B assays are important tools in clinics for a full       infertility diagnostic workup in women of       all ages, due to the importance of Inhibin A&amp;B in the menstrual cycle       and ovarian reserve, as       described in section 2 [e-g].
Male infertility investigations and environmental monitoring:       Inhibin B assays are used in clinical investigations into male infertility       and inhibin B is the only       circulating biomarker correlating significantly with sperm count.
It has       been used to monitor males       who are exposed to potentially harmful environments through their       occupations [f,g] and to monitor       gonadal toxicity after chemotherapy for testicular cancer.
Ovarian Granulosa Cell Tumour monitoring:       Inhibin A &amp; B gives an early indicator of tumour reoccurrence (up to 1       year ahead of symptoms       occurring), meaning that treatment can commence earlier leading to a       better prognosis for the       patient, and potentially saving on treatment costs [h].
Inhibin antibodies in immunopathology:       The R1 monoclonal antibody to the alpha subunit used in the inhibin A and       B assays was found in       many research studies also to be a useful tool in routine immunopathology       to diagnose metastatic       or recurrent ovarian and/or adrenal tumours.
It is sold by Serotec and       Dako [i] for immune-staining       of pathology sections.
It can help identify ovarian origin for certain       metastatic tumours and is used       to classify and diagnose adrenal and ovarian cancers.
It is used routinely       and widely around the       world for this purpose.
Applications in diagnosing abnormal sexual development in children:       As the research shown above indicates, inhibin is integral to the       physiological reproductive       physiological processes, and in the same way that measured levels can be       used as markers for       underlying problems in adult males and females, they can also be used in       diagnostic work-ups       concerning abnormal sexual development in children [e-g].
