     The practical applicability of the group's research findings accounts for       its broad impacts on governance in the UK, and on approaches to public       sector management by international institutions and other agencies.
In the       UK, the research was disseminated widely through the ESRC Public Services       Programme, which drew the findings to the attention of senior policymakers       especially the Cabinet Office and HM Treasury.
Articles, briefing papers,       events, the programme's website, and media coverage created visibility for       the research and increased engagement with stakeholders.
(a) Domestic impacts     Informing the government's performance framework: The       research findings concerning the use and effects of targets and indicators       fed into the re-assessment of the government's performance framework by       the Prime Minister's Delivery Unit.
Hood and colleagues were invited in       2009 and 2010 to brief officials who used the insights on the use of       indicators in preparing policy briefs for ministers about the 2010       Performance Framework (published in 2011 as part of the new Coalition       approach to the performance management of government).
The framework       proposals referenced Hood's work [C1], and senior civil servants       confirm that the research led politicians to question the widespread use       of targets and performance indicators and informed a more nuanced       understanding of how these tools can be used effectively [C2].
Contributing to the debate that led to the termination of the CPA           regime for English local authorities: The group's research on       the effects of the Comprehensive Performance Assessment regime deepened       concerns about the large number of targets applied to local authority       management.
The research findings created intense policy and public       debate.
In an article in the Guardian's `Public' magazine       (3.05.2007), McLean (et al.)
published the findings and called for the CPA       `to be scrapped' [C3].
The Audit Commission (the body that oversaw       the CPA) responded with a defence of the CPA.
However, the research,       particularly the insight that the CPA methodology risked compounding       socio-economic deprivation, contributed to the weight of evidence against       the CPA regime, which was replaced in 2009.
(b) Shaping approaches to public sector management internationally     The World Bank Group: At the invitation of the World Bank's       public sector governance team, Hood contributed to an international       meeting on performance budgeting (Mexico, June 2008), attended by senior       finance officials and development experts from across the Organisation for       Economic Co-operation and Development and South America.
Hood's       contribution (by video) explained key research findings on performance       indicators and encouraged pragmatism and nuance in their use (viewed 2,940       times on Youtube, as of July 2013).
The research shaped the discussion,       and Hood and Dixon's work was frequently referred to during the       proceedings [C4].
The ensuing World Bank publication particularly       highlights the research findings on the potential for performance       indicators to create unintended consequences and the risks of reform       overload [R2] [C5].
The World Bank uses these insights in       its approach to monitoring and assessment frameworks for public sector       management [C4].
Hood's research on the effective use of performance frameworks is also       used in the Small Countries Financial Management Programme supported by       the World Bank, the Commonwealth of Nations, and the University of Oxford       [R1 to R5].
The programme addresses the special financial       management challenges faced by small countries and serves senior officials       of ministries of finance, financial regulatory bodies and the central       banks of small countries [C6].
The Inter-American Development Bank: Like the World       Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank sponsors programmes to support       effective public service management.
It used the research of the Public       Policy Group in programmes and workshops carried out over the last few       years on implementing performance frameworks in central governments.
In       particular, the work on the ratchet, threshold, and distortive effects of       performance indicators [R4&amp; R5] was considered in the       preparation of the Bank's framework for performance management in central       governments and has subsequently been taken forward [C7].
(c) Shaping the wider policy and public debate about         the use of performance indicators       Under the aegis of the ESRC Public Services Programme the Public Policy       Group released a range of policy briefs including Hood, C. Dixon, R and       Wilson, D (2009) Managing by Numbers: the Way to Make Public Services         Better?
(ESRC Public Services Programme Policy Briefing and       referenced in C5).
Dixon, R, Hood, C and Wilson, D were asked by School         Leadership Today (2010) to write Keeping Up the Standards?
The         Use of Targets and Rankings to Improve Performance.
These articles       and the underlying research informed wider professional and public debates       about the use of performance indicators.
In the education sector, for       example, the group's research on indicators and targets was used by the       European School Heads Association and the National Association of Head       Teachers in preparation for consultations with government and trade unions       over the revision of SATs inspection regimes in schools (2010-2012) [C8].
The group's research also impacted on the work of the 2020 Public Services       Trust (a cross-party think tank 2008-10) concerned to explore the role of       performance indicators in public service management in a period of fiscal       austerity.
The Trust published an article by Hood in its own series on the       future of public services (2010), which it later re-published as an edited       collection (July 2013) [C9].
In addition, the research informed       the wider public debate in the media about performance indicators       including in The Financial Times, Guardian Public and The         Scotsman.
In sum, the research of the Oxford Public Policy Group has shaped       conceptual understandings of the uses, shortcomings and reliability of       targets and indicators in public sector management for a wide range of       major stakeholders in the UK and in the international community.
The       impact has been to induce a more nuanced approach to the use of indicators       and substantially greater awareness of the unintended and perverse effects       of over-reliance on such data; insights that are now widely applied in       performance management.
The impacts of the research were leveraged by the       fact that the work was embedded in the broader, Hood-directed ESRC's       Public Services Research Programme under which it was conducted.
As Ian       Diamond, ESRC Chief Executive, stated, `the programme has done         everything the ESRC had hoped for, managing to combine academic         excellence and practical impact' [C10].
