     Community-based rehabilitation began as a way of ensuring that people in       low and middle income countries got access to medical rehabilitation,       growing into a strategy for individual empowerment and community       development which is used in more than 90 developing countries worldwide.
Key steps in developing the field of CBR have been: to widen the approach       so as to recognise the multi-dimensional nature of disability and thus of       appropriate CBR programmes; to increase the evidence base on the       effectiveness of CBR; and to build alliances and partnerships, between       practitioners and people with disabilities, between different approaches       (health, rehabilitation, education, livelihood, empowerment) and across       countries and continents.
In all of these endeavours and in each area,       Hartley has made a major impact during the REF period through her research       and her capacity building, networking and knowledge exchange activities.
Impact through the World Report on Disability and the WHO           Guidelines: Hartley's impact is corroborated by her role as       co-editor and major contributor to the WHO's first World Report on       Disability (source A).
In particular, together with Maya Thomas, she       ensured that the report reflected the multi-dimensional approach to       rehabilitation (chapter 4), that the chapter on education reflected best       practice in terms of inclusive education in Africa and other low income       settings, and finally she ensured that CBR was cited in every chapter as       the route to empowerment and participation of disabled people and their       families in developing countries.
Six of the eight chapters cite work       written or edited by Hartley, and her twelve different citations make her       one of the most widely cited authors in the report as a whole.
The report       has since been implemented in more than 90 different countries, in       collaboration with national governments, and tens of thousands of print       and download copies are now in circulation and active use in the       disability sector.
The WHO report is supported by the International Labour Organisation       (ILO), the United Nations' Educational, Scientific and Cultural       Organisation (UNESCO), and the International Disability and Development       Consortium (IDDC) who all operate under the global implementation of the       United Nations' Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities       (2008).
The UN implementation guidance describes CBR as, "a flexible,       dynamic and adaptable strategy that includes access to health care,       education and vocational training, income-generating projects, and       community participation and inclusion."
Hartley was a major contributor to       the CBR Guidelines published by the WHO/ILO/UNESCO/IDDC consortium (source       B).
The guidelines provide a common understanding and approach for CBR;       bringing together all that is known about the approach from around the       world and providing the framework for action as well as practical       suggestions for implementation and guidance.
The guidelines also promote       evaluation of CBR programmes on the effectiveness and efficiency of CBR in       diverse contexts; Hartley's research has not only influenced the       guidelines but also developed methodologies to achieve these goals.
The       guidelines systematise the CBR multi-dimensional approach, and offer tools       for evaluation of CBR.
They have had global impact with 8,500 English       copies in circulation and are available in six other UN languages.
The       Guidelines cite publications affiliated with UEA in several places (e.g.
source C) and list them as essential further reading for practitioners and       researchers.
The CBR guidelines are incorporated into the core message and       business of many international charities.
Handicap International       have the guidelines to download and guidance to use them, as they believe       that "This approach is expected to impact on millions of people with       disabilities in developing countries, many of whom currently live in       situations of poverty and exclusion."
Impact through the CBR Africa Network (CAN): The Africa       Network CAN is a continental network of CBR which has now combined with       Asia Pacific CBR and Americas CBR Networks to form a CBR Global Network.
The CBR Guidelines (source B) are the founding document of this global       network, and have played a unifying and strengthening role in the movement       as a whole.
Hartley was an organiser of the Abuja, Nigeria 2010 conference       where the CBR Guidelines were launched (source D).
It was a seminal day       for CBR and the conference was advertised on the `UN Enable' resource       (source E).
The conference "provides an opportunity for people to share       information, knowledge, and experience on how disability concepts and CBR       programmes can link together to help improve the quality of life for       persons with disabilities and their families."
(source F).
To ensure that       discussions and thoughts from the conferences are widely disseminated and       shared, CAN has taken up the responsibility of compiling books that are       based on the conferences, but developed further through reflection and       collaborative writing between the participants; `CBR: inclusive policy       development and implementation' resulted from the 2007 conference in South       Africa and was published by UEA in 2008 and is free to download from the       Afri-CAN website.
The text is recommended reading in the World Report on       Disability (source A) and the CBR Guidelines (source B).
