     Research work on the failing heart has focused on its anatomy, physiology       and pathophysiology both at macro and micro-cellular levels.
Imaging       techniques and advanced genetic, structural and pharmacological aspects       all aid in diagnosis and prognosis.
In spite of this, relatively little       work has focused on the heart's total functional capacity, often using       analogues such as oxygen uptake or partial substitutes such as ejection       fraction or cardiac output.
We chose to research cardiac power output,       which describes the function of the heart in terms of both flow and       pressure generating capacities.
The initial contribution was to provide       solid evidence for the reliability of the measure in the target population       of patients with heart failure and to explore its face validity in       comparison with alternative methods of measurement.
This basic research       then led on to a series of applied investigations involving patients       undergoing cardiac rehabilitation and those participating in the world's       famous and most successful Harefield `Bridge to Recovery' protocol, prior       to heart transplantation.
The outcome of the cardiac rehabilitation       programme provided further substantial evidence for the benefit of aerobic       training and has impacted on the policies of the British Association for       Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation (BACPR).
Professor Brodie was       at the time a Council member of the BACPR and was involved in framing the       policies and core components of the Association in terms of exercise       modalities.
We introduced three new diagnostic parameters to the existing protocol at       Harefield, which at that time was heavily reliant on clinical measures and       oxygen consumption during progressive exercise.
The three we introduced       were heart rate recovery, heart rate variability and cardiac power output,       the latter being the focus of this impact case study.
Cardiac power output       was fully integrated into the diagnostic element of the Harefield protocol       during the time of our studies, providing for the first time a true       measure of cardiac functional capacity.
At this time, the team led by       Professor Birks, Professor Brodie and Professor Sir Magdi Yacoub were       investigating the impact of acute and chronic reduction of continuous flow       LVAD support.
Cardiac power output contributed substantially to the       knowledge base on reduced LVAD support and provided a solid base for the       future management of patients on LVADs.
The impact is that centres in the       UK using LVADs in clinical practice, are now establishing similar       procedures in recovery evaluation of LVAD patients.
The impact of our work       on cardiac power output has yet to impact on national policy, essentially       because relatively few centres in the UK utilize the LVAD implantation       procedure.
However centres at Leeds and Newcastle do now use cardiac power       output routinely in the management of heart failure patients..
Following the original research undertaken at Bucks New University, the       work has extended to The Neurology Department at Newcastle Royal Victoria       Infirmary (2).
The Neurology Department is the national centre for rare,       inherited mitochondrial diseases directed by Professor Douglas Turnbull.
In addition to numerous clinical examinations that patients with       mitochondrial diseases undergo during their appointment, many of them       undergo maximal graded cardiopulmonary exercise testing with non-invasive       gas exchange and central haemodynamic measurements such as cardiac output       and cardiac power output.
This examination helps clinicians to identify       causes of exercise intolerance which is a clinical hallmark of patients       with mitochondrial disorders.
It further helps clinicians to manage       disease and advise appropriate pharmacological and physiological therapies       known to improve clinical symptoms and exercise intolerance.
Our work has       directly impacted on the Institute for Ageing and Health at Newcastle       University, Europe's largest Institute for Ageing.
This Institute now has       a number of clinical groups studying the heart's functional capacity using       CPO and adopting the procedures we developed to measure the limitations to       everyday functioning and exercise, non-invasively.
These clinical groups       include metabolic diseases (e.g.
type 2 diabetes, non-alcoholic liver       disease, biliary cirrhosis), neuromuscular disorders (e.g.
mitochondrial       diseases) and ageing and age related diseases (e.g.
Parkinson's) (4)     Further evidence for the impact of our work on CPO is the adoption of the       procedure at two international hospitals and research centres, both at the       personal invitation of Prof Sir Magdi Yacoub.
Dr Jakovljevic (4) who       worked on CPO at Bucks New University, has been invited to establish the       clinical investigation laboratory, using CPO as a routine procedure in the       assessment of cardiac patients undergoing open heart surgery at the Magdi       Yacoub Heart Foundation supported Aswan Heart Centre in Egypt (5).
Cardiopulmonary exercise testing laboratory with non-invasive central       haemodynamic measurements was established in October 2012.
Since then, all       patients who are considered for cardiac surgery undergo exercise testing       with cardiac output and cardiac power output reported in conjunction with       cardiorespiratory fitness.
This helps clinical teams to define cardiac       performance and functional capacity of patients and help further with risk       stratification.
CPO measurement is also used to evaluate patients'       recovery following surgery.
Dr Jakovljevic will soon be establishing a       similar clinical laboratory at the Sidra Medical and Research Center,       Doha, Qatar (6).
Thus the benefit of our work is multinational and will       impact on patients both in the UK and Middle East.
