     Microbiology research at Wolverhampton generated the knowledge and       understanding to support       regional SMEs through consultancy projects to resolve microbial spoilage       issues or procedures for       evaluating microbial presence/growth.
This led to three Knowledge Transfer       Partnership (KTP)       awards with Rozone Limited, Crestwood Environmental Ltd and Odour Services       International Ltd, that       impacted upon those businesses and surrounding communities.
Rozone Ltd     KTP project with Rozone resolved microbial spoilage issues and went on to       research and develop       environmentally-friendly biodegradable cleaning agents.
The project (completed 2009) employed graduate Rowe to embed       microbiological and chemical       knowledge into the company to develop own brand products for sustainable,       environmentally-friendly       cleaning systems for recycling car parts.
This would replace conventional       toxic solvent       cleaning with biodegradable detergents and a bacterial treatment system       for oil and detergent       biodegradation.
The project was an immense success developing `Own Brand'       products as       alternative to original overseas supplier; seven new products and improved       production capability.
The project culminated in Rozone purchasing a chemical mixing company at       Deeside, the       acquisition of which increased finished products production by 180% (http://www.cihe.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/WolverhamptonCaseStudy13.pdf).
Microbiological       and chemical knowledge gained       during the KTP was instrumental in redesigning production facilities at       Deeside.
Thus, quality       control procedures were implemented that ensured accurate formulation and       reduced microbial       contamination through design, quality control laboratory implementation       and effective       management.
The project achieved its objectives for enhancing Rozone's       science knowledge base       (Rowe employed as QC Manager/Technical Advisor) and facilitated growth       through `Own Brand'       and new product developments.
The project led to 35% new clients,       increased company profits of       &#163;100,000 within 3 years and improved quality control systems saving       additional &#163;20,000 (Refs 1,       2).
This also led to increased employment opportunities (15-20 additional       staff) for communities at       Wednesbury and Deeside (high unemployment areas).
Rowe achieved a KTP       Business Leader of       Tomorrow Award beating national competition from 100 Associates.
The DTI       rated the project as       `Outstanding' (Ref 3).
Crestwood Environmental Ltd (CEL)     CEL, an environmental consultancy company, provide site evaluations for       clients nationally.
Consultancy work with CEL on bioaerosol pathogens led to a KTP project       developing monitoring       systems for bioaerosols (bacteria and fungi) from waste processing sites       (completed 2011),       essential for ensuring that local residents/factory workers were not       subjected to health risks.
CEL       initially lacked scientific knowledge/skills to interpret microbiological       data and for developing new       analytical methods.
This limited microbiological consultancy work and       prevented the company from       pioneering new consultancy provision in this area.
The project helped the       company become more       competitive through a recession period, leading them to the forefront of       their business with greater       knowledge support for clients and, increased market opportunities through       provision of new       analytical services.
The company increased sales turnover by &#163;30,000 with       increased profits of       &#163;10,000 during the KTP (Refs 6, 7).
The value of this work was highlighted by CEL achieving runner up prize       for the Lord Stafford       Award for `Innovation in Development' in 2010 (Ref 4).
An       international conference presentation       (Ref 5) by the Associate (Hall) gave the company a research reputation and       gained recognition by       the Environment Agency (EA) as a lead company for bioaerosol monitoring       with CEL now invited to       EA bioaerosol policy-making meetings (Ref 9).
This success has led to award of a second KTP with CEL to research       biological odour       measurement.
Odour Services International Ltd (OSIL)     A KTP award (2012) with OSIL is harnessing bacterial capability to remove       sulphide and other       odour compounds from waste treatment sites.
Hill transferred bacterial       growth and survival       knowledge and skills to OSIL via KTP Associate (Low) to formulate new       biofilter designs and       provide scientific understanding behind existing systems.
This resulted       in: expert scientific support       at client business meetings that clinched &#163;300,000 of new contracts;       developed OSIL-owned       bacterial inoculants that led to &#163;620,000 new business; extended       shelf-life, freeze-dried inoculants       saving &#163;15-20,000 on out of date stock and &#163;55,000 on customer retention       through rapid response       to problems (Ref 8).
Associate Low nominated for KTP Business Leader of       Tomorrow Award beat       over 100 associates to the final (subsequently identified as a winner).
