     Carter's expertise led to the invitation for OBAH to undertake       archaeological and historical work in Bahrain.
Pearling, and its cultural       landscapes in Bahrain, is an outstanding example of a traditional maritime       trade, which shaped the economic and cultural identity of an island       society.
This millennia-long practice is the most significant example       globally of a natural pearl-collection tradition.
The practice is based on       the Arabian Gulf oyster beds north of Bahrain, which have been the       best-known source of pearls since the sixth millennium BC.
The urban       cultural landscape of pearling on Muharraq Island comprises groups of       historic buildings and locations, located parallel to the historic       coastline, which represent the core places of the social, cultural and       economic system of pearling (5.1).
Key sites were evaluated and excavated       by OBAH, led by Carter and Morley.
OBAH provided key       inputs and guidance, including a 10,000-word report, which comprised       chapters 2b and 3c of the Government of Bahrain's successful UNESCO World       Heritage bid, awarded in July 2012 (5.2).
The "Pearling Trail" is       Bahrain's second recognised World Heritage Site (5.3, 5.4, 5.5).
The UNESCO site consists of seventeen buildings in Muharraq City, three       offshore oyster beds, part of the seashore and the Qal'at Bu Mahir       fortress on the southern tip of Muharraq Island, from where boats used to       set off for the oyster beds.
The listed buildings include residences of       wealthy merchants, shops, storehouses and a mosque.
The site is the last       remaining complete example of the cultural tradition of pearling and the       wealth it generated at a time when the trade dominated the Gulf economy (2nd       century to the 1930s, when Japan developed cultured pearls).
It       constitutes an outstanding example of traditional utilisation of the sea's       resources and human interaction with the environment, which shaped the       economy and the cultural identity of the island's society.
OBAH was commissioned by the Ministry of Culture to undertake six       projects totalling &#163;170k between May 2009 and March 2010.
These were are       follows:     1: &#163;2k, initial emails and desk-based survey investigation (May 2009)     2: &#163;5.3k, brief history of pearling report (July 2009)     3: &#163;10.5k, 10,000 words for Chapters 2b and 3c of the UNESCO World       Heritage Nomination file (July &#8212; August 2009)     4: Fakhro Amara 1st Phase (fieldwork and report): &#163;50k (October &#8212; November 2009)     5: Bu Maher Fort (fieldwork and report): &#163;48k (Feb &#8212; March 2010)     6: Fakhro Amara Phase 2 (fieldwork and report, including mosque site):       &#163;55k (Feb &#8212; March 2010)     Knowledge Transfer       Carter and the OBAH team, including Morley, produced three       major reports and a chapter, which helped inform Bahrain's Pearling,         Testimony of an Island Economy UNESCO World Heritage application       (5.4).
The OBAH reports are available online.
The work has brought to the       fore the archaeology and cultural heritage of one of Bahrain's most       important historical and cultural traditions, which is being preserved for       future generations.
The sources of knowledge transfer that the various       stakeholders brought to the UNESCO bid including OBAH, and the transfer of       knowledge to present and future generations is vital for understanding the       rich cultural heritage of Bahrain, its peoples and the global economic       reach of this former industry.
Examples include:     (i) OBAH providing training to host country archaeologists in excavation       and recording methods.
(ii) The excavations undertaken by OBAH at Bu Maher and Muharraq led to       the sites being designated national monuments under Decree Law No (11) of       1995 Concerning the Protection of Antiquities on 10th January       2010.
(iii) November 2011, the Ministry of Culture drew up a vision for the       development of old Muharraq - and the area that surrounds them, which       includes a buffer zone.
This sets out a holistic approach for preserving       the historic character of Muharraq.
New laws limit the increase in       unplanned construction or population, prevent the deterioration of the       special character of the urban fabric, and protect sites, urban       settlements and antiquities (5.3).
(iv)The Bahraini Government and media report that the designation will       enhance tourism, increase foreign direct investment, and lead to       additional cultural exchanges between the countries of the Arabian Gulf       (5.4).
(v) The Bahrain example has been extended to the Qatar Museums Authority       with expert consultancy provided by OBAH in 2010 on Qatar's pearl-fishing       heritage, during the construction of the Qatar National Museum.
Media       OBAH's work and contribution to the project has attracted media coverage       including:            Newspaper and online reports e.g.
Reuters, Khaleej Times, Gulf Daily         News (5.5)       07 May 2009 - Public lecture by Carter at the Bahrain National         Museum organised by the Bahrain Culture and Information Ministry and the         Italian Embassy       Bahraini TV, YouTube (5.6).
