     This body of work has had substantial impact, influencing policy and       practice in the areas of age discrimination, design and end-of-life care.
Impact on policy     (i) The RoAD research was influential in the joint response given by Help       the Aged/Age Concern, (now Age UK), first to the National Equality Panel,       part of the UK Discrimination Law Review (2007/08), and second in evidence       submitted to the UK Parliamentary Joint Committee on Human Rights       (2008/09).
The case studies and findings from the research also formed the       evidence base for Help the Aged's `Just Equal Treatment' campaign, which       won a Third Sector Excellence Award in 2008 and was cited by the judging       panel as `an outstanding example of persistently promoting matters of       social justice to MPs and ministers and persuading them to change the       law'.
During the process of bringing forward the Equalities Bill (2008),       now the Equalities Act (2010), Harriet Harman MP (then Secretary of State       for Equalities) referred to the campaign as `evidence that has made it       imperative for us to act' [5.1 - 5.4].
(ii) In October 2008, JRF gave documentary evidence to a House of Commons       Select Committee entitled The Provision of Public Toilets.
This       cited The Open University's research into the location and design of       toilets and the anxiety of some older people about encountering       anti-social behaviour in such public spaces.
As a result of the JRF       evidence, the subsequent parliamentary report recommended that `local       authorities can and should exercise existing legislative powers to prevent       anti-social behaviour', and that `local authorities study the benefits and       cost effectiveness of providing attended public toilets, or at least       ensuring regular inspections, so that the public regains its confidence in       using them' [5.5].
Impact on practice     (iii) When central government funding became available for the       development of extra-care housing in England, local decision makers in the       Jewish community were presented with the question of how to address       cultural and age-friendly issues.
While participants wished to live in       locations close to Jewish facilities such as the synagogue, the direct       influence of Katz and Holland's research can be seen in the design of a       care facility by Jewish Care, which provides enhanced space standards,       even within two bedroom units, making a highly positive impact upon the       lives of older people and establishing a model for future design [5.6].
(iv) The capacity to influence both the setting and the design of living       environments for older people is clearly evident in the ongoing outcomes       of the `Transitions in Kitchen Living (TiKL)' study.
Peace and Maguire       were invited to address the British Standards Institution's B/559 Access       to Buildings for Disabled People Committee, in February 2012, during its       period of consultation for new guidance [5.7].
The chartered architects       practice, Archadia, have used the TiKL research when developing kitchen       design in supported housing for the Almshouse Associations.
Renee Mascari,       Chief Executive of the Kitchens Bedrooms Bathrooms National Training Group       (good practice training for the construction industry) following a feature       on BBC's `You and Yours' has told us that: `I support all you said ... and       as someone who has designed kitchens for nearly forty years as well as       someone who teaches the principles of kitchen design, I continually       promote all efforts to support inclusive design' (5.8, email 27 April       2013).
(v) Our research on end-of-life care for people living in nursing homes       led to the development of facilitated learning for those who work with       older people in care homes.
Training packs on palliative care and       bereavement were developed in collaboration with Macmillan Cancer Support,       and since 2011 there have been two print runs with over 8000 packs being       distributed to hundreds of UK care homes.
Adrienne Betteley, Palliative       and End of Life Care Programme Manager at Macmillan, has told us that,       `some of the positive comments from the facilitators were about the ways       in which the care home staff were really improving their skills, knowledge       and confidence; and it was really starting to change culture within the       care home sector' http://www.open.ac.uk/health-and-social-care/main/research/research-themes/death-dying-and-bereavement.
These palliative care materials are used to support the national Gold       Standards Framework for care homes, a national training programme started       in 2004 and supported by the four major trade associations in this sector       [5.9 and 5.10].
A group of seven homes in Midlothian, Scotland reported       that as a result of using the Macmillan/OU materials `There was a       significant improvement in the following areas: care of the dying, control       of symptoms, continuity of care, carer support (families) and continued       learning' (Hockley et al., 2008, p. 4).
