     UEA research has underpinned patient information, policy, service       improvement and clinical guidelines within health services in the UK, New       Zealand and the USA.
Changes to clinical practice and policy     The findings of the RCT (research reference 2) challenge the       traditionally held belief that splints are effective and should be used       routinely in all patients after surgical release of Dupuytren's       contracture.
&#8226; The Counties Manukau District Health Board of New Zealand Guideline for       hand therapy following surgical release of Dupuytren's contracture was       updated in 2012 [corroborating source A] and now states:     "Splints will no longer be provided routinely (i.e.
for all patients).
Night extension splints following surgical release of Dupuytren's       contracture have been shown to be no more effective at maintaining       extension than hand therapy alone" citing research reference 2, alongside       two other sources.
&#8226; NHS Trusts in the UK are now amending their protocols for the       post-operative management of Dupuytren's release and use a `wait and       watch' policy, whereby only patients who develop a contracture are       splinted.
For example Poole Hospital Foundation Trust implemented a `no       splint' approach [corroborating source B] on the basis of the findings in       research reference 2 which has resulted in:     "significant efficiency savings which satisfied trust objectives.
Additionally, the changes have benefited patients who required fewer       attendances and no splint in the majority of cases, without compromise to       outcomes".
The Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust       clinical management post-operative policy [corroborating source C] is       directly informed by the findings in research reference 2:     "research has demonstrated that a "wait and see" approach to splinting is       no different from providing a splint for all patients following       Dupuytren's contracture release".
Patient information     The findings from UEA research during the census period are used to       underpin patient information resources nationally and internationally.
Evidence of early adoption of research findings can be seen in patient       information leaflets produced by:     &#8226; Individual NHS Trusts e.g.
North Bristol NHS [corroborating source D].
&#8226; Websites for patients using private healthcare systems such as BUPA       [corroborating source E] where the systematic review (research reference       1) is listed in the sources of further information.
&#8226; The International Dupuytren Society, based in Germany, website and       forum for patients and medical experts [corroborating source F].
The       website is available in 6 languages.
As well as being available to       patients and other unregistered users, the resource had 2,383       registered users worldwide (June 2013).
It notes that:     "the positive effect of wearing a night splint, though it is generally       recommended, has not yet been proven by strict scientific standards, see       C. Jerosch-Herold et al" and provides a link to the open access journal       article (research reference 2).
To inform patients of the underpinning evidence for health policy     &#8226; Aetna Inc. is a leading USA provider of health care       benefits, with more than 18 million members.
As part of their services, Aetna       supplies people with information and resources to help them make better       informed decisions about their health care.
Their Clinical Policy         Bulletin: Dupuytren's Contracture: Treatments [corroborating source       G] outlines that:     "Aetna considers night-time splinting for all individuals after       fasciectomy or dermofasciectomy for Dupuytren's contracture experimental       and investigational (unless extension deficits re-occur) because its       effectiveness for this indication has not been established"     and results of the RCT (research reference 2) are given in full,       including confidence intervals, alongside the trial conclusion that, given       the added expense of therapists' time, splint materials and potential       inconvenience to patients, then routine addition of night-time splinting       for all patients after fasciectomy or dermofasciectomy is not recommended       except where extension deficits re-occur.
