     The primary impact of this study comes from on-going efforts to protect       the `Southern Resident' killer whale population in Washington State       waters.
Long-term data suggesting a population decline convinced local       management authorities that protection under the Endangered Species Act       was necessary.
Supported by Prof Hoelzel's research establishing genetic       isolation (e.g.
Hoelzel et al.
1998, 2002), the Southern Resident       community was designated as a Distinct Population Segment in 2005 (the       smallest division of a species permitted to be protected under the US       Endangered Species Act), which led to the group being listed as an       endangered species by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NOAA       Fisheries).
The listing process is intentionally long and difficult, with       relatively few applications succeeding.
Prof Hoelzel's research was vital       in the designation of the killer whale as endangered, with his work       "important to the original listing" and continuing "to inform status       updates and response to petitions under the ESA" (NOAA testimonial).
The       initial petition in 2001 cited Prof. Hoelzel's work 23 times, the status       reviews in 2002 and 2004 cited Prof. Hoelzel's work 12 and 26 times       respectively.
The ESA listing provided the "foundation" for a variety of       organisations to develop policies and action plans to help recovery of the       killer whale DPS.
Prof Hoelzel's research has provided academic evidence       in support of the `Determination of Critical Habitat' and a `Species       Recovery Plan' that are legally required following the listing process,       and including support for legislation providing new regulations on vessel       activities approved and established in 2011.
The killer whale is an alpha predator species that has a key impact on       local species communities and ecosystems, as the primary predator of other       marine mammals, and an important predator of fish species.
It is also a       high profile flagship species of great interest to the public through       exposure in the media, `whale-watching' businesses, and at aquarium parks.
At the end of 2012 there were only 84 whales in the Southern Resident       population, which supports a significant whale-watching industry on the       Washington coast (76 boats and 500,000 passengers per year in 2006 at $100       per passenger; Oliver 2008).
According to a report from 2001 (Hoyt 2001)       the overall value of the local whale watching industry was assessed as       $66.2M annually and wildlife watching (whales and other animals) in       Washington State produced an annual economic output of $1.78BN,       maintaining over 21,000 jobs (more than Microsoft and almost as many as       Boeing).
In 2008 NOAA completed a Recovery Plan identifying actions needed for the       conservation and recovery of the Southern Residents (NMFS 2008).
Again       influenced by Prof Hoelzel's work, this plan was reviewed in 2011.
Since       the species was listed, "a variety of federal, state, non-profit, and       local organisations implemented conservation actions to benefit the       whales, their salmon prey, and the ecosystem" (NOAA testimonial).
Results       from this include:            NOAA, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Washington         Department of Ecology are working to reduce pollution in the Puget         Sound, such as reducing agricultural run-off and examining the impacts         of flame retardants (PBDEs) on the killer whales (NOAA testimonial).
An oil spill response plan has been specifically developed for killer         whales in the event of a major spill in Washington and Oregon State (Oil         Spill Response and Killer Whales).
Noise reduction regulations were enacted in 2011 to reduce disturbance         from the significant fishing and whale-watching industry (Be Whale         Wise).
Vessels are now prohibited from approaching within 200 yards of a         killer whale and must not park in front of their path when in the inland         waters of Washington State.
This work was supported in part by data from         Prof. Hoelzel's lab on the quantifiable impact of boat noise on the         behaviour of affected whales (Foote et al.
2004).
Prof Hoelzel's work has also informed the submission of recent petitions       calling for changes to the status of the southern resident killer whale       under the Endangered Species Act.
For example, in August 2012 a petition       submitted by the Pacific Legal Foundation, on behalf of the Center for       Environmental Science Accuracy and Reliability, Empresas Del Bosque, and       Coburn Ranch, called for the Southern Residents to be delisted under the       ESA.
Both the petition and the resolution of the case (rejecting       delisting, consistent with comments provided by Prof. Hoelzel) "relied       heavily" on a paper from Prof Hoelzel's lab (Pilot et al.
2010).
Prof Hoelzel has been thanked repeatedly by stakeholders involved in       researching and protecting the killer whales, for "numerous contributions       on killer whale genetics and valuable insights into killer whale stock       structure" (NOAA testimonial).
