     From the hair induction work, the impact has come indirectly from       commercial enterprises taking forward the ideas established by the primary       research at Durham.
In the UK this was exemplified by Intercytex, a       company founded in Manchester and relaunched in 2010.
This company, listed       on the AIM, was the recipient of venture capital funding and a large TSB       grant for a robot to culture human hair follicle dermal cells.
The Durham       research has enabled Intercytex Ltd. to attract &#163;27M in VC funding and       &#163;30M in an IPO in 2009.
In the USA the company Bosley (now acquired by       Aderans) has spent ca.
$100 million in developing this "hair cloning"       technology (Letter from the Chief Scientific Officer of Aderans Research       Institute, Inc.).
Both of these companies initiated clinical trials of the       process during the REF period.
Interestingly the US company has been using       a UK company Angel Biotechnology to grow their cells to GMP levels.
Numerous other companies and hair transplant clinics worldwide have       adopted or tried to adopt variations on the "hair cloning" technique (see       supporting letter from the founder of Intercytex).
One of the potential difficulties in using hair follicle cells in a       translational context is their relatively low numbers.
This was addressed       in TSB-sponsored collaboration between Durham University, the NorthEast       regional agency CELS, and two industrial companies Avecia and Smith &amp;       Nephew.
In this project Avecia demonstrated the feasibility of scale-up       culturing of human hair follicle dermal cells to numbers sufficient for       translational use.
The cell processing project carried out in association       with Avecia was instrumental/helpful in helping Avecia (now Fujifilm       Diosynth Biotechnologies) introduce mammalian cell culture work at their       facility, having previously worked exclusively on non-mammalian systems.
This includes the building of a new cGMP facility for manufacturing       mammalian products, the total investment at the mammalian site being $25M.
The company gained know-how and intellectual property (including patents)       that now supports their business strategy in this area.
This has therefore       changed the way in which the company works, and consequently they have       improved their working practices (standard operating procedures) and       developed new products during the REF period (see supporting letter from       the Director of Science and Technology, Fujifilm Diaosynth       Biotechnologies).
Recent impact is the creation of ClarinnisBio, a Durham University       spinout company.
The Company was founded in 2009 by Dr Jahoda, and has       raised funding from the TSB, The Three Pillars fund and Regener8 to the       value of ca.
&#163;2 M. These funds have used to support research and       development work, with 2 staff being employed indirectly at Durham       University, contracted by the company.
This supports the regional agenda       of creating and retaining jobs, particularly in new high technology       industries, in a region of the UK with relatively high levels of       unemployment.
This incorporated patents on the use of hair follicle dermal       cells from prior work, and has established a new patent portfolio (MICRO       ORGAN COMPRISING MESENCHYMAL AND EPITHELIAL CELLS, PCT/GB2012/051759).
