     The strategy of engineering crops for insect resistance by expression of       proteinase inhibitors and       lectins has been actively pursued by researchers in Asia in particular,       representing a multibillion-dollar       market (see below).
Lectin genes are being actively developed as products       for crop       protection in India, while the CpTI gene is used in commercial       transgenic crops in China2.
China is       the world's largest cotton producer, at 7.2 m tonnes in 2011, with the       textile sector there employing       over 23 million people with fixed asset investment in 2011 of $56.4       billion, up 30.9 percent over       2010 (USDA, http://www.thebioenergysite.com/reports/?id=465).
The CpTI gene was developed and published in Durham1,2       with the aim of enhancing insect       resistance in transgenic crops, and has had a major impact on Chinese       agriculture, due to the       widespread deployment of GM cotton containing genes encoding Bacillus         thuringiensis (Bt) toxin       and CpTI.
The best known GM cotton variety using these genes is designated       SGK 3214.
The       combination of the two gene products in Bt/CpTI cotton is stated       to show superior protection       against cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera) when compared to Bt       cotton, particularly in the late       growing stage.
Field assays with Asian corn borer, (Ostrinia furnacalis)       also showed that Bt/CpTI       cotton consistently showed higher resistance than Bt-only cotton5.
As well as enhanced resistance,       Bt/CpTi cotton is claimed to show a lower rate of selection of       resistant genotypes of cotton       bollworm than Bt cotton.
The SGK 321 transgenic cotton line was approved for commercial growing in       China in 1999, and       by 2005 Bt/CpTI cotton was grown on approximately 0.5 million       hectares of land, representing       approximately 15% of the total transgenic cotton grown (which in turn       represented 67% of total       cotton production).
The area over which Bt/CpTI cotton was grown       in 2005 exceeded that of       transgenic cotton varieties imported from outside China (produced by       Monsanto)6.
Figures       obtained from the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS; personal       communication) in       2009 showed that 3.80 million ha were planted with transgenic cotton (77%       of total cotton       acreage); 95% of this transgenic cotton was locally developed varieties.
In 2009, total cotton       production was 6.38 million tonnes, with a total value of approx.
&#163;6,000       million; this indicates a       total economic value of transgenic cotton of approx.
&#163;4.4 billion in 2009.
An improved Bt/CpTI       cotton variety developed by CAAS, Zhongmian 41, was estimated to have       generated an economic       return of more than 6.5 billion RMB, or &#163;710 million, in 20127.
The impact of Bt/CpTI cotton varieties on ecosystems has been       assessed through extensive       testing of potential negative effects on non-target organisms and the       environment.
No negative       effects on parasitoids (biological control agents) of cotton bollworm were       observed, nor on bees.
No negative effects of Bt/CpTI cotton on the rhizosphere were       detected over a five-year timescale,       and Bt/CpTI cotton has no acute toxicity to earthworms.
The       absence of negative effects on the       environment, and positive effects in the form of reduced input costs       through lower pesticide usage       (by up to 40%) have led to the conclusion that Bt/CpTI cotton has       made a positive contribution to       sustainability in Chinese agriculture8.
The Bt/CpTI       gene combination for insect resistance has also       been introduced into rice in Chinese research, and transgenic rice       varieties have been extensively       field-trialled on scales up to hectare plots9.
Protection       against a target pest, striped stem borer       (Chilo suppressalis) was highly efficacious in the field, and       superior to insecticide treatment.
Bt/CpTI rice also shows resistance in the field to a secondary       lepidopteran pest, rice leaf folder       (Cnaphalocrocis medinalis).
However, although Bt/CpTI rice       varieties have been readied for       commercial growing, this has yet to take place.
Impact has also been generated through this work as a result of the       development of recombinant       fusion protein biopesticides3, funded through DEFRA LINK       programmes (starting 2004) in       collaboration with the Food and Environment Research Agency, York (Fera)       and an Industrial       partner, the agrochemical company Isagro Ricerca.
As a result of these       programmes, a candidate       insecticidal fusion protein for commercial development, "FP5", was       identified10.
As part of an       ongoing TSB programme (2011-2014), Isagro Ricerca is investing ca.
1 m       Euros at Durham to       support glasshouse and field trials with a recombinant insecticidal fusion       protein, and the protection       of potato plants against Colorado Potato Beetle larvae observed in trials       has significantly       influenced the commercial objectives of this and other companies.
Colorado       potato beetle costs       US growers approx.
$150 million annually in insecticide costs (USDA), and       development of new       methods for control of this pest have potential economic value up to this       order, depending on how       much of the market is captured.
Isagro has invested of the order of 2.5       million euros in the fusion       protein programme (ca.
80% during the current REF period), with the       expectation of returns an       order of magnitude greater than this figure.
Funding to develop "FP5" as a       commercial biopesticide       with the additional partners CPI, for large-scale production, and BTL, for       downstream processing,       was secured from TSB (2011).
This has resulted in employment for 6       scientists at the industrial       partners, who have invested a further &#163;0.5 million towards bringing the       product to market.
