     The impact of this case study is in a) the provision of valuable cell       culture technology products and b) the creation and retention of jobs by       the company in an area of the UK that suffers from relative economic       deprivation.
The 2008-13 Economic Strategy for the NE region gives a high       priority to addressing the low levels of R&amp;D investment by the private       sector, the low skills base and the lack of employment opportunities (see:       http://content.durham.gov.uk/PDFRepository/CountyDurhamEconomicStrategy20082013.pdf).
The global Research Market for cell culture is estimated to be worth       $600m annually and is growing at 10% a year.
It is estimated that 35       million cell culture plates are used each year for 2D cell growth for many       applications in basic research, drug discovery and life science sectors       wherever scientists need to better understand the growth, function and       disease mechanisms of cells in vivo.
Reinnervate Limited (Registered 04468747) was founded in 2002 by       Professor Przyborski as a vehicle to commercialise research emanating from       his laboratory (Stewart et al.
2003, Stem Cells; Bokhari et al.
2007, JMC,       BBRC; Christie et al.
2008 OBC, 2010 JNM), to address the need for       improved animal cell culture systems.
The Company was very successful in       raising seedcorn funding (approx.
&#163;60k) from a variety of different       initiatives including awards from the Regional Development Agency and       Department of Trade and Industry, and such funds were used to support       R&amp;D and to perform corporate duties.
In 2005, Professor Przyborski       negotiated a large commercial loan (&#163;0.5M) to expedite the development and       translation of the basic research into marketable products, and further       funding (ca.
&#163;8M) was raised from investors (VCs, high net-worth       individuals, Angel funds) to support R&amp;D, IP and marketing.
Patents have been filed on the technologies developed.
Durham University       originally filed the patent on the small molecules (WO2008025965) that was       subsequently assigned to Reinnervate.
The molecule ec23&#174; was       then developed commercially by Reinnervate Limited and is currently       marketed to stem cell scientists, developmental biologists and the like as       a research tool to improve yield and reproducibility of neural cell       differentiation in vitro and the study of basic developmental mechanisms.
Research that resulted in the engineering of the polystyrene-based       scaffold materials into thin membranes was subsequently patented       (WO200712588) and assigned to Reinnervate.
The concept then went through       an extensive development and scale-up phase within the Company, resulting       in the development of an optimised and proprietary technology for routine       3D cell culture.
The patents were assigned to the Company, and in 2009,       the Company established its own independent premises outside the       University and completed this process in 2010 by acquiring 5000 sq ft of       space in the NETPark Incubator, Sedgefield.
In 2011, the Company became       fully operational and independent of the University.
The product has the       trade name Alvetex&#174; (Fig.
1) which was launched into the market       Nov 2010.
Fig.
1 Scanning electron micrograph of Alvetex&#174;       scaffold (left).
Example of a 96-well plate product containing Alvetex&#174;       3D culture technology (right).
By 2012 the business employed 27 personnel at NetPark, a further 9 at       Durham University and had an experienced management team consisting of a       CEO,CSO,CFO, Production Director, Commercial Director, and Marketing and       Product Development managers, as well as a Board headed by a Chairman with       experience in the life science sector.
Many of the support staff are       recruited locally from NE England, creating a source of employment and       support for the local economy.
Since the launch of the first scaffold, several other formats of the       technology such as a 12-well, 24-well and 96-well culture plate, 6-well       and 12-well inserts, have been introduced to the market.
There are       currently 18 distributors including FisherThermo Scientific, Generon (UK),       Biozol GmbH (Germany), Chemie Brunschwig AG (Switzerland), THP Medical       Products (Austria), In Vitro AS (Denmark), Euroclone (Italy), and Bio       Connect (the Benelux region) are contracted to market the products in       different marketing territories around the world.
An independent       assessment by ThermoFisher Scientific in 2009 concluded that the market       for Alvetex&#174; to be in the range of $35-$40 million per annum.
Early sales       are in line with forecasts and currently amount on average to       approximately &#163;15k per month for the first two quarters of 2013.
The ultimate beneficiaries of this impact are the end users who buy and       use these technologies i.e.
the customers, which are the cell biologists       and investigators of the scientific community in academic institutes,       government labs, hospitals, biotech and the pharmaceutical industry.
Whilst some of the technologies are specialised and will benefit discrete       groups of scientists (e.g.
stem cell differentiation, cancer cell       biology), other products are more generic, and will have far greater       penetration and use (e.g.
3D cell culture &#8212; applicable to almost any cell       biologist currently practising conventional 2D culture techniques).
Improving the growth, differentiation and function of cultured cells will       have multiple advantages, including decreasing R&amp;D costs, reducing       animal usage, improving the predictive accuracy during compound       development, and advancing basic research.
Prof. Przyborski was a Finalist in BBSRC's Innovator of the Year       competition (2013) for his work with ReInnervate, and a BBSRC Impact study       confirms that `Reinnervate now has more than 1,500 customers around the       world, including cell biologists and other researchers in academic       institutions, government labs, hospitals and the biotech and       pharmaceutical industries, making it a leading company in the 3D       cell-culture market.
The company's technologies have several applications       in life sciences, including stem cell research and tissue engineering in       vitro, cancer cell biology, liver toxicology, models of human skin, as       well as drug discovery and product development in the academic,       biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors.'
In July 2013 Reinnervate       announced that a group from Massachusetts General Hospital had chosen       Alvetex Scaffold for the first ever 3D osteocyctic cell culture       experiments in microgravity.
NASA and NIH are funding the study, on the       international space station in late 2014, to understand more about bone       loss during space flight (see:       http://reinnervate.com/alvetex-chosen-for-study-of-bone-loss-during-space-flightmassachusetts-general-hospital-bone-loss-during-space-flight/       and       http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/news/research-technologies/2013/130911-n-technology-set-for-space-experiments.aspx).
The Durham scientists involved in the Reinnervate project were awarded       the RSC Rita and John Cornforth award in 2012 recognising the excellence       in inter-disciplinary work, at the boundaries of chemistry and biology, to       develop Alvetex&#174; Scaffold for three dimensional (3D) cell       culture.
Furthermore, Alvetex&#174; won an R&amp;D 100 Award in June       2011, identifying it as among the top 100 most technologically significant       products introduced into the marketplace over the past year.
Alvetex&#174;       was named among the winners of The Scientist magazine's Top 10 Life       Science Innovations of 2010 with the judging panel commenting that       `Alvetex&#174; Scaffold is an example of innovation to move us       closer to better models for mimicking in vivo behaviour of cells with the       control offered by in vitro conditions' (Northwestern University Chicago,       USA) and `Alvetex&#174; Scaffold should enable the routine and       reproducible creation of 3D cell cultures in the laboratory and extend the       concept of 3D culture beyond simple, reconstituted extracellular matrices       to complex cellular structures (Environmental Molecular Sciences       Laboratory, Richland WA, USA).
