     [numbers] = research outputs listed in Section 3 or corroboration       sources listed in Section 5.
The key paper [5] was published online on 23rd April       2012.
A press release was issued on the       same day and the research results were widely reported in the       international press.
Davies       discussed the results with the Senior Geophysicist at DECC - Department of       Energy and Climate       Change) and presented to a wider DECC audience in London on 25th       April 2012.
On 27th Nov       2012 Davies gave evidence to the Energy and Climate Select Committee on       shale gas, chaired       by Rt.
Hon.
Tim Yeo MP.
The impact of the research has been in four main       areas:     (1) Policy: On 13th Dec 2012 the government announced       its decision to lift the ban on fracking.
In a Radio 5 Live interview on the same day, John Hayes (Minister of State       for Energy at the time)       twice referred to the Durham study as providing evidence that       contamination could not occur if       fracking were to commence in Lancashire, UK.
During the 6 min radio piece       [7], John Hayes said       `the claim that the water used in fracking gets into the aquifer was         categorically refuted by the         Durham University study'.
A month later on Jan 16th 2013, Hayes gave evidence to the       Energy and Climate Change Select       Committee who were sitting to consider `The Impact of Shale Gas on Energy       Markets'.
The       transcript of oral evidence and Parliamentary video record show that the       questions and answers       moved onto the how shale gas could benefit communities financially.
Rt.
Hon.
Tim Yeo MP       (Chair) asked about ways of `kick-starting the whole [shale gas       exploitation] process'.
John Hayes       responded `I think the issue of benefit and incentive is one that         needs to be considered closely'       then he added `In addition, one might say more information and more         understanding&#8212;clearly the         Royal Society of Engineers' report has been helpful, the Durham         University study has been         helpful, and, as things move on, I suspect provision of more information         will lead to a greater         degree of engagement' [8].
The radio interview prompted Davies to ask a senior DECC official how the       research had been       used in government.
In his email to us (Jan 17th 2013) [9],       he states: `the study was included in a         briefing to ministers, including John Hayes and `it was also         referenced in the Royal Society and         Royal Academy of Engineering report on fracking, and the DECC Chief         Scientist discussed it with         John Hayes'.
The evidence shows the research was a key part of the scientific case       that the UK government       used to justify the lifting of the ban and allay public concerns.
The       commercial value of this       decision is difficult to quantify precisely, but if it leads to       large-scale exploitation of shale gas, it       will likely run into billions or tens of billions of pounds.
Davies has also presented the research results across Europe (London,       Brussels, Poland,       Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria and Lithuania) including five meetings with the       Bulgarian       government's `42nd Bulgarian National Assembly Sub-Committee on Shale       gas'.
This is tasked       with analyzing and discussing good practices and legislative solutions to       regulate activities       relating to exploration and extraction of mineral resources while       protecting the environment.
Bulgaria presently has a ban on fracking in place.
The Manager of the       Global Technology Centre       at Chevron, one of the world's leading integrated energy companies, said `The         paper and         engagement of Richard Davies has helped promote a dispassionate,         objective, fact-based         approach to concerns expressed regarding shale gas development to a         sceptical public and         media.
This will be critical to inform regulation and enable social         license to operate for natural gas         from shale which has an important potential role to play in the UK and         EU energy mix in the         decades to come.'
(2) Awareness of risk for local communities.
In May 2012,       concerns came to a head in the       Sussex Village of Balcombe (population 1,765) over proposals by Cuadrilla       to carry out fracking       for shale gas and oil in the area.
The Balcombe community pointed out to       Charles Hendry       (Minister of State for Energy at the time) and to the Head of Licensing,       Exploration and       Development at DECC [10] that the separation distance was less than       600 m and this was       grounds to not allow fracking at this site.
This triggered a series of       internal government emails       between DECC and the Environment Agency on its policy with regard to       aquifers.
(3) Process and practice: For shale gas wells where the       separation distance between water       aquifers and the fracking is greater than 600 m, the study has been used       as supporting evidence       for safe drilling [11&amp;12].
Approval documents for the drilling       of 34 shale gas wells in Garfield       county, Colorado, USA have cited the research.
The commercial significance       is that a shale gas       well costs approximately &#163;4 million and 34 wells therefore cost a total of       &#163;136 million, with the       inevitable impact of job creation and allowing for the exploitation of       shale in this state, which in       turn generates revenue.
(4) Protection of the environment: The study has been used by the       Natural Resources Defence       Council to influence the USA Environmental protection agency, who are       developing policy on       fracking.
The UK's Environment Agency uses the research to identify areas       where it may need to       acquire more detailed information and expertise [12], particularly       if it is required to regulate future       onshore unconventional gas operations in England and Wales.
In the EU, the       research has been       cited in a report prepared for the Directorate General (DG) Environment       (40 Directorates-General       make up the European Commission), which recommended that a safe separation       distance for       fracking should be adopted.
It states `For example, based on Davies et         al.
(2012) an appropriate         vertical separation between shale gas extraction and aquifer may be         considered to be 600         metres' [14].
