     In 1992 BNFL established a spin-out company, BNFL Fluorochemicals Ltd,       later F2 Chemicals Ltd,       to develop new markets in the fine chemicals sector using their expertise       in the production and       handling of F2 developed from nuclear power generation       applications.
A research team (3 PDRA       employees, 3 years) from the company was seconded to the Chemistry       Department at Durham       (1992-1995) in order to establish a skill base, expertise and IPR in the       field.
The company also       provided funds for building and equipping a new, purpose-built research       laboratory for handling F2       within the Chemistry Department and RDC subsequently became a       non-executive Director of the       company.
The following period (1993-1996) resulted in a suite of over 20       patent applications which       were filed, granted and maintained by F2 Chemicals arising from the Durham       research       collaboration.
Most importantly, development of new selective fluorination       methodology of &#946;-ketoesters       in high dielectric constant media was investigated and exemplified at       Durham on a 1 g       scale and published by the DU research team in collaboration with F2       Chemicals in 1996 [2]       following IPR protection [Im1].
Subsequently, Durham direct fluorination       reaction methodology       using F2 [2] was adopted and scaled up to a manufacturing       process by F2 Chemicals Ltd [Im2] with       the design, investment and construction of a 1000 litre Selective Direct       Fluorination (SDF) plant       (Fig.
1a) at their headquarters in Preston to synthesise products for       customers in the life science       industries.
V-FEND (Voriconazole, Pfizer, Fig.
1b) is the world-wide best-selling       systemic, antifungal agent       and has a 5-fluoropyrimidine sub-unit 1 as part of its structure.
Manufacture of fluoropyrimidine       intermediate 1 had been carried out previously by multi-step,       resource intensive strategies       described by Pfizer scientists [Im3] but new Durham methods for selective       direct fluorination of &#946;-ketoesters       using F2 [2] provided the opportunity for a more efficient       2-step process, that is far less       expensive and generates less waste than other procedures.
Given this new       business opportunity,       Durham direct fluorination methodology [2] for the synthesis of       &#946;-fluoroketoester 2 (Fig.
1b), as the       key starting material for the manufacture of 5-fluoropyrimiide system 1,       was developed and scaled-up       by F2 Chemicals and used through all the clinical trial, launch and       commercialization periods of       V-FEND by Pfizer [Im3].
In the period from January 2008 to July 2013,       multi-tonne quantities of F-ketoester       1 were manufactured by F2 Chemicals Ltd [Im2] as the exclusive       supplier for Pfizer using       Durham direct fluorination chemistry [2].
World-wide sales of V-FEND in       the 2008-2012 REF period       total $4.65 billion [Im4] making this product one of the global top 100       best-selling pharmaceuticals.
Figure: impact of Durham selective direct fluorination methodology.
Left: Selective Direct Fluorination plant at F2 Chemicals (Preston).
Right: new strategy for the synthesis of a fluoro-ketoester, a key intermediate of Pfizer&#8217;s V-Fend antifungal agent.
V-FEND's economic and societal impact arises from its use as a triazole       antifungal medication       [Im5] active against serious, invasive fungal infections such as       candidiasis, aspergillosis, and       certain emerging fungal infections [Im6].
Aspergillosis is primarily an       infection of the lungs caused       by the inhalation of airborne spores of the fungus Aspergillus       which is commonly found growing on       dead leaves, stored grain, compost piles, or in other decaying vegetation.
There are several forms       of aspergillosis: pulmonary aspergillosis is an allergic reaction to the       fungus that usually develops       in people who already have lung problems (such as asthma or cystic       fibrosis); aspergilloma is a       growth (fungus ball) that develops in an area of past lung disease or lung       scarring (such as       tuberculosis or lung abscess) and pulmonary aspergillosis (invasive type)       is a serious infection       associated with pneumonia that can spread to other parts of the body.
This       infection almost always       occurs in people with a weakened immune system due to cancer, AIDS,       leukaemia, an organ       transplant, chemotherapy, or other conditions or medications that lower       the number of normal       white blood cells or weaken the immune system.
For example, invasive       pulmonary aspergillosis       (IPA) is estimated to occur in 5-13% of people who have a bone marrow       transplant, 5-25% of       people with a heart or lung transplant and 10-20% of people who undergo       high-dose radiotherapy       for leukaemia.
Durham selective fluorination chemistry [2, Im1] has therefore played a       significant role in impacting       many patients treated by V-FEND, giving world-wide health benefits in the       treatment of fungal       infections for a wide range of disease control.
In order to further develop the use of Durham F2 chemistry for       fine chemical manufacture, a       Durham University spin-out company, Brock Fine Chemicals Ltd [Im7], was       established in April       2011 by Graham Sandford with assistance and legal expertise from Durham       Business Innovation       Services (DBIS).
Brock (UK registered company 7610103) attracted proof of       concept funding       (&#163;100K) from the NorthStar regional investment group [Im8] to further       exploit the use of fluorine for       fine chemical manufacturing, particularly for the synthesis of a range of       iodo-aromatic derivatives       using Durham fluorine-mediated iodination chemistry [4].
The company now       employs 2 FTE       chemists and associated marketing and finance expertise.
It has made sales       of over 100 fine       chemical products to chemical distributors such as Fluorochem, Acros, Alfa       Aesar, Apollo Scientific       and Shigematsu since trading began.
Sales in Year 1 were &#163;8K growing to       &#163;40K in Year 2 and       within the proof-of-concept business plan.
Multi-channel continuous flow microreactor techniques developed at Durham       [3] were patented by       Durham University [Im9] and a world-wide exclusive license negotiated by       the University (DBIS)       and granted to the Asahi Glass Co., Japan for a significant fee and a       subsequent royalty stream.
This acquisition formed a core part of the IP knowledge base in flow       reactor technology at Asahi       Glass.
