     The global research market for cell culture is estimated to be worth       $600m annually and is growing at 10% a year.
Around 35 million cell       culture plates are used each year world-wide for simple 2D cell growth for       many applications in basic research, drug discovery and life science       sectors; i.e.
in all areas where scientists need to better understand       growth, function and disease mechanisms of cells in vivo.
Durham University spin-out company, Reinnervate Limited [Im1] (UK Company       04468747), was established in 2002 by Pryzborski with the aid of the       Durham Business &amp; Innovation Services team as a vehicle to       commercialise technology in the bioscience sector and, specifically, to       develop enabling technology to improve the growth and function of cultured       cells stemming from Durham research in the porous polymer scaffold [3,6]       and synthetic retinoid fields [1].
The Company raised seedcorn funding       (~&#163;60K) from a variety of different initiatives, including awards from the       Regional Development Agency and the Department of Trade and Industry, to       support R&amp;D and perform corporate duties.
In 2005, a commercial loan       (&#163;0.5M) to expedite the development and translation of the basic research       into marketable products was raised.
A further ~&#163;8M of research funding       was raised from investors (Venture Capital funds, high net-worth       individuals, Angel funds) to support R&amp;D, IP protection and marketing.
In its early stages Reinnvervate was incubated within the Chemistry       Department, but by 2009 it had grown to such an extent that it established       its own independent premises outside the University.
It completed this       process in 2010 by acquiring 5000 sq ft of space in the NETPark Incubator,       Sedgefield, in which the University has an equity stake.
In 2011, the       Company became fully operational and independent of the University.
By       2012 the business employed 27 personnel at NetPark, a further 9 at Durham       University and had an experienced management team consisting of a CEO,       CSO, CFO, Production Director, Commercial Director, and Marketing and       Product Development managers, as well as a Board headed by a Chairman with       experience in the life science sector.
All the products developed and marketed by Reinnervate (ec23&#174; retinoids       and the Alvetex&#174; 3D scaffold range) have their origins in DU Chemistry       research [1-6].
The stable synthetic retinoids for predictable stem cell differentiation       designed, synthesised and described in [1] were patented by DU in 2006       (WO2008025965 "Retinoid compounds and their use", Przyborski, Whiting and       Marder) and the IP rights assigned to Reinnervate.
The syntheses of the       retinoid compounds were scaled-up and manufactured at High Force Research       Ltd (Durham) and are currently marketed through Reinnervate's commercial       partners including Tocris, Enzo Life Sciences, LGC Standards and Amsbio as       ec23&#174; [Im2].
The 3D polyHIPE scaffolds derived from porous polystyrene described in       references [5] and [6] were patented by DU (WO200712588 "Substrate for       growth of cultured cell in three dimensions", Przyborski &amp; Cameron)       and the IP assigned to Reinnervate.
An extensive development phase within       Reinnervate, involving re-engineering and scale-up of the technology,       optimization for 3D cell culture and development of further applications       of the 3D scaffolds in bioscience was carried out.
This allowed creation       of the first Alvetex&#174; products which were launched in November 2010 [Im3].
Since the first scaffold entered the market (see Figure), several other       formats of the technology such as a 12-well, 24-well and 96-well culture       plate and 6/12-well inserts were introduced.
There are currently 18       distributors including ThermoFisher Scientific, Generon (UK), Biozol GmbH       (Germany), Chemie Brunschwig AG (Switzerland), THP Medical Products       (Austria), In Vitro AS (Denmark), Euroclone (Italy), and Bio Connect (the       Benelux region) that market the Alvetex&#174; brand in different territories       around the world and over 1500 customers world-wide.
Growing sales       currently amount on average to approximately &#163;15K per month for the first       two quarters of 2013.
Figure: porous polystyrene Alvetex&#174; 3D scaffold microstructure (left) and marketed 96-well plate format for cell culture studies (right)         The ultimate beneficiaries of these developments are the life science end       users who buy and use the scaffold technology.
Whilst some of the       technologies are specialised and will benefit discrete groups of       scientists (e.g.
stem cell differentiation, cancer cell biology), other       products are more generic, and have far greater penetration and use (e.g.
3D cell culture &#8212; applicable to almost any cell biologist currently       practising conventional 2D culture techniques).
Improving the growth,       differentiation and function of cultured cells has many advantages,       including decreasing R&amp;D costs, reducing animal usage, improving the       predictive accuracy during development of drug candidates, and advancing       basic research.
A published BBSRC Impact evidence report [Im4] confirms that "Reinnervate       now has more than 1,500 customers around the world, including cell       biologists and other researchers in academic institutions, government       labs, hospitals and the biotech and pharmaceutical industries, making it a       leading company in the 3D cell-culture market.
The company's technologies       have several applications in life sciences, including stem cell research       and tissue engineering in vitro, cancer cell biology, liver       toxicology, models of human skin, as well as drug discovery and product       development in the academic, biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors."
Testimonials [Im5] from scientists using the Alvetex&#174; products recorded       on the http://www.reinnervate.com       website attest to the effectiveness of the Alvetex&#174; technology for cell       biology.
These include: "The ability to use Alvetex&#174; Scaffold       to create a genuine 3D cell culture enabled us to provide a favourable       environment in which our cells could grow, differentiate and proliferate",       Professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University, USA; "Oncotest       are particularly pleased at the ease of isolation of protein for       downstream assays and potential biomarker validation", Head, Throughput       Screening Laboratory and Investigator, Oncotest GmbH; "We have been using       Alvetex&#174; Scaffold for growing our prostate and colon epithelial       cell line [and] have observed some striking differences between 2D and 3D       prostate and colon cells surface marker expression", Senior Scientist,       Inst.
of Biophysics, Czech Republic.
In addition, collaborations with       various industrial organisations including Tecan, Roslinn Cellab,       Medicyte, Kirkstall and Mirus Bio to develop new uses of Alvetex&#174;       scaffolds in a variety of healthcare areas are underway.
The Durham scientists involved in the Reinnervate project were awarded       the RSC Rita and John Cornforth award in 2012, which recognises excellence       in inter-disciplinary research at the boundaries of chemistry and biology,       for developing Alvetex&#174;.
Alvetex&#174; has also won numerous technology awards.
These include: an       R&amp;D 100 Award in June 2011, identifying it as among the top 100 most       technologically significant products introduced into the marketplace over       the previous year; and "The Scientist" magazine's Top 10 Life Science       Innovations of 2010.
The judging panel for the latter award commented that       "Alvetex&#174; Scaffold is an example of innovation to move us       closer to better models for mimicking in vivo behaviour of cells       with the control offered by in vitro conditions" (Neil Kelleher,       Northwestern University Chicago, USA) and "Alvetex&#174; Scaffold       should enable the routine and reproducible creation of 3D cell cultures in       the laboratory and extend the concept of 3D culture beyond simple,       reconstituted extracellular matrices to complex cellular structures"       (Steven Wiley, Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory, Richland WA,       USA) [Im6].
