     Cross and Freeman had very early realised that there were multiple       commercial uses within the surface science and biophysics communities of       this new, very sensitive measurement device.
They co-founded Farfield       Sensors in 1997, and filed patents for the original design ideas [P1-P2].
By 2002 they had developed this into a commercial product, the AnaLight       Bio200, a Dual Polarization Interferometer (DPI) for the measurement of       real-time structural change in molecular systems [C1].
This won the       National Physical Laboratory National Measurement Award 2003 for       Innovation in Measurement, recognising Farfield's technical innovation and       impact on current industrial metrology, as well as a suite of other awards       [C2].
The company moved to purpose built premises in Crewe [C1], and in       2008 they launched a second generation instrument design, the AnaLight 4D       which could quantify the degree of order and disruption in lipid bilayers       as well as measure molecular dimensions and density on surfaces.
This new       tool generated substantial interest and the company doubled its turnover       in 2008, having its best year ever [C3].
It extended its customer base to       17 countries, recruiting a new Far East agent and a new member of the core       scientific staff [C1].
Two of the machines were bought by P&amp;G, a US company with $80Billlion       turnover in consumer products.
An example project was to test different       dishwasher detergents for their rinse time.
A faster rinse reduces the       water usage, leading to environmental gains, but the detergent needs to be       completely removed in order to leave glasses `squeaky clean', a criteria       which is especially important in Japan.
P&amp;G used the DPI to       characterise the maximum surface layer of detergent required for it to be       classed as `squeaky clean' (the first reliable automated predictive test       for this), and so were able to develop faster rinse formulations.
The       Analytical GCO, P&amp;G Newcastle, identified the impact to the company `As         a result, 2 head counts in Product Design were freed up to do other         work.
More importantly, the insights gained via understanding the phase         behaviour at interfaces explains why some formulations rinse off more         slowly than others...faster rinsing formulations for Japan Joy have been         identified and launched in the market and keep our business in Japan         growing.'
[C4]     Applications in biophysics include drug discovery and development as the       instrument is sensitive enough to track the response of a protein to a       potential drug in real time and without any additional tagging of the       molecules which could disrupt the response.
Farfield was a partner in the       3 year European FP7 program ASMENA (2008-11) to develop new platforms for       drug screening and analytical profiling based on in vitro measurements of       the functional and conformal change in membrane proteins [C5].
Similar       pan-European projects include the SABIO collaboration to develop a       diagnostic test for Hepititis A, B and C [C6], and the INTOPSENS project,       funded under the FP7 HealthCompetence programme, to demonstrate a compact       polymer and silicon-based CMOS-compatible photonics sensor system for a       rapid diagnostic test for sepsis at `point of care' [C7].
They are also       part of the NEURASYNC network to study Parkinson's disease (PD).
This is       the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, characterized       pathologically by the accumulation of aggregated conformations of the       presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein.
Farfield's role was to use the       AnaLight DPI for state of the art in vitro assays with biomarkers and       experimental therapeutics targeting alpha-synuclein [C8].
In 2009, the company took its sensor fabrication to Inex, at       Newcastle-upon-Tyne in order to move from a 4" to a 6" process and it       extended its range of chip surfaces.
It was accepted into the North West       England High Growth business support programme.
There was expansion of       bioscience-based sales activity in the form of a co-marketing agreement       with IdentiGen in Germany and the customer base extending to 19 countries       with first-time installations in Korea and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia       [C1].
The company took on a new postdoc in 2010 and launched the Farfield       AnaLight 4D Workstation, allowing combined studies of affinity,       kinetics, conformation and thermodynamics of biomolecules (Fig 4 [C9]).
Fig 3: AnaLight 4D workstation 	       However, the worsening economic climate brought difficulties for the       company and it was bought out in April 2010 by the publically quoted       Swedish scientific instrument supplier Biolin Scientific, who acquired all       existing shares in the Farfield Group for &#163;2.5M [C10].
Farfield continued       to market and sell under the Farfield brand worldwide, remaining a       separate product company within the Biolin organisation.
All Farfield       staff were retained after the acquisition [C10] and, indeed, three new       core staff, a Product development Manager, a Business development Manager       and an application specialist, were subsequently recruited [C11].
Iberlaser SA took on representation of Farfield in Spain, and Farfield       relocated to new premises at Manchester Airport with improved laboratory       and training facilities.
Automation was enhanced during the year with the       Dual Plate Autosampler, the customer base expanded to 20 countries, and       Biolin Inc, the US division of Biolin, took on a new post-doctoral       scientist to support the Dual Polarisation Interferometry.
However, Biolin       took the strategic decision to discontinue the manufacture and sales of       the Dual Polarisation Interferometer on December 30th 2011, though the       company has made the commitment to support existing customers up till the       end of December 2016 [C12].
Despite its demise, the instrument nevertheless has made a significant       contribution to biosensing and the surface science sectors, and there       remain scores of instruments in use around the world.
