     Gega's research has played a significant role in three interconnected       impacts: (1) the development of cCBT in the UK and abroad and improvement       of its reach, 2) the development of on-line training and direct training       for health professionals, and 3) in the development of policy for the       treatment of common mental health disorders through cCBT.
The first two       strands of impact are direct.
The third strand emerges from the first two       strands.
The CCBT SQ developed by Gega (outputs 1, 4, 5) has been used as       the screening and triage tool by FearFighter&#8482; during the REF census period       [sources 1, 2].
FearFighter&#8482; is the main cCBT tool for the       treatment for panic and phobia.
It has been used by thousands of patients       across the world, has been endorsed as being proven to be clinically       effective as well as cost effective, and is recommended as an option for       delivering CBT in all the relevant policy guidelines for a range of common       mental health conditions, including the National Institute for Health and       Care Excellence (the NICE Final Appraisal Determination (FAD), CG123,       Common Mental Health Disorders, May, 2011; Technology Appraisal TA97,       2008; NICE guideline 90; [sources 3, 4, 6]).
FearFighter&#8482; has been       taken up by over 50% of the Primary Care Trusts in the UK as a consequence       of the policy recommendations and evidence base for its efficacy and       efficiency.
It has also been adopted in other countries as a recognised       form of standard treatment.
Appropriate screening and triage is critical       to the correct application of the resource, and therefore the efficacy       rates this method of intervention has achieved.
The company that produces       FearFighterTM, CCBT Limited, recognises that "the significant       addition of the screening tool to FearFighter&#8482; has improved take-up rates       for the program as well as contributing to clinical outcome" and that "the       addition of the screen to FearFighter&#8482; has contributed to FearFighter&#8482;       being adopted in international policy guidelines as a recommended cCBT       program."
[sources 1, 2].
The CCBT SQ establishing the suitability of individuals for cCBT,       together with the findings from meta-analyses and trials in Gega's funded       work at UEA, also form a key part of the provision of on- line training in       the use of cCBT for health professionals.
Gega has been instrumental in       the provision of on-line training for clinicians to support the use of       computerised packages.
She was invited to produce the first and only       postgraduate on-line training module in cCBT for the Royal College of       Psychiatrists [source 7] in the context of Improving Access to       Psychological Therapies (IAPT).
This on-line module has been viewed by       over 28,000 people (Google analytics; source 8) in 37 different       countries across 5 continents (Europe, Asia, North America, South America,       Oceania), and has been fully completed by over 600 clinicians.
The module       has been described as an "exemplary project in the field" [source 5],       and the importance of the on-line training internationally has been       recognised [source 5].
More broadly, cCBT has been adopted by IAPT       as a core part of the improvement of the reach of psychological therapies       for common mental health conditions [source 9].
Gega has also been involved in the effective conditions of use of cCBT       for another common mental health disorder - depression.
Beating the Blues       is the other recommended cCBT package in the National Institute of Health       and Clinical Excellence guidelines for depression and anxiety NICE [sources         4, 6].
Gega has provided part of the evidence base for its use (Outputs         1, 4, 5).
Moreover, Gega is playing a key role in its roll out       across the UK, introducing cCBT clinics in GP surgeries right across       Suffolk and Norfolk (with the Suffolk MIND partnership) with Beating the       Blues combined with onsite and/or telephone support (dependent on CCBT SQ       outcomes) [source 10], building on her research base showing that       adjunct support improves outcome.
The final interconnected thread in the impact of Gega's research is       through the direct training of health professionals in the use of cCBT.
Gega has personally trained clinicians in the UK in the use of cCBT across       four counties - Norfolk, Suffolk, Northumberland, Yorkshire - in       particular focussing on the screening of potential participants for cCBT,       and on the adjunct support required to reach maximum efficacy.
Over 200       clinicians to date have been directly trained by Gega in the UK, and       direct training by Gega has been extended to Belgium.
Her online training       protocols and adjunct methods have also been adopted internationally in       the training regimes countries offer for those overseeing and       administering cCBT [source 5].
