 During the project, work by Fossati, a Durham PhD (2008-2013) student under Tanner's supervision, established that the prototype XRDI system developed by Bede Scientific/Jordan Valley gave diffraction images which gave comparable results to those taken using white beam synchrotron radiation at the large facilities [5].
These smaller instruments could assess the failure probability of a 300(450) mm diameter wafers in 15(40) minutes [5], making this a commercially feasible scanner system for an industrial semiconductor wafer fab.
As a result of the research, Jordan Valley Semiconductors UK made the strategic decision in 2011 to invest in design, development and manufacture of clean-room compatible X-ray Diffraction Imaging tools for off-line inspection of all wafers.
They developed both transmission (QC-TT) and reflection (QC-RT) geometry systems (Fig 4), but the smaller footprint (and hence lower price) of the QC-RT system makes it more attractive.
Prior to this, potential customers had resisted purchase of such tools on the grounds that the instruments revealed edge defects from handling but were incapable of determining which defects were critical and which were benign.
With the additional capability of accurate defect identification, achieved by incorporating image recognition software and the predictive model derived by the SIDAM consortium, Jordan Valley Semiconductors now market an: "X-Ray Diffraction Imaging (XRDI) inspection system that detects crystalline defects in patterned and blanket wafers [which will]  Identify cracks which will cause breakage BEFORE the breakage occurs Detect slip, which may cause overlay issues, on 300mm wafers in minutes Identify dislocations on wafers during manufacture without dislocation etching Full 300mm scanning, with rapid coarse reflection scans of either the full wafer area or selected regions Can mount part 450mm wafers Monitoring of defects down to single dislocations.... at any doping and wafer backside treatment.
Capability for a wide range of crystalline substrates" [C1]  The importance of these tools was recognised at the annual SEMICON West exhibition held in San Francisco in July 2012 and attended by 29,263 people.
The 2012 "Best of West" award was presented to Jordan Valley Semiconductor UK Ltd. for the QC-TT defect inspection system.
"The Best of West Award is given to recognize important product and technology developments in the microelectronics industries....based on the submission's financial impact on the industry, engineering or scientific achievement, or societal impact and benefits" [C2].
The CEO of Jordan Valley Semiconductor (the parent company) said, "One thing I'm really proud of is that it [the system] was developed in the U.K.
It's hitting significant needs for 300-millimeter and 450- millimeter [wafers]."
[C2] In January 2013, The Vice President Corporate and UK Site Manager of Jordan Valley Semiconductors (UK), said: "We have sold [text removed for publication] XRDI systems in the last 2 years, into 4 different countries with a total value of approximately &#163;M [text removed for publication].
At least 2 of these systems are for production lines, and we anticipate repeat sales for these1 along with other production line sales to other companies.
Without the involvement in the SiDAM project, led by Durham University, it is unlikely the XRDI technique would have been developed into a product of value for the semiconductor industry.
The interest gained from the SiDAM project, including [from] the industrial partners, [was] critical in deciding to invest significantly in the development of these products.
The addition of these products has been critical in the growth of JV-UK in the last 2 years, both financially (from administration to &gt;$6M revenues and profitable in 2011) and in the number of employees (from 25 to 28 in the last year with plans to hire an additional 2 employees in the next 6 months).
They have been instrumental in decreasing the reliance of the company on a single market.
"[C3] An assessment of the impact on the industry can be construed from the fact that semiconductor companies are now investing in X-ray Diffraction Imaging tools in order to reduce the number of catastrophic wafer failures occurring [C2].
It is estimated by the industry body, SEMATECH, that for every silicon fabrication line producing 20,000 300mm or 50,000 200 mm wafers per month, the cost of catastrophic wafer failure during high temperature processing is $2M per annum at the 180nm node, rising to over $25M per annum at the 47nm node [C5].
The cost continues to rise as the inverse square of the node size.
One of the leading semiconductor manufacturers, Toshiba, began shipping flash memory NAND gates based on 24nm technology as early as August 2010 and since April 2012, Intel has been shipping microprocessors based on 22nm technology.
Even a fractional reduction in the number of failures thus has huge economic significance.
The Intel representative on the SIDAM Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) said "Attendance at the IAB gave a new understanding of the issue which shows the industry how to solve it.
Personally I think that the SIDAM research consortium, led by Professor Tanner, has transformed an interesting X-ray technique into a powerful tool for the assessment of the risk of wafer breaks at high temperature processing steps" [C6].
Fig 4 Jordan Valley XRDI inspection systems for semiconductor wafers (a) QC-TT operating in transmission geometry and (b) QC-RT operating in reflection geometry [C1]
