     The research on compliant layer lubrication originated in the Durham       laboratories as a concept and has been developed into a viable product of       which any orthopaedic company can take advantage.
The analysis in Output 1       (along with a sister paper in 1995 which covered elastic material       properties) provided confidence via modelling of the viability of the       materials and system proposed.
The later papers cited above are examples       of the gradual development of the joints, to the stage where they have now       been commercially exploited.
Knee joint (from Output 4)      In the corroborating evidence supplied with this case Active Implants       Corporation (AIC), Memphis, USA can confirm how they built their company       on our published papers and PhD theses (e.g.
Outputs 2-5 are specified       explicitly in their supporting letter) on this subject over many years.
This company was formed in 2004 basing its products on the compliant       bearing concepts researched in Durham.
They state "This concept of       compliant bearing materials has been the focus of much of Professor       Unsworth's work and has been foundational in developing our hip system.
To       date the TriboFit hip system has been used to treat more than 1300       patients throughout Europe, Israel and Australia since 2006".
Knee joint (from Output 4)     The TriboFit hip system received CE marking in 2008 and distribution       partnerships have been established in UK, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Germany       and Australia.
NUsurface is a replacement meniscal system for knees also       based on compliant bearing principles.
This, too, is currently undergoing       clinical trials (http://www.activeimplants.com/meniscus-clinical-study.html)       for which AIC raised $10M from investors (http://www.globes.co.il/serveen/globes/docview.asp?did=1000714802&amp;fid=1725)     Without the Durham research, AIC would probably not have existed as a       company as it started from the current VP reading the Durham work,       attending conferences where Durham staff presented research and visiting       the laboratories.
Unsworth also spoke at a number of company events and       discussed possible new ideas with AIC.
AIC states that "Professor Unsworth has been instrumental in the       development of our implant systems particularly as it relates to compliant       bearing technologies.
His peer reviewed research, personal communications       and student PhD theses have all been foundational in the concept, design       and development of the first commercialised hip and knee systems utilising       compliant bearing ideas.
We have copies of all his nearly 40 published       papers on this subject and have copies of two Durham PhD theses".
