     Electricity Capacity Assessment     Dr. Dent was contracted by National Grid from November 2011 to May 2012,       and from November 2012 to April 2013, to design technical modelling for       the 2012 and 2013 Electricity Capacity Assessment studies.
He was chosen       for this work on the basis of previous research on capacity value of wind       carried out in collaboration with National Grid (including a 3 month full       time secondment to the Control Centre in 2010), one output of which was       the paper [2] above.
The structure of the Capacity Assessment Model code (the computational       engine for which was written by Dr. Dent as VBA code within MS Excel) is       based on the time-collapsed formulation of described above in Point 2.1 of       Section 2.
This code includes a number of features developed by Dr. Dent       to increase computational efficiency, most notably using generating       capacities and demands rounded to the nearest MW to facilitate use of fast       integer arithmetic in convolution of distributions.
The bootstrap       uncertainty analysis approach described in Point 2.3 was used in the study       to assess the consequences of a finite length (2005-11) demand history in       terms of uncertainty in model outputs (and is used directly in the       Capacity Assessment Reports published by Ofgem in 2012 [A] and 2013 [J],       e.g.
on page 40 and in Fig.
4.5 of the 2013 report); assessment of such       uncertainties is critical to good decision making on the basis of       modelling results.
Matt Roberts, Senior Future Services Analyst at the       National Grid Control Centre and the technical modelling lead from NG's       side for the project, corroborates this statement of Dr. Dent's       contribution [Q].
One of the key issues in the Electricity Capacity Assessment study is       understanding wind's contribution to generation adequacy, which is done       through the metric of Equivalent Firm Capacity (EFC).
The EFC values       calculated were higher as a percentage of the installed wind capacity than       expected by many industry figures in the 2012 report, and further work has       been done to explain this based on the work by Zachary and Dent.
Most       notably, the expression for the capacity value of small installed wind       capacities published in [2] is used in National Grid's 2013 report to       Ofgem to explain how the EFC depends on the distributions of demand and of       available conventional capacity, in addition to the distribution of       available wind (see [M]).
A further issue in the 2012 study was uncertainty in the calculated       values of reliability indices arising from the short history of historic       demand data which was available.
As described in Point 2.4 above, for the       2013 study Dent and Zachary developed a new approach to reweighting the       contributions to model outputs from demand data from winters of different       severities, in order to provide a result based on a longer run weather       profile which helps validate the results derived using a short history of       metered demand data and which forms the basis of the section `Winter       Severity Analysis' on pages 96-98 of Ofgem's 2013 report [J].
The Electricity Capacity Assessment Study has provided a key input to       government policy on security of electricity supply.
It has also been a       major source of information to the public on security of supply risks over       the coming years, and a key source of evidence to the electricity industry       and NGOs in the wider public debate on energy security.
The model development and calculations for the 2012 Capacity Assessment       Study were carried out between November 2011, and 1 June 2012 when       National Grid's report on the technical modelling was submitted to Ofgem.
The statutory report from Ofgem to DECC [A] was published on 5 October       2012.
The BBC News story published that same day [B] illustrates how the       report immediately entered the public debate, as does the article [C] from       Page 4 of the following day's Guardian.
The impact on government policy is seen through its citation in DECC's       2012 Statutory Security of Supply Report to Parliament [D], in the DECC       documentation providing updates on Electricity Market Reform process in       November 2012 [E], and through numerous other mentions in Parliamentary       and Government documents and submissions e.g.
[F].
Its wider impact in the       public debate on energy policy is further illustrated by its citation by       non-governmental organisations such as Friends of the Earth [G] and the       WWF [H].
Its key position in the thinking of Ofgem is demonstrated by its       citation by its Chief Executive in a major public speech [I].
The continuing impact of the underpinning research on the 2013 Capacity       Assessment Report [J], following its fundamental study in 2012, is       demonstrated by the citation of the paper [2] in an Appendix of National       Grid's 2013 report to Ofgem [N], and by the inclusion of new underpinning       research as Appendices in the same report [3].
The 2013 report's impact on       the wider public debate was greater still than in 2012, making front page       headlines in both the broadsheet (e.g.
[K]) and tabloid (e.g.
[L]) press,       [L] and further reports how Michael Fallon, Minister of State for Energy       and Climate Change, responded to the report on the previous day's BBC       Newsnight.
The Capacity Assessment Report's continuing critical influence on public       policy is demonstrated by its citation in DECC's Consultation on the draft       Electricity Market Reform Delivery Plan [M], in which the 2013 report is       cited on page 48 as a guide to the meaning of the Loss of Load Expectation       reliability index in practice.
This report further states that "The System       Operator (National Grid) will set out how much capacity to issue capacity       agreements for, in order to meet the reliability standard, and will       provide advice to the Secretary of State who will in turn take the       decision over how much capacity to procure", indicating a key role for       National Grid's and Durham's technical work on capacity assessment in the       running of a future capacity mechanism designed to ensure an appropriate       level of security of electricity supply in GB.
In a letter [P] to Dr.       Dent, the Economic Advisor at DECC confirms that "This analysis has been a       crucial piece of evidence in the policy making process."
Capacity Market (CM) and Electricity Market Reform (EMR)     The need for a Capacity Market in GB has been highlighted over the last       few years by a number of reports by Ofgem and DECC [B, C, I] which clearly       indicated the increasing risk of lights going out in GB before the end of       this decade due to insufficient investment in power generation capacity.
Lack of adequate generation capacity can have disastrous economic and       political consequences as the cost of any blackouts could be many billions       of pounds.
To address that concern the CM has been proposed as an       important part of the EMR package due to be implemented in 2014.
Bialek's particular contribution has been in relation to the penalty       regime for plants receiving payment through CM but which failed to deliver       during power shortages.
The initial proposal put forward by an eminent US       economist, Stephen Stoft, advising DECC, was that any plant failing to       deliver should be penalised whatever the reason for failure, i.e.
whether       it was due to a scarcity of generation or an unpredicted contingency due       for instance to a sudden tripping of large power stations.
That view was       strongly opposed by Bialek who pointed out that the proposed mechanism       would result in economic inefficiencies.
Consider a peaking generator,       i.e.
a generator that does not expect to operate 24/7 but only when the       price is high or when called on to operate by the System Operator (SO)       with a sufficient warning.
If a contingency counted as scarcity, then in       order to avoid penalties for non-delivery, the peaking generator would       have to be prepared to generate at a moment's notice, as contingencies can       happen at any time.
Thus the additional cost of its preparedness (manning       the plant, synchronising it, standing-by etc.)
would go up and the       consumers would have to pay more.
On the other hand, if a contingency did       not count as a scarcity event, then the peaking generator need only be       prepared to operate when warned by the SO.
The consequent heated debate between Bialek and Stoft was resolved in       Bialek's favour as the current view of DECC (subject to consultation) is       that penalties for non-delivering generators would be levied only if a       Capacity Market Warning has been issued at least 4 hours ahead of an       event.
The Head of Engineering at DECC, confirmed Bialek's contribution       [O].
Bialek's contribution gives a potential of saving millions of pounds       of unnecessary costs if peaking plants were required to operate at       moment's notice as in the original CM proposal.
