     The impact of this research is that profiled endwalls in turbomachinery       such as aircraft engines provide both economic and environmental benefits.
Durham's research has given manufacturers confidence to apply profiled       endwalls to engine representative test rigs and then into real products.
Without the underpinning research outlining the benefits in simple test       rigs these concepts would not have been put into production engines.
The early research (Outputs 1 &amp; 2) gave the industrial partner       (Rolls-Royce) confidence to apply this in cold flow engine test rigs (with       a running cost of around &#163;1M per test point) and then in aircraft engines       for sale (first application in the Trent 500 performance upgrade).
The       limits established by Durham University in the test campaign on aggressive       endwall geometries (Output 4) were incorporated into Rolls-Royce's       in-house design codes.
The environmental benefit of this research is via reduced fuel burn in       aircraft engines due to a 0.6% to 0.9% increase in turbine stage       efficiency.
The quantification of the level of improvement was obtained       from cold-flow full scale rig testing at Rolls-Royce.
This has been       translated into a saving of 1750 litres of fuel per flight from Zurich to       Singapore by Prof. Patrick Jenny, Institute of Fluid Dynamics at ETH.
A       similar order of magnitude effect can be estimated from Cumpsty's book       "Jet Propulsion" which quotes a 1.13% change in sfc for a 1% change in       high pressure turbine efficiency.
In financial terms the fuel saving on the Zurich to Singapore flight       equates to $1192 per flight.
If the route runs once per way in each       direction this gives annual fuel saving of around $870,160 per year.
In       carbon dioxide terms this equates to a 4448 kg reduction per trip using       the 2013 UK Government conversion factors published by DEFRA.
These       factors include other influences than simply the combustion process.
For       the route as a whole this is a reduction of 3247 tonnes.
The first application of profiled endwalls was the Trent 500 performance       improvement package applied to the A340 airframe.
The first new engine       with profiled endwalls was the Trent 900 for the Airbus A380.
Profiled       endwalls are now used as a routine design tool and are also applied on the       Trent 1000 (787 Airframe) and Trent XWB (A350 airframe).
As of April 2013 there have been fifty one A380 aircraft delivered with       Rolls-Royce engines for a total of 204 engines in service on that       airframe.
Rolls-Royce engines have been selected for 238 of Boeing 787       orders for a total of 476 engines and Rolls-Royce make the only powerplant       for the A350 which has 616 orders for a total of 1232 aircraft engines.
Each of which are more efficient as a result of the underpinning research.
Profiled endwalls can also potentially improve the efficiency of any       rotating machine and Rolls-Royce has also applied profiled endwalls to       stationary gas turbines used for pumping applications, the Avon engine.
This technology is offered as an upgrade kit for existing engines and       allows operators to reduce fuel burn whilst providing additional business       for the manufacturer.
A second important impact of this research has been to provide improved       products for industry and keep the products that UK industry offers at a       competitive efficiency level.
Rolls-Royce have also applied for patents       based directly on the results of Durham research e.g: Rolls-Royce plc.
Aerofoil members for a turbomachine.
Pat.
GB0704426.6, date lodged       08.03.2007, 2007.
Other engine manufacturers have sponsored research programmes on profiled       endwalls including Pratt and Whitney with Carleton University and MTU with       ETH Zurich and Stuttgart.
Although there is no direct link between Durham       and these organisations the presentation of the Durham and Rolls-Royce       work at conferences has led to a worldwide impact.
