     Since 2003, a DUBS spin off company, The Virtual Centre (VC) &#8212;       established under the guidance of Gibb &#8212; has been the main pathway for the       impact of this research.
It is through the VC that the educational       materials have been delivered to clients all over the world (http://www.virtual-centre.net/index.php?uid=5,       and see Evidence 1).
The VC is a private limited company (15%       University-owned), and specialises in the design, development and delivery       of software specifically for learning processes relating to enterprise and       entrepreneurship.
Schools and other organizations subscribe to the VC in       order to use the platform and get access to the materials.
The managing       director of the VC, Tony Coyle, was employed as a Senior Programme Tutor       [Learning Technologies] at DUBS from 06/06/1994 to 01/10/2007.
He was also       a member of the Small Business Centre throughout this period and worked       alongside Gibb, to design, update and produce new enterprise educational       manuals based upon DUBS research.
Supported by Gibb, Coyle also delivers       the training of teachers in the use of the manuals.
Between 2008 and 2013 teaching material for an enterprising model of       learning has been available for the following subjects in UK schools:       Maths, English, Technology, Geography, History (Evidence 2).
There have       also been a wide range of bespoke educational manuals produced for many       international clients (Evidence 2).
Typically each manual contains a       description of "What is meant by the enterprising approach?"
i.e.
it uses       the same terminology as References 1-3.
Each manual is approximately 80       pages long and includes (for UK manuals) details of how the enterprising       approach can be incorporated into practical sessions that link to the       national curriculum (Evidence 3).
The following five examples show the       significance of the impact on educational practice that has occurred due       to DUBS research during the REF period.
1) UK Schools: Between 2008 and 2013, approximately 130,000       children from over 500 Schools in the UK have accessed the teaching       materials that have been developed from the enterprise model of education       (for the list of schools see Evidence 4).
According to Evidence 5,       "Altogether, with an absolute minimum of 10 `hits' per year for the       130,000 children, this brings a total of around 1.3m [hits] per year.
Basically, hits in this context include files uploaded (including       discussions).
Our largest user in 2010 was...Durham Sixth Form College,       which managed 100,000 up-loads [by individual children] per year".
As       retired senior inspector for Gateshead Education Authority (retired 2013)       explains in Testimonial 1: "It is against a background of innovation and       excellence that Gateshead Education Authority has collaborated with Durham       Business School, the Centre for Entrepreneurship and the Virtual       Centre...Gateshead brought a detailed knowledge and practitioner expertise       of the requirements of personalised teaching and learning strategies,       tracking recording and reporting.
This assisted the university team to       enhance their underpinning pedagogy in relation to current National       Curriculum requirements, VAK [visual, audio and kinesthetic], Personal       Learning and Thinking Skills and Social and Emotional Aspects of Learning.
While the LA [Local Authority] and CLC [City Learning Centre] benefited       through CPD [continuing professional development] in cross, intra and       extra-curricular enterprise education methodology and a library of       resources, which are essential in all phase of education from early years       and primary schools to special and secondary schools."
Thus, impact was       felt across a range of Schools in the UK in this way, as the enterprise       model was used to deliver education to a significant number of children.
2) Tanzanian Institute of Education: A similar programme to the       UK's is currently being undertaken on behalf of the Tanzanian Institute of       Education within the country's primary and secondary schools.
The pathway       to the impact of Durham research in this case started with a study tour of       the UK in 2011.
This tour involved six senior delegates from the Tanzanian       Institute, studying the DUBS model of enterprise education via the VC for       all levels and types of schools/colleges.
The associated training course       they undertook on the tour (delivered by Coyle and based upon References       1-3) focused upon the country's senior education managers, who then are       responsible for training teachers and lecturers throughout their       respective education systems, using the methods, materials and resources       underpinned by Durham research and made available through the VC platform.
These include four manuals (each approximately 150 pages long) detailing       `Primary Enterprise', `Secondary Enterprise', `Business Enterprise' and       `Embedding Enterprise in Education' that act as learning resources for       children and teachers (Evidence 6).
The popular `duck production' exercise       (a fun way of teaching via the enterprise model) used widely in the       educational programmes in the UK, is one of a number of features (Evidence       3 and 6).
As Testimonial 1 suggests Gateshead were also involved: "in       2011, we were able to showcase 8 of our schools' Enterprise Education       expertise when another delegation from the Tanzanian Institute of       Education visited the authority."
The Tanzanian project's own targets for       2011-2015 (Evidence 2) are that the programme will train: 20 National       curriculum developers; 400 primary and secondary teachers (working in 40       schools) and therefore have impact on 8,000 learners &#8212; all of whom will be       trained in the enterprise model of education elaborated in References 1-3.
3) Slovenian entrepreneurial education project: In       this project the training of the trainers (also delivered by Coyle) took       place before 2008, but the latest evidence provided (Evidence 7), shows       that between 2008 and 2013, 103 Slovenian Vocational Educational and       Training schools have offered courses based on the enterprise model (out       of a total of 129 similar schools in the whole country) &#8212; courses that are       modelled on References 1-3.
As Evidence 7 suggests about a specific       example of the impact of DUBS research: "In 2009, from January to June, 15       teachers from VET [the Slovenian National Institute for Vocational       Education and Training] schools from health and social care and from       chemistry schools were trained to introduce entrepreneurship.
The       materials [based on Durham research]: `Working for Myself' and       `Experiencing the Entrepreneurial Way of Life' were used to prepare and       support teacher's...awareness of the culture of enterprising teaching and       learning" (Evidence 7).
4) Samara, Russia: Here the DUBS enterprise education manuals are       used by the International Market Institute for seminars for school       principals and teachers.
On the basis of 50-60 people trained per year       from 2008, "around 300 teachers from around 100 schools of Samara... were       trained with many elements of entrepreneurial education" (Testimonial 2).
5) Application in universities: Finally, although References 1-3       were primarily concerned with educational programmes in schools, similar       concepts have also been widely applied in universities within at least       three countries in the REF period.
Thus, the impact of DUBS research can       be seen, for example, in Indonesia.
Bogor University of Agriculture's       programme is heavily based upon the Durham concepts and materials.
Delivery is underway to meet 2011- 15 targets of training 40 staff and 400       students directly through the enterprise model, and `the whole university       indirectly' (Evidence 2).Similar projects are also being carried out       within 13 newly established universities in Ethiopia between 2011 and       2015; four Liberian universities between 2012 and 2018 (Evidence 2).
In summary, DUBS research concerning the enterprise approach to education       has both reach and significance.
The reach can be demonstrated by the fact       that the model has been applied in at least seven countries during the REF       period and at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education.
As       senior inspector for Gateshead Education Authority puts it in Testimonial       1: `Enterprise Education should be a critical component of every child's       education whether in Gateshead, the UK or any country of the world.'
The       significance can be shown by the numbers of teachers trained in the       approach since 2008 &#8212; a minimum of 775 &#8212; who can then go on to teach       children using the enterprise approach.
The impact on the children       themselves can be demonstrated, in part, by the hits on the various       Virtual Centre website platforms (estimated to be 10 million hits in total       on the relevant platforms within the VC since 2008 &#8212; Evidence 5).
Finally,       versions of the manuals have been widely used since the 1980s and since       then have continued to be revised and used by hundreds of schools across       the world during the REF period.
This being the case in itself shows both       the reach and significance of the impact of DUBS research in to enterprise       education.
