     Pathway to impact on GIF characteristics     DUBS research was influential, in large part, because of Stone's central       involvement in the GIF policy development process, working with UKCES       officers as Visiting Research Fellow.
As is explained by testimony from       assistant director of UKCES, UKCES's role was `to advise government on       collective policy levers that might enhance employer investment in skills'       (See Testimonial 1).
Stone was appointed Fellow at UKCES in 2008(-2011),       specifically to work on the GIF policy, because of his previous research       (Reference 3) and his ability to apply Gibb's research.
He was thus       himself a principal pathway through which DUBS research had       impact.
Specifically, this `hands-on' role included: the provision of       research advice and expert briefings, undertaking more detailed       investigations on practical issues of implementation arising out of the       work, participation in consultation events, and co-authorship of the       policy report to the Minister at the Department of Business, Innovation       &amp; Skills, setting out and justifying the design of the GIF itself.
This included, for example, the setting of funding criteria and the       design of a pilot scheme.
(Stanfield C, Sloan J, Cox A &amp; Stone I, Review         of Employer Collective Measures: Final Report, Evidence Report 10,       November 2009, UKCES, Wath-on-Dearne and London, iv + 67pp, for the       Minister at the Department of Business, Innovation &amp; Skills.
Available       at       http://www.ukces.org.uk/assets/ukces/docs/publications/evidence-report-10-employer-collective-measures-final-report.pdf).
This       report summarised the policy research programme and synthesises a large       body of evidence &#8212; including citing Reference 3.
It presents an analysis       of the policy options and concludes that the focus of policy should be       employer networks developed via a competitive fund on a pilot basis, while       also recognising the potential for certain other mechanisms to be used in       specific circumstances or for future consideration.
The principal       recommendations of the report were subsequently adopted in Government       policy in the form of the GIF.
Stone's contribution to this report was to       ensure that it incorporated DUBS research on this topic.
According to the       then Director of Research and Policy at UKCES:     GIF was strongly evidence-led and was underpinned by an extensive       research and policy analysis programme on "collective measures" to ensure       effective investments.
Professor Stone played a sustained, influential and       pivotal role in both the development and, unusually, implementation of       GIF/Best Market Solutions, through his initial research and       on-going engagement with the policy and its delivery.
[His] impact has       been considerable, both indirectly (on staff thinking) and directly (on       the form and content of the policy).
This was a function both of his       research work and his on-going support and follow through (See Testimonial       2).
This pathway role is demonstrated through two of Stone's activities as       UKCES Visiting Fellow.
First, he visited Canada and undertook interviews       and further detailed research into how the Federal Government implemented       its network solution to the problem, on the basis of which he influenced       the detail of implementation relating to GIF [UKCES internal working       paper, `Canada's Workforce Skills Initiative', 6 June 2009].
Second, he undertook additional research (via interviews) into how skills       networks could be formulated to conform to constraints posed by other       government initiatives, notably the existing Business Collaborative       Networks framework and Simplification Agenda (Evidence 1).
UKCES also       subsequently contracted Professor Stone to prepare a paper summarising his       2008 Report (Reference 3) &#8212; which it published specifically to disseminate       his findings to policy-makers during the period when the policy       recommendations were under discussion in government (see OECD report       mentioned in references to research:       http://www.oecd.org/cfe/leed/Skills%20Workshop%20Background%20report_Stone.pdf)     Impact on GIF characteristics     DUBS research influenced the nature of GIF itself &#8212; specifically, the       adoption of an employer network model (`more and better employer       networks' &#8212; see also References 1 and 2) based on the `employer ownership'       principle, as opposed to traditional top-down government training support       programmes.
GIF has an allocated budget of &#163;50m per year from 2012-13,       leveraging annually a further &#163;50m in matched private resources       [http://www.ukces.org.uk/gif/].
Durham research was integral in the design       of this competitive funding mechanism to encourage firms, especially small       firms, to work together to facilitate skills development.
Employers form       training networks funded by the government via a competitive process with       matching contributions from employers.
In a variant of the Canadian       approach, GIF also involves a piloting system to facilitate `policy       learning' and to fine-tune funding criteria in light of evolving       experience.
The respective merits of a variety of models were systematically assessed       in the policy development process led by UKCES on behalf of government &#8212; including networks, levies and occupational licensing, and more       `individualistic' solutions around accounting standards and Investors in       People.
In spite of the fact that Stone's research &#8212; and that of the       broader research programme conducted as part of the policy review &#8212; showed       the advantages of network solutions over the alternatives, particularly       for small firms, the UKCES CEO hesitated to sanction this novel       recommendation to the Minister.
As email correspondence (Evidence 2)       confirms, it was only following an internal document prepared specifically       for the Directors by Professor Stone, making the case largely on the basis       of his original research findings, that official sanction was forthcoming       for what became the central feature of GIF.
UKCES director for this       project stated in testimony: Stone's internal `report's findings had a       shaping influence upon the design of our research programme, and       ultimately on the policy adopted.
The central ideas, relating to the use       of business networks to overcome barriers to training (especially among       smaller businesses), and the practical means by which such a system could       be delivered, both identified and discussed in his initial research, were       key themes in the final policy' (Testimonial 1).
DUBS research thus ensured that UK policy was appropriately informed in       terms of conceptual empirical research, which might not have been the case       otherwise.
This led to important impacts on the policy actually adopted.
Thus DUBS research:            Ensured that the policy emphasised the employer network model;       Identified particular mechanisms to implement this model (the notion         of a competitive fund, operated initially on a pilot basis), and showed         how they might be practically incorporated into policy &#8212; in particular,         how they could be deployed given the constraints of the government's         Business Collaborative Networks framework and Simplification Agenda;       Was active in influencing the policy outcome so that less suitable         policy alternatives (most notably occupational licensing, changes to         accounting standards and IiP variants), were downgraded as policy         options.
As Strategy &amp; Research Director, UKES suggests, `[Stone] was engaged,       then, from research to policy to funding.
His contribution was certainly       impactful and unusual, in its direct, sustained and detailed contribution       to skills policy and delivery' (Testimonial 2).
Impact of GIF itself     Since 2011, the GIF has been delivering benefits in terms of training and       creating a better-skilled workforce.
The UK Government has so far invested       &#163;111m in 124 projects with 36 different organisations.
This sum has been       matched by &#163;103m of employer investment (Evidence 3).
The impact of the       policy can already be seen in the quantity of training and funds provided       under GIF awards (details also available at GIF website).
An example of       impact in terms of actual skills development is the Renewable Training       Network (RTN), a &#163;1.2m project with over 600 member firms for provision of       2,000 new `transition' training positions by end-2013.
Testimony 3, from       RTN, confirms the effectiveness of the model, particularly with respect to       encouraging training in the many SMEs among its membership.
Final data on       training numbers are not yet publicly available, but the Head of RTN       confirms that `in spite of the depressed economic climate... we are making       significant progress in delivering the target numbers agreed with the       government' (testimonial 3) and that, on the basis of experience during       the pilot, RTN will continue operating (and indeed will grow) the network       beyond the GIF funding period.
Other interesting 1st round investments funded as GIF pilots include: the       Hospitality Guild (by People First, aiming to have 300 SMEs among its       members and to broker 500 new apprenticeships by 2014); SME Gold Standard       Skills (by Cogent, to recruit 1000 SMEs into its network by 2017, with       each spending &#163;100 more per employee); Talent Bank (by EU Skills,       committed to support 400 new energy sector apprenticeships and 400 highly       skilled technicians by 2014); and Group Training Association (by Skills       Active, aiming to increase the number of sport and leisure apprentices       among small businesses, from 11,000 to 18,000 per year) (Evidence 4).
