     Since 2010, DUBS research has been applied to improve levels of trust       and/or repair trust inside several major organisations, in the form of       training workshops and specially commissioned practitioner-oriented       reports on trust distributed and adopted by clients.
The reach of the       impact is demonstrated by the range of national and international       organizations (in the UK, Sunderland City Council and RHP; and in       continental Europe, UBS), which have procured training workshops for their       staff.
The significance of the impact is demonstrated by many participants       having reported that they fundamentally changed their practices in       relation to trust building and repair as a result of the workshops.
In       addition, the Institute of Business Ethics commissioned and published two       reports based on the research.
1) Sunderland City Council (SCC)       Dietz held four training workshops at SCC between December 2011 and       December 2012.
These workshops presented the theory and empirical evidence       for trust dynamics (both trust-building and trust repair), based directly       on References 1, 2 and 4.
The workshops also reflected the content in the       training manuals and reports produced for the Institute of Business Ethics       (see below).
There were three sessions, each with 35 members of staff,       from their Department for Transformations (twice), and their Leadership       Academy, and a separate session for the 10 council executives.
The       significance of the impact here was measured through post-training surveys       which demonstrated how staff think and act differently following the       workshops.
On 15 April 2013, 42 participants had replied to the survey       (Evidence 1): on trust-building, 80.9% said that they had transferred       insights (i.e.
theory and knowledge) gained in the course back into their       work, and 85.6% said they had transferred tips and techniques (i.e.
behaviours and actions) back into their work.
On trust repair, 85.7% said       that they had transferred insights, and 78.5% said that they had       transferred tips and techniques, back into their work.
66.7% said that       they have changed their behaviour and ways of working (e.g.
dealing with       people, doing tasks) as a result of taking the course.
Furthermore, in       April 2013, SCC's Director of HR and OD said: "Being part of the research       enabled us as an organisation and individuals to be able to "hold a       mirror" up to yourself and to question what is being undertaken and the       areas for further improvement.
This has been of particular value in us       understanding the concept of trust within the organisation and being able       to see what we need to do in the future to further enhance levels of       trust.
It is also important to acknowledge that participating in research       has raised the profile and reputation of the council."
(Testimonial 1).
2) Richmond Housing Partnership (RHP)       Similar trust workshops were also delivered for RHP, which manages over       10,000 properties in South West London.
They identified the need for       enhanced trust among the various teams that co-ordinate letting, rents,       facilities, and many other areas so that relationships between tenants and       landlords and RHP would be perceived as high in satisfaction.
They       commissioned 10 workshops for the entire workforce of around 250 between       April and July 2012.
The participant feedback demonstrates the impact of       the workshops in terms of staff satisfaction and transfer of learning.
Over 90% found the training effective and, on a 1-5 Likert scale (with 5       being strongly agree), staff scored the statement, "I will use what I have       learnt in my role" at 4.21 (Evidence 2, p. 6).
In addition, aspects of the       organisation (e.g.
various operating procedures and reporting structures)       identified during the workshops as blocking the development of trust have       been addressed by RHP's senior management.
RHP created its own follow-up       refresher training programme in March-April 2013.
This demonstrates the       ongoing influence of the workshops on operations and policy design and       shows how significant the impact of the research was within the       organisation, helping to develop resources to enhance professional       practice within the organization.
As Head of Communications at RHP       suggested: `The trust workshops helped us to step up our game in       terms of being more transparent with information.
If any major change is       occurring in the organisation (even if it's only affecting one employee       group) we think ahead more in terms of communicating what's going to be       happening and the reasons why.
This has really reduced those water cooler       moments where myths get created about what's going on and why.
We've also       used a similar concept for building trust with our customers &#8212; upping our       social medial strategy with regular tweets and Facebook updates about       things affecting our customers' (Testimonial 2).
3) UBS       Dietz was hired to provide ten trust workshops for the multi-national       banking institution UBS, between July and September 2010.
The workshops       were delivered to 250 senior directors and executive directors across the       European divisions (City of London and Zurich).
Following his workshops,       at the HR Directors' conference in Birmingham in January 2012 (a national       event for senior HR leaders across the country) UBS publicly stated       (according to slides presented by the head of HR at UBS, [Evidence 3])       that the training had `led to practical interventions for developing         awareness of trust dynamics, and using trust dynamics to build better         relationships...and enhance performance'.
Indeed, graphs in UBS's       same presentation linked the DUBS trust training to improving performance       of its bankers in wealth management and investment banking, playing a key       role in producing net new money (see Evidence 3).
4) Shaping of Best Practice through Training Reports     i) Institute for Business Ethics (IBE)       A further key impact of the research has been on influencing professional       bodies to define best practice and in informing and stimulating       practitioner debate.
The IBE commissioned Dietz and Gillespie to write two       specially created reports in 2011, based on their theoretical models set       out in Reference 1.
The first report was sponsored in full by Price       Waterhouse Coopers (PwC), in recognition of its credibility and its       anticipated impact on the industry debate on trust, ethics and regulation.
The report summarised the theory and practical techniques of trust arising       out of Dietz's Durham research outlined above, and now acts as a guide for       organizations wishing to improve or restore organizational trust: Dietz,       G. &amp; Gillespie, N. (2011).
Building and Restoring Organizational       Trust.
Institute of Business Ethics.
http://ibe.org.uk/userfiles/trust_execsumm.pdf       In Testimonial 3, the IBE Director said: "This excellent publication was       very timely in its publication and has been widely distributed to the       IBE's international subscriber base; through publication sales and free       distribution.
Over 600 copies have to date been distributed ...
It is and       has been used in IBE's own core training courses, public presentations,       and in-house corporate training and workshops.
Examples include       presentations to the Lord Mayor's Initiative (now known as the City Values       Forum), with the Reputation Institute, and companies such as British Gas,       ACC and ASB in New Zealand, Borouge in Abu Dhabi and FT Orange in France       and Romania...
This publication has been used by the IBE in its advisory       work to help corporates understand by unpicking the language of trust.
It       has made an important contribution as a consequence."
The second report       provided six case studies of effective trust repair, which was serialised       in The Guardian (http://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/rebuild-restore-recover-trust-         business/print), and formed the basis of IBE-sourced press coverage:       Dietz, G. &amp; Gillespie, N. (2012).
The Recovery of Trust: Six case         studies of organisational failures and successful trust repair.
Institute of Business Ethics.
http://www.ibe.org.uk/index.asp?upid=121&amp;msid=8#OP5     ii) PWC       PwC have adopted the report internally as part of their internal thought       leadership, and the IBE Director, endorsed the report at an event for the       Lord Mayors Initiative in July 2011, when around 250 City managers and       Directors attended.
She also spoke at the PwC Fraud Academy discussion on       Trust, attended by around 100 people (Testimonial 3).
iii) Lloyds Banking Group       Arising out of his report for the IBE and Reference 1, Dietz was invited       by a leading corporate ethics consultancy, The Virtuous Circle, to sit on       the review panel for Lloyds Banking Group's ongoing efforts to improve its       reputation for `responsible business' (i.e.
trustworthiness).
Dietz's       Durham research on trust (especially References 1 and 4) provided the       analytical framework for the panel's review, as confirmed by the Director       of The Virtuous Circle in his testimonial: "An important element of       [Dietz's] contribution was to provide the framework (based on his trust       research) from which we could define the behaviours that stakeholders       would expect of a UK based bank.
This framework was instrumental in       setting the basis for the panel's further discussions about LBG's       responsible business approach, and the extent to which it reflected       expectations of a trustworthy bank" (Testimonial 4).
The influence of       Dietz's research is evident in the panel's external assurance statement to       Lloyds (see Evidence 4), and from the commentary from Lloyds on the       panel's influence on their work: "The panel's comments on the various       drafts of the Responsible Business report were adopted by LBG for its       final published report.
It is relevant to note that LBG's comment on the       contributions of all the panel members was that they were "excellent" (see       Testimonial 4).
Dietz has been re-appointed to the panel for 2013.     iv) CIPD       Finally, Dietz was involved in the primary research and production of a       report on trust and HRM, entitled "Where has the Trust Gone?
", for the       Chartered Institute of Personal Development (CIPD), which was published in       March 2012 http://www.cipd.co.uk/hr-resources/research/where-trust-         gone.aspx.
This report drew on References 1, 2, 4 and 5 in       particular.
It was launched and published in March 2012, and on 10 May       2013 had received 2,161 downloads and 4,879 page views (Evidence 5).
As a       result of this report, Dietz has presented a series of workshops on trust,       in London to the CIPD (North London and Central London) and the national       ICSA conference for Company Secretaries, and to the Further Education       Regional Research Network in Scotland.
