     Informing Governance and Regulation: Islamic Financial Services is       one of the fasted growing       components of international finance, Shari'ah-compliant assets growing       globally from $400 billion       to $1,130 billion between 2009-13.
Ethical investment vehicles have grown       in popularity in the       wake of the global financial crisis, and Islamic financial products are       being offered in many       countries and by Islamic and conventional finance providers.
As the sector       develops to meet       demand, systems for its regulation and governance have become a major       issue within national and       global contexts, complicated by the absence of any globally-recognised       supreme Islamic authority.
The research done at the Durham Centre for Islamic Economics and Finance       has fed directly into       the sector's emerging regulatory and governance frameworks.
For example,       Professor Wilson was       recruited by the Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB) in 2009 as a key       consultant in the       production of a report guiding governance of Shari'ah compliance in the       regulation of Islamic       financial organisations.
The IFSB is an international standards-setting       organisation, made up of       regulatory and supervisory bodies, which issues prudential standards and       guiding principles for       banking, capital markets and insurance.
Wilson participated in five IFSB       Shari'ah Governance       Working Group Meetings and subsequently contributed to authoring The         Guiding Principles on         Shari'ah Governance Systems for Institutions Offering Islamic Financial         Services (E1).
The report       provided benchmarks for best practice in sector governance which are       promoted on the basis of       `comply or explain`.
In October 2012 the Asian Development Bank signed a       five-year agreement       with the IFSB which will see the ADB supporting its 187 members (banks,       law firms and regulatory       institutions) in meeting the legal and regulatory aspects of these IFSB       standards, effectively       endorsing them as the principal set of international benchmarks and       standards of governance.
The       agreement extends the influence of the IFSB, which is dominated by       regulatory bodies and private       institutions in more developed countries, into less developed countries       where the ADB has a       stronger presence.
The ADB has established an initial $750,000 technical       assistance fund to help       implement the standards in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh and       Indonesia.
In assessing       Professor Wilson's contribution, the Special Envoy to the President of the       World Bank and member       of the World Bank Special Task Force on Islamic Finance, notes "the       contributions of Professor       Rodney Wilson's seminal work to the development of the global Islamic       finance research.
Through       his research, the study of Islamic Finance has deepened significantly.
Professor Wilson's       contribution provided a solid founation for the development of the global       regulatory standards for       the industry" (E2).
The CEO of Edbiz Consulting (a global Shari'ah       advisory company) and the       editor of industry magazine, Islamic Finance Review, has described       how leading industry       organisations such as the IFSB or the Bahrain-based Accounting and       Auditing Organisation for       Islamic Financial Institutions have "directly or indirectly incorporated       the research conducted by       Durham staff in drawing governance, accounting, auditing and Shari'ah       standards.
In this way,       Durham University has been on the forefront of developments in Islamic       Banking and Finance       around the world".
(E3).
One example of this work is the annual       roundtable held jointly by the       International Shari'ah Research Academy (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia), the       Islamic Research and       Training Institute (Islamic Development Bank, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia) and       Durham staff.
Starting in       2011 in Durham, and subsequently taking place in Kuala Lumpur and Jeddah,       these bring leading       Shari'ah scholars, key industry figureheads and Durham staff together to       deliberate issues       surrounding governance and institutionalisation in the sector,       subsequently informing institutional       policy.
The Special Advisor on Business and Economy Affairs to the       Secretary General of the       Muslim Council of Britain comments on the importance of Professor Wilson's       research in informing       regulatory bodies in countries such as Morroco and Qatar (E8).
Building capacity in the Islamic Financial Services Sector:       Research by Durham staff has fed       directly into the training of professional staff in the Islamic Finance       and conventional banking       sectors in three ways.
Firstly, Durham staff have drawn upon their research in delivering the       Durham Centre for Islamic       Economics and Finance annual Summer School (DIFSS), an executive training       course for existing       and aspiring sector professionals.
Initiated in 2007, DIFSS has trained       over 400 participants from       the Far East, Middle East, South and South East Asia, Europe, Australia,       Africa and the USA.
An       on-line survey conducted in Spring 2013 found that between 2008 and 2012,       94 individuals already       employed in the financial sector attended the events, and a further 64 are       known to have since       moved into professional employment in the sector.
Responses described the       course as an       "absolutely essential contribution to the industry", as being "well-known       worldwide for its major       influence and contribution in the development of the Islamic Finance       industry" and as being "very       important to develop relationships between Islamic bankers, academics and       students" (E4).
One       respondent noted that "The role of DCIEF in the development of human       resources of the Islamic       finance and banking industry is worldwide", another that "DIFSS is helping       to improve human       resources of the Islamic Finance sector in general" and another that       "Durham's academic       leadership is of paramount important in developing human resources of the       IF sector" (reiterated in       E8).
One key impact is the building of unique professional networks       bringing industry figures       together with shari'ah scholars.
The CEO of Al-Fajr Capital Group (one of       the world's largest       private Islamic Financial Investment Groups) describes the event as "a       landmark event in the       Islamic Finance industry's calendar" which "has contributed immensely to       the professional       development and training of Islamic bankers, financial analysts, lawyers       and regulators.....Through       these interactions, many opportunities are created for British firms and       British companies to do       more business with the Islamic Finance world... Durham University has       contributed uniquely to the       growth and development of the human capital of the Islamic Finance       industry and I have no       hesitation in saying this is one of the most unique and important       programmes supporting the       growth and evolution of the Islamic Finance industry and building goodwill       for the United Kingdom       (E5).
Global Islamic Review stated "Those who have attended       various DIFSS trainings over the       last seven years have benefitted from in-depth analysis of Islamic banking       and finance from both       an academic as well as practitioner's viewpoints" (E6)     Training activities have been extended to partnerships with professional       and sector organisations.
For example, Rodney Wilson has delivered regular (2 or more per year)       training for private firms       such as Euromoney Legal Training and Central Banking since 2008 on courses       targeted at in-house       lawyers, Islamic finance professionals, international bankers and       financiers, lawyers in       private practice, asset and fund managers, venture capitalists, compliance       officers, investment       advisers and leasing professionals.
Wilson, Asutay and Ahmed have all       delivered training for       industry professionals through The Islamic Research and Training Institute       of the Islamic       Development Bank (based in Saudi Arabia), the International Shari'ah       Research Academy in       Malaysia, Kyoto University in Japan, the Chartered Institute of Management       Accountants, and the       International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (a Malaysia-based       university offering       professional qualifications in Islamic Finance).
A partnership between the       DCIEF, Hawkamah       Institute of Corporate Governance for the MENA Region and Dar al-Sharia'ah       Legal and Financial       Consultancy in Dubai, delivers an annual training programme targeting       professionals in the finance       industry which addresses Islamic Securitization, Sukuk Structures and         Documentation (September       2011, April 2012, May 2013).
The theme and content of this workshop       reflect Habib Ahmed's       research on Islamic financial product development, setting the terms of       reference for product       development in the sector.
A 2012 Workshop Survey found that all       participants from the Financial       Service sector would recommend the workshop to colleagues and the       programme had an 84%       satisfaction rate.
(E7 ).
Industry training on Business Ethics and Corporate Social         Responsibility was co-organised with the       Society for Economic Entrepreneurship and Business Ethics (IGIAD) in       Turkey (Istanbul, April       2011), attracting 37 professional participants (49.33% of attendees) and       reflecting the research       which Wilson and Asutay have pioneered in the ethical philosophy of       Islamic finance and its       practical implementation.
Award for Contribution to Profession     The quality of training provided by Durham staff was recognised in 2012       through the Global Islamic       Finance Award for their contribution to human development and education in       the sector.
These       awards, sponsored by the Asian Institute of Finance, "celebrate the       achievements of individuals       and institutions in strengthening and advancing the industry".
