     This recognised expertise led legal firms engaged in asylum cases to       approach Davidson to act as an expert witness.
Sections from his books (R1,       R2, and R3) and information from the journal articles (R4,         R5 and R6) were included and updated in the expert witness       reports provided by Davidson over the REF period.
In one case of       particular importance, Christopher Davidson provided three expert witness       reports in 2009.
This was Britain's longest running extradition case, and       one which had far-reaching implications.
Mohammed Lodhi, a Pakistani national, was arrested in the UK in 2000 on       an extradition warrant issued by the UAE for alleged drugs-related       offences in Dubai.
The High Court initially granted extradition and       rejected a petition on human rights grounds.
It agreed to a judicial       review, the process by which the High Court can test that the exercise of       public power on       an individual is lawful.
The review in 2009 was the first major test of       the 2008 extradition treaty between the UK and UAE.
Davidson was recruited       as an expert witness by Lodhi's solicitors, Corker Binning, and his       reports drew attention to the use of torture in the UAE and the risk that       a person's race or nationality could prejudice the outcome of a trial in       Dubai.
He also highlighted a pre-existing dispute, between an UAE ruling       family member and the defendant, which was likely to prevent a fair trial       from taking place.
Davidson's contributions included sections taken from       his publications.
He expanded on this material by conducting fresh       research, arguing that the details of the case demonstrated the UAE's lack       of a human rights culture and the prospect that elite members of society       could interfere in the judicial process.
Lodhi died of natural causes shortly after the review hearing but the       Court decided to proceed with its judgment because of its significance.
The judgement, issued in March 2010 (E1), quoted Davidson's       references to a `sheikhly dispute' and agreed it was possible that Lodhi       had fallen victim to such a circumstance.
Further paraphrasing Davidson's       report, the judges added: `The frequency and extent of the breaches [of a       right not to be tortured] which has arisen for others involved in this       case... have led us to the conclusion that they cannot sufficiently       diminish the real risk... that were Mr Lodhi to be extradited to the UAE       his [right not to be tortured] would be breached before trial, or during       imprisonment after conviction.'
The Court noted that Davidson's evidence       was `essentially unchallenged'.
The Court then quashed the extradition       order on the basis that Lodhi's Article 3 rights (protection from torture,       inhuman and degrading treatment; the most significant rights enshrined in       the ECHR) were in danger.
Judgment was not appealed.
Corker Binning       described the case as `an historic victory' and described Davidson's       reports as `an extremely important evidential plank'.
The significance of the case is summed up by a partner in Corker Binning,       who says in a letter dated 6 June 2012 (E2 ): `The judgement was         important in legal terms.
This was for three principal reasons.
First,         to win an extradition case on human rights grounds is extremely         rare....Second, the judgement was &#8212; and remains &#8212; the only detailed         legal analysis of the UAE's criminal justice system that exists in         English law.
Third, as this was the first extradition request made to         the UK by the UAE, the judgement dented the (then) relatively new         extradition treaty between the two countries.'
The international reach of the judgement is reflected in its use as a       reference point by other parties.
Australians for Extradition Justice       (AEJ), a group campaigning against ratification of an extradition treaty       between Australia and UAE, cited the Lodhi judgment in 2010 in       representations to the Australian government and in public statements (E3),       arguing that the terms of the proposed treaty did not offer the protection       that was afforded to Lodhi under the terms of the treaty between the UK       and the UAE.
Although the Australian government subsequently ratified the       treaty, AEJ won an important concession, in that the treaty was modified       to offer greater protection of human rights, along similar lines to the UK       treaty.
AEJ commented: "The Australian Government ... tabled an         important document in the Senate which must be used when considering         extradition to the UAE.
Publicising the Lodhi case was important in         achieving this outcome, which will make it much harder to extradite         somebody from Australia"(E3).
In the USA, attorneys for Zack Shahin, a US citizen detained in Dubai       since 2008 on disputed corruption charges, cited the details of the Lodhi       case (E4) when they called on the Secretary of State, Hilary       Clinton, to demand that the UAE review its procedures on how charges are       filed against expatriates.
The Lodhi case was further cited by Amnesty International, in its 2010       campaigning publication `Dangerous Deals' (E5), which drew       attention to dangers of European countries relying on diplomatic       assurances against the torture of people deported or extradited to       countries that do not adhere to the same human rights agreements.
The high       profile and significance of the Lodhi case is also reflected in the       extensive media coverage in the UK, for example the Financial Times and       the BBC (E6 and E7 below).
The Lodhi case further served as a point of reference in a more recent       case, a district judge denied a request from the UAE government for the       extradition of Mr Yasir Afsar, a British-Pakistani expatriate, after       considering a new expert evidence statement provided by Christopher       Davidson on 4 February 2013.
It is acknowledged here that the final       judgement for this case was not issued until 15 August 2013, and is beyond       the impact census date for this exercise.
However the defendant's       solicitors (Kaim Todner Associates) drew extensively on the previous case       and Davidson's new evidence in presenting their arguments during the       period January-July 2013 and a letter from these solicitors to Dr Davidson       (E8), confirms the importance of Davidson's contribution, stating       that the judge talked `at great length about your [Davidson's] evidence       and it was clear it was of great value in leading him to the conclusion       that he did'.
The judgement itself is presented as E9 below,       points 20,21,22 referring to the Lodhi case, points 22, 26 and 27       referring to Davidson's expert evidence statement).
