     Ehteshami's work with senior FCO officials draws on both specific outputs       listed above (R1-6) and on his academic standing as manifested through a       large body of research outputs, some co-produced with FCO staff, published       over many years.
Identifying the impact of specific research outputs and       specific scholars in a complex policy-making process is challenging,       especially where impact is upon a department like the FCO that produces       very little legislation and which is comparatively lightly scrutinised by       Parliament.
It is therefore notable that senior FCO officials such as the       Head of Research Analysts and the MENA Energy Adviser       identify Ehteshami's specific, contribution in terms of `two strands of       activity that particularly stand out' (E1) and `...specific pieces of       research/interventions that have not only informed the policy, but also       survived and shaped the policy outcome.'
(E2)     Asianisation of the Middle East and UK Energy policy     Impact in the qualifying period is rooted in R1, itself the outcome of a       joint FCO/Durham seminar, and R2, both specifically cited in E1.
The Head of the FCO Research Analysts notes (E1) that, `... the impact of       Prof Ehteshami's pioneering work has been strong and is continuing: the       interests of Russia and Asian countries (particularly China) in the Middle       East is now one of the main themes of Research Analysts' work.
... [T]his       intellectual leadership on Prof Ehteshami's part has established him as       someone whose expertise is indispensable to our thinking on this topic.'
The FCO MENA Energy Advisor identifies how Ehteshami's research in R1       has directly affected the UK's current International Energy Strategy: `The       importance attached to the historical and contemporary links between Asia       and the Middle East, as highlighted in the paper, were overlooked when       discussions over the IES first took place.
The historical relationship       between the UK/West and the GCC, in particular, led policy-makers to       believe that energy relations, for example, between Qatar and the UK,       would be served by shared experience and common commercial interests.
Professor Ehteshami's paper, however, highlighted not only the historical       importance of Asian and Middle East relations, but also charted the       re-orientation of GCC economic and energy policy towards Asia, most       notably China and South Korea.
This line of analysis was both informative       and persuasive and resulted in the IES recommending that the UK diversify       Liquified Natural Gas sources away from the Gulf and towards other       markets.'
Diversification of supply as an element of maintaining reliable energy at       a time of declining North Sea output and increasing reliance on gas       imports was a key theme of the 2007 Energy White Paper, `Meeting the       Energy Challenge' which has shaped UK energy policy throughout the       assessment period.
Similarly, the 2010 Strategic Defence and Security       Review, `Securing Britain in an Age of Uncertainty,' notes that the `UK       faces a range of risks related to our ability to access secure, diverse       and affordable supplies of energy, which are essential to economic       stability and growth.'
(E4 p.50) The UK should `give energy a       higher priority in UK foreign policy,' and, `reprioritise bilateral       diplomatic relationships, giving key supplier states a stronger focus.'
(E4       p.51) As E2 further notes: `[The] FCO's Policy Unit Strategy Paper       on Energy and Foreign Policy, which hitherto had neglected the importance       of Asianisation of the Middle East ... [now] included reinvigorating       energy relations between the UK and GCC ... and supporting UK-based       international oil companies (IOCs) in their bid to work with MENA national       oil companies (NOCs) within Asia.
The FCO has followed these       recommendations with vigour.'
This further reflects the emphasis in the       FCO `Business Plan, 2011-15' (November 2010) on `a more commercially       minded FCO' (E5, p. 5) stimulating business partnerships vital to       the UK national interest and that `We [the FCO] want the UK to be the       Gulf's commercial partner of choice.
'(E6)     Ehteshami has continued to provide the FCO with what the Head of Research       Analysts (E1) describes as `intellectual leadership', participating       in the MENA 2020 Seminar, co-hosted by British Embassy Beijing/China       Institute of International Studies, as a member of the FCO delegation in       September 2011.
Including an academic as a formal member of FCO       delegations is very unusual, reflecting the significance of this       relationship.
The MENA Energy Advisor (E2) picks out the impact of Ehtehsami's       work on Asianisation for the UK's first GCC Regional Economist via the FCO       workshop `The Impact of Asianisation of Energy Streams on Europe', which       Ehteshami helped organise.
This meeting, `...opened important doors at       leading academic institutions in each of the six [GCC] countries.
As a       result, the regional economist sends regular diplomatic cables, which       inform policy, replete with direct references to academic materials       written and recommended by Professor Ehteshami.
...
I can see a clear       correlation between Professor Ehteshami's continuing contribution towards       his analysis, which amounts to direct impact.
Moreover, the GCC Regional       Economist has recommended that we institutionalise the briefing process,       as he was able to deploy and begin reporting within record time.'
Iran     Iran's nuclear programme is at the centre of Ehteshami's relationship       with and impact upon the FCO, building on engagement pre-dating the       assessment period including provision of evidence in 2007 to Parliament's       Foreign Affairs Committee in its Global Security Enquiry and his briefing       of then Prime Minister Tony Blair in March 2006.
The 2010 UK National Security Strategy identifies an international       military crisis as a `Tier 1' (i.e.
most serious) risk, with `...the       desire of some states to acquire nuclear weapons capabilities increasing       the danger of escalating crises.'
(E7, pp.
27, 30) Iran is cited as       the key risk state (alongside North Korea) in the UK's `National       Counter-Proliferation Strategy, 2012-15' (E8, p. 2).
The UK is a       key member of the 6 party group leading diplomatic negotiations with Iran       on the issue, and in developing a global sanctions regime through the EU       and UN.
Ehteshami's outputs (R4-6) are directly cited by E1, with       E2 also identifying the role played by R3 in influencing UK       policy towards Iran.
These outputs, alongside three specific briefing       events between 2010 and 2012 are identified (E1) as having`...       been particularly important since the closure of our [UK] embassy in       Tehran' as `... an important source of corroboration, as access to       reliable data is scarce.'
E2 notes that Ehteshami's research       outputs and his bespoke presentations have, `fed specifically into the UK       government's wider calculations on how the Iranian government is likely to       respond to increased sanctions.
... Ehteshami's consistent argument that       the Supreme Leader and the instruments of state will not succumb to       sanctions pressure in its bid for nuclear status has fed directly into       policy discussions.
... Ehteshami's analysis has not only helped shape       aspects of the UK government's research agenda on Iran, but also the focus       of partner countries.
That is direct impact.'
In particular, the MENA Energy Advisor (E2) specifies that       `...Ehteshami's nuanced argument that pressure felt amongst those sections       of Iranian society living just above the average household income has the       greatest potential to influence the Iranian regime has set apart the UK       government's approach from its partners.
... .
Professor Ehteshami's       publications, bespoke presentations and briefings have had and continue to       have an impact on the policy-process.
His ideas, analysis and insights are       sought after and continue to inform policy.'
The testimonials provided by two senior figures explicitly establish that       Ehteshami's research, and his research-based engagements with them, have       impacted upon FCO thinking, strategy and policy through intellectual       leadership and contributions to specific policy documents.
The areas of UK       foreign policy discussed are of major significance to the UK's       international engagements and standing, as well as its security.
