     The research by L&amp;D has influenced policy on merger remedies made by       competition authorities       across Europe; specifically:            European Commission (DG Competition)       UK Competition Commission and Office of Fair Trading.
The focus here is on documented evidence of influence on merger remedy       guidelines - in       particular on the specification of licensing agreements used as a remedy       in mergers involving       Intellectual Property Rights.
This follows from research finding a) in       section 2.
It is highlighted       because L&amp;D's influence is clearly observable: the European Commission       (EC) incorporated their       recommendation into its 2008 guidelines.
The final revised `Notice on Merger Remedies' was published in October       2008 ([I] in section 5).
L&amp;D were the only respondents to comment on the inadequacy of       `reasonable and non-       discriminatory (RAND)' licensing in the draft guidelines [II].
In direct       response to L&amp;D's criticism,       backed by their detailed research of pharmaceuticals market, the draft       section 65 in the final Notice       was replaced by a requirement for precise formulas:     "It has to be further ensured that the terms and conditions under which       the licences are       granted do not impede the effective implementation of such a licence       remedy.
If no clearly       determined terms and conditions for the granting of licences exist in the       market at stake,       the terms and conditions, including the pricing, should be clearly       apparent from the       commitments (e.g.
by way of pricing formulas).
An alternative solution may       be to rely on       royalty-free licences."
Wording to this effect was also added to section       38.
In order to understand how this is a major impact, we trace how L&amp;D's       research came to the       attention of those responsible for determining EC policy.
The EC had       consulted on the revised draft       Notice on Merger Remedies [III].
Section 65 of the draft included the       following extract relating to       licensing terms:     "As regards the terms and conditions, it may be appropriate to rely on       commonly accepted       licensing terms in the industry at stake, i.e., if appropriate, on RAND as       used in some       standardisation processes".
L&amp;D's research had found that similar terms such as `adequate       compensation' and `normal and       non-discriminatory commercial conditions' "... are open to abuse leading       to ineffective remedies.
Much clearer guidance is necessary to determine commercial terms and       licence duration such that       competition will be fully restored" [4].
L&amp;D submitted evidence on this to the consultation ([IV]), with       extracts from [4] including:       "Insufficient attention was also paid in several cases to licensing terms,       concerning royalties,       arbitration, and duration.
While terms like `adequate compensation',       `supply the product at a price       which will ensure that the third party distributor can compete effectively       in the market', and `normal       and non-discriminatory commercial conditions' are referred to in       decisions, these are insufficient to       ensure an effective remedy."
The Commission draft [III] was changed in the final Notice [I] as a       result of the submission [IV]       based on L&amp;D's research published in [4].
The fact that this was a       direct result of L&amp;D's research is       corroborated by Dr Svend Albaek (adviser of the Chief Competition       Economist's Team in the       European Commission) in the extract reproduced in [a].
There is further       evidence that Commission       practice has actually changed to the benefit of consumers as a       result.
The required licensing       remedies must now be "irrevocable, exclusive and royalty free" (e.g.
merger cases Teva/Barr       M.5295; Abbott/Solvay M.5661).
While impact on UK competition guidelines is less straightforward to       document, it is no less       significant.
Lyons was a part-time member of the UK Competition Commission       (2002-11) and,       because of his research on merger remedies, was invited to be a founding       member of its       Remedies Standing Group (2002-06) and to join its Economics Advisory       Committee (2008-11).
During this period he was able to influence Commission thinking, and its       revised guidelines       (October 2008, [V]).
As a result, Lyons has input his research knowledge       into discussions and       commented on drafts prior to consultation.
This is acknowledged by Peter       Freeman CBE, QC,       Chairman of the Competition Commission 2006-11 in the extract reproduced       in [b].
Because of his research on merger remedies, Lyons was also invited to       give seminars on this topic       to competition authorities across Europe.
He disseminated his knowledge on       remedy design, and       likely influenced subsequent actions:            March 2006 - Central European Competition Initiative in Budapest       January 2008 - UK Competition Commission       May 2009 - Norwegian Competition Authority, Bergen       Sept 2010 - Norwegian Competition Law Association, Sandefjord          Finally, in addition to the impact of L&amp;D research on merger remedy       guidelines, one of the novel       simulation methodologies developed in [4] has been adopted by the OFT for       screening relevant       mergers and justifying actual decisions ([c]).
