     The research detailed above has resulted in significant changes to       government, local area and organisational policy relating to young people       who have sexually abused others.
It has shaped the development of services       in the statutory, voluntary and private sector throughout the UK over the       REF period and has changed the way in which professionals work with       children, young people and their families, as follows:     Impact on policy, guidance and service development       Evidence from the research studies A and B (refs.
4 and 6) on the       importance of holistic, interagency approaches underpinned the publication       of the interdepartmental government document (2006) The needs and         effective treatment of young people who sexually abuse: current         evidence.
Here the research was cited 19 times with the research       directly shaping government policy on: improving responses to young people       with learning disabilities who sexually offend; improving collaboration       between criminal justice and child protection agencies in cases of sexual       abuse by young people; improving services for parents; recommended types       of therapy; and, the development of a tiered service delivery model.
This       in turn led to Hackett's appointment by the Department of Health as one of       three experts to develop a proposed national strategy on young people who       sexually abuse in the DH document (2009) Young people who display         sexually harmful behaviour.
A Framework for Service Development.
Findings on the need for more integrated practice between criminal       justice and child protection agencies (projects B and C, refs.
3 and 6)       were also used in the development and evaluation of the AIM Assessment       Framework (2004) and AIM2 (2007) adopted by many Local Safeguarding       Children Boards throughout England and Wales (from 2008).
Findings on       integrated practice were also incorporated into the recommendations of key       policy documents such as the joint thematic inspection report (2013) Examining         Multi-Agency Responses to Children and Young People who sexually offend       conducted by HMI Probation, Care Quality Commission, HMI Constabulary, HMI       Prisons and Ofsted (source 5).
The findings on the state of policy and       practice with young sexual abusers and the need for integrated child       protection and criminal justice practices (projects A and B, refs.
5 and       6) have led to the development of a coordinated programme of NSPCC       services, policy and strategy with regard to sexual abuse including (2009)       Sexual Abuse and Therapeutic Services for Young People: The gap between         provision and need and (2012) Therapeutic Services for Sexually         Abused Children and Young People: Scoping the Evidence Base (sources       1 and 7) and underpin the NSPCC's current national practice manual for       young people with harmful sexual behaviours, the `Change for Good'       programme (source 1).
The findings on policy problems, and a lack of progress in implementing       the proposed national strategy (above) in the context of governmental       change and public service cuts, started a wider public discussion through       high profile dissemination of findings through the media: in May 2010,       Hackett appeared on Newsnight, BBC 6 O'Clock and 9 O'Clock News and Radio       4 `File On Four'.
BBC reports (source 9) directly quoted Durham research       findings (projects A and B, refs.
4 and 6) resulting in a more accurate       and informed picture of the current gaps in assessment and treatment       services across the UK and raising public awareness of the perspectives of       parents of children who have sexually abused.
The failings of the child       protection system for families where sexual abuse is perpetrated by young       people was debated publically for the first time.
Examples of impact on practice within service providers       The research has influenced practice across a wide range of service       providers in both the voluntary and independent sectors, leading to direct       benefit to users.
Barnardo's and NSPCC are the two main UK providers of       community based therapeutic services for young sexual abusers and this       section uses examples from these as reflective of broader changes across       the sector.
Barnardo's Lighthouse Project (Edinburgh) has used findings on       families' experiences and the importance of engaging with families of       young abusers since 2008 (refs.
4 and 5, source 2) in training events and       in its staff induction pack.
Similarly, the research (ref.
6, source 3) is       used as part of the training for new workers and according to the Deputy       Children's Services Manager "generally all staff know the publication and       it is part of the work" at Barnardo's Chilston Project (2012) (Tunbridge       Wells).
1.Holistic interventions     The research has informed the development of holistic, systemic and whole       family approaches to young sexual abusers and victims of sexual abuse.
For       example, the Head of Strategy and Development at NSPCC said that the       research informs the organisation's approach to work with victims as well       as young abusers as the organisation builds on "the knowledge from       [Hackett's research] work, for instance about taking a holistic approach".
At Glebe House (Cambridge), a residential therapeutic community that       supports young men with harmful sexual behaviour, findings (project C,       ref.
3) have resulted in the development of a new family service (2010) as       part of the agency's relapse prevention approach and has "had an impact on       the work done...in reinforcing how to talk about the children and young       people displaying sexual harmful behaviour" (source 4).
At Barnardo's       Chilston the research (projects C and F, refs.
2 and 5, source 3) has       contributed to the development of an increased focus on work with parents       and carers.
At Barnardo's Bridgeway (Middlesbrough) the research (project       C, ref.
3) has led to the development of a new approach to assessment       involving families, entitled the `Family Day Assessment' that supports       practitioners to conduct initial assessments of safeguarding and safe care       plans using a whole family approach.
At the Barnardo's Lighthouse project,       the findings on families of young abusers (project D, ref.
4) "provided       the grounding for developing family group work for families with children       who displayed harmful sexual behaviour" (source 2).
2.
A shift from `abuse specific' to `resilience based' and        `developmental' approaches     Branas Isaf (North Wales), a specialist resource comprising five       residential units, has implemented a new intervention approach (2012)       focusing on protective factors as a result of the research (project F,       ref.
3, source 8).
Barnardo's Taith service has moved from a focus on       problems and deficits towards an emphasis on strengths-based therapy (from       2008) (ref.
3, source 3).
Similarly, Glebe House has developed a       resilience-based approach as a result of the research (project C, source       4) and has increased its face-to-face contact between professionals and       young people based on findings from users (ref.
4, source 4).
According to       the Director of Glebe House, the research has "influenced service       provision across the therapeutic community, for instance by focusing on       building resilience in the young person and taking a holistic approach to       the work.
Before, the models used in work with adult sexual offenders were       transferred to the work with children and young people...which was       inappropriate".
Findings on desistance and long-term developmental       outcomes (project F, refs.
1 and 2), have further influenced the field in       refocusing treatment responses from short-term recidivism outcomes to a       renewed focus on long-term developmental outcomes.
At Branas Isaf and       Glebe House, for example, this has included new employment schemes and an       increased emphasis on the provision of ongoing support after young people       have left residential care (sources 4 and 8).
Specifically, Glebe House       has created a new post of Aftercare Support Worker (2013) as a direct       result of the findings (project F, refs.
1 and 2, source 4).
3.Research informed risk assessment     The research has helped to develop practice in relation to risk       assessment and risk management across agencies including at Glebe House       where "Another important factor highlighted by the research is the       long-term risk of convictions.
The work highlights the need to continue to       focus on long-term outcomes... and focus on the human factor in the work       with the YP" (source 4).
At Branas Isaf this includes the implementation       of a whole organisation approach to risk management as well as changes in       practice relating to sharing of assessment reports with referring agencies       (project B, ref.
1).
