     The approach from WHO Europe in mid-2010 was initiated by Professor       Richard Alderslade, a senior advisor to the WHO Regional Director (RD),       following publication of The Public Health System in England by       Hunter, Marks and Smith (Ref 1, Section 3 above).
The book's emphasis on       complex systems applied to public health resonated with the RD's ambition       to restore a public health focus in WHO Europe's programme of work.
Central to the RD's purpose was a new policy framework and health       strategy, Health 2020, to be accompanied by an action plan, the European         Action Plan for Strengthening Public Health Capacities and Services.
The EAP draws directly on, and is underpinned by, the 3 research studies       described in sections 2 and 3. WHO describes the EAP as constituting `one       of the main pillars of Health 2020' (Source 3), which aims to support       action across government and society to `significantly improve the health       and well-being of populations, reduce health inequalities, strengthen       public health and ensure people-centred health systems that are universal,       equitable, sustainable and of high quality' (Source 4).
The Plan is       structured around 10 avenues for action.
Each avenue incorporates an       overview of key themes, and support and development activities to be       provided by all 53 WHO Member States, the WHO Regional Office for Europe       Secretariat and its partners.
The EAP represented a departure for WHO since previous health strategies       had not been accompanied by an action plan.
Implementation and delivery       were viewed as critical and achieving agreement over actions given the       complexity of public health systems across a diverse range of countries       all at different stages of development posed a major challenge.
The       research from Durham conceptualising public health systems was therefore       seen to be both timely and highly relevant to WHO's purposes and informed       their thinking.
At the outset, Hunter was invited to co-facilitate a high       level internal meeting of senior public health officials at WHO's Regional       Office for Europe in Copenhagen (November 2010).
The terms of reference       were `to review concepts, definitions, boundaries and activities and to       advise WHO accordingly' in the context of the key public health and health       policy challenges in Europe, `including particularly that to strengthen       key public health capacity and services'.
The meeting led to an agreed       programme of work with Hunter and Marks from 2010-12.
The first output was       a framework for action document which was approved by Member States at the       61st Regional Committee in September 2011 (Sources 1 and 2).
The framework served as the basis for subsequent work on developing the       EAP.
Working closely with senior WHO officials and advisers, Hunter and       Marks had a decisive impact on the overall shape, structure and content of       the EAP as borne out by the testimonies received.
International Public Health Expert and WHO Programme Manager for Public       Health Services at the time said:     `It was exactly at this conceptual phase that Prof Hunter's and Linda         Marks' research and input had an impact on the further production of the         European Action Plan.
They developed a draft concept paper which was         debated in an expert working group workshop at the end of November 2010         and, after some revisions, became the solid theoretical basis for         developing the first drafts of the future Action Plan.'
Hunter was invited to join the newly established Public Health Expert       Reference group at WHO to advise officials on the EAP.
Its members       included academics and senior government health advisers from the UK,       Israel, Hungary, and Sweden.
At the same time, both Hunter and Marks were       appointed as Special Advisors with WHO Europe and commissioned to work       with their staff to produce the EAP for wish Member States reaffirmed       their support at the 61st Regional Committee in September 2011.
Hunter and Marks led on the drafting of the Plan for final adoption by the       Regional Committee at its 62nd session in 2012.
The Programme Manager for Public Health Services at WHO at the time       confirmed: `They, as a team, were the main writers throughout the whole         process which evolved in two states:     Stage 1: development and endorsement of a policy         document, e.g.
the Framework, and       Stage 2: development, consultation and revisions of the         European Action Plan itself.
They were not only writers but they were facilitators in the long         consultation process, thus, helping to convince our end-beneficiaries on         one side, and supporting WHO Europe to better understand and incorporate         the various views, opinions and standpoints.'
Senior Advisor Health       Policy WHO Regional Office for Europe said:     `Their (Hunter and Marks') work had a profound influence.
They         provided a robust philosophical and scientific basis for conceptualizing         public health, as well as a practical vision for how public health         services might be delivered and strengthened.'
Hunter and Marks' principal contribution was to develop a series of       avenues to action (which drew directly on the research reported in section       3) and a number of mid-term actions for Member States and WHO based on the       concept of complex public health systems which informed the research       projects described in section 2.
The avenues parallel 10 Essential Public       Health Operations (EPHOs) which take the form of a checklist.
While the       EPHOs represent the end points of the EAP, the avenues for action       represent the means by which these end points will be attained through       detailing the actions to be taken by Member States and WHO.
Following several iterations over a period of 18 months, the EAP (Source       3) was finalised after a consultation process with Member States and       feedback from discussions at the European High Level Policy Forum meetings       in Andorra (March 2011), Israel (November 2011) and Brussels (April 2012),       and two sub-regional technical consultations in Helsinki (January 2012)       and Brussels (March 2012).
Hunter attended and participated in all of       these meetings.
The EAP was endorsed in September 2012 by all 53 Member       States (Source 5).
WHO will monitor the progress and impact of the EAP, offering assistance       to Member States in its implementation.
To help advance these tasks in       collaboration with WHO, and in recognition of the relevance of its       research to the development and implementation of the EAP, the CPPH has       been invited to become a WHO Collaborating Centre on Complex Health       Systems Research, Knowledge and Action led by Hunter and Marks.
The       importance of the Centre's research has led to Hunter being made a member       of the WHO Europe Steering Group on the EAP established to progress the       implementation of the EAP and to reporting on this to Member States at the       Regional Committee at its 66th session in 2016.
In addition,       Hunter is chairing the WHO working group on advancing public health       research to inform policy and practice (avenue for action 10, and EPHO       10).
He is also taking part in a closed meeting of selected WHO public       health experts in Tallinn, Estonia to agree a road map for the EAP's       implementation.
