     Durham Sleep Lab research findings have made a clear impact upon a)       infant sleep safety       recommendations and campaigns, b) hospital and community infant care       practice, policies and       guidance for staff and c) parental ability to make informed-choices about       infant sleep       arrangements.
We have increased our research-users' understanding of       controversial issues such       as parent-infant bed-sharing and generated research evidence that informs       policy and supports       practice in a variety of arenas.
The value of the work of the Durham Sleep       Lab was captured in a       recent midwifery review which began: "Helen Ball has been an absolute gift       to this area"       (Essentially MIDIRS, 2012, 3(4):13).
Our impact is far-reaching, supporting infant care policy and practice at       local, regional and national       levels in a variety of countries (see  www.dur.ac.uk/sleep.lab/impact).
Our research has informed       UK policy development via the Department of Health and Scottish Health       Executive, National       Institute for Clinical Excellence, NHS Choices, NGOs such as UNICEF (see       below), parent-support       charities (e.g.
La Leche League, NCT), and professional bodies such as       Royal College of       Midwifery in the UK and overseas.
We use speaking and policy-input       invitations as pathways to       impact, educating policy-makers and practitioners about infant sleep       ecology, thereby changing       perceptions, policy and practice (e.g.
Source 1).
We have worked with UNICEF UK Baby-Friendly Initiative since 1998.
UNICEF's parent       information leaflet Caring for Your Baby at Night (Source 2),       endorsed by the Royal College of       Midwives, Community Practitioners and Health Visitors Association, and       Foundation for Study of       Infant Death, is given to all parents upon discharge from maternity care       in the UK and draws       heavily on our research about why and how parents bed-share.
The `Guide         for Health         Professionals' providing the evidence-base for Caring for your         Baby at Night cites 8 of our research       publications and directs parents to Durham Sleep Lab's Infant Sleep Info       Source website       (www.isisonline.org.uk).
UNICEF uses       and recommends Durham Sleep Lab research in their       guidance for both professionals and parents on their website (www.unicef.org.uk/BabyFriendly/         News-and-Research/Research/Bed-sharing-and-infant-sleep) (Source         3).
Safe Sleep, Bed-sharing, and Breastfeeding policy documents from a wide       range of NHS Trusts       and Local Councils use similar evidence from our research (http://www.dur.ac.uk/sleep.lab/         impact/nhs_policies/).
NHS policy examples include NHS Northumbria,       NHS Central Lancashire,       NHS Bedfordshire, NHS Salisbury, NHS Highlands (Sources 4-6).
The characteristic mother-baby sleep position we documented in 2006 was       first used in the       UNICEF/FSID leaflet Sharing a Bed with your Baby (given to all UK       parents at hospital discharge       from 2008-2011), and is now incorporated into safe-sleep guidelines around       the world.
This       guidance leaflet is still recommended by many NHS trusts and international       organisations, and is       translated into at least 18 languages       (http://www.unicef.org.uk/BabyFriendly/Resources/Resources-in-other-languages/).
The same       research is used in the Australian Breastfeeding Association guidance for       parents, La Leche       League guidance on safe sleeping in UK and US (LLLGB; LLLI), and the New       Zealand College of       Midwives' position statement, among many others (Sources 7-9)     Our postnatal-ward video studies of night-time infant care have supported       side-car crib use in       postnatal units in UK, European and worldwide hospitals (e.g., UK,       Australia, New Zealand, USA,       Belgium and France).
Our (ESRC-funded) ISIS project (www.isisonline.org.uk)       is a key pathway to impact, filling a       vacant information niche in providing authoritative and accessible       research-based infant sleep       information for parents, service providers, and policy makers.
Launched in       March 2012, ISIS       received 74,651 visits from 50,124 unique visitors in 12 months (58%       UK-based, 42% from 137       other countries &#8212; data provided by Google Analytics).
Dozens of NHS       trusts, local councils,       parenting and support groups, infant and maternal health websites provide       links to ISIS; we can       document referrals to ISIS from around the world and have observed many       instances of mother-to-mother       sharing of ISIS info via social networking e.g., "Have you heard of ISIS?
[www.isisonline.org.uk].
I have found       it so helpful to me to understand my baby and sleep"       (Mumsnet 2012).
Ball has spoken, by invitation, at over 180 health professional       conferences, workshops, and       workforce education events, (http://www.dur.ac.uk/sleep.lab/insidethesleeplab/presentations/)       sharing our research with thousands of service providers in UK and       overseas.
This is a direct       pathway to impact: the recipients of this information have       enthusiastically embraced it, and used it       to change practice and policy within their spheres of work, for example:     "Thank you for your sleep presentation for GOLD 2012.
We are in the         process of reviewing our         recommendations around SIDS and co-sleeping, and we will be using much         of the information         from your presentation to argue for a more nuanced recommendation than         the one we currently         make."
[Washington State Dept of Health, email, 12.7.12, copy available         on request].
Achieving impact has not been without challenge.
Maintaining positive       dialogue, sharing research       results and publications, and supporting partnership working have been       important in advancing       change.
This is exemplified in Lancashire where we have worked with the       safeguarding board,       NHS infant feeding coordinators, public health department and County       Council to develop and       refine their new Safer Infant Sleep guidance for Health Professionals and       materials for families       (Source 10).
Directly sharing the results of our research has been       important in shaping this       guidance and alleviating tension between policy makers, health       professionals and parents.
A much more extensive list of our impact, with links to evidence of the       use of both the research and       ISIS, can be found at www.dur.ac.uk/sleep.lab/impact.
