     Reach of CEM's Monitoring Systems in Schools       Since 1997, CEM's performance monitoring systems have made a significant       impact in terms of their reach, evidenced by the rapid expansion of       age-ranges covered, the areas of development assessed, and the numbers of       schools, local authorities and jurisdictions buying into the distributed       research network for comparative information about their pupils' progress.
From 2008-13, a total of 9,609 schools contributed their assessment data       to CEM's systems, with around 6,000 of these adopting the educational       assessment systems consistently year on year, resulting in a total income       from the research network of almost &#163;27 million.
Across this period,       4,119,964 pupil assessments were undertaken.
Education authorities have       actively endorsed the use of CEM's systems.
For example, in the 2012/13       academic year, 18 out of the 32 Scottish authorities recommended that       their schools used the data to monitor performance so that support and       resources could be appropriately targeted [S1].
One of CEM's systems       (InCAS) was used on a statutory basis by all primary schools in Northern       Ireland for five successive academic years (2007/8 - 2011/12) [S2].
This       totalled 1,076 schools and 350,000 pupil assessments during this period.
Within the REF period CEM's systems have also spread from the UK.
Satellite centres have been established in Australia, New Zealand and Hong       Kong.
In Australia, the Performance Indicators in Primary Schools (PIPS)       system, which assesses what children know and can do when they start       school and their progress during their first year, was introduced in       December 2000.
Over the following decade the uptake by schools and       authorities grew, peaking in 2009 when 814 schools were registered and       more than 27,000 pupils were assessed.
Individual schools have adopted the       system in Australia and so have educational authorities during the REF       period: Australian Capital Territory Department of Education, Tasmanian       State Department of Education, the Tasmanian Catholic Education Office and       the Western Australian Catholic Education Office [S3].
The use of PIPS is       statutory for all primary schools in Tasmania [S6].
The Abu Dhabi       Education Council (ADEC) mandated the use of the PIPS assessment in all       166 state primary schools with the first full cycle of assessments taking       place in November and December 2011.
This involved approximately 200       teachers being trained to administer it to all children, starting with       Kindergarten classes, and to interpret the feedback to inform their       practice [S4, S5].
Its use was rolled-out to other cohorts (KG2, Grade 1       and Grade 2) and a total of 51,632 pupil assessments were administered       between the Autumn of 2011 and April 2013.
Impact of CEM's Monitoring Systems on the Education System       Pupils' assessment results and their analysis have been used at different       levels in educational systems to impact on schools' and systems' practice       and policy.
Case studies illustrate how it is used to inform schools'       practice and strategy [S6].
In one of these case studies, a senior manager       explains that the data enabled staff to "act much more quickly to help         pupils with learning difficulties that had not been picked up by their         junior schools, before these children start to fall behind their peers         and suffer the frustration and unhappiness that comes with this."
He       noted that; "parents have generally welcomed an objective assessment of         their children's potential".
In February 2013, Fife Local Authority gave a presentation outlining how       the Authority uses the data to 85 delegates representing 19 Scottish       authorities, at an event organised jointly by the Highland Council and CEM       [S7].
The impact in this instance is the benefits of the use of CEM's data       across Fife reported in the presentation, as well as the further sharing       of methods of effective use of CEM data to track the performance of       schools and groups such as children from economically deprived       backgrounds, which inform local policy decisions about resourcing and       intervention.
For five successive years (2007/8 - 2011/12), at national level in       Northern Ireland, schools were advised by the Department for Education in       Northern Ireland to use CEM's research and assessment data to inform their       practice, identifying strengths and weaknesses of children so that       education could be tailored to their needs, and monitoring their progress       over time, and they were required to report the pupils' scores to parents       [S2].
In Abu Dhabi, the Director of Education at Bidayaat reported that       PIPS data "provided impetus for key pedagogical strategies" [S4].
Impact on National Initiatives       In addition to the direct impact of CEM's monitoring systems on its       research partners in schools and local authorities, described above, the       research conducted by Fitz-Gibbon and others described in Section 2 has       also influenced the development of policy in England.
The Statistician       Team Leader at the Department for Education, has described how the       Fitz-Gibbon report in 1997 influenced policy-makers within the department       to see using comparative pupil level data, or `value-added', as something       which was understandable and achievable in a simple and straightforward       way.
This led to the development of the RAISEonline system which was       launched in 2006 and continues to be used in all English state schools (up       to 2013) to analyse the results of the statutory assessments [S8].
There       is a clear link between Fitz-Gibbon's (1997) Value Added National         Project Final Report [R1] and the contribution of CEM's       conceptualisation to RAISEonline which is acknowledged by the Department       for Education, though there were other factors that also contributed to       the development of these innovations.
CEM's research on assessment, drawn from its testing and value-added       approach, has also had an important impact on national policy on Key Stage       tests in England.
Tymms' evidence about standards and the use of tests was       influential in the Children, Schools and Families Committee's Third Report       on the reform of National Testing, published in May 2008.
It concluded       that the "national testing system should be reformed ... to remove from       schools the imperative to pursue test results at all costs" (p. 3).
This       report was a significant contextual factor in the major changes to       national testing which took place in Autumn 2008, ending testing at Key       Stage 3 from 2009.
Although the trigger for the change was a catalogue of       problems with the external marking, the background conditions had already       indicated change was necessary, with CEM research important in this       national debate.
Tymms' and colleagues' work is also referred to in Lord       Bew's (2011) 'Independent Review of Key Stage 2 testing, assessment and       accountability' and CEM's research on value-added, standards over time and       computer-adaptive testing can be identified in its recommendations, such       as the emphasis on tracking progress, on the basis of objective and       accurate assessments.
A further example of impact on policy is the research by Coe [R5], which       has reported changes in `A' Level standards in England over time and has       been referenced in national debate.
This research uses data from CEM's       ALIS (`A' Level Information System) and YELLIS (Year 11 Information       System) whose use rapidly and significantly increased following the       reconceptualisation of performance monitoring and value-added that had       resulted from Fitz-Gibbon's report [R1].
On 13/10/11, the Secretary of       State for Education gave a keynote address to Ofqual's Standards Summit       which referred to the research conducted by Coe in relation to grade       inflation [S9].
The report referred to investigated trends in `A' Level       performance over time from the mid-1990s up to 2006, which then led to       impact within the REF period.
In 2012, the Department for Education       launched a consultation about reforming Key Stage 4 qualifications which       referred to the research published by Coe [S10].
The paper [R7] may not       have been the sole reason for consultation, but was clearly an influential       part of the discussion from which the consultation has been proposed,       evidenced by the references made to it by the minister, the parliamentary       select committee and by Ofqual.
These impacts on the development of       national testing and examinations can all be traced back to the initial       research and conceptual development of CEM's performance monitoring       systems between 1996 and 2003.
