     Changing practice in HE       Our case for the impact of Threshold Concepts is the change in the       behaviours and practice of practitioners in higher education and other       teaching contexts resulting from an understanding of the idea.
This has       produced a greater emphasis on the student learning experience during       curriculum design and assessment.
It has also created a new clarity of       focus around the areas of a curriculum that students tend to find most       challenging.
Overall, the impact of Meyer's `Threshold Concepts' as a       pedagogic tool to support changes in practice has been demonstrated on       individuals, on groups and communities of HE practitioners across       disciplines and around the world.
In addition, it has spread beyond these       constituencies to other educational contexts in schools, FE and       policy-making and has also transferred to industry through `serious games'       design for staff development.
The catalytic effect of the idea of Threshold Concepts was almost       immediate, but between 2008 and 2013 this has extended across subjects and       disciplines to 32 countries around the world [S1].
The identification,       application or practices to support teaching through Threshold Concepts       have been explored and published across subjects representing each of the       19 HEFCE JACS codes [S1].
More than 500 disciplinary case studies, reports       or scholarly practice articles have been published within REF period (with       a further 400 which focused specifically on Education).
These document how       Threshold Concepts are being used by lecturers and teachers to examine       their current practice from a student's perspective and to change their       future teaching and assessment in order to enhance their students'       learning [S1].
Impact on curriculum design courses and funding       The benefit of considering Threshold Concepts within curriculum design has       also been widely recognised by numerous educational agencies within the       UK.
For instance:            the HE Academy has facilitated over 40 disciplinary practice-based         workshops on Threshold Concepts [S1];       in September 2008 JISC (formerly the Joint Information Services         Council) produced an `infokit' using work on Threshold Concepts to         support embedding e-portfolios in HE [S2];       the Staff and Educational Development Association (SEDA) has produced         materials for recommended inclusion in `PGCert in HE' courses; Threshold         Concepts are widely used in university teaching qualifications including         Bath, LSE, Middlesex &amp; Salford universities [S1].
This impact is significant and in some cases dramatic, such as in       Georgetown University in the US where they state that Threshold Concepts       "shape the undergraduate experience" of writing in the disciplines [S3].
There has also been world-wide acknowledgement of the strategic benefit of       Threshold Concepts to improve teaching.
For instance, various national       government funding organisations have released significant competitive and       practiced-based teaching and learning funding to examine their impact on       specific curricular, including:            $NZ 200,000 for `re-envisioning tertiary teaching' (2012-14) by the NZ         Teaching and Learning Research Initiative to document changes in         lecturers' threshold-concept-informed teaching and supervision and the         impact of a threshold concept-informed curriculum, pedagogy, and         assessment on student learning in electronics engineering, doctoral         research and writing, and management communication [S4];       $AUS 1,014,400 for projects considering approaches adapting Threshold         Concepts to engineering, mechanics, and biology for curriculum renewal         by the Australian Learning and Teaching Council [S1: section #projects];       $US 149,998 for Threshold Concepts in sustainability and environmental         engineering by the US National Science Foundation (NSF) [S5].
Impact on practitioners' reflective practice       Threshold Concepts have led to significant reflective practitioner       engagement in reviewing existing pedagogical strategies.
This is evidenced       in extensive social media interest.
There is a Wikipedia entry (average       500 views per month), a wiki (Edutech with 2956 accesses), a Facebook       account and a JISC email-list [S1].
Reflections on changes in practice can       be found in teachers' on-line blogs and Facebook contributions [e.g.
S6].
Projects, workshops and other researchers' outcomes have resulted in       clearly identified changes in practice.
For instance:            a special issue of the Journal of Faculty Development [S7] documents         changes in practices in faculty development programs in the USA and         provides evidence for Threshold Concepts resulting in student learning         that the authors state "transforms faculty members' conceptions of         teaching";       the Economics Network's Handbook for Economics Lecturers has a section         embedding Threshold Concepts in undergraduate teaching [S8].
The considerable funding devoted to this area in Australia has created       many such case studies, including:            the Australian Council of Engineering Deans supported a national         workshop series on Threshold Concepts, one of the outcomes being the UWA         Faculty designing a new curriculum for engineering courses introduced in         2012;       the University of Queensland's Occupational Therapy Department who         identified five Threshold Concepts, designed their curricula around them         and flagged their importance to students with details in their Student         Guide.
Institutions and professional bodies have also recognised the impact of       Threshold Concepts through a number of personal awards made to individuals       embedding Threshold Concepts in their work of their institutions.
These       include:            a British International Studies Association (BISA) / Higher Education         Academy (HEA) Teaching Award for Excellence in Teaching International         Studies (2008-2009) for work on Threshold Concepts through Enactive         Learning (awarded through C-SAP, the HEA's former Subject Network for         Sociology, Anthropology and Politics) [S1: section #awards];       an Aberystwyth University Teaching Excellence Award (2009-2010) for         using Threshold Concepts in conjunction with differentiation as a         teaching technique [S1: section #awards].
Wider impact in education       Uptake of Threshold Concepts as a means to support curriculum planning and       assessment is also evident in FE and Foundation courses [S1: section       #found] and in schools [S9] where, for example, the ideas have been       adopted to support an exploration of how Threshold Concepts in secondary       school geography might inform development of students' capabilities in       terms of `thinking geographically'.
Similar work using Threshold Concepts       with secondary school Geography teachers has also been undertaken in Korea       [S1: section #SK].
Impact on industry       There is also evidence of impact on industry where companies like Nokia,       Atos and Virtech have used Threshold Concepts in `serious games' design       for the training of staff.
This was through a &#8364;9.4 million EU       collaborative project which developed the `TARGET' framework       (Transformative, Adaptive, Responsive and enGaging EnvironmenT) and which       embedded Threshold Concepts as knowledge gateways that transform a       person's understanding of a knowledge domain to learn professional skills       in areas that are important to them, their peers, their employers and       society.
The project involved six European technology companies with       academic partners in five different countries developing a framework for       staff development using virtual learning environments to support rapid       competence development [S10].
