     Pupils in England from less affluent families do not achieve as well in       school as their more affluent       peers, particularly compared with other countries.
In 2011, in recognition       of this, the Government       established a policy, the Pupil Premium, to target resource for these       pupils.
However it is difficult       for schools to decide how to spend this additional resource effectively to       improve learning as there       is no simple link between more spending and better learning.
It is this       challenge the Toolkit aims to       address.
Impact on the EEF: the impetus for impact from the Pupil Premium       Toolkit has been through the       work of the Education Endowment Foundation (EEF) and is an example of a       creative research       partnership between Durham University and an influential educational       organisation.
Established in       2011, the EEF is an independent grant-making charity dedicated to raising       the attainment of       disadvantaged pupils in English primary and secondary schools by       challenging educational       disadvantage, sharing evidence and finding out what is effective in       improving pupils' attainment       [S1].
The EEF has adopted the Toolkit to inform their decisions about       project funding and about       evaluation and are committed to developing and extending the Toolkit with       the emerging findings       and evidence from their own research [S2], exemplifying co-production of       research knowledge.
The Sutton Trust, one of the founding partners in the EEF, advocated the       adoption and       development of the Toolkit as a means to develop rigorous comparative       evidence about the impact       of different educational approaches on disadvantaged pupils in schools.
The School of Education       and CEM have worked in partnership with the Sutton Trust since 2008.
EEF       was funded with       &#163;135m from the Department for Education (DfE).
With investment and       fundraising income, the EEF       intends to award over &#163;200 million over the 15-year life of the       Foundation.
The EEF's vision is to       break the link between family background and educational achievement,       ensuring that pupils from       all backgrounds have the opportunity to fulfil their aspirations and make       the most of their talents.
By the end of May 2013 it had funded 56 projects at a cost of &#163;28.7       million, reaching about 1,800       primary and secondary schools and 300,000 pupils [S3].
Evidence in the       Toolkit informs decisions       about which projects the EEF funds and the type of evaluations       commissioned [S2, p 16; S4].
The       Foundation acknowledges the Toolkit as their "primary means of       disseminating knowledge of what       works in education" [S2, p. 19].
The success of the Pupil Premium Toolkit       has encouraged the       Sutton Trust to commission other similar projects, such as the `Sutton       Trust Access Toolkit' for       Higher Education.
Impact on national and local education policy: in March 2013, the       Cabinet Office announced       the creation of a `What Works' network for social policy, to inform       decision-making on &#163;200 billion       of public spending [S3].
The EEF and Sutton Trust were designated the       national `What Works'       centre for schooling and the Toolkit forms the heart of this work [S3;       S4].
The Toolkit was cited as       an exemplary model of the presentation of clear, high-quality evidence       which the four new centres       (in crime, economic growth, ageing, and early intervention) should aim to       emulate [S3].
The Toolkit       has also had a direct influence on policy spending with &#163;50M spent on       funding Summer Schools       for disadvantaged pupils in 2012 and another &#163;50M committed for 2013.
This       policy was       developed by the Deputy Prime Minister's Office who used the evidence in       the Toolkit to identify       the policy focus on summer school provision [S4].
Ofsted also cited the       evidence summarized in       the Toolkit as influencing their judgments about effective use of the       Pupil Premium [S5].
This has       already had a significant effect on schools as Ofsted have responsibility       for reporting on how       effectively schools are spending their Pupil Premium allocation.
Since       2011, a significant number       of English Local Authorities have also endorsed the Toolkit.
These include       Barnet, Bradford,       Bristol, Derby, East Sussex, Gloucestershire, Harringay, Kent,       Leicestershire, Medway,       Northumberland, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Wiltshire,       Wolverhampton and York, all linking       to the Toolkit through their websites and online support for schools [S6].
The Toolkit is also       recommended on the Welsh Government's `Learning Wales' website for       effective allocation of       funds from the Pupil Deprivation Grant and the Toolkit was reviewed by the       Research and       Information Service in a briefing for the Northern Ireland Assembly's       discussion of the Pupil       Premium in England.
Impact on schools: The most significant impact of the Toolkit has       been on schools.
It has been       used voluntarily and directly by hundreds of schools to guide their       spending and their teaching       priorities when allocating Pupil Premium funds and informing parents about       their rationale.
A       representative survey of schools commissioned by the Sutton Trust, and       undertaken by NFER in       2012, and repeated in 2013, asked schools about their priorities in       spending the Pupil Premium.
The report states [S7, p 10] that the "responses from 2013 about how         decisions are made about         approaches to adopt to improve pupil learning were very similar to those         given in 2012...Among         senior leaders there were three options which showed a change...
The         option, reading the pupil         premium toolkit published by the Sutton Trust, ... saw an increase in         response among senior         leaders, from one in ten in 2012 (11%) to over a third in 2013 (36%)."
This level of take up in       schools is corroborated by the Evaluation of the Pupil Premium report by       Manchester and       Newcastle Universities for the Department for Education.
In 2012-13, the total Pupil Premium spending was &#163;1.099 billion and       &#163;1.875 billion in 2013-14.
This       suggests that if 11% of senior leaders used the Toolkit to guide decision       making in 2012, it       influenced &#163;120 million of spending in schools (11% of &#163;1.099 bn), and       that if 36% of senior       leaders said they used the toolkit to guide spending in March 2013, it has       influenced the allocation       of about &#163;675 million of school spending for 2013-14 (36% of &#163;1.875 bn).
Google searching reveals at least 120 schools which have acknowledged on       their website the       contribution of the Sutton Trust/EEF Toolkit to their rationale for       spending the Pupil Premium and       how they have allocated the funds.
Most of these websites describe how       their decisions for       allocating funding have been influenced by the Toolkit, both in terms of       identifying strategies which       tend to be more effective, but also outlining how they will address the       potential disadvantages of       approaches which have been identified as less effective, such as using       teaching assistants for       intensive one-to-one support, rather than as general classroom help.
A       typical example of this is       Longfield Academy in Kent [S8], which allocated about &#163;180,000 between       2011-13, and developed       its plan based on Toolkit guidance.
The Academy does not have any direct       links with Durham       University, EEF or the Sutton Trust.
Overall this indicates that the       Toolkit has made a clear and       distinctive contribution to schools and has had a direct impact on their       spending of the Pupil       Premium and their priorities for supporting their disadvantaged pupils.
Impact on the Media and on politics: the Toolkit has been widely       reported in the educational       media with more than 20 articles in online newspapers, professional       journals and magazines, such       as the Guardian Online, Times Educational Supplement, The House,       Headteacher Update,       Governing Matters, Teaching Leaders and Primary Headship.
It is       recommended on the websites       of more than 20 educational organisations, from charities such as the       Campaign for Learning, to       publishers such as Pearson and Oxford University Press, including       endorsements from influential       bodies like the Association of School and College Leaders and the National       Association of       Headteachers [S9].
It has also been acknowledged in the House of Commons       as a helpful       summary of approaches to narrow the gap between rich and poor (28th       June, 2012, 143WH) and in       the Welsh Assembly by the Minister for Education and Skills, (01/05/2013,       17.29 pm) as "clear       evidence of what really works in terms of turning around performance".
The       success of the Toolkit       has influenced the Sutton Trust's commissioning of research, such as their       evidence review to       create a `Higher Education Access Toolkit' in 2012.
In June 2013 the       Toolkit was awarded an       `Inspiration for Government Award' by the The Institute for Government       (IfG), which is an       independent charity and think tank with funding from the Gatsby       Foundation, promoting more       effective government with cross-party support [S10].
