     The Butrint archaeological park was defined in the 1960s by the communist       government of Albania       as a means of obtaining hard currency from foreign communist party members       visiting the country.
In 1992, on the occasion of the election of Albania's first democratic       government, UNESCO       inscribed it into its world heritage list.
The Butrint Foundation       (registered charity 1135705) was       founded in 1993 and since 1995 has operated in collaboration with members       of the School of       World Art Studies, UEA.
The result of the BF/UEA collaboration has been to       undertake major       research excavations in Butrint and its surrounding areas and establish an       archaeological park that       (i) protected the cultural assets, (ii) provided employment as a result of       infrastructure development       and revenue from tourism, (iii) served as a means of presenting Albanian       heritage to the public and       the academic community, (iv) provided a standard for the management of       archaeological sites       throughout Albania.
These have been instrumental in attracting visitors to       the site: 77,156 (ticketed       visitors) in the first three quarters of 2013, a rise from under 1000 in       1998 (see further details       below).
Supported by the Getty Conservation Program, UNESCO, the World Bank and       the Albanian       Ministry of Culture, the aims of the park were defined in 1998.
Following       Richard Hodges'       secondment to the Albanian Ministry of Culture in 1999, the area of the       park was increased and       established in Albanian law, and UNESCO revised its inscription from less       than 0.2 km2 to cover       an area of 29 km2.
In 2003 the park was further enlarged to       include Lake Butrint with support from       Ramsar.
In 2005 a museum and wetland trails were established at Butrint to       outline the emerging       history of the site as our research was revealing it and to display finds       from our recent excavations.
From 2000-12 the Butrint Foundation/ART team has assisted in capacity       building in financial       management, tourist development, infrastructural planning strategies,       conservation strategies as       well as archaeological training including cultural heritage management.
The Butrint Foundation has       supported a research programme involving a twin track approach: (i)       capacity building and       management in Albania (for Albanians from Albania, Kosovo, Macedonia and       Montenegro), and (ii)       large scale excavations involving teaching, outreach and publication       programmes, mostly focussed       at the World Heritage Site at Butrint.
The capacity building and the       management process was       launched with a two-day conference organized at Saranda, Albania by       Richard Hodges in April       1998.
In 1998 Butrint was visited by less than a thousand people; the       impact during the REF period       is that between 2008-10 an average of 46,000 visited Butrint each year,       rising to 69,150 in 2011       and 78,300 in 2012, of whom almost half were Albanian nationals.
(Visitor       numbers quoted here       relate to paid ticketed entries to the site, an estimated 5000-7000       additional visitors per year       receive complimentary entry (students, archaeologists, journalists, etc).
No assessment exists yet       for cultural heritage tourism in Albania as a whole.
But at Butrint the       National Park permanently       now employs 6 full-time staff and on a part-time seasonal basis up to 24       other staff.
Of the       permanent staff, one studied in UEA; another took part in a training       programme in the Broads Park,       Norfolk.
Nationally, the deputy head of cultural heritage management in       the Ministry of Culture and       Tourism trained at UEA, as did many of the new national salvage       archaeology unit (founded in       2006), and all the digital resources team.
UEA-trained personnel have from       time to time been       involved in the management, presentation and development of both the Berat       and Gjirokastra       World Heritage Sites since 2005.
From 1998-2004 bursaries were provided to enable Albanian students to       come to UEA to study for       MA degrees which involved research dissertations based on work in Butrint       and the region around       it.
This was made possible by two grants from the Packard Humanities       Institute totalling &#163;388,465.
The capacity building for Albanian students has been reinforced by the       programme of research       excavations (reported in many monographs, guidebooks, academic articles       and popular articles       and the Butrint Foundation annual reports) and conservation practice which       have included an       annual summer school (in July each year since 2000).
The Butrint programme       has also had an       explicit UK economic impact apart from its wider research aspects.
It has       employed research       assistants from the heritage, museum and archaeology sectors.
Two PhDs at       UEA were part-       funded by the programme: Will Bowden (awarded in 2002) (now Associate       Professor at       Nottingham University) and David Bescoby (awarded in 2004) (now Adjunct       lecturer in       Environmental Sciences at UEA).
In 2009 the latest element of the strategy was launched, involving the       hand-over of all strategy       responsibilities to the Butrint National Park administration as of 1       January 2012.
With one       embedded Albanian team member in place, this transition is now effective,       with the Park as of       January 2012 launching its own discussion of a third iteration of a       Management Plan (for 2012-17).
