     Through their research on Pons and Varda respectively, Fouz Hern&#225;ndez and       Barnet established personal contacts which led to each filmmaker's       engagement with, and participation in, events aimed at increasing       understanding of their work among the general public.
The events were       organised in partnership with the Gala Theatre in Durham and the Tyneside       Cinema in Newcastle and thereby helped them to fulfil their objectives of       contributing to the cultural enrichment of North East England.
Pons and       Varda are major figures in European art house cinema.
Pons is one of the       best-known filmmakers in contemporary Spanish and Catalan cinema, having       made 24 films in the course of a 30-year career.
His films have been       credited as establishing a Catalan `star system'.
Varda's contribution to       film has been recognised over several decades, including a lifetime       achievement award at the Cannes Film Festival (2010).
In 2009, Fouz Hern&#225;ndez invited Pons to give a public lecture at Durham       University, and to take part in the UK premiere of his film, Barcelona         (un mapa) (2007), at the city's Gala Theatre, an institution funded       by Durham County Council.
The events took place on 25 January 2010, with       support from the Catalan cultural organization, the Institut Ram&#243;n Llull.
Fouz Hern&#225;ndez's research on Pons had come to the filmmaker's attention in       2007, thanks to his co-authored book, Live Flesh (2007).
Films by       Pons had previously been shown at the (now-defunct) Newcastle Film       Festival, and Pons was keen to show another film in the North East.
Fouz       Hern&#225;ndez selected Barcelona (un mapa) because it emphasised key       aspects of Pons' cinema, and in particular, the issues of male nudity,       homosexuality and identity that Fouz Hern&#225;ndez has stressed as central to       his work.
Pons' public lecture at Durham University (attended by over 100       people) was followed by a question and answer session chaired by Fouz       Hern&#225;ndez, and a sold-out screening of the film at the Gala Theatre.
Pons       commented that `the screening and talk at Durham strengthened my links to       the UK film circuit, having presented some of my other films at festivals       in Manchester, Cambridge and, especially, London, for the last three       decades.
[...] Events such as this can have a considerable impact on       foreign distribution of my films in various formats and, importantly, on       the spread of Catalan culture abroad' [source 1].
Although the Gala       Theatre generally screens mainstream films, it does aim to `show films       from around the globe, particularly from independent film makers, and to       bring their work to wider attention'.
The screening of Pons' film       contributed to the Gala meeting this objective.
The then-Director of the       Gala Theatre states that staging the UK premier of Pons' film `was       enormously successful', and gave `a tremendous boost to our programme and       [helped] to establish our venue in the region as a key World Cinema       location' [source 2].
The Tyneside Cinema is an independent organisation and registered       educational charity located in central Newcastle, screening foreign       language and independent films from around the world.
According to the       cinema's Programme Manager, its aim is to play `a significant role in the       cultural life of the North East', and to do so by bringing `as many people       as possible together in our venue to experience, enjoy and engage with the       past, present and future of cinema'.
During 2011, Barnet collaborated with       the Tyneside Cinema on a festival to mark the fiftieth anniversary of       Agn&#232;s Varda's most celebrated film, Cl&#233;o de 5 &#224; 7 (1962).
Held       from 10 to 24 November 2012, the festival included a retrospective of five       Varda films; in addition to Cl&#233;o de 5 &#224; 7, Barnet selected four       films to demonstrate the diversity of Varda's cinematic output over the       course of five decades.
The selection served to emphasise the key thematic       concerns that Barnet's research has shown to be central to Varda's work.
For example, both Sans toit ni loi (1985) and Les Glaneurs et         la glaneuse (2000) depict the nature and condition of marginality in       contemporary society, while Les Plages d'Agn&#232;s (2008) foregrounds       Varda's investigation of space, and its relationship to mourning, memory       and identity.
Barnet co-authored the press release and the relevant       section of the Tyneside programme.
The festival included an academic       conference on Varda, featuring nine speakers from six universities in the       UK and Canada, and open to the general public.
The conference examined       Varda's artistic production across five decades, and her manipulation of a       range of genres and styles, from photography and film to hybrid       documentary and installation art.
The festival closed with a sold-out       evening showing of a restored print of Cl&#233;o de 5 &#224; 7, with Varda       herself present.
The screening was followed by a question and answer       session with the cinema audience and Varda, chaired by Barnet.
The films       generated box office takings of &#163;1,433 (gross) for the cinema [source 3].
Varda's attendance at the festival was the director's only public       engagement in the UK to mark the anniversary of Cl&#233;o de 5 &#224; 7, and       was secured thanks to the relationship developed between Barnet and Varda       since 2006.
The Varda festival, and the filmmaker's participation, helped       the Tyneside achieve its own objectives as an arts organisation.
The       Programme Manager highlighted Varda's participation at the festival as       essential to its success: `To get someone like Varda to come and talk       about their work is the kind of thing you usually only get in London at       the BFI.
It was a real coup for us.
It was about having someone of that       stature coming here'.
Varda's presence raised the cinema's profile in the       North East, with coverage in regional media (Sky Tyne and Wear and The         Journal).
The Programme Manager concluded that `the opportunity to       bring a filmmaker of the stature of Agn&#232;s Varda to the Tyneside was a real       gift to the Cinema and its audiences' [source 4].
In 2011, Noble was invited by the Director General of the Guadalajara       International Film Festival (FICG) to serve on the panel for `Best       Ibero-American film' in its 2012 edition.
The FICG is the most important       film festival in Latin America, awarding approximately &#163;240,000 in prize       money.
260 films from 45 countries were shown in the 2012 edition, which       registered a record of over 100,000 paid admissions.
The winner of the       `Best Ibero-American film' category automatically enters the selection       stage of the Golden Globes organised by the Hollywood Foreign Press       Association [source 5].
Noble's selection by the Director General was       based on her track record of expertise in the cultural history of Mexican       and Latin American film acknowledged by film historians and professionals       in Mexico over the course of the previous years.
Her work had come to the       Director General's attention during her research visits in 2000 and 2001       to the Filmoteca de la Universidad Nacional Aut&#243;noma de M&#233;xico, the most       important film archive in Mexico, which he ran between 1989 and 2008.
The       Director General states that, `during these visits, she told me about the       objectives and focus of her work; [...] but also several academics and       cinephiles from our country and abroad told me about the importance of her       work' [source 6].
The importance of Noble's research was also acknowledged       by the Mexican cultural attach&#233; in the UK, who had been director of the       main government-funded body for promoting and financing national cinema in       Mexico, the Instituto Mexicano de Cinematograf&#237;a.
In 2007, the cultural       attach&#233; and the Mexican Embassy funded a visit to Durham by the future       director of the FICG to take part in a workshop on Mexican science fiction       films with Noble.
Noble was the sole academic jury member in the 2012 edition.
Her panel       was otherwise made up of film industry professionals, including the editor       of a leading Spanish-language film magazine; an international film       festival organiser; a Mexican film director; and a Mexican film actress       [source 7].
According to the Director General, Noble's contribution as a       jury member lay in insights based on her historical understanding of key       themes and trends in Mexican and Latin American cinema: `an academic       perspective is always important because it is based on a wide historical       context that can be shared with other members of the jury who are perhaps       focussed on purely technical and contextual questions.
This is precisely       what happened through Noble's participation, which brought historical       antecedents that helped to understand the provenance of certain themes'       [source 6].
Recognising Noble's successful participation in the 2012       festival, and the contribution of her historical expertise, the organising       committee included a greater number of academics on juries for the 2013       festival (three in total): `having Noble on the jury has reinforced this       position, and in the last edition of the festival, we included a greater       quantity of academics' [source 6].
The jury on which Noble served was one of eight panels in the festival.
Its remit was to award prizes for new cinematic production from across the       Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking world.
It considered sixteen pre-selected       films from nine countries (Argentina, Bolivia Brazil, Chile, Colombia,       Ecuador Peru, Spain, Venezuela).
The panel awarded prize money totalling       $400,000MXN (&#163;19,000), and trophies in the following categories: Best       Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Actress, Best Actor, Best First       Film, Best Director and Best Ibero-American Feature.
Success in the       competition represented a significant increase in profile for the winning       films, with concomitant benefits in terms of local and international sales       and distribution.
The award of Best Director and Best Actor to Ecuadorian       film Pescador came shortly before the film's commercial release in       its home market.
According to the film's producers, it helped them promote       the film and generate public interest there [source 8].
The distributor of       Abrir Puertas y Ventanas [Back to Stay] states that the award of       Best Film `was a catalyst in terms of sales' as a result of increased       media exposure: for example, shortly after the award of the prize, the       film secured national distribution in its home country of Argentina       [source 9].
