     In July 2011, as a result of his established reputation in the history of       Russian child science, Byford was invited by the Department of Educational       Psychology at Moscow Pedagogical State University (MPGU) in July 2011 to       act as an expert consultant on the history of child science [source 1].
He       undertook two periods of consultancy, in March-April 2012 (part-funded by       the British Academy) and in March-April 2013 (funded as part of an AHRC       Early Career Fellowship).
During these two periods, Byford advised the       Department and the wider network of stakeholders associated with it,       including local practitioners in psychology and education, policy       advisors, and representatives of parent groups.
He presented his latest       research on the history of child science, which conceptualises it as a       scientific-professional movement involving a multiplicity of stakeholders       engaged in both collaboration and conflict, and focused particularly on       its relevance for the following issues: problems of inter-professional       collaboration; the influence of expert knowledge on society; reform and       innovation in educational and child science research; and the role of       history in conceptualising contemporary problems in education and child       psychology.
MPGU played a major role in the development of child science in the       Soviet 1920s, when it was an institutional base of key figures in       educational research and child psychology.
The Department of Educational       Psychology was created in 2010 with the explicit aim of developing new       approaches to the psychology of education, in part by drawing on a wider       than usual range of resources from representatives of different       disciplines, and more especially, international academics, whose work has       the potential to innovate contemporary educational theory and practice.
Its ten researchers and lecturers train postgraduate students studying       towards qualifications in the `Psychology of Educational Management' and       the `Practical Psychology of Education'.
As a research group they occupy a       strategic position in the field of educational-psychological expertise in       the Russian Federation, analogous to that occupied by early-Soviet `child       scientists'.
They provide regular advisory services to over one hundred       educational establishments in Moscow, working with both schools and       children's homes.
They provide training to teachers and parent groups.
They organise special, psychologically informed, learning and teaching       workshops and events directly with pupils.
The Department invited Byford       as it believed that an understanding of the historical legacies of Russian       child science would assist its contribution to contemporary processes in       Russian education, and inform its collective work as researchers and       experts in this field.
During his first visit in 2012, Byford took part in staff meetings and a       number of outreach activities [source 4].
His consultations took the form       of a seminar on child science as a multi-professional field, followed by a       discussion with the Department's staff and postgraduates, and with staff       of the Russian Academy of Education [source 2].
Byford gave an       introductory lecture on this topic to over 50 trainee primary school       teachers studying at MPGU [source 3].
In the words of the Department's       Head, `the social-historical studies of Andy Byford allow[ed] us to       understand the causes and risks of educational reforms currently taking       place in Russia, including such areas as inclusive education, the       professionalisation of teachers, and the disciplinary fragmentation of       specialists in this field'.
Noting that the issues raised by Byford are       rarely considered in modern Russia, the Department's Head concluded that       his contributions `proved to be much needed in contemporary       psychological-pedagogical research as well as educational practice in       Russia'.
He emphasised the significance of Byford's research `for the       appropriate development [in Russia] of interdisciplinary research in       childhood and contemporary educational practice' [source 4].
A second round of consultations took place in March-April 2013.
These       involved (a) a series of three seminars for twenty postgraduates; (b) two       focus-groups, one with the department's staff and participants in its       postgraduate professional training programme, and the other with their       wider network of contacts and beneficiaries in the Russian education field       (fourteen participants in total); and (c) a public lecture on the       `afterlife' of Russian child science [source 5].
The lecture was attended       by over fifty lecturers, PhD, Masters and undergraduate students based at       MPGU's Faculty of Pedagogy and Psychology, as well as by representatives       of other Moscow-based universities and research institutes.
It also       attracted the attention of representatives of `Researcher', the       all-Russian movement of creative educators, as well as teachers and       psychologists from leading Moscow schools [source 7].
The lecture was       published in expanded form in Prepodavatel': XXI vek [The Teacher:       21st Century], a professional academic journal widely read by Russian       teachers, educational psychologists and related professionals.
All these       activities were documented and publicised on Byford's Durham-based project       website (in English and Russian; 2,119 visitors by 31 July 2013) and on       the MPGU website (in Russian; 281 visitors to the 2013 seminars pages by       31 July 2013), as well as through social media, including Twitter (28       followers) and Youtube (94 views for the public lecture) [source 9].
As noted by the Head of MPGU's Department of Educational Psychology, the       issues raised in the focus groups and seminars allowed the group `to       define [their] approach to topical psychological and pedagogical problems,       to conceptualise the underlying logic of this approach and to support this       with arguments'.
He also stated that `the knowledge of the mechanisms of       paedology's evolution as a scientific movement enables an appropriate       interpretation of contemporary processes and grounds our prognoses of how       pedagogy and psychology will develop in the future' [source 7].
Byford's       research insights affected the group's perception of their existing work       and professional role as part of a wider social enterprise.
One       participant found it particularly useful to understand `the complexity       [and] importance, of forging multi-professional relations and relations       between specialists and parents'.
Another noted that the discussions       `enhanced [their] sense of responsibility'.
A third remarked that `the       path of developing influence [became] clearer &#8212; what [was] possible and       what the difficulties might be'; others, who initially `thought that       [their] influence was minimal &#8212; now [saw] various possibilities opening       up' [source 6].
The group was particularly `impressed by the depth and       thoroughness' [source 7] of the discussions concerning Russia's historical       experience of mobilising parent groups in the work of professionals in       education, psychology and child welfare, and the challenges posed by       diverse forms of partnerships that parents and professionals are able to       form in matters of childcare, education and research, which go well beyond       a fixed expert-client relationship.
A postgraduate trainee in psychology,       who works in preschool education, stated that this topic `made [her]       rethink aspects of [her] practical work' [source 6].
Participants emphasised the relevance of Byford's approach to early       twentieth-century traditions of Russian/Soviet child science for       contemporary educational and child welfare reforms in the Russian       Federation.
The Head of Department pointed out that before Byford's       consultations `the history of paedology remained mostly outside [his       Department's] purview [...].
Many [of their] PhD candidates and Masters       students thus [thanks to Byford's seminars] for the first time turned       their attention to the legacy of paedology'.
As a result of this second       period of consultancy, the Department took the decision to revise, with       immediate effect, their courses in the `Psychology of Education' and       `History of the Theory of Educational Psychology' for undergraduate and       Master's students, incorporating the use of research articles by Byford,       and other materials produced by him during the two periods of consultancy       [source 7].
Podcasts of Byford's lectures and seminars, together with       associated material, remain in place as a teaching resource on MPGU's       website [source 9].
In the June 2013 examination session, assessment on       the Department's Masters programme included questions on topics covered in       Byford's lectures and seminars [source 7].
In April 2013, at the end of the second period of consultancy, following       suggestions by staff and students at MPGU, Byford was invited by the Head       of Department to join a team of authors to prepare a new undergraduate       textbook for educational psychologists (Introduction to a Profession:         The Educational Psychologist [in Russian]) as the author responsible       for the textbook's historical section (two and a half chapters, amounting       to 20% of the textbook).
Byford adapted his research publications for this       purpose, with particular focus on the historical relationship between       education and psychology.
The textbook is scheduled for publication in       early 2014 in 1,500 copies in its first edition.
It will be marketed to       undergraduates training as educational psychologists and related       professionals across the Russian Federation.
Its Russian publisher Iurait       is a well-established producer of high-quality academic textbooks,       specialising in professional training [source 8].
Byford has been invited       by MPGU to undertake a third spell of consultancy in 2014 (again funded by       the British Academy), to coincide with the completion of his project       [source 7].
