     The European Commission's Directorate-General for Translation (DGT) is       the largest single public employer of translators in Europe.
It therefore       has special responsibilities both to provide leadership for professional       translators, and to help them meet the challenges posed by the       increasingly multilingual environment in the European Union.
The DGT has       established the European Masters in Translation (EMT), the main goal of       which is `to improve the quality of translator training and to get highly       skilled people to work as translators in the EU'.
In order to achieve this       objective, the EMT has defined and implemented a `quality label for       university translation programmes that meet agreed professional standards       and market demands'.
The EMT reports that `more and more universities use       it as a model for designing their programmes' [source 1].
Before the EMT was launched in 2006, no recognised means existed by which       to evaluate and compare Masters translation programmes across the European       Union.
The EMT aims to enhance translation programmes in general by       establishing an accredited benchmark that will ensure that translators       develop the competencies needed `to keep up with the requirements of a       knowledge society' [source 2].
From 2006 to 2008, an EMT Expert Group       drafted benchmarking documents in preparation for the creation of a       European network of Masters translation programmes.
The documents define       the admission requirements for universities seeking membership of the EMT       network, and a `translator competence profile', which details the       competences translators need to work successfully in today's market'       [source 1].
These preparations led in 2009 to the first call for applications for       membership of the EMT Network of Excellence.
The EMT has since granted       official accreditation to 54 programmes out of 355 applications to join       the network.
It has thereby established common requirements for curricula       in translation studies.
The two key achievements of the EMT have been: (i)       to re-define translator skills and the learning objectives of MA       programmes in translation, and (ii) to guarantee quality assurance in       translator training programmes.
Federici became involved in the EMT following two conferences in 2007,       attended by delegates from its Expert Group and by DGT representatives,       and at which he presented his research on the dangers of culturally       uninformed translation and the need for translators to develop continuous       learning practices (papers which respectively became outputs 1 and 3).
As       a result of these presentations, in 2009 the DGT invited Federici to join       the EMT Evaluation Group, charged with assessing applications and       accrediting programmes across the EU.As a member of the Evaluation Group,       Federici contributed to the development of EMT policy in relation to       translator training, as articulated in key policy documents published in       2012 [source 2] and 2013 [source 3].
In June 2011 Federici was one of three new members co-opted to the EMT       Board, which comprises ten academic experts from Belgium, Finland, France,       Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and the UK [source       4] and in the following year, the Board was given the task of drafting a       new EMT strategy document.
With two existing Board members, Federici led       Working Group 1 on `Training and trainers' which defined the competencies       that translator trainers should possess or acquire throughout their career       [source 5].
The findings of this Working Group informed the 2012 EMT       Strategy, co-written by Federici and the other members of the Board.
Its       first objective makes evident Federici's direct contribution: to `foster       and encourage dynamic learning and teaching of advanced translation skills       with a view to preparing students for continuous learning and a life-long       career as translators' [source 2].
As the document underpinning the EMT Charter, the EMT Strategy has       policy-making implications.
The EMT Network members sign up to the values       of the Charter, which has legal status as it grants the use of the EMT       `quality label' and guarantees that the Masters programme fulfil the       standard expected by the DGT.
The DGT and the EMT Board have signed       agreements with the Globalization and Localization Association (GALA) on       24 May 2012 [source 6], and with the European Language Industry       Association (ELIA) on 16 November 21012 [source 7].
The influence of       Federici's research has therefore been significant and far-reaching:       changes to the definition of skills, membership requirements, and       curricula design benefit the 54 EU member programmes, which enrol between       1,500 and 1,800 MA students every year.
The Director General of the DGT remarks upon Federici's `great expertise       [...] in the field of higher education translator training', and notes the       important role played by his research on assessment and revision of       translations in discussions at Board meetings [source 8].
