     The following narrative describes how the underpinning research was       disseminated through academic publications and serious public journals,       with a range of results: these varied from an initial consultation with a       pathologist to extensive global media interest, and, then, most       significantly, collaboration with five documentary film-makers.
The research was initially targeted at academics and medical       professionals.
Following publication of Sugg's first article in The         Lancet [3.2], he was consulted in November 2008 by a Consultant       Forensic Pathologist to the Home Office, who had read what he describes as       Sugg's `very useful' article and drew on his advice in preparing a       presentation to the British Association in Forensic Medicine (21 November       2008) on a recent cannibalistic murder.
The research assisted the clinical       pathologist to assess contemporary cases within a fuller historical and       cultural context.
[5.1]     The underpinning research was targeted at a popular history readership       through articles by Sugg in journals such as BBC History (March       2007; circulation over 60,000).
An article titled `The Healing Power of       Death' on 26 January 2009 in Der Spiegel was dedicated to Sugg's       research and based on an interview with him.
This piece, in the       biggest-selling news magazine in Europe, was translated into over a dozen       languages including Chinese and Catalan, and led to a feature on Sugg on       German national television.
A German playwright and documentary-maker read       the article in Der Spiegel, and approached Sugg on 9 March 2009       with the idea of creating a programme on medicinal cannibalism.
He       travelled to the UK to interview Sugg, and this interview was central to       the eventual radio programme which Weiser sold to WDR in Cologne       (broadcast October 2009) and then to the national network Deutschlandradio       Kultur (broadcast July 2010).
It was heard by an estimated collective       audience of over 250,000.
Weiser is an individual programme-maker whose       career has been helped by this work &#8212; he is currently filming a second       documentary based on Sugg's work, this time for television.
[5.2]     Sugg's second essay in The Lancet [3.3] and his book Mummies,         Cannibals and Vampires [3.4], both published in early 2011, created       still more extensive media interest and resulted in most of his       consultancies with documentary-makers.
Print and online media worldwide       quickly focused on Sugg's finding that King Charles II and Queen Mary II       and other members of British royalty and European aristocracy had used       forms of corpse medicine.
From early summer to winter 2011, this aspect of       the research was featured, sometimes sensationally, in over 20 mainstream       national newspapers in North America, Europe, Australasia, India, Pakistan       and Iran, as well as in Britain and Ireland.
An article by Sugg in History         Ireland (May/June 2011), which addressed the sourcing of English       corpse medicine from Irish bodies, prompted several radio interviews in       Ireland, an article in The Irish Independent weekend supplement       (16 July 2011), and a substantial (front page and page 7) article in The         Irish Examiner (25 May 2011).
In Britain, in May 2011, The Sun       and The Daily Mail ran versions derived from the Lancet       essay: `British Royals Dined on Human Flesh (but don't worry it was 300       years ago)'.
[5.3] Although the influence of newspaper coverage on several       million readers is impossible to gauge, a review of online responses shows       that the research contributed to two areas of public debate.
(1) Medical       ethics.
Commentators on online popular science resources, notably Greg       Laden's well-respected blog, used the story to assess the contents of       modern medicines and ethical practice in medical history.
(2) The myth of       European cultural supremacy.
In discussions on both an American Republican       blog and an African Rastafarian blog, respondents were prompted by Sugg's       work to challenge the extent to which European cultural values were wholly       `civilised'.
That the research was referenced in online discussions from       2011 to 2013 is evidence of its persistent interest for, and influence on,       a wide range of readers.
[5.4]     The most significant effect of this research was that the second Lancet       article, and the 2011 book, led directly to consultancy for five       television documentaries.
It decisively influenced the strategic planning       of programming, including location shoots, research methods, scriptwriting       and presentation.
Sugg is credited on all programmes.
The main, but not       the only, consultancies have been:     (1) `Dark Matters'.
Wide-Eyed Entertainment.
Discovery Science Channel       (USA), 28 September, 2011, and shown across Discovery network including       UK, Australia and Japan within next 24 hours.
The UK audience for the       whole programme was 184,000.
Sugg's contribution arose when researchers       from Wide-Eyed Entertainment read his discussion of 'weighing the soul' in       The Lancet (2011).
He gave an interview on camera which explained       the source of a popular belief that the soul weighs exactly 21 grammes (cf.
the 2003 film 21 Grams).
Sugg explained that this misleading       figure had been arrived at from the 'soul-weighing' experiments of a       Massachusetts doctor, Duncan MacDougall, in 1901.
Sugg linked the idea of       the soul's materiality to older beliefs in educated and popular Christian       culture.
He also contributed filmed interviews on Galvani and       Frankenstein.
The UK broadcast achieved nearly double Discovery's expected       audience and had the second-highest rating of the series.
[5.5]     (2) `Human Harvest'.
The Active Channel, 5 Sept 2011.
Audience unknown.
In early 2011, the Head of Factual Production at Sky's The Active Channel       consulted Sugg over a documentary he was making on `alternative       therapies'.
Owing to Sugg's input, he `came to understand the importance       of cannibalistic issues within the narrative'.
In particular, Sugg's work       enabled him `to develop a balanced narrative on the use of Placenta       Encapsulation as a method for combatting Postpartum Depression.'
`Human       Harvest' was sold to `various international broadcasters'.
Since then he       has set up a small independent factual production company that aims to       make and sell high-quality television documentaries.
He did this in part       with a view to making a second film with Sugg: `the findings of [Sugg's       book] Mummies, Cannibals and Vampires' led Greenstein to `create a       brief treatment' which `received extremely positive feedback' from       broadcasters.
This second programme is currently in production; it uses       Sugg's work as a basis for the script and includes on-screen interviews       with Sugg.
It will be sold to broadcasters in 2014.
[5.6]     (3) `Mysteries of the Vampire Skeletons'.
Quickfire Media.
Channel 5       `Revealed' series, 20 September 2011.
Audience 1.1 million.
In April-May 2011, Sugg held two discussions with the director and his       assistant about the anthropology of vampirism and related customs.
Sugg's       report on recent vampire-killing in Marotinu de Sus, Romania, led to the       company's decision to film there rather than at its originally planned       location.
The director states that `Sugg's advice on the cultural impact       of vampire legends and beliefs, including the archaeological discovery of       skeletons which appear to have been treated as potential "revenants", was       extremely helpful to us in shaping the overall content of the film'.
The       Romanian aspect of the programme was emphasised by The Radio Times;       for the Daily Express it was `Pick of the Day'.
The commissioning       editor at Channel 5 praised its `4.9% share [of the viewing public] &#8212; way       up on the series average'.
A further measure of its success, noted by the       director, is that the production company sold the programme to American,       Australian and European channels, including broadcasters in France and       Germany.
These sales contributed to the company's financial turnover and       further established it as a serious documentary production company.
The       Director reports that the film generated &#163;100,000 for Quickfire, plus       &#163;25,000 in foreign sales.
This small Bristol-based company, led by a       BAFTA-nominated writer and director, reported that `as a result of the       success of this film, it was able to make another two films' in the same       series, and is negotiating a third, with a total gross value `in the       region of &#163;400,000'.
[5.7]     (4) `Tony Robinson's Gods and Monsters'.
Wildfire Television.
Channel 4,       26 November 2011.
Numerous repeats on More4 and National Geographic.
Audience 1.15 million for initial broadcast, excluding repeats.
The making       of this programme involved several hours of face-to-face discussions       between Sugg and its director and his assistant.
One result of these was       the filming of Sugg and Tony Robinson using a pig to replicate the       production of cannibalistic medicine in a hospital laboratory.
Wildfire       was very pleased with the result.
The editor described Sugg's contribution       as `extremely helpful' in `unlocking a little known area to a wide       audience'; his `academic knowledge was hugely valuable' as was his       `televisual' skill in `communicating the results of research ... to a       wider audience'.
[5.8] The programme was `pick of the week' in The         Observer and Sunday Times.
Wildfire is based in London and       makes high quality documentaries specialising in science and current       affairs.
This series generated &#163;125,000 profit, `helping keep the company       going', in the words of the Managing Director.
It was sold to television       channels in Australia and New Zealand.
[5.9]     (5) `Bloody Tales: Dark Arts'.
True North.
National Geographic, April       2013.
Subsequent broadcasts on National Geographic Europe.
UK audience       81,000.
Researchers from a Leeds-based production company, True North,       read about Sugg's research in online sources and then in his book Mummies,         Cannibals and Vampires, which they used to tell one of three stories       featured on the programme &#8212; that of grave-diggers accused of spreading       plague by making powder from corpses.
The assistant producer states `we       had never heard of corpse medicine before'.
Sugg's book was `of great       value during pre-production stage', significantly influencing the content       of film of the programme.
It was sold to National Geographic and broadcast       across Europe.
As the UK broadcast attracted `over double our usual prime       time average', it contributed towards the success of the company: True       North is the fastest-growing independent production company outside London       with an increase in revenue of 65% in 2013.
[5.10]     Through extensive coverage in newspapers, online resources and radio and       television broadcasts, this research has reached an audience of more than       30 million in over 20 nations, ranging from the clinical readership of The         Lancet to viewers of vampire programming.
Its impact can be seen in       four areas: (a) contributions to public debates over medical ethics and       European cultural values; (b) entrepreneurial activity through direct       influence on the creative and commercial practices of documentary-makers;       (c) economic benefit for small, independent film-makers, mainstream       national broadcasters, and national newspapers; and (d) the entertainment       and education of television audiences.
As one director states: `The UK is       a dominant world leader in documentary film-making, partly because of the       academic expertise we have access to ... Richard's work is an excellent       example of that.
These docs make our industry a multi-billion pound       exporter which is both culturally and economically important.'
[5.5]
