     The research has been disseminated to, and generated interaction with,       diverse clinical and creative audiences and partners, through live events,       web-based discussion, and publication in targeted journals.
(i) Since 2009, the CMH Blog and Twitter feed have facilitated dialogue       with academic and non- academic partners and the public, so that the       events described below have reached as wide an audience as possible and       attracted additional feedback for further work.
There has been a growing       readership for the blog (10,000 page views per month from 165 countries,       as of July 2013) and twitter-feed (over 1,500 followers).
[5.1]       Contributors include artists, writers, clinicians and community       arts-in-health practitioners who work in schools.
(ii) Conferences and lecture series have enabled partnerships to emerge       from the research.
The lecture series `The Body and the Arts' (described       in section 2) led the Association of Medical Humanities Conference, held       in Durham in July 2009, to adopt the theme `Taking the Body Seriously'.
As       well as academics, the 80 delegates included medical practitioners,       creative artists and writers, arts-in-health practitioners, therapists,       nurses and members of the general public.
Discussions following this event       led to a more focused Arts in Health Critical Mass Meeting (June 2011),       with leading practitioners from the UK, Australia, South Africa, USA,       Mexico and Ireland: two-thirds of the delegates were health professionals.
Macnaughton led discussion on the relationship between embodiment with       clinical expertise and artistic creation.
(iii) Medical professionals were       targeted through articles in The Lancet, which has a weekly print       circulation of 30,000 and 1.8 million online users (82% of readers are       medical practitioners).
One co-authored Lancet article by       Macnaughton, Saunders and others [3.6], exploring the tension between       empathy and distance in clinical encounters past and present, led directly       to invitations to Macnaughton to contribute to two conferences for general       practice trainers, held in Darlington in September and November 2012,       which in turn led to an invitation to organise a Medical Humanities       research day at the Royal College of General Practitioners (see below).
This dissemination policy has facilitated mutually influential       relationships between health practitioners and medical organisations, and       writers and artists, with impacts in both areas:     (a) Impact on Medical Practitioners     Engagement with the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) led to       the establishment of a special interest group of 10 practitioners       &#8212;including the then President of the RCGP and the Chair of RCGP Scotland       &#8212;who took part in an initial meeting with Macnaughton in London in       September 2011 to establish areas of common interest between working       clinicians and the medical humanities.
Key themes that emerged included       the relevance of literary critical perspectives to the training of       clinicians, the nature of `clinical generalism', and articulating the       complexity of interpersonal relations in the clinical encounter.
These key       themes drew substantially on material in references 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7       listed in section 3 and discussed in section 2 (iii).
The meeting demonstrated to the clinical group the new perspectives that       Saunders's and Macnaughton's research might bring to their practice,       leading the group to host a workshop for GPs across the UK.
Consequently,       Saunders and Macnaughton designed the programme for a Medical Humanities       Training Day held at the RCGP on 14 March 2013.
Both presented their       research on `clinical generalism' and the other themes raised at the       initial group.
Macnaughton explored the potential for this Medical       Humanities approach to redress the impoverishment of evidence-based       medicine, and the ways that GPs might lead in articulating a new ethos.
Saunders explored different models of experience, care and empathy       presented in medieval literature and the resonance of these for current       practice, both in terms of holistic understandings of experience and wider       responsibility for care.
The Chair of RCGP Scotland stated in his closing       remarks that Saunders's research on medieval attitudes to care and       practice had brought caritas back into medicine.
[5.2] All 60       participants read the co-authored Lancet article.
The meeting was       validated by the RCGP as Continuing Professional Development for       clinicians and all 60 practitioners who participated received CPD points.
In feedback, 100% of respondents stated that the underpinning research       `posed a serious challenge to conventional medical practice' and directly       addressed `the way I practice medicine'; 90% stated that the training day       had altered their understanding of Medical Humanities.
[5.3] The former       President of the RCGP has recognised the importance of the underpinning       research: it `deliberately seeks to accommodate the front-line medical       perspective'; through collaboration with CMH; she herself has made `a       definite shift in [her] approach to patients'.
[5.4] The Chair of RCGP       Scotland has stated that Durham's CMH has been `crucial in driving       forward' recent changes in understanding the relationships between       clinicians and patients.
This has now become `central to our professional       role' and is `hugely important to our future as medical generalists'.
[5.2] As a result of this workshop, Macnaughton and Saunders have been       invited to contribute half-day sessions to a regional `day release       programme' for GP trainees and to a `Training the Trainers' programme (to       be held May 2014 and December 2013).
The impact, then, has been to promote       the holistic and cultural approach of embodied experience and clinical       generalism within medical practice, providing RCGP training in Medical       Humanities where previously there was none; to influence RCGP strategy;       and to alter the practice of RCGP leaders.
(b) Impact on Creative work in Art and Literature     CMH research meetings regularly include creative writers &#8212;whose work has       informed the research of Macnaughton and Saunders &#8212;who reflect on and       explore research questions in their art.
Both Gwyneth Lewis and Kathleen       Jamie were involved in this way, before becoming CMH Visiting Fellows in       2011 and 2012 respectively.
Each presented their work at public readings       to audiences of 50-100 (Jamie, February 2010 and 2012; Lewis, May 2011,       followed by workshops).
(i) Lewis's epic poem about caring for her husband, A Hospital         Odyssey (2010), engages with the underpinning research in       confronting bio-medical conceptions of the body and illness, and explores       the history, practice and experience of medicine.
She writes that her       collaboration with Macnaughton and Saunders has `changed my understanding       of a subject [the nature of poetry] I thought I knew well', helping her to       see that medical humanities is `philosophically completely tied in to the       forms of art themselves'.
She is currently writing a play commissioned by       the National Theatre of Wales that draws on her engagement with the       underpinning research.
[5.5]     (ii) CMH helped establish a creative collaboration between the poet       Kathleen Jamie and the visual artist Brigid Collins that would lead to the       publication of Frissure (August 2013), which combines visual and       verbal images of the scar left by Jamie's surgery for breast cancer.
A CMH       workshop on `The Recovery of Beauty' (February 2012), brought together       Jamie and Collins to discuss their initial thoughts and illustrations.
Jamie commented, `It's wonderful to have one's hesitant first explorations       confirmed as valuable'; and Collins wrote, `this has helped us both to see       the importance of this work'.
This is how `the idea for a book with the       scope of Frissure came into being' (Collins).
Macnaughton helped       secure Wellcome Trust funding, and the book was launched at the Pittenweem       Arts Festival (2013).
The project addressed Macnaughton's and Saunders's       understanding of embodied experience, exemplifying how `new imaginative       perspectives can transform attitudes to the body, illness, medicine and       health' (as they write in their preface), while uniquely exploring the       meanings and possibilities of beauty.
[5.5]     (iii) Perceptions of beauty and injury have been influenced by Saunders's       work on war, disfigurement and empathy, and by Macnaughton's research on       the development of plastic surgery after WW1.
This recent work persuaded       the Durham Book Festival to adopt `The Recovery of Beauty' as one of its       themes for 2011.
The writers Ali Smith and Geoff Dyer created and       presented newly-commissioned work on the subjective quality of beauty,       engaging with metamorphosis of the body and the danger of beauty       respectively (they gave readings on 22 October 2011).
Their original       fictions will be included in a forthcoming volume co-edited by Saunders       and Macnaughton.
(iv) Saunders and Macnaughton developed `The Recovery of Beauty' through       a co-organised exhibition of drawings by Henry Tonks, an artist-surgeon in       the First World War who worked with the originator of cosmetic surgery.
The exhibition, `About Face', was held at Durham Light Infantry Museum,       April-May 2012.
It began a partnership with the Royal College of Surgeons       (RCS), who own the Tonks drawings, and Durham City Council.
Tonks's       drawings were complemented by a modern photographic exhibition and       accompanied by a series of free public talks exploring the possibilities       of literature and art to change understandings of injury, surgery,       identity and empathy.
Among these was the first public reading by Pat       Barker from her new novel (partly about Tonks), Toby's Room.
The       audiences included NHS staff, local book clubs, Friends of the Museum and       retired soldiers.
The exhibition was organised as Barker was in the       closing stages of writing Toby's Room.
Barker, a Booker Prize       winner who has been affiliated with CMH since 2001, writes that its       research `has had an important and beneficial impact on my work as a       novelist'.
[5.5]     The exhibition had 4,700 visitors, generated &#163;3,000 for DLIM, and has led       the RCS to stage a national tour of the Tonks drawings and re-model its       exhibition strategy.
[5.6] The RCS Director of Museums and Archives states       that `the CMH link and the history of collaboration has been crucial in       fundraising for this project', helping secure &#163;5,000 from the Knott Trust       and &#163;20,000 from Arts Council England.
More significantly, `the RCS has       derived lasting benefit' from its collaboration with Macnaughton and       Saunders, which `formed the foundation for RCS programming' to mark the       centenary of the 1914-18 War.
`War, Art and Surgery' will begin at the       DLIM in summer 2014 with associated public events in partnership between       CMH and the RCS.
This collaboration `has embedded within our strategic       development a heretofore unrealised regional focus' which will have       lasting benefit.
[5.7]
