     Psychosis&#8212;its meaning, clinical conceptualisation and management, and       representation within the       wider culture&#8212;is a matter of concern to providers and users of mental       health services, psychosis       activists, and the wider public (it is estimated that 4 to 10% of the       world population experience       voice-hearing [see 5.1]).
The underpinning research has applied literary       and cultural approaches to       psychosis in each of these domains, resulting in original ways to tackle       an issue of fundamental       significance.
Dissemination of the research has been organised both to       reach a wide public and       specifically in order to instigate collaborations between academics,       clinicians, carers and patients.
The dissemination of the research has enabled distinct groups to influence       one another.
The       application of the research has thereby gained greater reach and public       significance.
These       processes have resulted in the provision of dedicated fora in which topics       susceptible to       stigmatisation have been - and continue to be - addressed openly and       supportively.
Waugh has given numerous public talks on cognitive science and literary       thinking, including       the Inaugural Penguin Books Muriel Spark lecture on `Spark, madness and       metaphysics'       (Edinburgh, 2008, to an audience of 200), and the opening keynote lecture       to mark the 50th       anniversary of the `Two Cultures' debate in 2009, held at the Tate Modern       and Science Museum to       an audience of 450 that included scientists, science writers, journalists,       artists and musicians.
Woods launched the `Schizophrenia 100 Years' public discussion series for       the Newcastle       Philosophical Society (NPS) in February 2011.
Because she had `really       connected' with the 70       audience members who had personal or familial experience of schizophrenia,       she was invited       back, with Waugh, to speak on `Pathologies of the Postmodern' in March       2013 (40 participants,       with podcasts for Woods and Waugh).
The NPS has specified that many of the       service users in       their audience had `become more involved with the NPS in light of the       earlier season on       schizophrenia' [5.2].
Woods has engaged grass-roots activists in the       global Hearing Voices       Movement by presenting her research at the 2012 International Hearing       Voices Congress in Cardiff       (300 participants) and the 2012 English Hearing Voices Network 25th       Anniversary Conference in       Birmingham (100 participants).
She was an invited plenary speaker at       Nottingham Contemporary's       `Antipsychiatry and its Legacies' event in February 2013 (100       participants; with live web broadcast       and subsequent vodcast), and at Stanford University's `Hearing Voices'       symposium in April 2013       (120 participants, with live web broadcast &amp; subsequent vodcast).
Both       Woods and Waugh gave       talks and a workshop for 40 voice-hearers at Durham University in June       2013.
Also in June 2013       Waugh drew on this research to debate theories of self at the Hay-on-Wye       Festival (audience 150).
These targeted dissemination activities have gone on to engage a wider,       international audience       through posts on the CMH blog which Woods edits (2,250 followers, named by       the Online       Education Database as `One of the 50 Best Blogs for Humanities Scholars'       in 2011) and through       the `Hearing the Voice' project blog (over 1,100 followers).
Further       events are planned for 2014.
These activities have (i) allowed psychosis to be discussed openly,       beyond diagnostic contexts,       and (ii) brought together patients, carers, health service professionals,       psychosis support groups       and academics from a range of disciplines.
The key stage in the influence       of this research occurred       in November 2011, when Woods convened a voice-hearing workshop in Durham,       at which she       presented findings from her work; Waugh gave the keynote address on       voice-hearing in twentieth-       century literature.
This workshop proved pivotal to developing       partnerships with the major figures in       voice-hearing research and activism, who are cited below.
The following       impacts resulted:     1.
The underpinning research has fed directly into collaborations with       practitioners in the Tees Esk       and Wear Valley (TEWV) NHS Foundation Trust.
In February 2012 Woods       co-founded - with       Charles Fernyhough (Psychology, Durham) and Nurse Consultant Valentina       Short - the Joint       Special Interest Group for Psychosis (JSIGP), a monthly forum for       clinicians, academic       researchers, service-users and family members to exchange ideas, research       and best practice.
Through the JSIPG forum, Woods and Waugh have both directly introduced       clinicians to `literary       thinking', championing humanities-based approaches to psychosis, and have       introduced greater       rigour to the way in which patient narrative is understood.
Taking up       Woods's research on first-       person patient testimony, the Trust-wide Psychosis Services Lead states       that because mental       health is `intricately linked' to `the narrative that we create around       ourselves', this research has       helped clinicians to `make sense of our patients' narratives without       resorting to a disease model'.
[5.3] The key feature of Woods's and Waugh's collaborative work - its       proposition of narrative       complexity against the biomedical use of diagnostic categorisation -       therefore comes through       directly in their impact on clinicians.
The same NHS Trust Lead on       Psychosis has further praised       the structure of this group as `revolutionary': `it has brought together       patients, non-patient voice-       hearers and [clinical] staff in a way that was not possible before', thus       `reducing stigma'.
[5.3] The       Clinical Lead in Early Intervention in Psychosis for the TEWV Trust states       that the project has led       to `improved practice of staff working with voice hearers', which is       `hugely beneficial to clinicians       and service users alike.... As a result, service users have felt less       stigmatised' and this research       has `definitely contributed to their recovery'.
[5.4] In May 2013, an       event specially directed at voice       hearers and their carers was organised by Woods and featured an       interactive talk by Waugh.
Formal evaluation was inappropriate but informal feedback was       overwhelmingly positive.
2.
Through a series of training days with the TEWV Trust, the       underpinning research has shaped       practice, influenced attitudes of clinicians and assisted in the       professional development of NHS       psychosis intervention staff.
(i) On 14 March 2013, Woods led a session on `Interdisciplinary       approaches to voice-hearing' at a       Continuing Professional Development day for 60 doctors organised by the       Royal College of       General Practitioners.
(ii) Woods gave a keynote presentation on `Narrative and Psychosis' at a       day-long `Best Practice in       Psychosis' conference on 19 March 2013 to 69 participants; 80% of TEWV       psychosis services staff       surveyed reported that they found the session `useful'; one responded `the       session was very useful       [and enabled me] to understand the different narratives on psychosis and I       would certainly be       influenced by it in my clinical practice'.
Another clinician praised the       course's focus on `the pros       and cons of narrative' as `useful' for their work with bipolar patients.
A       third, for whom `story-telling       is already a part of my work with young people' was `inspired to continue       to help' patients to `find       meaning in their experience'.
[5.5] At a follow-up day on 12 June 2013,       Woods worked with theatre       director Tess Denman-Cleaver to deliver a workshop on `Narrative and       Psychosis: The Dynamics       of Storytelling'.
Participants' responses indicate how ideas from these       sessions have been taken       up in clinical work.
Several TEWV staff stated that the emphasis on       narrative perspectives had       already influenced their practice.
Others remarked that the sessions had       suggested new       `techniques to elicit positive aspects of [a] story' and that they had       re-considered how to ask       questions in an assessment.
[5.5]     (iii) In partnership with colleagues at Leeds and Sheffield universities,       and collaborating with the       Andrew Sims Centre (a leading UK provider of training events for mental       health workers), Woods       co-facilitated a training course on `Clinical Practice and the Value of       Narrative: Analysing the Value       and Application of Narrative and Stories in Delivering Healthcare' (Leeds,       11 June 2013).
This       event was also a NHS Continuing Professional Development course.
Responding to the statement       `This course is very important in enabling me to do my job more       effectively', the 15 participating       doctors scored the event at 4.3 out of 5 (on a scale of 1 to 5).
[5.6]     The underpinning research has also affected the training of clinicians       internationally.
In       February 2013 Woods delivered two intensive modules for a new Doctorate in       Clinical Social Work       at Rutgers University, New Jersey, a programme designed to develop       advanced clinical practice       skills in theory and practice for mid-career clinicians.
The programme       director states that, as a       result of Woods's training, these clinicians have experienced `a       fundamental shift in thinking about       auditory hallucinations'.
Her `new ways of seeing voice-hearing' have       prompted these clinicians to       `rethink [their] clinical practice'.
(Woods will return to Rutgers in       2014).
[5.7]     3.
Through collaborations with voice-hearing support groups the       underpinning research has       promoted non-biomedical understanding of psychosis locally, nationally and       internationally.
Waugh       and Woods have worked with the Hearing the Voice Movement, whose founders       spent a term in       Durham and attended the November 2011 voice-hearing workshop.
Their       enthusiasm for the       project led to collaboration with the Chair of the UK National Hearing       Voices Network.
The Hearing       the Voice project facilitated the UK Network in training 27 people (a       combination of voice-hearers       and mental health professionals) to establish new Hearing Voices Groups in       North East England.
The training was recorded and broadcast globally on BBC World Service on       28 June 2013.
The       Chair of the National Hearing Voices Network reports that this work has       been crucial in `reducing       stigma' and in reaching those who could use the service's `innovative       approaches'.
[5.8]     International collaborations have helped reduce stigma attached to       voice-hearing.
Woods's       research on first-person accounts has been praised by the founder of the       Chicago Hearing Voices       Group for the way that it shows how `narratives both shape and are shaped       by clinical and popular       needs and expectations'.
It has `begun to chip away at boundaries and       barriers' and so is proving       of `tremendous value' to `grassroots activists'.
[5.9] Speaking at the TED       2013 conference in       California, the Co-ordinator of the International Research Committee of       Intervoice (`The       International Community for Hearing Voices') recommended the HtV website       as `one of the few'       that could `introduce an American audience to the narratives of survivor       activism'.
This address has       subsequently been viewed over 350,000 times and attracted over 300       comments via the TED       website.
She states that the effect of the underpinning research is `to       empower voice hearers;       promote holistic, innovatory clinical approaches; and to challenge       discrimination and stigma'.
[5.10]     The underpinning research has therefore made significant progress in       influencing clinical       approaches, showing how the cultural understanding of forms of psychosis       can be enhanced       through a perspective derived from literary thinking.
In affecting       voice-hearers and their support       groups, NHS staff, and mid-career clinicians in the United States, it has       brought disparate groups       together and begun the significant process of changing clinical approaches       and public attitudes.
