     By promoting reading as an inherently critical practice, the underpinning       research into literary value and readership, across genres and reading       communities, has benefited: (1) the audiences and organisers of the Durham       Book Festival, (2) school teachers and (3) exhibition visitors.
1.Shaping Durham Book Festival     The Durham Book Festival (DBF) is the largest book festival in North East       England and, according to an Arts Council assessor, its programme is       `comparable with large festivals of this type e.g.
Cheltenham' [5.1].
As       members of the steering group, James (from 2007) and Regan (from 2008)       have drawn on their research to help the Festival to redefine its literary       offering.
Regan's instigation of a `Festival Laureate' scheme in 2009 was       an important innovation in its strategy.
He devised the scheme and       organises it annually.
The Laureateship draws on Regan's research on       contemporary poetry (and that of colleagues), by attracting to Durham       poets of international renown.
Each Laureate is commissioned to write and       deliver a poem inspired by the people, place or culture of the North East.
In public interview they respond to questions of literariness, access and       audience.
The success of the scheme is evidenced by the Laureates who have been       appointed.
The first, Andrew Motion, composed and read `Holy Island' (30       Oct. 2009).
Speaking to the Northern Echo, Motion praised DBF in       comparison with other festivals and singled out that `one of the ways it's       good is by developing, not staying the same' and the Laureateship       exemplifies this `renewal'.
[5.2] In 2010, Simon Armitage wrote `Fell       Ponies'; and Regan gave prefatory public talks on work by Armitage (22       Oct. 2010).
The 2011 Laureate, Don Paterson, discussed Shakespeare's       sonnets with Fuller (whose recent book was on the sonnets) and Tony       Harrison (25 Oct. 2011).
The Festival Evaluation Report for that year       states: `With the English Department at Durham University we engaged Don       Paterson as Festival Laureate.
Don worked with choral composer Chris       Totney to write a new Anthem for Evensong for the Durham Cathedral Choir.'
Paterson wrote to the festival organisers: `to have four events in such       spectacular settings, with such great &amp; attentive (and large!)
audiences ... Well, it's all an author ever dreams of, frankly.'
[5.3] On       25-26 October 2012 the Laureate Lorna Goodison delivered a specially       composed poem based on Fenwick Lawson's sculpture of St Cuthbert (whose       tomb is in Durham Cathedral).
The 2013 Laureate will be Paul Muldoon.
The       DBF Chair who worked with Regan in establishing the scheme states that       `The Laureateship was instrumental in creating a stronger and more       sustainable relationship between Durham Book Festival and Durham       University'.
It brought `clear roles and responsibilities, which had been       lacking from previous attempts at collaboration', and `increased PR and       programming opportunities for the Festival.'
[5.4] An independent report       for the DBF in 2010 praised the laureate scheme and recommended deepening       the ties between the Festival and Durham University research.
[5.5] Regan       and James have been instrumental in achieving these closer links for       English Studies, which in 2012 led to a formal partnership agreement with       the University.
Writing in 2012, a popular poetry blogger linked the       success of the Laureateship to that of the Festival: `the Festival has       gone from strength to strength in recent years, with Simon Armitage and       Don Paterson filling the role of Festival Laureate in 2010 and 2011'.
[5.6]     The laureateship scheme has been carefully established in order to: (i)       bring departmental research in contemporary poetry into dialogue with       acclaimed poets; (ii) promote critical reflection on poetry to a wide       audience of festival-goers; and (iii) initiate, and build on, cultural       links between poets and the region.
The Laureateship scheme brought new       `opportunities for increased audience engagement with the Festival' and so       has directly contributed to the success of DBF [5.4].
Over the period of       the scheme, DBF total visitor numbers have increased from 2,350 in 2008 to       6,155 in 2012.
DBF 2012 generated nearly &#163;45,000 solely in box-office       income against a target income of &#163;25,000.
[5.7].
Specifically, the       Laureateship generated a focus on Durham as a site for contemporary poetry       which was recognised by the decision of Faber to include Durham as one of       the main venues for the Faber New Poets Tour (broadcast on BBC2 Culture       Show, 12 November 2009), and by a recent partnership with the Poetry Book       Society to host an annual reading in Durham for the prestigious T.S.
Eliot       Prize for Poetry from 2013.
The underpinning research has also generated an innovative reading       programme that brought new audiences to contemporary genre fiction and       placed it in a literary-historical context.
James's challenging of the       divisions between literary fiction and genre fiction, and between academic       criticism and popular reading, led to the programming of specific events       within DBF.
He co-hosted a creative writing course on `vampire / horror       fiction' for 25 schoolchildren aged 10-17 at the 2009 festival (29       October), which `allowed them to see that the modern vampire stories they       were reading (Twilight) had a long literary tradition' and which       assisted them in creating their own stories.
His contribution was praised       by the Chair of DBF as `brilliant' and very effective with the age group.
[5.8] Most notably, in 2011, James collaborated with New Writing North (an       Arts Council-funded body) to devise `Durham Reads', described by the DBF       report as `the first ever civic reading project across County Durham'.
This event promoted critical reading and discussion by distributing 1,000       free copies of Richard T. Kelly's neo-Victorian Gothic novel The         Possessions of Doctor Forrest at libraries and shops and other       venues across County Durham.
This novel was chosen by James and New       Writing North as it reworks Victorian gothic, one of James's specialisms.
Library reading groups met to discuss the novel, and representatives from       the Council and business communities also distributed it.
Inside each copy       was a specially produced reading guide for the novel.
The finale of       `Durham Reads' was staged in conjunction with DBF (18 October).
James led       a discussion with Kelly and 149 readers on the relationship between       classic gothic fiction, literary canonisation and contemporary writing.
This was accompanied by staged readings, by actors, from gothic novels by       Stevenson, Wilde and Stoker, placing Kelly's novel in dialogue with a       history of the form devised by James.
Independent feedback cited in the       DBF 2011 report praises the innovative format of this event.
[5.9] The       Chair of New Writing North and DBF (2009-2012) writes that James's       `research interests have helped to influence and shape a number of events'       at DBF.
`The impact of his involvement was both in the shaping and       articulation of the book choice, the enriching of our programme offer and       in the profiling of [his] interesting research'.
She states that James's       `research interests allowed us to create a final celebratory event that       allowed readers to respond to the book that they had read whilst being       able to understand more about the author's literary influences.'
[5.10]       The event further gave Kelly a greater comprehension of his readers'       motivations and interests, as he attested in his blog report.
`The       experience of conversing with such readers is very meaningful and       instructive', he added, praising James's `adept questioning and       commentary'.
[5.11] This scheme assisted DBF in widening its audiences:       the DBF Chair states that `readers absolutely loved' this event.
It `was a       high point for the festival as it brought together such diverse elements       of Durham's communities'.
[5.10]     2.Influence on School Teachers     James's work with local schoolchildren at DBF 2009 fed into an event for       schoolteachers in April 2010.
James and Regan co-organised a three-day       residential summer school for 60 school teachers to investigate ways in       which their research might inform the teaching of English in schools.
Sessions by James and Regan on `What is English Literature For?'
and by       James on `Genres in Fiction: Gothic' were mixed with sessions on `A-Level       design and delivery' by a principal examiner for the exam board AQA.
The       focus was on assisting teachers' to engage young audiences in contemporary       writing.
Responses immediately after the event were very positive: James       showed how ideas can be `applied or adapted for classroom practice'.
His       talk scored 4.8 out of 5 for providing `information that will be useful in       my work'.
Participants said that it had `renewed', `inspired' and       `re-energized' their love of the subject, that it `will help [their]       teaching', and that they had gained `quality professional development'.
The `enormous benefit' of the event was shared by many.
Teachers wrote to       say that they had incorporated aspects of the sessions into their       classroom practice.
This influence will continue: these 60 teachers will       teach thousands of present and future school students whose interest will       help to sustain the discipline.
[5.12]     3.Designing an Exhibition of Literary Magazines     James's and Harding's research shaped an exhibition which was the       inaugural public display at the Wolfson Gallery, Durham in 2012.
This       exhibition grew from a previous, smaller three-day public exhibition of a       selection of the University Library's rare modernist magazines, held at       the University's Cosin's Library in 2009, arranged by Harding to accompany       his work on Ford Madox Ford and the editing of literary magazines       (Harding, 2010).
The event led a collector to donate to the University a       complete original set of transatlantic review, edited by Ford.
This unforeseen effect &#8212; the preservation of a rare item for public and       scholarly access &#8212; led directly to the later, larger exhibition.
Outrageously         Modern!
: The Avant-Garde Magazines that Shocked Britain 1884-1922       displayed literary periodicals and captions at the Wolfson Gallery from       February to October 2012.
Curated by James, Harding and a PhD student, the       exhibition drew on their research to show the role of literary magazines,       and their different publics, in the history of literary audiences from the       mid-19th century to modernism.
James and Harding selected the exhibits and       wrote the captions, seeking to revise received versions of literary       audience-formation in favour of a narrative more closely informed by their       research.
Over 8 months, Outrageously Modern!
was attended by       7,180 members of the public (plus university staff and students).
The       visitors' book records many pages of praise, such as `Very informative and       moving.
Beautifully presented'.
Visitors found the curating educational:       `Fantastic exhibition, learnt a lot'; `informative displays' were `very       well annotated'; `thank you for the literary insights'.
Several spent       lengthy periods engaging with the exhibition: `a very enjoyable 1.5       hours'.
The benefits of this work were also social, opening the       university's rare literary holdings to all (`good to know these works are       accessible').
The exhibition had direct and indirect economic impacts:       entry fees and directly-related sales raised over &#163;25,000.
Moreover, the       exhibition boosted the local economy through transport and accommodation,       contributing to Durham's cultural tourism: several found it `well worth       the trip'; `ten years since we were last here and what an amazing       discovery'.
It had a sustainable impact in its encouragement to explore       further: respondents said they `look forward to returning' [5.13]     The overall influence of the research has been to promote critical       reflection on literature, and the idea of literary taste, to a variety of       audiences.
It led to new partnerships that have established the city of       Durham as a significant venue for the critical, and public, appreciation       of modern writing.
