     Work with the Grierson Trust       Recognising the strength of her archival research, in 2008 the Board of       the Grierson Trust invited Fox to assist in its task of `changing and       updating [its] activities'.
This included using research into Grierson and       the Documentary Film Movement to reinvigorate the relationship between       academe and the film and television industries [1].
The Grierson Trust is       a registered charity that exists to promote documentary film-making.
Established by members of the Documentary Film Movement following       Grierson's death in 1972, it mentors aspiring documentary film-makers and       runs educational programmes in primary and secondary schools.
It is       responsible for annual awards - the Grierson Awards for Documentary Film       Production - which recognise and celebrate documentaries from across the       world that have made a significant contribution to the genre, and that       demonstrate quality, integrity, creativity, originality and overall       excellence.
The awards represent the `gold standard' in documentary film       production and `carry a high level of international recognition' [1].
As the Trust considered that Fox's research was `accessible, grounded,       informative' [1], it invited her to provide a three-page historical essay       for the 2008 awards-ceremony booklet, explaining Grierson's influence on       contemporary documentary production and how the Movement's social purpose       has continued to influence today's practitioners.
The essay led to an       invitation to become a judge for the 2010 awards.
Fox was one of two       academics among a judging team of seventy (divided into 9 specialist       sub-panels).
Judges were drawn primarily from the film and television       industries.
Fox joined the panel for best historical documentary,       alongside the author and film- maker Henry Chancellor, Anna Keay, the       Properties Presentation Director for English Heritage, and Asha Oberoi,       the Managing Director of ITN Source.
She used her understanding of the       purpose and form of British Documentary in order to guide her judgements       and inform the discussion of the panel.
Fox's work for the Trust, in the       words of its former Chairman, `remind[ed] current film-makers of the way       this legacy still affects the essence of their work and the evolution of       the documentary form'.
The nominees for, and winners of, the awards       benefitted from this recognition by the Trust and their peers, leading to       production commissions and a raised profile in a competitive industry.
Fox       also advised the Trust on public and professional enquires, particularly       from production companies to clear image rights, for information on film       rights and to obtain archival documents relating to Grierson [3].
Production of the TV documentary Britain Through a Lens: The British         Documentary Film Mob Following Fox's work as a judge in 2010, the       Vice-Chair of the Trust asked her to participate in the making of a       documentary, Britain Through a Lens: The British Documentary Film Mob,       commissioned by the BBC.
This work directly benefited the production       company, Lambent Productions, and the Emmy award-winning director of the       film.
As a contemporary documentarist, the director wanted to understand       the historical underpinnings of his profession and art form.
As described       by the BBC, the film `assembles a collection of captivating film portraits       of Britain, during the economic crisis of the 1930s and the Second World       War.
Featuring classic documentaries about slums and coal mines, about       potters and posties, about the bombers and the Blitz, the programme       reveals the fascinating story of what was also going on behind the camera,       of how the documentary was born and became part of British culture' (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b012p53d).
Fox advised the director from September 2010 to July 2011.
Her research       findings (published 2005-13) informed the shape and historical content of       the programme.
She assisted the director in setting the intellectual       framework, and provided research and documents to inform the script.
She       offered advice and information to the research team, worked on the script       itself and was the credited Historical Consultant.
As the director       explains: `The intention from the start was to make a lively programme but       with its insights all based on historical research.
[This] was where Jo       Fox proved indispensable.'
Her research makes full use of oral testimonies       and contemporary letters that she discovered in British, Canadian and       Australian archives, and these became `an important storytelling device'       in the film, introducing materials that were new even to specialist       audiences.
The director confirms that `it was her overall broad       understanding of this story and how it fitted into a wider history that       helped give this documentary depth and weight' [4].
The film was screened       on five separate occasions on BBC4 during its initial run, reaching       426,300 viewers.
It has subsequently been repeated on BBC4 and on the       BBC's I-player in July 2013.
It was well received by critics and was twice       singled out as The Independent's `Pick of the Day'.
It has also       been viewed on 8,098 occasions on You Tube [5, 6].
The film received its premiere at the National Film Theatre on London's       South Bank.
It was the subject of a discussion by leading practitioners,       the BFI National Archive Non-Fiction Curator, and the Executive Producer       of Channel 4's `Cutting Edge' programmes.
The discussants stated that the       programme introduced the Movement to a new generation, and practitioners       confirmed that the film brought a realisation of the Movement's influence       on their own practice and on contemporary documentary film-making.
The       audience for the premiere largely comprised members of Britain's       documentary film-making community, `who really got stuck into the       questions the film raised about the origins of this craft' [7].
While this       was a national event, the programme has also been used by local film       societies: it has been screened, for example, at the Picture House in       Cambridge, as part of a tribute to the Documentary Film Movement.
The film has particularly benefitted Lambent Productions, its production       company.
It enabled the development of a creative partnership between the       film's director and the company, and assisted Lambent to obtain a       longer-term relationship with the BBC, allowing it to break into factual       programming, an area of strategic importance for the growth of the       company.
The Documentary Film Mob was Lambent's first       archive-based history documentary film and its first commissioned film for       BBC4.
Based on this experience, Lambent has subsequently worked with the       director on Secret History of Rubbish, another specialist, factual       archive programme in two parts for BBC4.
This film, the Company Director       and Executive Producer explains, would not have been possible `had the Documentary         Film Mob not happened' and had it not been a high-quality       production.
In addition, Lambent Productions have now `pitched' ideas to       the History Channel and Channel 4 as a result of the `critical success' of       the Documentary Film Mob.
It was a film that `resonated' with       programme controllers and, as such, the Company Director concludes, `it is       absolutely true to say that it's been very beneficial to us as a company       to make that film both in terms of our business and our creativity and       it's really exciting to be going into new territory and talking to new       commissioning editors on the back of it' [8].
Promoting understanding of the British Documentary Film Movement to         international audiences Fox has also assisted the Canadian Broadcast       Corporation (CBC) and Lumiere Productions, based in New York.
She acted as       a consultant for two programmes for the CBC series Love, Hate and         Propaganda, one of which focused on Grierson's work at the National       Film Board of Canada during the Second World War.
She provided research       and archival materials and advice that informed the script, as well as       appearing as an expert on the programme and its associated web materials (http://www.cbc.ca/documentaries/lovehatepropaganda/experts.html).
She appeared as an expert commentator and provided research materials on       Grierson to the director of Lumiere Productions' six-part documentary To         Tell The Truth for PBS in the United States.
This series premiered       at the DOC NYC festival in New York in November 2012: see http://www.lumiereproductions.com/films.php?section=in_progress].
The international impact of Fox's research is further demonstrated by her       work with the National Film and Sound Archive in Australia (NFSA) in 2012.
While on a fellowship at the Australian National University in Canberra,       Fox collaborated with the archive to raise awareness of its Film Australia       Collections.
Film Australia was formed from an Australian government film       unit, led by Stanley Hawes, a member of the British Documentary Film       Movement.
NFSA archivists had been concerned about the lack of attention       given to their Film Australia collections.
While researching in their       archives, Fox worked with curators to arrange a public screening of Hawes'       1954 film The Queen in Australia to coincide with the Queen's       state visit in 2012.
Fox gave a public lecture on the importance of the       NFSA collections in this area and helped to publicise them further through       a newsletter item on its website (http://www.nfsa.gov.au/community/newsletters/articles/2011/october/queen-australia/).
She gave a public lecture at ANU on international documentary networks.
These events attracted attention from Channel 9 News and ABC national       radio.
This led to a heightened profile for these neglected collections       [9].
The impacts of Fox's research have been on (1) the Grierson Trust,       helping to reinvigorate its work by re-establishing the importance of the       Documentary Film Movement for contemporary practice; (2) the creation of       the television programme The Documentary Film Mob, which has       ignited debate among practitioners about the purpose of documentary in the       21st century, and which has enabled its makers, Lambent Productions, to       break into new fields, helping the company to grow; (3) the international       promotion of the Documentary Film Movement to wider audiences and greater       use of the materials they left behind.
