     The exhibition, `Lindisfarne Gospels Durham: one amazing book, one       incredible journey', 2013, was the culmination of a three-year partnership       between Durham County Council, Durham Cathedral, Durham University and the       British Library (source 1).
While located in Durham University Library       buildings, the exhibition and its outreach activities were organised by       the `Lindisfarne Gospels Durham Board', composed of representatives from       the County Council and Cathedral as well the University, which secured       funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund and the Arts Council England.
The       exhibition also received sponsorship and assistance from businesses and       public authorities in Northumbria, and media partnerships with regional       newspapers.
The exhibition opened to the public on 1 July and ran until 30       September 2013; the impact discussed here relates solely to the period         to 31 July.
Gameson's research and practical experience was central to the design and       implementation of the Lindisfarne Gospels exhibition, and for its       presentation to regional, national and international publics (source 2).
The exhibition enhanced the attraction of the Durham area for cultural       tourism, and for educational purposes and artistic inspiration in schools       and for other groups throughout the North East.
Gameson's impact has been       of three types: (i) presentation and interpretation of cultural capital;       (ii) contribution to economic prosperity; (iii) influence in schools and       on artistic work.
(i) Presentation and interpretation of cultural capital       The exhibition was in two parts.
One was concerned specifically with       displaying and interpreting the Lindisfarne Gospels book and other related       gospel books and further artefacts.
The other presented and explained the       materials which went into the making of early books, and displayed art       works created by schools and art workshops.
There was no charge for entry       to this second part.
Gameson was the curator for both parts, chiefly       responsible for establishing the themes used to present, contextualise and       interpret the Gospels, and to explain the material character of early       books.
Indeed, visitors follow the route designed by Gameson in order to       understand the changing meanings of the Gospels, as described in section 2       above.
In designing the academic content of the exhibition, he drew not       only on his academic expertise, but also on his long practical experience       in the interpretation, evaluation and preservation of medieval       manuscripts, and on his advisory roles in earlier exhibitions elsewhere       and with national bodies including the British Library (e.g., as member of       the 2011-12 committee which advised on the acquisition of the St Cuthbert       Gospel for the nation).
Gameson's work led directly to:            the emphasis on the significance of the Gospels' journey, as a way         both of explaining the changing meaning of the Gospels over time and of         locating the work clearly in its north-eastern context;       the contextualisation of the Gospels as a pinnacle of a wider         early-medieval culture, with an international significance, which         assisted the exhibition's appeal to national and international         audiences;       the focus on the material character of the Gospels and other         early-medieval books.
Gameson briefed the Board itself, and spoke to groups of staff from the       partner institutions and to other stakeholders to explain the significance       of the Gospels and their relationship to the North East.
He was directly       involved in selecting the numerous further books and artefacts &#8212; including       the St Cuthbert Gospel &#8212; which were on display as part of the exhibition,       and which were drawn from the British Museum, National Museum of Scotland,       Corpus Christi College Cambridge, Bodleian Library, Lindisfarne Priory,       Norwich City Museum, Yorkshire Museums and other collections.
Gameson       wrote the academic proposal for the exhibition, on the basis of which the       British Library approved the loan of the Gospels to Durham, and provided       the academic material for the separate loan case made for each of the       other items borrowed (source 3).
For many loaned books he provided the       insurance valuations required for the Government Indemnity Insurance Cover       [GIIC], which is a pre-condition of loans to public exhibitions.
As       curator, Gameson prepared all captions and other written material for the       exhibition, and he provided Braille captions and a tactile version of       insular lettering for visitors with visual impairments.
He wrote and       voiced the audio-guide, and assisted in the training of all gallery guides       and attendants (including a large number of volunteers), through lectures.
Comments made by visitors reveal the impact of the exhibition on their       cultural knowledge.
An analysis of the 2,199 comments left in the       visitors' book to 31 July showed them to be overwhelmingly positive; the       most commonly-used terms were `informative' (73%), `learned a lot' (10%),       `enlightening' (10%) and `educational' (8%) (source 10).
Gameson undertook a large amount of publicity and public engagement for       the exhibition.
He provided five press tours in its first week, and a       further 17 public lectures during its first month to such groups as the       Durham and Newcastle Arts Council and commercial companies (Turner and       Townsend, the Vardy Group).
Gameson has played a leading part in the wider       media coverage of the exhibition, with appearances in the regional and       national press (e.g., Northern Echo, 18 October 2012; The         Times, 6 July 2013), on media websites, and on regional and national       television and radio programmes.
These included Radio 4's Sunday       and Saturday Live (30 June and 6 July 2013) and the Radio 3       documentary `Gospels come home' on 16 June 2013 (sources 4, 5, 6).
(ii) Contribution to economic prosperity       By 31 July 2013, approximately 35,000 visitors had attended the exhibition       (visitor data were collected in weekly tranches: 33,133 had visited by 29       July; 40,259 by 5 August).
The exhibition had a national and international       reach: a sample of 851 of these visitors (undertaken by Tourism UK Ltd)       revealed that 68% of them were from the North East; 30.8% from elsewhere       in the UK, and 1.2% from elsewhere in the world.
Samples also showed that       65.9% came to Durham solely for the exhibition; 25.9% made overnight stays       in Durham as a result of the exhibition.
Local businesses reported a       significant increase in business as a result of the exhibition, with some       reporting that in July it was up by 70% by comparison with the previous       year (source 7).
The exhibition was also featured in other exhibitions,       displays or activities at numerous regional visitor attractions &#8212; e.g.,       Anker's House Museum Chester-le-Street, Bede's World Jarrow, Berwick       Museum, Hexham Old Gaol museum, National Centre for Children's Books       Newcastle, Durham Art Gallery &#8212; assisting their attendances and income.
In       total, there were 149 advertised events in July attracting an estimated       74,500 people (source 2).
(iii) Influence on schools and on artistic work       During the twelve months before the exhibition began, the `Lindisfarne       Gospels Durham' organisation and the University Library undertook an       educational programme, conducted by specialists from the University and       designed specifically to meet the needs of the National Curriculum (source       8).
Gameson was a part of the Exhibition and Learning Group which designed       this programme, and the work of the specialists was very much shaped by       Gameson's input.
In particular, the Exhibition and Learning Group drove       the decision to emphasise the importance of authorship and context in       understanding the significance of primary sources: the educational work       used Gameson's research on the colophon to the Gospels to illustrate this       point.
Gameson briefed the educational specialists, and was a constant       point of reference for them in devising education materials, particularly       the resource pack for teachers, `Learning Across the Region' (source 9).
Pages 4-14, 20-21 and 36-40 of this pack all derive directly from       Gameson's research.
As well as providing context for the Gospels and       explaining the significance of the colophon, they provide resources for       teaching children about life as a monk, about the materials used in making       medieval books, inks and pigments, about Anglo-Saxon calligraphy and       iconography, and about the interpretation of illuminated manuscripts.
From       September 2012 to June 2013, this programme reached 16,808 children aged       5-18 around County Durham through workshops in primary and secondary       schools.
Every school which provided feedback reported that that the       workshops had improved children's subject knowledge and were useful from a       teaching perspective.
From 1 July the programme involved school visits and       educational activities at the exhibition itself; the visitor survey showed       that 70% of visitors to the main exhibition also visited the free       exhibition which focused on the making of books.
Gameson's work also       influenced the content of workshops held around the North East to create       artistic work which responded to the exhibition, and work from Escomb, St       Anne's and St Bede's Durham, St Michael's Newcastle and Woodham community       schools and from workshops at Durham Cathedral and the Museum of       Hartlepool were displayed in the free section of the exhibition.
In short, Gameson's research has directly benefited: (1) the wider public       in their deeper appreciation of the Gospels and Anglo-Saxon manuscripts       and artworks in relation to the cultural life of the region and the       nation; (2) school children and teachers in the North East through new       educational experiences and stimulating student interest in the distant       past; (3) local businesses and companies through income generated by       increased tourism to Durham and the North East region.
