     Contributing to innovation and entrepreneurial activity     The Rift Valley Institute (RVI) is a non-profit education, research,       publishing and advocacy organisation.
It operates in what is now Sudan and       South Sudan (formerly the single Republic of Sudan), the Horn of Africa,       East Africa, the Great Lakes and the Democratic Republic of the Congo,       working with communities, institutions and individuals to bring local       knowledge to bear on political and economic development (source 8).
A       recent review of The Sudan Handbook published by RVI noted that       `the Rift Valley Institute has had tremendous influence on academics,       policy makers, activities and fieldworkers' (source 2).
Willis was       co-editor of, and a contributor to, the Handbook, which was       published in 2010 with the specific aim of providing relevant and       practical research-based knowledge to those involved in development work,       or political interventions, or humanitarian work, in Sudan; the Handbook       was a Choice Outstanding Academic Title for 2011.
On the basis of       his research expertise, Willis has been a fellow of the Institute since       2004, a director since 2009 and a trustee/director (one of five) since       2010, when RVI became a UK charity.
Drawing on his research-based       knowledge of the region and in particular his understanding of local       dynamics of authority, Willis has been closely involved in developing       RVI's programme of activities.
The trustees take an active role in guiding       the development of RVI; Willis has an additional role as the chief advisor       on RVI research projects in Eastern and Central Africa &#8212; the `impressive       body of work and projects of the Rift Valley Institute', as another       reviewer called them (source 2) &#8212; including the Usalama project, a series       of studies of armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and       the Nairobi Forum, a regional programme that brings together       policy-makers, researchers and representatives of communities affected by       development interventions (source 6).
Willis has helped to devise these       projects and to write the core documents which have secured funding for       them, and he continues to advise on the activities undertaken as part of       these projects.
RVI turned over more than &#163;1m in 2012-13 (more than double       the 2009 turnover), and currently employs sixteen people in the UK and       Africa.
Professional development     The Sudan Course (now called the Sudan and South Sudan Course), run by       RVI, is an intensive one-week training course designed for aid workers,       peacekeepers, researchers, business executives and diplomats &#8212; those       living and working in the countries of the region and those about to       start.
It is taught by teams of leading international and regionally-based       experts and activists.
The Course first ran on an experimental basis in       2004, when Willis designed part of the teaching programme.
Since 2005 the       Course has been an annual event.
In the current REF period, Willis was       Director of Studies for the Course in 2008, 2012 and 2013; in 2009, 2010       and 2011 he served as advisor to the directors of studies.
Vaughan taught       on the Course in 2013.
In 2008, Willis helped to design and secure funding       for the RVI Horn of Africa Course, modelled on the Sudan Course.
This       covers Ethiopia, Eritrea and the Somali territories, as well as       neighbouring regions, and Willis taught on this Course in 2010; in 2010       RVI introduced a Great Lakes Course, covering DRC, Uganda, Rwanda and       Burundi, and Willis provided advice on the development of the programme.
In the current REF period, 250 participants have attended the Sudan       Course, the current cost of which is 4,000 euros.
They have included a       number of ambassadors (UK, Norwegian, Australian, Swiss and Dutch) and       heads of UN missions and country representatives of UN agencies.
The Head       of the FCO South Sudan team wrote of the course: `The combination of       teaching excellence, subject knowledge and likeability of all the staff       made for a fantastic experience' (source 7).
A defence analyst for the       Canadian armed forces commented that `[t]he discussions of culture,       politics, economics and oil from the Rift Valley Institute course had a       profound influence on my perception of present conditions in the Sudans       and my assessment of their future trajectory... the background and       analysis provided in the course have increased my capability to report on       these issues' (source 3).
In November 2012, Willis also designed and ran a short course for the new       UNICEF representative to Khartoum; and Willis and Vaughan were given       funding by the FCO to organise a colloquium at Durham in January 2013 on       new research on South Sudan, which was attended by twelve members of staff       from the FCO, DfID and the MoD.
Those attending included the Head of the       Sudan Unit at the UK government, who subsequently wrote that this `added       valuable historical perspectives on some of the real-life problems that we       are grappling with, which helped to illuminate some of the policy choices'       (source 9).
Providing expert advice     (a) Sudan's borders       In 2012 Vaughan was invited to Addis Ababa to brief the African Union Team       of Experts, which is tasked with advising on the settlement of the border       dispute between Sudan and South Sudan (source 1).
(b) Briefings for diplomatic staff       Since 2002, Willis has been involved in briefing FCO staff taking up posts       in eastern Africa, as well as periodic meetings to discuss particular       issues.
He has briefed a new High Commissioner to Nairobi (in London and       again in Nairobi in 2012), a new Ambassador to South Sudan (2013) and a       new political officer for the Nairobi High Commission (2011).
He has       offered briefings in London and Nairobi on specific issues (the Sudan       border conflict in 2012; coastal secessionism in Kenya in 2012) (source       10).
(c) Electoral support work       In 2008 RVI designed and implemented a research project, funded by DfID,       on electoral history in Sudan.
This informed the support being given by       the international community &#8212; which ranged from technical advice, to       logistical support, to the provision of voter education material &#8212; for the       elections in Sudan, eventually held in 2010.
Willis was PI on the project,       and the project findings were presented in the report `Elections in Sudan:       learning from experience'.
This report was launched in a series of       meetings in Khartoum, Juba and London in 2009 with bilateral and       multilateral donors involved in electoral support.
It was subsequently       translated into Arabic and widely disseminated on the web (see for example       at: http://southsudanngoforum.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/Security/Elections%20in%20Sudan%20-%20Learning%20from%20Experience%20-%202009.pdf       and       https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/sudanese_list/0Ure8Baj1xY).
Willis was interviewed by the BBC World Service, France 24, Sky Radio and       by National Public Radio.
In 2012 Willis, with two colleagues from Oxford and Warwick, received       funds from the Africa Conflict Prevention Pool (ACPP), a multi-partner       agency of the UK government which brings together FCO, DfID and MoD, for a       project on `Long-term election monitoring and early warning in Kenya'.
This built on their existing research knowledge and provided expert advice       to the UK and partner governments in preparing for, and offering support       to, the 2013 Kenya elections.
The project produced a series of briefing       papers (three before the election, two after) which have been circulated       in the UK government and to US and EU partner governments.
With his two       colleagues, Willis has also briefed UK government staff in London and       Nairobi (three briefings in London; three in Nairobi); on one occasion the       audience included a wider group including staff from the AU, and the US       and other EU governments (source 5).
One diplomat wrote of this event: `We       were very inspired by the presentations you... gave... concerning       politics, risks and potential hotspots on the upcoming Kenyan elections.
These presentations and the short discussions after gave us a great deal       of information and better understanding of the dilemmas and many different       elements influencing current affairs in Kenya.'
The same diplomat wrote       that `we receive your reports via the FCO as well.
We are very grateful       that your reports are being shared with us' (source 4).
Willis briefed       Netherlands Foreign Ministry staff (including the head of the Africa       section at the Netherlands Foreign Ministry) and presented a talk on the       election to a larger group of thirty staff from the Foreign Ministry.
He       also took part in a panel discussion at Chatham House (transcript and       recordings at http://www.chathamhouse.org/events/view/188705       ) and contributed a blog piece to the African Arguments series (http://africanarguments.org/2013/04/04/what-can-the-kenyan-coast-tell-us-about-the-2013-elections-%E2%80%93-by-justin-willis/).
With the support of the ACPP, Willis and his fellow researchers have made       a successful application to the ESRC for a grant under the Knowledge       Exchange programme, which will run from 2013 to 2014.
This grant will       support follow-up research to evaluate the effectiveness of the electoral       support work undertaken in Kenya and to monitor progress on implementation       of the new constitution; the programme of research has been devised in       co-operation with ACPP.
