     The historical, cultural, methodological and ethical insights from the       research and outputs       have resulted in pioneering, wide-ranging and sustained impact from NTU's       leading involvement       and advisory role in a number of impactful projects in the documentation,       management and       renewal of built heritage in Oman       and the UAE       and its dissemination through public engagement.
Oman: In 2010, aware of the gap in management of heritage sites,       Oman's Ministry of       Heritage and Culture (MHC) decided to select a partner to address its       cultural heritage sites at       greatest risk.
Based on NTU's research and advisory record in this field,       our team was invited.
Stage-1 of the initiative involved a pilot-study to undertake       documentation and Heritage       Management Plan (HMP) for 2 oasis settlements (Birkat al-Mawz-WHS and       Izki-selective; grant-i;       evidence-4) on their priority list of 86, followed by 4 more in Stage-2       (completed July 2013) and 4       in Stage-3 (on-going).
Stage-1: Contextually-appropriate, cost-effective and expedient       alternatives to established       documentation methods (e.g.
resource-intensive ICOMOS - International       Council on Monuments       and Sites - approach) were developed by NTU, by limiting the on-site       component and emphasising       aerial-photograph-based documentation.
Comprehensive and selective       documentation approaches       were applied to HMPs and compared to ascertain their relative benefits in       documenting Oman's       1000-plus vernacular settlements.
Key feature of this pilot-HMP - well-received by MHC and the Committee       for the       Registration and Protection of Historic Building Clusters - is its focus       on future generations through       full integration of developmental needs/aspirations in renewal       (training/education/crafts/renewable       energy).
This model combines heritage management and development in a       Master Plan and       employs comprehensive documentation (instead of conventional selective       approach in WHSs.
Stage-2: Following success of the pilot phase, MHC asked NTU to       undertake work on 4       additional settlements (Izki, Ibri, Bahla-WHS, Fanja; grant-g;       evidence-1-3) in the Dakhiliyah       (Interior) Governorate.
MHC embraced the documentation approaches as       `models' and has       adopted the comprehensive option for future key settlement HMPs       (undertaken by NTU) and the       selective option for small-settlement documentation (by Salut Planning and       Management,       advised/reviewed by NTU).
MHC has acted on NTU's advice and is currently       reviewing the       inventory of vernacular settlements to establish a rigorous criteria-based       priority list (evidence-5).
NTU has contributed text and non-text based material on vernacular       architecture for the permanent       display at Muscat's National Museum (grant-f).
Stage-3: In 2013 NTU was awarded 4 new sites (2 in Sinaw, Mudayrib       and Al-Gila-WHS;       new funding &#163;161,000) in the unexplored Sharqiyyah (Eastern) Governorate.
Full implementation       of Master Plans are being discussed with MHC for Salalah and with Ministry       of Tourism for Misfat       Al-`Abriyeen and Minzafah.
Capacity Building Element: In 2009 the NTU team was invited by       Muscat Municipality to       undertake vernacular settlement documentation within Muscat Governorate       (grant-h).
To train       young Omanis in heritage documentation, the project was developed with a       significant 'capacity       building' component (an approach subsequently adopted by MHC for its       employees - 20 trained;       evidence-6).
Twelve unemployed graduates (6 men/6 women) from the Oman       Technical College       were recruited on the documentation training programme through interviews       (evidence-7).
Intensive on-site training supported by NTU-developed training manual       prepared the       documentation team with the requisite documentation, representation, team       working, project       management and leadership skills.
Earlier, much background knowledge was       developed through       an invitation to design an appropriate organisation and curriculum for       traditional building skills       training of nationals for the revitalisation of al-Jimi and al-Qattara       oases in the UAE (early-2009;       evidence-8).
Following the eight-month fieldwork and drawn documentation       production, all trainees       gained employment within government and private sectors with average       annual salaries of       &#163;18,000, indicating economic and social impact.
A bilingual publication       (Arabic/English) on       Muscat's vernacular heritage is forthcoming (2014).
UAE/Abu-Dhabi: In 2008-9 Bandyopadhyay was invited by UK-based       consultant, Austin       Smith:Lord to help analyse a monument of historical and political       significance in Abu         Dhabi (client       and direct beneficiary: Abu Dhabi Authority for Cultural Heritage, ADACH;       evidence-10).
Bandyopadhyay's expertise in Gulf vernacular architecture and interpretive       methods helped       establish the architectural and socio-cultural values of the monument.
It       provided the basis for a       sensitive proposal for the monument's reuse as a cultural heritage       interpretation centre.
The       project also trained 2 UK professionals in the historical and       socio-cultural background of Gulf       vernacular architecture.
Recently ADACH has invited NTU to participate in       a tender to document       and develop another site of historical significance.
Dissemination: NTU has established "ArCHIAM Projects", Architecture         and Cultural         Heritage of India, Arabia and the Maghreb, spearheading the impact       work (www.archiam-centre.com/).
In       July 2013 an exhibition on the HMPs was launched through a well-attended       inauguration including MHC officials.
The work has been disseminated       through public lectures       (Oman/UAE/Italy; evidence-9), national/international media interviews       (English/Arabic newspapers;       Radio-Oman) and popular annual publications (English/Arabic).
Bandyopadhyay has contributed to       a MHC-produced film on heritage sites, distributed internationally       (Arabic; English subtitles).
