     Lowe has a well-established reputation in the applied ontology community,       owing to his wide-ranging work in the `commonsense' tradition in       metaphysics.
His research on the four-category       ontology is promoted by several world-leading figures in applied ontology.
The four-category       ontology is especially attractive to information systems designers for two       main reasons.
First it       renders explicit &#8212; while also refining and formalising &#8212; our intuitive       classificatory distinctions,       making it a `human-friendly' formal system, which enables human users to       cope more easily and       effectively with the human/machine interface in complex information       processing tasks.
This quality       is vital for modern information systems, which include vast amounts of       information, of many       different kinds, from a great diversity of sources.
Second, it is a       `top-level' and `domain-neutral'       ontology, which gives it enormous scope.
(It is `top-level' in that it       focuses on the most general and       basic ontological categories, to one or other of which all entities       belong; it is `domain-neutral' in that       it can be applied in any field of inquiry.)
Many existing information       systems utilise only lower-level       and domain-specific ontologies, encompassing only entities involved in a       relatively limited range of       data (for example, biochemical or neurological data).
However, with the       information-processing       power of modern computers increasing exponentially, with a corresponding       increase in the quantity       and complexity of information, there is a growing desire and need to       systematise and collate       information across many different domains.
This demands a `top-level' and       `domain-neutral'       ontology which can, in principle, accommodate any sort of entity whatever,       thereby providing a       framework for organising information from any possible source and domain.
Lowe's four-category ontology has fulfilled these requirements, providing       a robust ontology that       can classify information from all domains and sources according to       principles which are cognitively       intuitive and human-friendly.
As a result, his research has had a       significant influence upon a       diverse range of applied ontologists and information systems designers.
Because of this, Lowe       was invited to present the opening keynote address at a premier conference       in the field, the       International Conference on Formal Ontology in Information Systems (FOIS)       in Ogunquit, Maine,       2001.
Subsequent interaction between Lowe and applied ontologists       culminated in a two-day       workshop in May 2013, which focused on `Information Systems and the       Four-Category Ontology'.
Lowe has thus been in direct dialogue with world-leading applied       ontologists representing the three       main international centres for applied ontology: the Director of the       National Center for Ontological       Research (NCOR, Buffalo, New York), the Director of the Laboratory for       Applied Ontology (LAO,       Trento, Italy), and a leading researcher at the Institute for Formal       Ontology and Medical       Information Science (IFOMIS, Saarland University, Germany).
All three were       present at the 2013       workshop, where Lowe presented recent developments in the four-category       ontology and       discussed potential practical applications to the current projects at       NCOR, LAO, and IFOMIS.
The research has proved indispensable to the applied ontology community       in two principal       ways:     (i) Development of Ontologies:     The four-category ontology has been fundamental to the work of the most       influential applied       ontologists.
It is extensively cited in the biannual proceedings of the       Formal Ontology in Information       Systems conference (2004, 2006, 2010) and in all of the major articles by       the NCOR and LAO       directors, themselves amongst the most cited figures in applied ontology       and information systems       theory (with over 30,000 citations between them).
The applied ontology and       information systems       community spans not only academic but also important industrial,       commercial, medical and       governmental organisations, and influences the design and/or use of       information systems in a very       diverse range of contexts.
For instance, non-academic partners of the main       centres at NCOR,       LAO, and IFOMIS include IBM, the US National Institute of Standards and       Technology, and the US       Department of Defense.
Without Lowe's research, key developments in       applied ontology would not       have happened, developments that have been put into practice in both       academic and non-academic contexts.
The NCOR director writes of Lowe's       `foundational role' in describing the `basic       ontological categories' upon which the NCOR relies, while the LAO director       explains that it was       through studying Lowe's work that he `realised that formal ontology can       capture the fundamental       categories and relations' needed for the design of effective information       systems.
A researcher at       IFOMIS describes Lowe as `one of the analytical philosophers who have had       the greatest impact       on applied ontology research and development,' and comments that       `Professor Lowe's work on       ontology has been and still is indispensable for establishing applied       ontology as a field of its own in       the area of computing science in general and of information systems in       particular.'
To be more specific, Lowe's four-category ontology has contributed       fundamentally and       directly to the development of two of the most important formal ontologies       currently used in       information systems theory &#8212; namely, Domain Ontology for Linguistic and       Cognitive Engineering       (DOLCE), developed by researchers at the LAO, and Basic Formal Ontology       (BFO), developed by       the research groups at IFOMIS and, later, NCOR, which hosted a 2006       conference in Lowe's       honour, at which he gave the keynote address.
Hence the principal       beneficiaries of this research       are the developers and users of these ontologies.
DOLCE and BFO were both launched in 2002 and have been continually used       and updated       ever since &#8212; for instance, BFO version 2 was launched in July 2012 &#8212; and       provide domain       ontologies that enable information retrieval, analysis, and integration in       scientific, medical, and       other domains.
Those two ontologies between them form the basis of over       one hundred applied       projects in areas ranging from biomedical classification, cancer research,       pharmacology, earth       sciences, epidemiology and workflow management systems, all of which       require DOLCE and BFO       to organise and process vast amounts of data from diverse sources and       formalise it in human-friendly information systems.
A total of 67 major       organisations are listed on the DOLCE and BFO       websites as users of these ontologies.
They include AstraZeneca, IBM, the       UN Food and       Agriculture Organisation, the Bulgarian Academy of Science, and the New       York State Center of       Excellence in Bioinformatics &amp; Life Sciences.
Furthermore, Lowe's metaphysics is also playing a central role in the       development of particular       domain ontologies, of which two examples are given here.
(i) Biomedical       ontologies that build upon       BFO have been influenced not just by Lowe's four-category ontology, but       also by his closely       connected work on individuation, identity, dispositions and tendencies.
These ontologies are of       special interest to biologists and epidemiologists, for instance when       attempting to model the spread       of infectious diseases.
A leading biomedical ontologist describes Lowe as       `one of my main points       of reference' and confirms that that his research is `very much esteemed       in the bio-ontological       community'.
In particular, Lowe's account of probabilistic dispositions       (roughly, `tendencies') has       initiated new avenues of research into biomedical ontology, especially in       relation to the       development of disease ontologies.
(ii) Lowe's work is also applied in the       Library of Congress       Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR) Ontology, which       is a general       conceptual model for bibliographic records (and relationships between       them), developed by the       International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.
The       model is designed to govern       the development of cataloguing rules within particular systems.
(ii) Education and training:     Lowe's research also has a wider influence on the fields of applied       ontology and information-systems design, by featuring prominently in       educational documents and training courses.
His       distinctive conception of metaphysics and ontology is adopted by leading       state-of-the-art texts in       applied ontology, such as the IFOMIS training document `Ontology for the       Twenty First Century: An       Introduction with Recommendations' (a freely-available key training       resource for the applied       ontology community, hosted by organisations including the Neuroinformatics       Center at the       University of Oregon and the School of Information Science at the Federal       University of Minas       Gerais, Brazil) and Katherine Munn and Barry Smith's Applied Ontology:         An Introduction.
Both of       these explicitly acknowledge the fundamental influence of Lowe's work upon       applied ontology and       information systems; for instance, the former lists Lowe alongside       Aristotle, Kant, and Quine as a       major figure in the history of ontology, while the latter describes him as       `one of the most important       contemporary representatives' of categorial ontology that is of special       value to the applied ontology       community.
The importance of Lowe's four-category ontology was also       recognized by its       incorporation into the training session `Ontological Analysis: The       Philosophical Perspective' at the       First International Summer School in Ontological Analysis held in July       2012 at Trento, Italy       (attended by 80 students, researchers, and practitioners of applied       ontology and computer       science).
