     Dissemination and Overall Impact:     The research was originally disseminated through two monographs, eight       journal articles and, more widely, through Hamilton's reviews and articles       in jazz and classical music journals, and his public presentations.
One       monograph is used as a teaching resource for musicians, the other is       widely read by non-academic musical practitioners.
Published research       generated further correspondence with musicians, which then led to       speaking invitations and public engagement activities.
These include       invited keynote addresses on the aesthetics of imperfection to non-       academic events at Kunstuniversit&#228;t Graz, Royal Northern College of Music,       UK Centre for Contemporary Music Practice, Music Faculty Brunel University       (all 2012), WDR jazz project, Cologne (Munster Jazz Workshop, 2011), New       York Jazz Journalism Conference, Columbia University (2007), and       Grahamstown Arts Festival (South Africa, 2007).
Hamilton is engaged in       regular correspondence with several leading contemporary musicians.
He has       discussed the aesthetics of imperfection in radio interviews for       Australian Broadcasting Corporation, San Francisco Jazz station KCSM Jazz       91, JAZZ 91.7 San Antonio, Radio Tees, Estonian Radio, Radio Corse and       others.
The level of interaction with relevant professionals has grown and       diversified over a period of several years.
As a result of this       interaction, the research has also influenced teaching and training       courses.
A master class at the Siena Jazz Festival (July 2008) was       attended by around eighty musicians, and a series of classes at Hong Kong       University Music Department (March/April 2013), were attended by young       composers and musicians from East Asia, Europe and the USA.
Hamilton's       work forms the basis of the `Philosophy of Music' course at Massachusetts       College of Liberal Arts, `Aesthetics of Music' course at Brunel       University, `Sound Cultures' course at the RMIT School of Art (Australia),       and other courses elsewhere.
Hence impact has occurred not only through       Hamilton's direct engagement with musicians and other relevant       professionals, but also through its subsequent inclusion in teaching and       training courses.
Most recently, a cross-disciplinary workshop on Aesthetics of       Imperfection at Durham in May 2013 involved musicians, critics and       artists.
Contributors addressed issues and arguments in Hamilton's seminal       British Journal of Aesthetics article (2000).
A leading American       jazz critic and historian commented on the event that "this type of       meeting-of-minds is as invaluable as it is rare.
The workshop was a unique       event in my experience.
It will have an impact on my work in showing how       dialogue between musicians, composers, visual artists and philosophers can       develop a deeper aesthetics of spontaneous musical performance, which will       inform my music criticism and historical writing &#8212; challenging me to       question conventional dichotomies of improvisation and composition".
An       Italian critic commented that "Accepting imperfection...opens a different       way of thinking about performance and recording of music, but also about       other artistic expressions and methods of teaching...I came back with my       views enriched and changed".
And a leading Italian jazz pianist commented       that "my mind was strongly stimulated to think about       perfection/imperfection as a dyad".
As a result of all this, the research has contributed to musical practice       by providing an original account of the nature of improvisation, and the       interpretation of composed works, that (1) clarifies the music performance       practices, especially those of improvised music, (2) affirms similarities       as well as contrasts between improvised and composed music, and (3)       affirms improvisation's distinctive nature, revealing practical and       aesthetic complexities obscured by the prioritising of composed music.
Increased self-consciousness in interpreting practice helps musicians       improvise with greater spontaneity and artistic depth.
Principal users       are: (a) established musicians; (b) young musicians who are in training;       (c) music critics and commentators; and (d) other artists.
The impact on       these users can be analysed as follows:     (a) Impact on established musicians:       The aesthetics of imperfection has provided accomplished and leading       musicians with a fertile new understanding of the distinctive nature of       improvisation and interpretation.
One San Francisco-based jazz pianist       writes that Hamilton's work has "tremendously enhanced my life as a       creative musician".
He observes that "Andy's ideas that improvised music       adheres to an aesthetics of imperfection that is distinct from the       aesthetic values we associate with composed mediums has influenced me a       great deal...When you realise that the standards of logic and balance that       one expects from an edited composition are different from those of an       improvised musical event, it affects the way you approach practising.
For       instance, practising being aware in the moment with its rhythmic and       melodic possibilities (or sources) takes precedence rather than over       polishing a melodic phrase."
An eminent Australian improviser and composer       credits Hamilton's work with being an "important part of a small       revolution" in his music, as it dissolves misunderstandings surrounding       improvised performance versus composition: "His writings have helped to       give me an historical perspective of my own musical endeavours.
They have       helped to provide me with a framework with which to assess the relevance       and `positioning' of my work artistically, enabling me to think more       clearly about what I am hoping to achieve as a musician and composer."
Citing Hamilton's article `Rhythm and Stasis' (2011), which argues that       rhythm cannot be characterised simply in terms of duration, another       musician has been drawn to working with extended duration &#8212; a longer       time-scale of musical events &#8212; on his album on the Alt Vinyl label.
(b) Training young musicians:       The research has inspired young musicians to transcend more mechanistic,       unspontaneous approaches in favour of greater creativity.
For one       Melbourne-based sound-artist and teacher who incorporates Hamilton's work       into two of his courses, it "provides a unique viewpoint founded on a long       and deep engagement" with the audio arts, pedagogically valuable because       it is "directed towards themes and ideas [like improvisation] that are       usually overlooked or little discussed" but are of central importance to       training musicians.
(c) Music reviewers and commentators:       Hamilton is widely credited &#8212; in such journals as The Wire and Current         Musicology &#8212; with an innovative approach to musical biography,       exemplified in his book on Lee Konitz.
Here, philosophical       aesthetics informs a style of interviewing which articulates tacit       insights and ideas of musicians in a way that traditional biography cannot       achieve.
It "rethinks many of the conventions of the ubiquitous jazz       biography" and offers a "model for future writers" (Brian Kane, Current         Musicology, 2008); for one eminent Miles Davis sideman it represents       an "extraordinary approach to a biography" and is "the definition of a       living history".
The research has thus (1) demonstrated how       philosophically informed musical biography can capture practicing       musicians' insights into improvisation (and other musical practices) and       (2) provided a model for future biographers who draw on the testimonies of       musicians &#8212; hence one leading contemporary music magazine's suggestion       that Hamilton's research "may well mark the inception of a format new to       writing on Western music" (The Wire).
(d) Other artists:       The aesthetics of improvisation is enjoying widening influence on other       artists who use improvisational techniques.
One UK-based photographer       elucidates the impact of the imperfection- perfection dichotomy: "[Instead       of trying] on every occasion to make a `perfect' image in the camera, i.e.
exercise full control over the aperture, speed and framing of the image at       the `decisive moment' [with] little work in post-production...I would work       more spontaneously... in a less pre- conceived way, to pay less heed to       technical issues....instead of always striving to obtain maximum depth of       field when working close up...I began to experiment with random selections       of speed and aperture, focus and framing...There are fewer successes [but]       Andy has opened me up to new possibilities".
And, concerning Hamilton's       application of the aesthetics of imperfection to recording, one       London-based recording engineer states that "although the idea of `pure'       or `authentic' recordings persists...through considering Andy's work I       have become aware that such conceptions of fidelity and authenticity are       questionable, irrespective of genre.
I find this a liberating challenge."
Hamilton's research on improvisation has therefore had significant impact       on artistic practice beyond music.
