     The impact has arisen progressively over several years, through       increasing interaction and       collaboration with beneficiaries.
Principal beneficiaries are (1)       clinicians (mostly psychiatrists,       clinical psychologists and psychotherapists); (2) the mental health       charity SANE; and (3) mental       health service users.
Clinicians: Since 2005, Ratcliffe's published research has       received increasing attention from       clinicians, which has led to correspondence, speaking invitations and       several collaborations.
These       have shaped the direction of the research, generating additional       publications and further       interactions with clinicians.
At a 2005 conference (`Phenomenology and       Psychiatry for the 21st       Century', Maudsley Hospital, London), Ratcliffe introduced the concept of       `existential feeling' to an       audience of approximately 300 psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and       others.
He has since given       over 40 conference or seminar presentations on existential feeling in 10       countries, most of which       involved clinicians.
For example, his 2011 lecture at the Tavistock       Clinic, London, was attended by       over 100 people, mostly clinicians.
Two AHRC projects associated with the       research involved       eleven conferences or workshops.
Speakers included sixteen prominent       psychiatrists and clinical       psychologists, most of whom participated in more than one event.
The resulting impact consists in a better understanding of experiences       that are central to many       forms of psychiatric illness but generally neglected or misunderstood.
This improved understanding       has led to changes in practice.
Research findings have assisted clinicians       by (a) challenging the       view that certain phenomena are to be understood in terms of localised       perceptual experiences       and / or beliefs, (b) analysing an aspect of experience that many       clinicians recognise but struggle       to describe and explain, and (c) clarifying the similarities and       differences between certain forms of       experience that occur in psychiatric illness.
Prominent psychiatrists,       psychologists and therapists in       several countries have described how the research has enriched their       thinking, informed their       interactions with patients and been integrated into clinical training.
For       example, the research has       influenced the practice of the Consultant Forensic Psychotherapist at       Broadmoor High Security       Psychiatric Hospital, UK.
She frequently encounters kinds of experience       that are very difficult to       understand, which reflect the distinctive predicaments of patients with       psychiatric illness diagnoses       who also face the prospect of indefinite detention.
The relationship       between her practice and       Ratcliffe's research was explored through correspondence between them,       which followed one of       his conference presentations.
This culminated in a workshop on `Ways of       Being in Time' (Durham,       July 2013), which they organised together.
The impact of such interactions       upon practice consists       in a more refined ability to interpret distress, which contributes to       therapeutic response.
In her       words, the research "helps clinicians like me reassess the lived       experience of time in       circumstances that are associated with high rates of depression and       suicidality [...] The particularly       important impact of this is that it helps clinicians maintain a more human       and humane approach to       care of those who are detained for years at a time; and helps develop the       compassionate stance       [...] This work deepens my clinical relationships with patients so we can       provide better care".
Given the research's potential to enhance empathetic understanding and       thus shape clinician-       patient interaction, it is widely used in clinical teaching and training.
For instance, a senior clinician       at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, USA, uses       the research in clinical       training as well as in his own practice.
He reports that it "enhances       therapists' capacities to       understand psychological phenomena and be with clients".
Hence it is used       in "professional       development seminars, training both interns and experienced clinicians".
He adds that the research       has had a "significant impact" upon his own practice, "enhancing" the       "ability to be empathetically       attuned with clients and facilitate their capacity for change".
At Mount       Holyoke College, also in       Massachusetts, a Professor of Psychology has similarly reported that the       research is having a       "significant impact on the training of psychology students [...]       especially those likely to practice as       clinicians"; it has "enabled them to understand the complexities of       depression far more deeply than       [they] otherwise could have done".
The research also features heavily in       doctoral programmes in       clinical psychology and social work at Rutgers University, USA, aimed at       clinicians and senior mid-       career social workers.
Because of this, Ratcliffe was invited to teach       three modules at Rutgers to       approximately thirty students taking the social work course, and he did so       in April 2013.
In follow-       up exercises, students were instructed by the course leaders to       reinterpret clinical cases in the light       of Ratcliffe's findings.
In Colombia, the research has been disseminated       through the Colombian       Association of Psychiatry, influencing clinical practice and training.
For       instance, a psychiatrist       based at Universidad del Rosario, Bogota, uses "the concept of existential       feeling in case studies"       in order to train "residents of psychiatry".
In the UK too, the research       has, to quote a prominent       psychiatrist, "provided valuable training resources for clinicians".
He       uses it on clinical training       schemes in London and the West Midlands, as it allows trainees "to       appreciate the pervasive and       diffuse nature of moods that chimes with the experiences patients relate       to us" and to realize that       "subjectivity and meaning remain important and crucial to clinical work".
SANE: Due to interest generated by the AHRC and DFG-funded project       on depression, in 2008       Ratcliffe was approached for advice by the mental health charity SANE.
This led to a continuing       collaboration with SANE, and Ratcliffe is now a research advisor for the       charity.
Central to SANE's       work is the provision of support for people suffering from psychiatric       illness, largely through       empathetic listening.
`Front-line' staff members, consisting of       approximately 140 trained volunteers,       perform this role through a helpline, email and an on-line support forum.
Ratcliffe's publications on       existential feeling serve as an interpretative framework to help       articulate otherwise elusive aspects       of experience that are central to many service users' distress.
This has       contributed to the research       of SANE's psychosocial research team on suicide, which itself feeds into       the practice of front-line       staff by facilitating greater understanding of service users' experiences       and thus better support for       them.
Members of the SANE research team have benefited from their       attendance of four       AHRC/DFG project conferences in the UK and Germany.
Also central to the       collaboration were       three 2012 meetings involving Ratcliffe, staff from the Durham Philosophy       Department and Centre       for Medical Humanities, and employees of the charity.
During the first two       meetings, the Durham       group gave the SANE research team a substantial body of first-person       testimony on experiences of       depression (145 detailed questionnaire responses), and discussed its       potential implications for the       practice of the charity's front-line staff.
The third meeting was a focus       group that included the       charity's research team, Head of Services and several front-line staff.
In       addition to this, the       conception of clinical empathy that Ratcliffe's research embodies is now       helping the psychosocial       research team to provide an interpretation of the "SANE ethos" that       underlies service delivery.
Under the direction of the Head of Services, this is being used to assist       with fundraising, develop       training for volunteers, and rewrite some of the "Services" section on the       charity's website.
The research has therefore assisted the charity by (1) providing       direction and support for the       SANE research team, which in turn feeds into practice (e.g.
by       disseminating their research to       colleagues, producing leaflets, and through formal and informal       conversations), (2) engaging       directly with some of SANE's front-line staff so as to enhance their       understanding of service users'       experiences, (3) strengthening links between the charity's research and       practice, and (4) helping to       articulate the charity's aims.
Service Users: Many of Ratcliffe's presentations on existential       feeling and/or depression have       been attended by mental health service users, and by others who have been       directly or indirectly       affected by psychiatric illness.
His published research is also read by       service users, and this has       led to sustained correspondence in some cases.
Ratcliffe has received       several unsolicited       communications from people with psychiatric diagnoses, stating that the       research serves to aid       both self-understanding and the ability to communicate psychiatric       distress.
Some respondents to       the depression questionnaire study also commented on the helpfulness of       the research,       expressing relief that somebody was acknowledging the aspects of       experience they found most       troubling.
This kind of impact is exemplified by the effect of the       research upon a well-known       service-user, who has published accounts of his experiences and also       produces a journal.
He       informed Ratcliffe that "Feelings of Being was an important book       for me to read as it validated my       lifelong struggle with derealization.
I became aware that I had been       indeed laboring under a severe       handicap, which no one else had articulated.
I shared the ideas of the       book with other long time       activists in National Alliance on Mental Illness".
Because of the       research's significance for those       who are directly or indirectly affected by psychiatric illness, Ratcliffe       was invited to give the keynote       lecture at the June 2013 NHS conference `Survivors of Bereavement by       Suicide'.
The event was       attended by over 100 people, including bereaved relatives, mental health       service users and       healthcare professionals.
Its principal aim was to raise awareness of       depression and suicide, and       facilitate understanding.
Ratcliffe's presentation, `The World of       Depression' (an electronic version       of which was also made available to participants after the event) played a       central role in realising       this aim.
It had a direct impact upon those who were present, by informing       their thinking about       psychiatric illness and their various responses to it.
The organisers       reported a "huge amount of       positive feedback from delegates, who gained a tremendous amount" from the       presentation and       subsequent discussions, which they found "fascinating and thought       provoking".
