     The impact of Cook's work has arisen from his extensive engagement with       psychiatric professionals across the UK.
He worked part-time as a       consultant psychiatrist until 2012 (and remains an honorary consultant),       was chair of the Royal College of Psychiatrists' Spirituality Interest       Group 2009-13, and is an advisor to the World Psychiatric Association's       Section on Religion, Spirituality and Psychiatry.
Through (i) his       engagement with professional debates and practice on a broad front, he has       (ii) shaped local initiatives more systematically, and (iii) directly       formed a new national policy framework.
(i) Professional Debate.
Since the Durham Project for       Spirituality, Theology and Health was established in 2005, Cook has       lectured widely on spirituality and psychiatry in the UK and abroad,       speaking at well over 50 conferences and similar events.
Delegates have       typically included healthcare professionals and/or chaplains/clergy, as       well as academics from various disciplines.
One key event was the 2010       Durham Conference on Spirituality, Theology and Mental Health, which was       unique in bringing together theologians with academics and professionals       from diverse other disciplines.
The resulting edited volume (Cook 2013)       was published for an audience of clergy and health professionals.
This       conference activity has been further consolidated and underpinned by the       publications cited in section 3, which are written for professional as       well as academic readers and which aim to stimulate professional debate,       in part by engaging with issues across traditional disciplinary boundaries       &#8212; in particular, by introducing psychiatrists to relevant research in       theology and the humanities.
For example, an `In Debate' article in the British         Journal of Psychiatry (Poole and Cook 2011), on whether prayer can       be a legitimate part of good clinical practice, provoked a lively       correspondence in the journal: ten further contributions were published       over a three-month period.
[1] These debates have had the beneficial effect       of engaging the thinking of the professionals concerned and, therefore,       influencing their treatment of their patients and of clients in the mental       health services.
A leading Irish professor of psychiatry has commented       that `Professor Cook's work has contributed greatly to a nuanced       understanding of the role of spirituality/religion in people's lives with       particular reference to mental illness/health.'
[2]     (ii) Clinical Service Initiatives.
In 2008, Cook was instrumental,       with clinical and chaplaincy colleagues, in establishing a spirituality       working group within Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust.
The       creation of this group, which includes mental health service users,       clinical staff and managers, was largely facilitated by the Durham Project       for Spirituality, Theology and Health, and Cook continues to provide input       on the research evidence base for policy and good practice.
Under Cook's       leadership, the group developed its own working definition of spirituality       in the clinical setting, and based on that a spirituality care pathway       (Cook et al 2012).
Cook also contributed to this group's development (with       the aid of professional graphic design) of a practical tool to assist       patients and carers in the assessment of spiritual needs, which takes the       form of a `flower'.
[3a] The `flower' has been piloted in selected       in-patient services within the Trust: an adult psychiatry ward, a ward for       the elderly, and a learning disability service.
[3b] It is under       consideration by the Clinical Governance Committee for adoption more       widely across the Trust as a whole.
The spirituality pathway represents a       significant and (to our knowledge) unique innovation which has positively       influenced staff who had been doubtful about the importance of       spirituality in clinical practice.
A nurse working with people with       learning disabilities (himself a professed atheist) has written that:     [The] guiding principle of aiming to help a person be able to flourish is       why I got involved with the spirituality pathway and the work developed by       Chris Cook.
I consider the development of the spirituality flower a       powerful and relevant tool.
[3c]     The group's work on this care pathway has been presented at conferences       including a 2011 national conference in London, convened by RCN       Publications and attended by c. 200 nursing professionals.
It provides an       example of research-based good practice which both sets professional       standards and also provides benefit in terms of improved spiritual care       for mental health service users.
[4]     (iii) National Policy.
In 2004 Cook was invited to join the       Executive Committee of the Spirituality and Psychiatry Special Interest       Group of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, the body responsible for       setting professional standards for psychiatrists in the UK.
His standing       in the field led to his appointment as that group's chair in 2009.
In this       role, he drafted a Position Statement, later entitled Recommendations         for Psychiatrists on Spirituality and Religion, which was submitted       to the Royal College's Policy Committee.
Following revisions by Cook in       response to the College's peer review process, this document [5] was       adopted by the College as its official policy in 2011.
As such, it is to       `be followed by members' of the College, and provides the benchmark for       good practice with regard to spirituality and religion for psychiatry in       the UK.
The document explains the need for a statement on spirituality in       relation to existing General Medical Council and Royal College policies;       sets out the evidential base; and presents the practical issues that arise       in relation to matters of spirituality and religion in clinical       psychiatric practice.
It is organised around Cook's 2004 definition of       spirituality (quoted in full on p. 4), and is closely informed by his Spirituality         and Psychiatry (Cook, Sims and Powell 2009) and `The Faith of the       Psychiatrist' (Cook 2011).
It concludes with detailed recommendations both       for individual practitioners and also for organisational policy, including            The need to consider spirituality when taking patients' personal         histories       Respect and sensitivity towards patients, families and carers, and         colleagues       Neither proselytizing mental health users nor undermining their faith       The need to work with chaplaincies and wider faith communities          For the first time in UK mental health practice, this policy affirms a       positive place for addressing spirituality and religion.
It provides       guidance to protect both professionals and patients from potential abuses       in clinical practice, such as proselytising.
It also aims to ensure that       spiritual aspects of care are not neglected (for example, due to fear of       accusations of proselytising) where they might be clinically significant.
The policy also requires that these principles be integrated into       psychiatric training and continuing professional development (CPD).
Accordingly, the Spirituality and Psychiatry Special Interest Group has       submitted formal recommendations to the College's Curriculum Review       Working Group [6].
The first CPD event in this field to be organised       through the College's own conference centre took place in London in March       2013, with 65 professionals attending.
96.2% of respondents rated Cook's       opening plenary as relevant or highly relevant to their needs.
Many       attendees commented that the conference `boost[ed] my confidence' or made       them `more confident about asking about spiritual needs of my patients',       encouraging them to be `more proactive in addressing my patient's       spiritual needs'.
One experienced practitioner declared an intention to       `enquire specifically about S/R of patients as a routine part of initial       assessments.
...
This would change my previous practice.'
[7]     Beyond these specific impacts, the new policy has fed back into wider       professional discourse.
The current president of the Royal College of       Psychiatrists comments that the document has given rise to `a rigorous,       open, non-biased debate'.
In particular she commends the clear guidelines       it has brought to `an enormous[ly] important topic', which has in the past       repeatedly produced allegations of professional misconduct.
`There were       lots of rumblings, lots of debates, lots of disagreements....
Instead of       talking about it [Cook] got it to the point of being delivered.'
[8] A       former President of the Royal College welcomed the policy's       recommendations as `highly significant for the better practice of       psychiatry ... they are already moulding practice.'
[9] The debate has now       moved on to the World Psychiatric Association, where proposals by Cook and       a Dutch colleague for a formal Consensus Statement on this subject are now       being actively debated and are the subject of lively controversy.
[10]
