     Murray's research has facilitated the resumption and redirection of the       stalled process of       engagement between Christian churches.
The value of RE is that it does not       aim to produce       dramatic formal agreements or doctrinal shifts.
Rather, its purpose is to       change the way in which       ecumenical conversations are pursued at every level; and thereby to       promote change within       particular traditions, through receiving and learning from other       traditions.
Its impact can be       evidenced principally at two levels:     1: International ecumenical bodies     (i) The Pontifical Council for the Promotion of Christian Unity.
The PCPCU is the Vatican body       responsible for ecumenical matters.
The PCPCU President participated in       the 2006 colloquium and       wrote a preface to Murray 2008b, stating that `I am convinced that it [RE]       will contribute to a new       start ... within the ecumenical movement'; in 2008 he described RE as `a       decisive step' in       ecumenism.
[1] The report of an extraordinary PCPCU colloquium in February       2010 identified RE       as a key ecumenical technique, emphasising how RE can `help [ecumenical]       dialogues to be       sensitive to issues of culture and local realities'.
[4] Since then, the       PCPCU has introduced RE to a       range of local Catholic contexts (see below, 4.2.ii).
The PCPCU officer       responsible for relations       with Anglicanism and Methodism worldwide, stated in mid-2013: `Receptive       Ecumenism has had a       considerable influence on the function and method of current ecumenical       dialogue in which this       Pontifical Council is engaged'.
[1b]     (ii) World Council of Churches (WCC).
An international colloquium,       `Receptive Ecumenism and       Ecclesial Learning' (Durham, January 2009) attracted 200 participants       including the twenty senior       ecumenical officers from the UK's denominations (in lieu of their own       annual meeting), and the       director and both assistant directors of the WCC's Faith and Order       Commission.
Consequently, the       WCC invited Murray to be a consultant to the 2009 decennial meeting of the       Faith and Order       Commission, the principal global forum for ecumenical engagement.
At the       director's invitation,       Murray prepared one of three documents for pre-circulation to all       participants.
The director's       covering letter introduced RE as a `significant development ... in the       contemporary Ecumenical       Movement'.
[3] Those influenced by this introduction include the Professor       of Canon Law and       Kirchenrecht at Erfurt University, who has since lectured on RE to leading       ecumenical groups in       Germany, and through whom RE was in 2013 introduced to the newly started       Vienna dialogue       between the Community of Protestant Churches in Europe and the Roman       Catholic Church.
[10]     (iii) Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission (ARCIC).
RE       is central to the third phase       of ARCIC, the highest profile English-language bilateral ecumenical       dialogue.
Historically, the       methods pioneered by ARCIC have shaped all other bilaterals.
ARCIC's first       and second phases       (1970-1981, 1982-2005) eventually reached an impasse in the face of       apparently irreconcilable       and growing differences of doctrine and practice.
A long hiatus followed       the conclusion of ARCIC       II, symptomatic of a general recognition that the process had stalled.
The emergence of RE therefore proved timely.
A month after the 2009 RE       colloquium, the       Cardinal-Archbishop of Westminster addressed the Church of England's       General Synod, stating       that `I see the ecumenical landscape between our two Churches in this       intermediate time as a kind       of receptive ecumenism'.
In the debate that followed, the Anglican bishops       of Guildford and       Durham explicitly praised RE as an approach, the latter paying particular       tribute to Murray and       adding that when he had first heard of RE, `I thought it was a       breath-taking and wonderful way of       approaching the ecumenical task'.
[2] RE was thus endorsed as a method for       ecumenism by senior       representatives of both partners in the ARCIC process.
In 2011, a third phase of ARCIC was launched, and Pope Benedict XVI named       Murray as one of       the Commission's nine Roman Catholic members, specifically in order to       bring RE to bear on       ARCIC's work.
At the Commission's inaugural meeting in May 2011, it       received a paper from       Murray and then formally recognised RE as the fresh methodology which it       needed.
The official       communique cites Murray 2007 and states: `In considering the method that       ARCIC III will use, the       Commission was particularly helped by the approach of "receptive       ecumenism".
... ARCIC is       committed to modelling the receptive ecumenism it advocates.'
[5a] One of       ARCIC's co-chairs       described Murray's paper for ARCIC as `a serious and prophetic text,       unlocking doors we might not       have even thought were there'.
[5b] The Anglican Commmunion's director of       Unity, Faith and Order       singled out the use of RE as ARCIC III's primary innovation.
[5d]     ARCIC's agenda and methods have thus fundamentally changed from its       previous iterations.
Rather than aiming to produce agreed statements on controversial points,       ARCIC III is now       working to produce documents containing parallel statements from the two       denominational parties,       in which each engages in self-criticism in the light of the other's       practices.
In accordance with RE's       focus on cultures of knowledge, the theme of the first phase of ARCIC III       is the underpinning       problem of `how our two Communions approach moral decision making, and how       areas of tension       for Anglicans and Roman Catholics might be resolved by learning from the       other'.
[5a]     In summary, while the work of ARCIC continues, RE has already provided a       means of restarting       this globally significant ecumenical process and profoundly shaped its       proceedings.
As one ARCIC       member observed in 2013: `We are starting from a different place than       ARCIC I which thought that       finding common language might lead us to unity.
... We began with       receptive ecumenism.'
This has       not been uncontroversial: another member has expressed concern that `we       are putting all our       methodological eggs in the receptive ecumenism basket'.
[5e] But the effect       is clear.
As a senior       bishop and officer at the PCPCU commented in 2011, the adoption of RE by       ARCIC meant that       `Receptive Ecumenism has moved from a great initiative among a group of       academics and       ecumenists ... to a stated part of the methodology of the bilateral       dialogue which has shaped the       methodologies of so many other bilaterals'.
[5c]     2: Local and regional churches     Endorsements by the PCPCU and WCC have fostered local interest in RE       internationally.
Murray       has been invited to speak at RE-related events in ten countries on five       continents, ranging from a       full-scale conference on RE in Dublin in 2006 (organised by the Mater Dei       Institute, Dublin City       University), which brought together academic theologians and       denominational ecumenical officers,       through to practical workshops for church leaders, such as one in Rome in       2008, or the series in       Australia and New Zealand described below.
However, RE's influence now reaches well beyond Murray's own activity.
A       recent survey of local       Anglican-Roman Catholic commissions across the world by the International       Anglican-Roman       Catholic Commission on Unity and Mission (IARCCUM) `indicates clearly that       Receptive       Ecumenism is a formative influence on their discussions'.
[1b] Indeed, the       newly appointed       Archbishop of Canterbury has contacted Murray to discuss how RE could       inform Anglican-Catholic       relations.
The cultural change effected by RE is by its nature diffuse,       but is illustrated by Murray's       personal involvement in two particular regions:     (i) North-East England.
Following the programmatic statement in       Murray 2007, the Durham Project       on Receptive Ecumenism and the Local Church was launched in north-east       England in 2008, with       the involvement of Anglican, Assemblies of God, Baptist, Methodist, Roman       Catholic, Salvation       Army, and United Reformed Church (URC) representatives.
The aim is for the       partners, in dialogue       with one another, each to reflect on the contingency of their own cultures       and organisational       structures.
The Moderator of the URC Northern Synod comments that the       project has enabled the       URC `to explore ... a different way of expressing the unity that is a gift       of Christ', which is `rich in       terms of intra church dialogue'.
[8]     The self-critical awareness which RE has generated through this project       is indicated by the       following examples.
The URC is using the example of Anglican and Roman       Catholic deaneries to       review the structures of its mission partnerships, exploring the place       which `personal authority       (episcope)' might have in `a clearer more defined structure' to `help       support local churches'.
The       Moderator believes that this will `enable us to live "the priesthood of       all believers" more fully' [8].
The Roman Catholic diocese of Hexham and Newcastle is proposing to change       the workings of its       diocesan and parochial pastoral councils, drawing on Methodist practice.
Canonically, these       councils are purely consultative; the proposal is to introduce       `deliberative modes of governance ...       providing stronger means for lay involvement' by `opening up membership'       and requiring such       councils to be formed in every parish [9].
(ii) Australia and New Zealand.
In 2012 Murray was invited by the       South Australian Council of       Churches (SACC) and the other principal ecumenical bodies in Australia and       New Zealand to       lecture and advise on the application of RE for their churches.
From 8       July - 30 August, he toured       both countries, addressing 25 public meetings and discussing the local       adaptation of RE with       virtually all of those in the two countries involved in formal ecumenical       dialogues.
As a result, in October 2012 SACC published an online booklet, Healing         Gifts for Wounded Hands:         The Promise and Potential of Receptive Ecumenism (since updated),       which promotes the practice       of RE at grassroots level.
It states that Murray's visit `inspired ...       many people across the Church in       Australia / New Zealand and led to the desire of the South Australian       Council of Churches to keep       alive the "conversation" on the promise and potential of Receptive       Ecumenism '[6a].
As with       international bodies such as ARCIC, RE has provided fresh wind to a       becalmed ecumenical       process.
The SACC President confirms that RE now has `a groundswell of       interest ... across       Australia and New Zealand'.
Murray's visit `has helped harness that       interest, develop a strong       theological framework around it and given an impetus across the Church       community' [6b].
In turn, the success of the SACC booklet persuaded the British branch of       the Bible Society, the       world's leading Bible translator (working in more than 200 countries and       territories), to commission       a version for international use, bolstered by fresh material from Murray       and from the Archbishops       of Canterbury and Westminster.
The Bible Society USA is also supporting       this project.
The Bible       Society's head of advocacy confirms that this reflects `our commitment to       Receptive Ecumenism'       and that the Society is `investing a significant amount of both funding       and time' to produce this       resource and to disseminate it internationally.
[7]
