     This case study turns on an intervention by Watson in a fast-moving news       story which had attracted considerable international interest.
This       intervention, drawing directly on his research findings, decisively       changed the direction of the public debate.
It provides a striking example       of how a well-judged online intervention by a scholar is able to disrupt a       set-piece media narrative.
The events took place in a matter of days in late September 2012.
On 18       September, Dr Karen King of Harvard University held a press conference to       present a newly-discovered papyrus fragment of unknown provenance, which       she had received from an anonymous private collector.
Dr King argued that       it is a 4th century text containing a Coptic translation of a 2nd century       Greek original, and that it represented the beliefs of one strand of       2nd-century Christianity.
The fragment includes a phrase in which Jesus       says the words: `my wife'.
This was the basis for the media interest,       which Dr King actively cultivated, and which Harvard University supported       by simultaneous online publication of the text and of King's detailed       scholarly analysis.
The press conference was held in Rome;       pre-announcement interviews had been given to the New York Times       and Boston Globe [1, 2a].
A major 50-minute television documentary       had already been commissioned by the Smithsonian Channel and was scheduled       for broadcast on 30 September.
As expected, the announcement precipitated instant worldwide media       interest.
Much of the initial scholarly response was cautiously welcoming       of King's claims about the fragment's origins.
Predictably, however, the       pre-cultivated media storm did not dwell on her argument about 2nd-       century Christianity.
Instead, the focus was on a simpler, factual       question: as the headline used by the Washington Post, the Chicago         Tribune, Fox News, CBS News, the BBC and others put it, `Did Jesus       Have a Wife?'
[2b] The Smithsonian Channel's claim that this fragment was       `one of the most significant discoveries of all time' [3a] is typical of       the hyperbole that was being generated around the text, but also reflects       a widespread (if debateable) view that evidence of Jesus' having been       married would profoundly challenge or even disprove core Christian claims.
Moreover, the apparent reference to Jesus as married fitted into a series       of contemporary narratives, from the well-marketed conspiracy theories       which argue exactly that, to more widespread modern debates about       Christianity and human sexuality.
King explicity distanced herself from       the conspiracy theories, but also stated that there is `no reliable       historical evidence' that Jesus was unmarried, and that `this new       gospel doesn't prove that Jesus was married, but it tells us that       the whole question only came up as part of vociferous debates about       sexuality and marriage'.
[2c] Accordingly, most of the media coverage       immediately (if illogically) tied the story to the issue of clerical       celibacy in the Roman Catholic Church: the Chicago Tribune's       story, for example, contained the subheader `So can Catholic priests get       married now?'
[2d] In other words, the story had given new energy to a       range of underlying arguments.
As a New York Times blogger noted       on 21 September, the story took form at `the intersection of Biblical       archaeology and media sensationalism', and was formed in particular by the       `desire to refashion Jesus of Nazareth in our own image'.
[3b]     On the same day (as the same NYT blogger noticed), Watson       published Watson 2012a, which used compositional analysis to argue that       the fragment was in fact a forgery.
This paper was published by the       widely-used and respected NT Weblog (http://ntweblog.blogspot.co.uk/)       of Mark Goodacre (Duke University).
A summary for non-specialists (lacking       the Coptic text) was posted on 22 September, followed by Watson 2012b on       23 September.
In addition, Watson wrote a 3000-word article for the       non-specialist reader, `Inventing Jesus' Wife' (posted 24 September), at       the invitation of the `Bible and Interpretation' website, which aims to       showcase Biblical scholarship for a wider public.
Here and in the initial       paper, the earlier debunking of the `Secret Gospel of Mark' is argued to       be a case parallel to the new text, and reference is made to Watson 2010       as supporting evidence for the claim about compositional technique.
Watson's was the first significant voice to challenge the initial       announcement, and his interventions rapidly changed the direction of the       media storm.
In the week beginning 21 September, he gave a series of       interviews which led to major articles in the Guardian, then the Boston         Globe (which had first broken the story), the Weekly Standard       (USA), Sonntagsblick (Switzerland's most popular Sunday       newspaper), and the Tovima Sunday colour supplement (Greece).
[3c]       A further interview, with Reuters' Rome correspondent, featured in       Reuters' 28 September coverage of the argument that the fragment was       forged.
[4a] The substance of the Guardian and Reuters articles was       widely reproduced in international coverage of the forgery claim.
Coverage       has been traced in news outlets from Austria, the Czech Republic, Dubai,       France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,       Slovakia, South Korea, Spain and Turkey.
In every case, Watson's argument       that the text was forged marked a decisive turning-point in the news       story.
On 28 September, the Vatican endorsed the view that the fragment       was forged; but before then (and in Reuters' coverage of the Vatican       statement) the argument was traced back exclusively or primarily to       Watson.
A report from the Romanian news outlet Ziare is typical of many       others: `Recently a professor at Harvard University claimed to have       discovered a papyrus which said that Jesus Christ was married.
Now an       expert on the New Testament says that this evidence is just a modern       forgery.
Professor Francis Watson from Durham University has published a       paper showing that [the] fragments of papyri contain the Coptic text of       the Gospel of Thomas...'[4b]     The Austrian daily Kurier, under the headline `Text about Mrs.       Jesus only a fake?
A researcher from England questions the recently       discovered papyrus', wrote: `The English scholar Francis Watson, of the       University of Durham, is convinced, however, that the papyrus is a modern       forgery.
Watson claimed that all sentence fragments on the sheet are       copied and rearranged from those found in the Coptic Gospel of Thomas.'
[4c]     The online service of the Russian television station Rossiya 1       wrote: `British scholar Francis Watson has denied the authenticity of the       papyrus, which allegedly contains new details of the earthly life of Jesus       Christ.
After analyzing the text, the professor at the University of       Durham has concluded that it is "virtually certain" that the fragment       which caused widespread debate in academic and public circles is not       genuine.'
[4d]     The Italian newspaper Lettera43 had a simpler response:       `Elementare, Watson.'
[4e] And by the time the Weekly Standard       published its interview with Watson on 8 October, the headline was       damning: `Jesus' Ex-Wife'.
[4f]     Since the publication of Watson's papers, no significant challenge to the       forgery argument has been forthcoming.
In consequence the story was       virtually dead within two weeks of the original announcement.
The clearest       sign of this was that the Smithsonian Channel's planned TV documentary was       first delayed, and then, on 1 October, deferred indefinitely, with the       channel's general manager citing `the academic response to the initial       announcement'.
A fresh broadcast date was promised within weeks [3a], but       as at October 2013 nothing further has been heard, beyond a credit on the       director's personal website.
[5]     The impact, therefore, was a matter not only of publicly correcting a       very public scholarly error, but also of cutting the ground out from       underneath the frenzy of media speculation and misinformation which had       been built on that error.
The scale of the impact was undoubtedly global, but in its nature this       cannot be precisely quantified.
Substantial articles on Watson's       intervention were carried in mass-circulation newspapers around the world:       for example, Tovima has a circulation of 130,000; Sonntagsblick,       around 250,000.
[6a, 6b] The actual download figures for the online       articles are perhaps more significant.
During the period 21-30 September,       when the controversy was live, Watson 2012a was downloaded 20,335 times,       and the later papers on the NT Weblog a further 4,885 times (around 100       downloads per hour); there were a further 3,900 downloads in October.
In       addition, the article `Inventing Jesus' Wife' was downloaded around 4,000       times by the end of October, giving an overall figure in the region of       33,000.
[6c] These figures indicate both the very high level of public       interest in a controversial new gospel fragment, and the impact of       scholarly but accessible work that showed the claims made about it to be       without foundation.
Responses within the blogosphere give a more qualitative sense of how       Watson's intervention had changed the story.
His arguments did not, of       course, command universal agreement: in the world of new media such a       thing is not to be had.
The responses from widely-read bloggers on       Biblical topics ranged from scepticism (`Watson appears to have built a       coalition of naysayers') to hyperbolic praise (`Watson offers a piece with       the general audience in mind ... it's brilliant.
Seriously brilliant.
Inassailably brilliant').
Naturally, many bloggers hijacked the story to       suit their own pre-existing views (`Watson notes ... that this is not the       first time that fake manuscripts have surfaced that promote left-wing       politics').
[7] The point is not that Watson's intervention settled the       debate online, but that he decisively changed its terms.
His argument that       the text is a forgery was acknowledged on all sides as the key question.
The overall public benefit is clear.
A carefully planned campaign based       on mainstream print, broadcast and online media outlets not only       publicised a newly-discovered text, but also persuaded a worldwide       audience that that text put received views of the origin of Christianity       into question.
Yet the application of appropriate scholarly procedures       showed that the text is most probably a modern forgery, and this claim was       communicated in an accessible form to a worldwide audience through the       timely use of online publication.
It is a public good that misinformation       in an area of such deep concern to many should be exposed as such.
More       generally, as the owner of the `Bible and Interpretation' website wrote in       personal correspondence: `It is essential that biblical scholars       disseminate their research to a public interested in biblical issues.
...       What we do and say is important to the public at large.
[Watson's] article       about this fragment is a perfect example.
... We all need to maximize the       power of the internet.'
