     The impact of DU research into landslides and rockfalls has been achieved       via two distinct pathways.
In the first, laboratory-derived understanding       of landslide behaviour has led to better quantitative interpretation of       field data and to the design and installation of landslide early-warning       systems in New Zealand, while in the second, our monitoring techniques       have allowed ongoing and near-real time management of landslides and       landslide-prone areas.
1.
From laboratory to forecasting: landslide management and early           warning      Our laboratory research on landslide behaviour has improved early warning       systems by providing a better understanding of failure mechanisms.
The       bespoke instrumentation developed in collaboration with GDS Instruments       Ltd was used to provide the first proper behavioural forecasting of large       landslides and is now sold commercially by GDS, who state that the       instruments were "developed in conjunction with the University of Durham"       (Source 1).
A key example of the direct application of landslide behaviour research       for early warning is our collaboration with GNS Science, the New Zealand       government hazards research agency.
DU research on landslide failure       mechanisms in the laboratory (Reference 2) and observations of the       patterns of precursory motion on the ground (Reference 3) allow GNS       Science to interpret landslide surface movement data in terms of the       material stress-strain behaviour, enabling a quantitative and       process-based assessment of risk (Source 2).
As a direct impact of this       research, GNS Science has installed movement and early warning systems in       large landslides at Taihape (in operation from 2007-2011) and Utiku       (2007-present) on New Zealand's North Island.
These landslides were chosen       as exemplars of more than 7,000 similar landslides with areas of       &gt;10,000 m2 that occur in Neogene rocks across New Zealand       (Source 2).
The landslide at Taihape underlies much of the town, while       that at Utiku underlies State Highway 1 and the North Island Main Trunk       railway line, which links New Zealand's capital (Wellington) with its       largest city (Auckland) and is the central target of a NZ$4.2bn       `turnaround plan' (2010-2020).
Source 2 states that "GNS Science used the       techniques and approach articulated in two papers authored by Professor       Petley [References 1-2] as the basis for the methodology used to develop       the monitoring networks installed on the Taihape and Utiku landslides...       GNS Science researchers used the approaches described in these papers and       others to analyse the monitoring data to parameterise the relationships       between surface and sub-surface landslide movement patterns and the       factors that trigger movement."
This monitoring has allowed GNS Science to       establish more realistic alerting thresholds than were hitherto possible,       and to make quantitative landslide behaviour forecasts for landslide risk       management.
As stated by Source 2, "in the case of the Taihape landslide,       the analysis allowed a recognition that a very large-scale and rapid       failure event is unlikely, which secured the future of this part of the       town.
At Utiku, the monitoring data is currently being used by KiwiRail as       the basis for an alert system, to warn when the section of track that       crosses the landslide may be prone to deformation".
2.
From field-based monitoring to hazard management     DU innovations in field-based monitoring and modelling allow better       assessment of unstable slopes that pose risks to human life and       infrastructure.
We illustrate this direct impact with two examples.
In our       first example, Focus Humanitarian Assistance (FHA), a NGO in Pakistan,       commissioned DU to collaborate on the management of the January 2010       Attabad landslide in the Karakorum Mountains of northern Pakistan, along       with the World Bank.
This collaboration was based upon prior DU research       (Reference 4), as stated by Source 3: "we were aware of the work that       Professor Petley had undertaken with his researcher Stuart Dunning on the       stability of rockslide dams and on the dynamics of rockslope failure".
The       landslide created a 180 m high dam which blocked the Hunza River in a       particularly narrow section of its valley, creating a lake which filled       gradually at first due to low river flows but grew to 21 km long by June.
Based on modelling of the deterioration of similar landslide dams       (Reference 4), notably the short times (days to weeks) between lake       overtopping and catastrophic breaching of the dam, DU staff proposed an       upgraded monitoring system, along with early warning systems and       evacuation plans that were implemented by 17 downstream communities, an       area encompassing the homes of c. 25,000 people.
Potential       scenarios and associated risks posed by the breach of the dam and       subsequent downstream flooding were used by DU staff to establish a series       of alert states linked to lake levels and flow over the dam.
This alert       system "was endorsed by the World Bank [Source 4, p. 2 and Annex 3] and       was adopted by the government in their response to the crisis" (Source 3).
FHA and the National Disaster Management Agency, Government of Pakistan,       successfully used the early warning system to predict the time at which       the dam began to overtop, and evacuated 15,000 people with no loss of life       (Source 3).
Monitoring continued until the dam breach risk was reduced       when the spillway was re-engineered in 2012.
As stated by a senior       administrator at FHA (Source 3), "the research of Professor Petley and his       colleagues underpinned the response to the Attabad crisis, and Professor       Petley's expertise was used directly to both plan the response and to       safeguard the local population."
In our second example, rock slope monitoring techniques pioneered by DU       research (References 5 and 6) are a primary management tool used by a       range of UK commercial and governmental bodies.
These include Cleveland       Potash Ltd (CPL), owner of the UK's largest non-hydrocarbon extractive       mine.
CPL produces around 50% of the UK's potash, an organic agricultural       fertilizer, and is one of only three UK suppliers of rock salt for       de-icing roads.
CPL employs more than 1,000 people and is the largest       single employer in the North York Moors National Park, contributing &#163;26       million to the local economy annually (see www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-tees-22152699).
The background to the impact was summarised in 2006 by the British       Geological Survey for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (www.mauk.org.uk/sites/default/files/public_files/mpfpotash.pdf       ), noting that "The proximity of underground workings to the sensitive       coastline of the National Park has become an issue.
This is because of       concern amongst some parties that minor subsidence at the surface       associated with extraction might exacerbate rates of coastal erosion...       Cleveland Potash has entered into a collaborative research and development       project with the University of Durham to gain a better understanding of       the natural and anthropogenic influences on the coast."
Within the REF2014 period, CPL has used our longitudinal research on       coastal cliff processes to underpin all environmental impact assessments       associated with proposed future mine developments.
Since 2008 DU research       on cliff retreat rates modelled from intensive 3D monitoring has been a       fundamental component of impact-mitigation measures associated with       successive planning proposals (note that the associated scale and value of       these proposals is commercially confidential).
The permission to extract       granted on the basis of these planning proposals is critical for       converting mineral reserves to resources and sustaining the medium-term       viability of the mine.
As the general manager of CPL notes in relation to       a large recent proposal by CPL: "The value of this work to CPL is       demonstrated in our recent successful planning application for mineral       extraction in the 1.5 km `coastal corridor'.
The research and findings       generated by the Durham research formed the basis of the environmental       impact assessment that was fundamental in securing this lucrative proposal       by providing the best possible dataset on coastal processes and the likely       impacts of mining.
This dataset was vital in securing this permission,       allows us to answer any questions that arise on the impacts of our       activities, and demonstrates CPL's commitment as a responsible mining       operator.
The extraction of this considerable high-grade deposit will form       a key part of our ongoing development over the coming decade" (Source 5).
The impact of our work with CPL has cascaded into a series of       complementary local projects funded by members of the Northeast Coastal       Authorities Group (NECAG), a coalition of all local authorities in       northeast England and southeast Scotland, the Environment Agency (EA), and       Natural England.
Our detailed monitoring work before the REF2014 period       redefined the Shoreline Management Plan that covers this 150 km stretch of       the UK coast by updating the baseline erosion rates used in prediction       calculations, forcing predicted future shoreline positions to be redrawn       and enabling continued domestic property insurance for the coastal village       of Staithes.
This plan (Shoreline Management Plan 2: River Tyne and       Flamborough Head 2007, http://www.northeastsmp2.org.uk),       which was enacted in 2007 but remains in force to present, stipulated that       "the rates of erosion of the cliff [at Staithes] remain uncertain" and       mandated continued long-term monitoring and intervention for effective       management, recommending continued support for DU surveys (p. 398).
As a       result of this policy, in 2011 Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council (RCBC)       developed an EA-funded active management strategy, using a real-time       monitoring network installed and maintained by DU that provides a rockfall       alert system for the Cowbar area of Staithes.
This proactive approach is       based upon 3D monitoring of rockslope failure to provide forewarning of       potential impacts on the cliffs and infrastructure above, allowing       adaptive management of coastal erosion at this site (Source 6).
NECAG       affirm that "RCBC commissioned Durham to develop an ongoing, proactive       management strategy for Cowbar based upon high-resolution monitoring.
This       includes the installation of a system in September 2011 and regular visits       to site to collect 3D data of the cliff face, which continue to the       present.
Uniquely, the data generated by this research has enabled us to       identify specific locations of increasing erosion, to better determine the       long-term rate and the underlying causes of erosion at Cowbar; to my       knowledge this is now perhaps the most intensively monitored section of       coast in the UK, if not beyond.
Regular data capture allows us to keep       tabs on activity at Cowbar and to respond as and when appropriate, which       would otherwise be impossible to achieve."
(Source 6).
