     DU research on sea-level change and GIA has had significant impact       through incorporation in UK Government best-practice guidance and       modelling tools, and through detailed assessment of past and future       sea-level change at specific sites under consideration for       nationally-important nuclear infrastructure developments in the UK and       Sweden.
UKCP09: DU research underpins how future sea-level rise is       predicted within the UK Government's climate projection modelling tool,       UKCP09.
Different parts of UKCP09 have been phased in starting in 2009.
The sea level component uses the DU model of GIA (Reference 5) with DU       data on past sea level (Reference 2) to generate vertical land velocities,       which are then combined with global sea-level change scenarios from the       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to estimate ranges of future       relative sea-level rise at any point in Britain and Ireland.
The Defra web       pages on UKCP09 explain that     `Future land level movements are an important component of projections of       relative sea level change.
The relative sea level projections reported in       previous UK climate change scenarios have been based solely on historical       data.
This approach is likely to be unreliable in regions where little       data exists ...
The UKCP09 relative sea level projections are based on the       results of a geophysical model that has been constrained by observational       data' (Source 1)       and go on to cite References 4 &amp; 5 and other DU-author papers as the       basis for this tool.
UKCP09 is open-access with no comprehensive record of       usage, but its sea-level component has at least two major nationwide       applications:     (1) It is the starting point for the National Coastal Erosion Risk       Mapping project (NCERM; www.halcrow.com/Our-projects/Project-details/National-coastal-erosion-risk-mapping-England-         and-Wales/) undertaken by Halcrow for the Environment Agency (EA);       and     (2) It is the recommended basis for the 22 second-generation Shoreline       Management Plans (SMPs; www.environment-agency.gov.uk/research/planning/104939.aspx)       that cover the entire coastline of England and Wales and are being       developed jointly by local authorities and the EA.
These high level,       non-statutory plans establish policy for coastal management, including the       necessary height of coastal defences.
According to the EA the eleven SMP2s       completed prior to UKCP09 are required to "check that the latest climate       change projections do not change any of the policy decisions ... All SMP2       Action Plans will ... consider the plan findings in respect of key new       information, with UKCP09 being one of the key issues (EA;       http://www.scopac.org.uk/meeting_15.09.09/Appendix%204%20EA%20Managing%20the%20       UK%20Climate%20Change%20Projections%202009.pdf)     The North West England and North Wales SMP is a good example of how DU       research has contributed a regional understanding of sea level to the       technical studies which underpin specific plans (Source 2).
In this       context, a general impact of the DU research has been increased       recognition on the part of planners that rates of sea-level rise are not       the same throughout the UK.
Nuclear infrastructure: DU sea-level researchers have also       contributed directly to site-specific environmental safety assessments for       major proposed infrastructure developments by the nuclear industry.
Work       has been done at three UK coastal sites and one in Sweden.
These safety       assessments are comprehensive and highly detailed, and thus involve many       different contracts and sub-contracts, but in each of the cases described       DU was the only UK HEI to be contracted to work on sea-level change which       is a key consideration when designing installations with an exceptionally       long planned lifespan.
(1) Drigg: The sole UK repository for low-level nuclear waste, at       Drigg (near Sellafield) in Cumbria, is almost full.
Its operator, Low       Level Waste Repository Ltd (LLWRL), has applied to the EA for permission       to extend the repository.
LLWRL commissioned the infrastructure design       consultancy Halcrow to prepare the required Environmental Safety Case       (ESC), and Halcrow contracted Lloyd and Zong to determine the history of       sea-level and coastal change in the vicinity (reported in Reference 4) and       assess the likelihood of wave overtopping or erosion before the       radioactivity has decayed to a safe level (i.e.
within a few centuries for       this low-level waste).
Halcrow have affirmed (Source 3) that `an       understanding of coastal response to sea-level change is critical' (to the       ESC), that DU `was the logical choice for collaboration', and that the       `understanding of the sea-level history provided by this research formed       an important input to the conceptual model for projecting coastal change,       which itself forms an integral part of the ESC'.
The ESC stated that the       site is very likely to be subject to coastal erosion, but only after a       period of between several hundred and a few thousand years.
The EA is       still reviewing the proposal but has recently stated (Source 4) that it       sees the coastal erosion prediction provided by DU as `central to our       technical review...', and that `we have examined the evidence carefully       and agree with this conclusion'.
Our work is thus central to the evidence       base for the eventual decision on this nationally-important infrastructure       project.
(2) Sizewell and Bradwell: British Energy (subsequently taken       over by EDF) commissioned Lloyd and Zong, in collaboration with Defra's       Centre for Environment, Fisheries, and Aquaculture Science (CEFAS), to       investigate past sea-level and coastline change at Sizewell (Suffolk) and       Bradwell (Essex) as part of the British Energy Estuarine and Marine       Studies (BEEMS) project, whose goal is to generate informed scientific       positions on marine issues affecting potential nuclear power station sites       in England.
The study constrained the millennial-scale rate of sea-level       change and confirmed that high-energy waves have had limited impact in the       area since 4000 years ago.
This information formed part of the       environmental report on the development of Sizewell (Source 5) and the       decision by EDF to propose a new Sizewell C power station.
CEFAS (Source       6) have confirmed that     "[DU] research [on] the Blackwater estuary ... formed part of the major       synthesis report produced by CEFAS for EDF.
This report had an impact in       terms of informing EDF's decision with regard to how Bradwell should be       prioritised among its roster of potential new-build sites.
The research       along the Suffolk coastline involved reconstruction of the relative       sea-level changes and investigation of marine inundation events and       coastal evolution in the Sizewell/Minsmere area.
This research has been       submitted to EDF as a stand-alone report, and has also informed CEFAS's       synthesis work on the physical science aspects of Sizewell.
This research       has informed EDF's decision to propose Sizewell C as one of the sites for       new build nuclear plant and on the design/construction of Sizewell C in       due course"     (3) Sweden: Whitehouse used the model of Reference 6 in a       state-of-the-art assessment of GIA and shoreline change over multiple       glacial cycles (the last 230 000 years) at a coastal site (Forsmark) which       was proposed as the sole final repository for spent nuclear fuel in       Sweden, a country that generates 40% of its electricity from nuclear power       stations.
This assessment was used by SKB, the agency responsible for all       nuclear waste disposal in Sweden, as part of its site safety assessment       and pending license application for nuclear fuel storage at Forsmark       (Source 7a).
SKB (Source 7b) have affirmed that     `This work was crucial because it established the potential accessibility       of the repository under future climate scenarios, e.g.
following sea-level       rise or lake formation.
It also provided an important baseline for ground-       and surface-water flow modelling under glacial and permafrost conditions,       which was used to assess the potential for freezing throughout the       repository under various climate scenarios.
Your research informed the       decision-making process with regard to determining the preferred site       location, and following the decision to site the repository in Forsmark       additional safety assessment work was carried out, specific to this site,       including quantification of the potential impact of future Greenland ice       loss.'
In each of these cases our sea-level research has been critical, despite       being only a small part of the total effort, because without approval of       the long-term environmental safety case no such infrastructure project can       go ahead.
