     SCIMAP and the related research described above has delivered a family of       modelling tools for       public agencies and other UK users concerned with river catchment       management.
The research       has had impact partly because stakeholders were involved from the outset       but also because its       emphasis on runoff and pollutant sources, connectivity, and risk was in       tune with three policy       drivers which we mention here because they are important context for the       impact.
(1) The UK government's 2004 Foresight Report on flooding, its update in       the 2007 Pitt Review       following widespread flooding that year, and Defra's 2005 policy document       Making space for         water all recognised that upstream interventions in rural catchments       might alleviate flood       generation and transmission and thus reduce the risk at vulnerable       downstream towns.
The       Defra document flagged this as a knowledge gap and research priority, and       Defra, the       Environment Agency (EA below), and Natural England subsequently funded       three `Slowing the       Flow' pilot projects in 2009-2011.
Pickering was chosen as one of the       sites, partly because of       the work already done by DU (Source 1, p.10).
(2) The European Union's Water Framework Directive, adopted in 2000,       requires member states       to assess the environmental quality of all rivers and other water bodies       by December 2013 and       have improvement plans in place by 2015.
In England and Wales the status       assessment is       being done by the EA, which is consequently having to devote considerable       effort to mapping       diffuse pollution (mostly farming-related) in rural catchments in addition       to its longstanding       responsibility for licensing or penalising pollution from major point       sources such as industry and       sewage works.
(3) Reducing diffuse pollution from agricultural fertilisers is also the       driver for the ongoing Defra-       funded EA/Natural England Catchment Sensitive Farming initiative, which       started in 2006 and       offers grants and advice to farmers in almost half of England.
Flooding: the RELU project led to new ideas on how to alleviate       flood risk at Pickering       (References 5, 6) by small-scale interventions at key locations within the       catchment.
Following       endorsement of these ideas by the local councils, we helped plan their       implementation in       collaboration with Forest Research and a local community group (the       Ryedale Flood Research       Group, established during the RELU project).
Our `Bund' and `Overflow'       models were used in       2009-2011 for detailed planning of a package of interventions.
These       include tree planting,       blocking moorland drains, building artificial logjams in small forested       tributary streams to add to       those formed naturally by tree fall, and constructing low earth dams       (bunds) across stream       floodplains near Pickering.
The final Forest Research/Defra report on the       project highlights the       value of the modelling in identifying the most effective locations for       intervention (Source 1, p.13).
Most of the measures have now been implemented, but additional modelling       led to a       preference for fewer but larger bunds.
The North York Moors Park Authority       approved the bund       plans in May 2013.
Source 1 states (p.7) that "Slowing the Flow at       Pickering has gained a national       profile [and has helped] guide and integrate the implementation of       government policy on flood risk       and land use management".
Source 1 (p.7) also notes that the project       "succeeded in fully engaging       the local community, who have largely embraced the concept of a       whole-catchment approach to       flood risk management", and this assessment is endorsed by community       groups (Source 2).
A       spokesperson for the Ryedale Flood Research Group testifies that "the RFRG       project was critical       in listening to local opinion and expertise, effectively developing it       into a `feasibility study', then       providing the credibility for ideas to be taken further.
The role of flood       scientists from Durham       played a key part in this ... both [through] flood modelling and by       providing a sound learning       experience" (Source 2).
Diffuse pollution: from 2005 onwards successive versions of the       SCIMAP model have been       embedded in an open-source GIS, freely downloadable under a Creative       Commons licence, with       user-friendly visual interface.
The software and training resources are       freely available at       www.scimap.org.uk.
In the year to       mid-April 2013 the website had over 1500 visitors (33% of them       from outside the UK) and there were over 200 downloads of the software.
Within the REF period       we have organised and run training events for over 70 managers and       practitioners from rivers       trusts, national and regional EA offices, Defra, and the Scottish       Environmental Protection Agency       (SEPA).
We also organised, with EA support, an inaugural user group       meeting for 30 participants       in October 2012 and have prepared downloadable videos and training       documents for those unable       to attend training in person.
SCIMAP is relevant to the EA's work on the Water Framework Directive and       Catchment-       Sensitive Farming initiative because the model can predict not only which       stretches of stream or       river are at greatest risk from diffuse pollution, but also where the       likely critical source areas are.
By late 2012 EA officers trained by DU had used the model to produce risk       maps for phosphorus       and fine sediment (two of the main causes of failure to reach WFD `good'       status) in 11 top-priority       Catchment-Sensitive Farming catchments distributed throughout England,       Wales and the Scottish       Borders.
SCIMAP is now mounted on the EA's central modelling platform so       that it is available to       all EA staff.
The EA keynote speaker at the October 2012 user group       meeting stated that the EA       found SCIMAP useful because it could interface with existing       national-scale datasets, is       computationally efficient, has easily-understood output, and helps target       source areas for detailed       inspection on the ground (Source 3).
The Irish agricultural authority       (Teagasc) has used elements       of SCIMAP in six catchments, and SCIMAP is being used for characterisation       of fine sediment and       phosphorus pollution and assessment of test mitigation measures in Defra's       &#163;2m 2009-2014 Eden       Demonstration Test Catchment project.
The other main users of SCIMAP are Rivers Trusts: charitable       organisations which make       practical catchment and river improvements in the interests of anglers,       riparian landowners and       other river users in all parts of the UK (www.theriverstrust.org/riverstrusts/trust_movement.html).
SCIMAP       has been attractive to Rivers Trusts because, as Source 4 puts it,       "[unlike some models] it       supports knowledge collection and delivery on the ground rather than       trying to circumvent it".
The first collaboration, during the original SCIMAP grant which spanned       the start of the REF       period, was with the Eden Rivers Trust.
It changed the Trust's approach to       land management       within 2300 km2 of NW England: the Trust had previously focused       on the main river and river-bank       areas, but now considers the pressures on river ecology and fisheries as       diffuse-source problems       (Source 4).
Since 2008 the Trust has liaised with farmers to reduce soil       compaction at critical       sources of flood runoff and to plant trees at key transmission points.
This collaboration with Eden Rivers Trust provided a pathway to broader       impact, with nine other       Rivers Trusts subsequently using SCIMAP to understand the hydrology of       individual catchments       and to plan effective interventions to reduce flooding and/or pollution.
For example, the Yorkshire       Dales Rivers Trust funded a DU PhD project which used SCIMAP to produce       source connectivity       and erosion risk maps in the Ripon multi-objective project, where       interventions such as hedge       planting to trap floodwaters and allow sediment to drop out have led to       "massive improvements" in       managing diffuse pollution across an area of 140km2       to the west of Ripon (Source 5).
As a final example, the Westcountry Rivers Trust has used SCIMAP in its       contribution to South       West Water's 5 year &#163;3m `Upstream thinking' initiative, which will save       the water company money       by reducing treatment costs when it draws sediment-laden water directly       from rivers.
As one of the       Trust's officers puts it (Source 6): "The model helps us to quantify the       scale of the problem and       target high-risk areas ....
Putting our farm advisors and our capital       investment into the right bits of       the catchment to achieve the most possible benefit".
As well as this       application specifically to fine       sediment, the Westcountry Rivers Trust has used the hydrological core of       the model in ecosystem       services work with farmers who are considering planting trees on low-grade       wet land in order to       receive carbon sequestration payments.
Source 6 reports a farmer being       shown SCIMAP maps as       part of a multi-agency farm visit and saying "how did you possibly know       where those wet bits       were?
Because by looking at them in dry weather you'd never know that when       it rains they become       really boggy".
In this and other ways SCIMAP was regarded by this user as       "a powerful tool for       engaging and communicating these issues to stakeholders" (Source 6).
