     Remote sensing methods developed by DU during and after the ForestSAFE       project have had direct impact on forest management and planning in the UK       and Sweden, and indirect impact in New Zealand through adoption by       international consultancies.
They also underpin DU's ongoing contribution       to Guyana's engagement in the UN REDD+ scheme.
UK and Sweden: change-estimation algorithms developed by DU during       ForestSAFE have been incorporated into web-based forest management systems       which are used operationally by forest authorities and private landowners.
Uptake was fostered initially by a large international seminar for forest       professionals (ForestSAT).
This became the first of a biennial series       which subsequently has disseminated remote sensing developments to many       hundreds of users worldwide.
In the UK, a ForestChange web tool was developed by DU for the Forestry       Commission (FC) and Forest Authority.
Pilot projects with Kielder and       Galloway Forest Districts in 2005-7, building on research published in       References 1, 4 and 5, demonstrated the potential benefits to the FC of       using optical satellite imagery.
DU also trained 40-50 FC staff in the       methods involved.
A senior officer in the FC's North England (formerly       Kielder) District, which contains Britain's largest productive forest,       confirms that     "In my role as Harvesting and Marketing Manager I have continued to use       and buy satellite imagery and techniques developed by Durham in situations       where I have not been able to acquire aerial photography ...Given the ever       increasing demands on resource, both financial and human, the need for       useful tools from innovative technologies like remote sensing is a must       for the Forestry Commission as a whole" (Source 1).
According to the Chief Regional Forester at the Swedish Forestry Agency,       the ForestSAFE collaboration with DU     "allowed experts from the UK and Sweden to work closely together ... to       develop ... joint prototypes, algorithms and technical solutions.... [We]       have used these developments to improve our service in a number of       ways.....We use satellite imagery for routine analysis of felling across       the whole of Sweden, we have tools to assess the environmental status of       our forests and these data are now incorporated into our web GIS system"       (Source 2).
The web GIS system was derived from joint prototype development by DU and       the Swedish Forest Agency and went live at the end of 2008.
By replacing       the previous paper-based system of national monitoring of forest changes       it is estimated to have saved owners and government 200m kroner (&#163;20m) in       administrative costs (Source 2).
New Zealand: Dr Peter Watt, who worked in DU on the ForestSAFE       project, subsequently joined the New Zealand branch of P&#246;yry Ltd., a large       Finnish-based international forestry consultancy company (2005-2011).
In       August 2011 he moved to become head of resource mapping in the NZ-based       Asia Pacific branch of another large Finnish consultancy, Indufor.
In       these positions he has been instrumental in the operational application of       the DU tools for forest remote sensing.
His expertise helped P&#246;yry win a       contract from the NZ Ministry for Environment to use airborne LiDAR to       quantify tree height and density in sample areas and extrapolate the       results to obtain a first estimate of New Zealand's above-ground forest       carbon stock for the first assessment period of the Kyoto protocol.
The       methods proposed by P&#246;yry were based on DU research detailed in References       4 and 5 and were endorsed by experts from the Canadian Forest Service and       CSIRO before detailed work commenced in 2007.
This was the first time       airborne laser scanning was used for a national carbon stock assessment.
Since 2011 the estimates have been refined by Indufor, again using DU       methods, after the Ministry decided to fly LiDAR transects over the whole       country.
A letter from Indufor Asia Pacific's managing director states:     "Indufor Asia Pacific is a forestry consulting company and has since 2011       adopted much of the research conducted at Durham University during the       ForestSAFE project.
The direct benefits are very apparent across both the       commercial sector and at a Government level.
Commercially, the work has       led to development of a range of remote sensing-based methods that assist       foresters in making informed decisions.
These methods use either satellite       images to detect change across the forest which may be due to poor       survival, wind damage or fire, or airborne laser scanning (ALS) to provide       spatial estimates of key forestry parameters such as height or wood       volume" (Source 3).
The letter goes on to explain that the two largest private forest       companies in New Zealand (Kaingaroa Timberlands and Rayonnier NZ) are       investing in ALS and satellite imagery for operational purposes using       GIS-based software developed by Indufor on the basis of DU methods.
Guyana: 85% of Guyana is forested, mainly with intact natural rain       forest.
The nation has a Low Carbon Development Strategy, part of which       involves engagement in the United Nations Collaborative Programme on       Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation programme       (REDD+).
Guyana established a REDD+ partnership with Norway through which       Guyana stands to gain $US 250m in payments for conserving forest stocks       and thereby avoiding CO2 emissions.
The rules of these       partnerships require Guyana to establish a system to monitor, report and       verify forest resources and carbon stock changes and require Norway to       procure an independent verification of these assessments before making any       payments.
The Guyana Forestry Commission contracted P&#246;yry to assess       nationwide forest cover and forest degradation in year 1 of the scheme       (2010-11) and Indufor Asia Pacific to make similar assessments in year 2.
Both companies used optical satellite imagery and methods based on the DU       research described above.
To quote Source 3 again,     "Since 2011 Indufor [is] also assisting Guyana in South America to       monitor and report annual forest change.
The foundations of much of the       forest change and accuracy assessment methods are based on earlier       research that was conducted during ForestSAFE.
... From an Industries       perspective projects like this are invaluable.
Essentially, ForestSAFE has       provided focussed research that has assisted in making operational       improvement in commercial forestry and provided forest monitoring methods       that have supported REDD+ policy development in Guyana".
DU has also been directly involved in Guyana's REDD+ programme since 2011       when it was contracted to check the reliability of the numbers produced by       Indufor and to attach confidence limits to them.
According to the head of       the Guyana Forestry Commission, DU     "won the tender based on their scientific publications and track record       in forest change assessment using satellite imagery" (Source 4).
The `Independent accuracy assessments' carried out by DU in 2011 and 2012       involved estimating Guyana's forest cover in 1990, 2009, 2010 and 2011       using a two-stage sampling strategy with special attention to those       randomly-selected 10 x 10 km blocks in which the 2010 and 2011 surveys       suggested change had occurred.
In those blocks, high spatial resolution       satellite imagery combined with low altitude photography and field visits       were used to quantify the levels of deforestation and forest degradation.
The assessment confirmed that the Indufor survey was accurate to within a       fraction of one per cent.
The Norwegian Government commissioned Det Norske Veritas (DNV; an NGO       originally modelled on Lloyd's Register) to carry out an independent audit       of Indufor's survey and Durham's accuracy assessment.
DNV's report       confirms that Indofor's survey was carried out using "methodology in       accordance with internationally accepted good practice" and that "the       results of the independent accuracy assessment [by DU] ... were verified"       (Source 5, page ii).
The Guyana Forestry Commission has testified that     "the independent accuracy assessment is a critical part of the       [monitoring, reporting, and verification] process ....
The GFC has       welcomed Durham's involvement and expertise in conducting the accuracy       assessment as without it Norway would not release REDD+ payments to       Guyana.
These payments will be of the order of $250 million by 2015"       (Source 4).
