     IBRU's research reaches a wide range of constituencies.
It has taken the       expertise and knowledge gained in the underpinning research and, through       its globally-unique training programme, has created knowledge exchange       partnerships leading to impact on boundary-making procedures and dispute       resolution, particularly in Africa.
Impact has also come through knowledge       transfer enabled by the development of geospatial data products: our       Arctic map has informed debate among practitioners and governments over       territorial and resource claims, and our high-resolution river boundary       data has been adopted by Google for its mapping products such as Google       Earth.
IBRU's CPD programme has impact by shaping practitioner practices.
Since       January 2008, IBRU has delivered 16 training workshops around the world to       453 individuals from 65 different countries including representatives from       &gt;150 organisations.
These workshops covered land, maritime and riverine       boundary delimitation, boundary negotiation and dispute resolution, and       the use of geographic information in boundary-making.
The beneficiaries       include government departments (Ministries of Foreign Affairs &amp; Trade,       Ministries of Defence, Departments of Survey &amp; Mapping or Cartography,       National Boundary Commissions), non-government organisations (including       the United Nations), multinational corporations (including Google and       hydrocarbon companies), and academic institutions.
Approximately 60% of       participants were in senior political/managerial or legal/technical roles,       40% in research roles.
As demonstrated below, some of them have used       IBRU's training to inform specific boundary negotiations.
Frameworks for boundary dispute avoidance, demarcation and resolution         in Africa       Africa's 53 sovereign states are divided by 165 boundaries, making it one       of the most bisected continents in the world, but many of these boundaries       are poorly marked.
In 2007 a conference of African government ministers       agreed to establish an African Union Boundary Programme (AUBP).
This aimed       to reduce the risk of border-related conflict and promote cross-border       integration by improving demarcation across the continent.
The AUBP soon recognised the inadequacy of its existing skills base and       technical capacities for the effective implementation of this aim and saw       a need for "enhancing boundary delimitation and demarcation research and       training capacity" (Source 1a).
IBRU was recognised (Source 1b, point 10;       1c, point 13) as possessing the capacity on both African boundary history       and management issues and gave presentations on these topics at the       invitation-only Second International Symposium on Land, River and Lake       Boundaries Management in Maputo, December 2008.
This Symposium minuted the       need for a handbook on procedures for agreeing boundaries.
IBRU was       commissioned to do this and Donaldson drafted what became, several years       later, Creation and Operation of Boundary Commissions in Africa:         User's Guide (Addis Ababa, AUBP, 2013; Source 2).
This outlines       procedures for handling disputes and managing agreed border creation       processes, and its production was hailed as a milestone achievement by a       conference of responsible Ministers (see www.docstoc.com/docs/113653612/Concept-Note-AA-eng).
Five representatives of AUBP have taken part in IBRU CPD, some of them       more than once.
IBRU has also provided technical assistance with several specific cases.
This includes preparing reports on the challenges involved in the       demarcation of boundaries in northeast Africa (for the Intergovernmental       Authority on Development) and central Africa (for the Economic Community       of Central African States), and acting as co-facilitator of Namibian       boundary commission meetings in Windhoek in 2012 (Source 2, pp.
28-29).
We       discuss two other cases in more detail because they demonstrate the varied       pathways to impact and the range of beneficiaries or affected users:       governments, commercial enterprises, and the natural environment.
Mozambique international border demarcation: Mozambique's       borders are undergoing a process of revalidation.
Many of the markers of       its terrestrial borders were destroyed during the 1977-1992 civil war,       there are disputed claims to mineral resources on the Malawi border which       was last demarcated 50 years ago, the southwest Indian Ocean is an       increasingly important fishery, and there is international interest in the       hydrocarbon resources in the sea bed.
In 2011 IBRU helped organise       training workshops as part of the Mozambique government's preparation of       its baseline position ahead of AUBP-sponsored international negotiations.
These workshops, run by Pratt, enabled the "development of tools and       practices to achieve the conclusion of ... agreements on the maritime       boundaries" through the "training of national experts... [in] boundary       delimitation and boundary dispute settlement... [and] international       principles and practices regarding negotiation of maritime boundaries";       they also "enhanced the ability of individuals engaged in boundary       delimitation and governance to [achieve] better territorial control and       governance" (Source 3).
Some of the terrestrial borders remain under       discussion but the IBRU- trained negotiators reached rapid agreement with       Comoros, Seychelles and Tanzania on the delimitation of their mutual       maritime boundaries, with three new bilateral boundary agreements, two       tripoint agreements, and the revision of an existing boundary agreement       providing "clarity on fisheries licensing" and "the establishment of blocs       for oil and gas [exploration]" (Source 3), the latter subsequently       estimated to contain up to 20 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas.
Resolution of a disputed internal boundary in Sierra Leone:       In 2011 IBRU conducted research for the United Nations Environment       Programme to help resolve a dispute between the Government of Sierra Leone       and Cluff Gold over conservation policy and resource management (Source       4a).
The company holds a mining licence defined as extending to the       eastern boundary of the Kangari Hills Forest Reserve, one of Sierra       Leone's few remaining areas of closed-canopy forest and whose importance       for biodiversity led to several $m of funding from the World Bank's       Biodiversity Conservation Project.
The mineable gold reserves are       estimated to exceed 2 million troy ounces (Source 4a), with a potential       value of over $2 bn.
The two sides had dramatically different views about       the location of the boundary, first demarcated in the 1920s and marked by       physical markers mostly long since lost.
IBRU used its archival and       procedural knowledge on marker placement (Reference 2) to research       historical documents and undertake a field survey to determine the true       alignment of the reserve boundary.
The resulting assessment, finalised in       March 2012, showed that the reserve extends much further than the mining       company had claimed.
Source 4b states that IBRU's report "helped to clear       the path for the government to make a decision on the way forward for the       Kangari reserve [...] and helped to promote fact-led conservation in       Sierra Leone and de-escalate a growing row between the Ministry of Mines,       the EPA_SL and the Ministry of Land and Country Planning".
This allowed       commercial development of mining outside the reserve and long-term       protection of an important habitat.
Creating geospatial data products       The second way in which IBRU's work on the practicalities of       boundary-making has had impact is through using modern technology to       create open-access geospatial data products.
Two such products provide       improved representations of marine (Reference 3) and riverine (References       4 &amp; 5) boundaries for the public and other users.
Arctic Ocean boundaries: long-standing disagreements       between Canada, US, Denmark, Norway, and Russia about their mutual       maritime boundaries became more significant in recent years following       recognition that the Arctic sea bed contains around 20% of the world's       hitherto untapped natural gas and oil reserves (US Geological Survey       estimate in 2008) and that dwindling sea-ice cover may render these       recoverable.
IBRU's map and briefing notes on the rival claims (Reference       4) were designed to inform debate about Arctic geopolitics and resource       claims.
The map attracted global media interest, was downloaded over 40       000 times in the first 72 hours following its publication, and sparked       intense debate in practitioner communities.
Organisations which have       requested permission to reproduce the map include the UK Ministry of       Defence, NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Canadian Air Force, Lloyd's Exposure       Management, Brookings Institution, US Congressional Research Service, and       Shell Global Information Services.
IBRU's map has been combined with       geological resource assessments as the baseline evidence in US government       position and policy documents showing the overlapping claims to economic       sovereignty related to locations of hydrocarbon reserves in the Arctic       Ocean (Source 5).
River boundaries in Google Earth and Google Maps: Errors in       Google's border mapping have been cited in territorial disputes, such as       between Nicaragua and Costa Rica whose mutual border is within a       constantly-changing river delta.
The digital files created by IBRU as part       of the International River Boundaries Database research have been adopted       by the Office of the Geographer and Global Issues in the US Department of       State (Source 6a), who state that "IBRU's authoritative data [is]       critical" for their large and small scale boundary databases, enabling       them to "respond to senior policy makers on critical and fast-breaking       issues".
These State Department databases are publicly and freely       available and are widely used by "many of the most prestigious geographic       data providers" (Source 6a), including Google for use in Google Earth and       Google Maps.
Google testify that the database is a valuable resource       (Source 6b), and the Google Earth developer blog (Source 6c) discusses how       "borders will now more closely follow natural boundaries such as mountains       and rivers" and exemplifies this with a river boundary represented by one       of IBRU's kml files.
In this respect, IBRU's research is helping to       improve the accuracy of international boundary maps for millions of       computer users worldwide.
