     Our research into the governance of emerging technologies has had direct       impact in two ways: (1) through the application of the Owen/Macnaghten       framework for responsible innovation to the UK's first field trial of a       prospective solar radiation management technology, resulting in the       withdrawal of the trial, and (2) by embedding the dimensions of this model       of responsible innovation in European public policy debate and EPSRC       research policy.
Applying the framework for responsible innovation: the case of         geoengineering       The Owen/Macnaghten framework for responsible innovation was first       trialled in relation to the Stratospheric Particle Injection for Climate       Engineering (SPICE) project.
SPICE is one of two projects funded by EPSRC,       NERC and STFC in 2010 in response to a 2009 Royal Society report which       urged RCUK to support investigations of the potential of geoengineering as       a third response to global warming, along with emissions reduction and       adaptation.
One geoengineering approach is solar radiation management,       which seeks to alter the balance between incoming solar radiation and       outgoing radiation.
SPICE aimed to investigate the feasibility of doing       this by delivering large quantities of sulphate aerosol to the       stratosphere to mimic the cooling effects of volcanic eruptions.
A test       was proposed of a one-twentieth scale delivery system: a 1-km high hose       supported by a tethered balloon.
Although this so-called test bed would       not be geoengineering as such &#8212; it would spray only a small amount of       water &#8212; the experiment was highly symbolic as the UK's first field trial       of a technology with solar radiation management potential (Reference 3).
In order to ensure that the project proceeded in a responsible manner,       the funding agencies adopted a `stage-gate' model of innovation       governance.
Funding for the test bed was conditional on the project team       passing the stage gate in respect of five criteria which are tabulated in       Reference 3.
One criterion was a risk management plan for possible       malfunctioning of the test, but the others were about the wider       implications and were directly modelled on the dimensions formalised in       the Responsible Innovation project described in Section 2: the SPICE team       was asked to anticipate, reflect, and deliberate with publics and       stakeholders on the purposes and possible impacts of the research and what       it could lead to.
Macnaghten was invited by EPSRC to chair the stage-gate       panel in recognition of his role in the Responsible Innovation project and       his previous research on upstream societal engagement in potentially       controversial science and technology, including the DEEPEN project (Source       1).
EPSRC briefed him as follows for the panel meeting: "The purpose of       this panel is to ensure that the SPICE research team can demonstrate their       preparedness and ability to execute the test bed work package safely and       responsibly.
They should demonstrate that they have considered both the       proximal (i.e.
operational) issues, and the future applications and       impacts of their research.
We are also looking to ensure that the research       team can be responsive to concerns arising and the evolving landscape       external to the project".
The responsible innovation framework thus       provided a decision support tool for the panel to consider the wider       risks, uncertainties and impacts surrounding the SPICE test.
The panel       discussed the SPICE team's response to the five criteria in June 2011 and       asked for more work in relation to three of the criteria: developing a       communications plan to inform public debate, reviewing the risks and       uncertainties of solar radiation management, and ensuring more inclusive       engagement with stakeholders.
In September 2011 the SPICE team issued a press release announcing that       they would be going ahead with the test bed within a few months.
A vocal       media debate ensued in the following three months, with polarised views       about geoengineering as a response to global warming (Source 2).
This was       fuelled when EPSRC and the UK Secretary of State for Energy and Climate       Change received a letter signed by 50 NGOs which demanded that the project       be cancelled (www.handsoffmotherearth.org/hose-experiment/spice-opposition-letter/).
Following consultation with Macnaghten as chair of the stage-gate panel,       EPSRC took the decision to delay the test bed to allow the project team to       undertake the additional wider responsible-innovation engagement work       requested by the stage-gate panel.
Further discussions between RCUK and       the SPICE team led to the eventual withdrawal of the experiment in May       2012.
EPSRC's announcement of this (Source 3) explicitly states that "as a       result of the stage gate and the responsible innovation approach, the       SPICE team was also encouraged to explore issues connected to the       potential future use of geoengineering technologies".
Embedding responsible innovation in European policy debate and UK         research policy       Our research has informed European public policy debate about how research       innovation might be governed responsibly.
The initial pathway to impact       was the DEEPEN end-of-award event in Brussels in September 2009.
This       involved speakers from seven European countries, officials from three       European Commission directorates and two European government departments,       and representatives from three industry associations and two civil society       organisations.
DEEPEN's emphasis on deliberation and public engagement in       the governance of new technologies informed the report Understanding         Public Debate on Nanotechnologies: options for framing public policy       (2010; Source 4).
This report was published by the Governance and Ethics       Unit of the EC's Directorate General for Research &amp; Innovation, which       has a budget of &#8364;10 bn/yr.
It aimed to stimulate public debate on the       development of nanoscience and nanotechnologies.
Its co-author (Source 5)       states: "An EC publication of this nature is quite unusual" and further       confirms that "DEEPEN helped the EC to reflect further on issues of       responsible development of nanotechnology and to think about new ways of       public engagement and further initiatives within and beyond the Science in       Society programme".
Findings from the Responsible Innovation project       provided a key input to the European Commission (2012) report Options         for Strengthening Responsible Research and Innovation: report of the         Expert Group on the state of art in Europe on Responsible Research and         Innovation (Source 6).
The definition of Responsible Research and       Innovation, as set out in Annex 1 of the report, employs the four       dimensions of the Owen/Macnaghten AIRR framework (anticipation, inclusion,       reflexivity, responsiveness) as set out in References 3 &amp; 4.
It       further states that these dimensions are "points of reference [which]       should be reflected in the design of research and innovation processes and       products" (Source 6, pages 56-58).
In parallel with the impact on EC policy debate there has been direct       impact on UK EPSRC research policy.
The initial pathway to impact here was       SPICE.
A senior EPSRC policy officer (Source 7) confirms that the       experience with the SPICE project showed the value of the responsible       innovation framework in navigating potentially controversial emergent       technologies.
The EPSRC Delivery Plan 2011-2015 contains a commitment to       promote responsible innovation.
Testimony stresses that this commitment       provided an imperative "to develop a coherent approach [to responsible       innovation] that can be embedded in a day-to-day operational context but       in a way that is acceptable, practical and proportionate" (Source 7).
The       Owen/Macnaghten responsible innovation project (as described in Section 2)       was funded to "help the research councils understand the broader context       of responsible innovation and to develop a responsible innovation       framework for implementation across the research councils" (Source 7).
Testimony states that the [Responsible Innovation] project's findings had       a "direct impact" and were "an integral factor" in shaping a set of       specific recommendations for "implementing a responsible innovation       approach" (Source 7).
EPSRC has begun to implement the recommendations across its &#163;800m/yr       portfolio of funded research (Source 7).
Testimony confirms that "Since       the completion of the [the Owen/Macnaghten responsible innovation       framework] paper we have continued to work towards a more practical       approach to Responsible Innovation and the core elements of your paper       [i.e.
Reference 4] are at the heart of this &#8212; particularly your approach       to framing responsible innovation around the Anticipation &#8212; Reflection &#8212;       Deliberation &#8212; Responsive approach" (Source 8).
As an example of       implementation, applicants to EPSRC's 2013 Doctoral Training Centre       competition were encouraged to include training in responsible innovation       in their bids (Source 9).
