     TWAM has a longstanding reputation in the museum sector for community       participation built up throughout the 1990s, and is now recognised       nationally as a beacon of best practice.
It is described by Source 1 as:       "... unarguably one of the UK's most successful museums services.
It has a       deservedly high reputation within the sector for innovation and audience       engagement.
It has set particularly high standards for reaching a wide       local audience ...".
Independent testimony confirms TWAM's contribution to debates in the       museum sector around participation, stating that the PAR project with DU       (Reference 2) meant that       "TWAM was uniquely well placed to contribute to emerging discussions and       projects around public participation and co-production" (Source 2).
Senior TWAM staff have disseminated the research within the museum sector       nationally and internationally, through conference papers.
Source 3       states:       "I very regularly refer to that Revisioning work as an important milestone       in our journey.
And we talk about the concept in terms of developing other       services and facilities [ ...].
When you get a really good piece of       research &#8212; and I think it was a really good piece of research &#8212; lots and       lots of things spin out from it".
The DU-TWAM research collaboration has had direct impact on three areas       of activity within TWAM:     1: Income generation.
The research reported in Reference 2 is       cited in successful bids which, at a time of shrinking resources for the       sector, have thus far brought in &#163;552,300 from five grants (Source 4).
The       successful bid documents make extensive use of the research findings and       the overall development of participatory practice in the museum.
The       impact on funding activities within TWAM is made clear by Source 5:       "The Discovery Revisioning gave us a powerful document to invoke when       applying for investment ...
It has generated evidence of gaps in the       service we provide and shown us things we didn't know...
It is a powerful       approach and the findings have great authenticity" (Source 5).
Source 2 states that the Discovery Revisioning research "clearly became an       important element in the development of Discovery`s plans, the report       helping support and win funding for the new Destination Tyneside gallery".
2: The development of a new permanent gallery: Destination           Tyneside.
`Destination Tyneside' opened on 12 July       2013.
It documents recent immigration to the North east region.
The       instigation, planning and design of this gallery were directly informed       both by the research findings and by the adoption of PAR within TWAM.
Source 6 states that Destination Tyneside was       "hugely influenced by the [...] Revisioning Project.
Through its work with       local communities [we] found some of the gaps that we have in Discovery       Museum.
One of the biggest being that a number of participants from       minority ethnic communities felt that their stories, histories and voices       were not represented within the museum and the staff felt that this was       having an impact on our visitor demographics".
Source 5 confirms that:       "The [DR process] helped [us] identify people from BAME groups who felt       that there was nothing in the Discovery Museum that was relevant [to       them].
It provided powerful evidence that was important for writing bids       and putting human voices &#8212; and voices of local communities &#8212; into it.
And       so it helped us develop [new] content in the museum."
In the first week of its opening 1409 people visited the gallery.
A joint       DU-Discovery Museum evaluation of the new gallery (12-31 July 2013), based       on 160 visitor questionnaires, showed that 65% of visitors surveyed said       that they had found the exhibition interesting and enjoyable, they had       learned something new, and increased their knowledge and/or deepened their       understanding of migrants and migration.
The gallery promotes feelings of       inclusion and connection with museum content among BAME groups and       educates the local white community about the reality of migration on       Tyneside, challenging stereotypes by forging emotional connections.
Already, the gallery has attracted new BAME audiences: one-third of those       surveyed were visiting for the first time, with 85% coming explicitly to       see the new gallery, 50% of whom were non-White/British.
BAME visitors       remark positively on their experience, saying:       "It has made me realise that migration is something that should be       celebrated" (Female, 30-49, White British Latino) and "It is nice to know       that I'm not alone.
In fact having visited this gallery I feel I belong to       the international culture of Tyneside" (Male, 18-29, Arabian).
For TWAM's core visitor demographic, the gallery has increased knowledge       and understanding, and led to changes in attitudes towards migrants and       migration.
Visitors comment:       "It educates people about the diversity of our region and challenges       stereotypes about migration" (Male, 30-49, White) and "It changed my views       of why people come to this country".
Migrant storytellers whose stories       feature in the gallery said in interviews that their involvement in the       process of creating the gallery had been an overwhelmingly positive       experience, acting to recognise and cement their identities and to pass       understanding of these on to their children, grandchildren and the wider       public:       "Participating in the DT process made me realise that Poland is no longer       my home, this is my home.
This is where I belong" (Anna, Polish       storyteller).
3: Changes in professional practice.
The findings from the       Revisioning project led to changes in both curatorial and working       practices within TWAM.
The research led to: (1) the implementation of a       number of recommendations on infrastructure (Reference 2) within Discovery       Museum, regarding customer care, visitor orientation, the building, events       and learning programmes; and (2) the adoption of PAR training and peer       research within the organisation which has enhanced the skills base and       capacity of TWAM staff.
Staff members have built PAR into their day-to-day       practice for planning, research and decision-making within TWAM museums.
Interviews with the gallery curator, Museum director and manager show that       PAR was embedded in the curatorial process for Destination Tyneside:       "A number of staff who were involved with Revisioning were trained in       participatory techniques which then involved setting up for a day down in       the museum and speaking to visitors, asking them about the museum what       they wanted from it and about Newcastle and how they viewed it [...] We       used that technique when we were developing Destination Tyneside and       members of the project team went downstairs, spoke to visitors and asked       them what they knew about migration, the kind of things they'd like to       find out ..." (Source 6).
PAR skills and techniques have also influenced the way that staff work,       with the Discovery manager and Outreach Team using participatory methods       directly in ongoing research with visitors.
"Staff who were involved in the project got some real confidence building       in terms of going out and working with groups in different ways.
And the       fact that it wasn't just Outreach and Communities staff but actually a       much broader range of staff.
That's had some long term benefits" (Source       3).
The success of the Revisioning project in turn led TWAM to commission a       further piece of participatory research with the unit, via Morse's ESRC       CASE PhD studentship The project focuses on creating the institutional and       infrastructural conditions to support and sustain participatory ways of       working with socially marginalised communities.
Alongside Morse and TWAM's       involvement in a range of national initiatives (such as the Heritage       Lottery Funded `Stories of the World' project), Source 2 states that the       collaborative studentship       "has brought to TWAM a space for critical reflection upon the practical       and institutional barriers to participatory work (as well as the       possibilities)".
A co-authored article written by Morse with Macpherson and Robinson has       appeared in a special issue of the practitioner-facing journal Museum         Management and Curatorship.
It examines the challenges of fully       embedding engagement and co-production throughout TWAM and other museum       services and, as a co-produced output, exemplifies changes to professional       working practices within TWAM.
The emphasis on upstream participation has       had further material change on TWAM's wider engagement with national       museum programmes, particularly through involvement in the Paul Hamlyn       Foundation-funded project `Our Museums &#8212; Communities and Museums as active       partners'.
This three-year project began in February 2012 and involves       nine national museums (muhttp://ourmuseum.ning.com/).
Source 2 confirms       that "Morse's work at TWAM helpfully fed through into these discussions       nationally (to which she frequently presented) and into the wider debates.
Thus the overall impact of the Durham University collaboration has been to       keep alive the idea that the craft of engagement is worth critically       reflecting upon, analysing and learning!".
Morse is a member of TWAM's Our Museums' steering group and her 2013       report `Museums and Community Engagement: Baseline Report on         Perceptions of Community Engagement in Tyne and Wear Archives and         Museums Staff' was the basis for TWAM's presentation at the Our       Museum Peer Review Event (24 April 2013) (Source 7).
Source 2 states the overall value of the DU-TWAM collaboration in the       context of the challenges facing the museum sector:       "A collaboration such as that between Rachel Pain and Nuala Morse at       Durham presents a model and paves the way for further fruitful       collaboration between museums and higher education, to the benefit of       both.
More importantly, such a strong and creative collaboration is to the       benefit of the public, as we attempt to make these institutions more       useful and relevant to these challenging times".
