     The reach of Roberts' research is extensive, effecting change in policy       and commercial and       museum practice across two continents.
Via a vigorous and wide ranging       programme of       engagement, Roberts has also made her research relevant to education and       impacted on public       consciousness.
Commercial impact in archaeology and forensics       Direct influence can be identified in the drawing up of professional       standards in commercial       archaeology and forensic laboratories in the UK and the USA.
A survey of       developer-funded       reports produced by 5 major UK contracting units revealed that since 2008       Roberts's research and       pathway publications were cited 1186 times in 82 reports, both in explicit       reference to recording       standards and in the identification and interpretation of skeletal       evidence (Source 1).
This usage       attests firstly to the rigorous adherence by units to the gold standard       recording systems developed       and made available through Roberts' research and pathway publications,       ensuring that their       reported data are readily comparable to skeletal data worldwide.
Secondly,       Roberts' published       research is shown to be unparalleled as a resource for any specialist       seeking comparative data in       the diagnosis of disease and health issues in ancient or modern skeletal       samples: Wessex       Archaeology make `regular' use of her research, identifying her books as       `an excellent starting       point and a very useful broad base for various types of comparative data'       (So2).
Beyond       commercial archaeology, her publications provide `significant and       substantial guidelines and       reference material' for the unique, worldwide work of the Forensic Science       Academy, Hawaii,       responsible for finding, recovering and identifying America's missing       service members from all past       wars: helping to establish `a differential diagnosis of skeletal remains,       [and] better understand the       history of disease,...biological profile (age at death, ancestry, sex,       trauma, and more) of skeletal       remains' (So3).
Changing national codes of practice and guidelines       Consultancy and advocacy by Roberts have led to wholesale improvement in       UK standards and       ethics for the recording, handling and sampling of human skeletal remains.
Working with the British       Association for Biological Anthropology and Osteoarchaeology in 2010 as a       key team member,       Roberts helped set new professional Codes of Practice and Ethics which       cite and draw upon her       research and pathway publications (eg.
So4: Tables 2, 4, 5).
As a       consultant on the production of       Science and the Dead (guidelines for the destructive sampling of       archaeological human remains       for scientific analysis produced by the Advisory Panel on the Archaeology       of Burials in England       and English Heritage, published February 2013), she used this research to       underpin       recommendations for the taking of bone samples for other scientific       purposes as well as for aDNA       analysis, important feedback that saw direct take-up in the finished       guidelines (So5: sections 3, 4,       5, 6 &amp; 7).
Creating the gold standard for curatorial policy in museums.
Roberts' work has also impacted on curatorial practice.
Pennsylvania       Museum of Archaeology and       Anthropology attracts around 170,000 visitors a year, some 30,000 of them       children.
Human       remains feature throughout the galleries, are core to long term displays       on human evolution and       Egyptian mummies, and underpin temporary exhibitions such as Making         and Unmaking Race       (2013) which uses Penn collections in a critical interrogation of whether       there is any such thing as       `race' http://www.penn.museum/current-changing-exhibits.html.
Roberts' research is cited as vital       to the current work at Penn, as `a model for policies specifically       associated with access to       bioarchaeological collections by students and professional researchers'.
`Her mixed methodology,       including DNA, isotopic, histologic and chemical residue analysis, informs       [their] scientific testing       committee on the efficacy of the research agenda of many dozens of       visitors to our collections'       (So6), and her analyses of paleopathology and traumatic damage to the       peoples of the past is       used as a comparative base for the Penn collections in lectures and public       programs (So6).
As a member of the Human Remains Working Group at the Natural       History Museum (NHM),       London, and a Scientific Advisory Panel member (both 2010),       Roberts has contributed significantly       to the museum's Human Remains Policy.
The Natural History Museum       holds in excess of 20,000       sets of human remains, over 1000 of which have been claimed for return by       indigenous       communities.
The Human Remains Unit [HRU] at the NHM acknowledges Roberts'       research as a       driving force in shaping their position and approach: `Roberts' stance on       the importance of making       research relevant to modern life or current populations has been important       in informing and       reinforcing the HRU stance that we need to give indigenous communities       concrete examples of       how research that includes human remains is relevant to modern peoples'       (So7).
Her key and       pathway publications also inform the procedures used in the analysis of       trauma and disease in the       HRU data collection project (So7), and her work is `invaluable' in the       creation of a new digital       archive, `having a significant impact on our [the museums] understanding       and interpretation of       many of these specimens' (So7).
The Centre for Human Bioarchaeology (CHB)       at the Museum of       London has additionally commented that all 6 of Roberts' publications have       aided the Centre `in its       structure, rationale and quality of information when producing information       for use in reports, site       summaries on the CHB website and publications relating to the assemblages'       (So8).
Education and Public Engagement.
Throughout her career Roberts has remained committed to a vigorous       campaign of wider       engagement including numerous public lectures, television broadcasts and       work with artists.
At the       invitation of the Royal Anthropological Institute education committee, she       recently contributed a       section on human disease,based on her core publications, to the Reader for       the new A-Level in       Anthropology (2013) (So9).
Working together with museums, Roberts has       developed exhibitions       that draw directly on her published work.
Plague, Poverty and Prayer       at the Barley Hall in York in       2009 highlighted leprosy and tuberculosis as endemic issues for medieval       society, while Skeleton         Science conceived together with Durham University Museums in 2012       used her core research in       its themes and dedicated engagement activities.
Over 4000 visitors saw       this exhibition (5/2012 to       2/2013), many commenting positively on their experience: identifying how       informative the activities       and displays were for children and over 30 children specifically stated       they had learned new things       about the human body (So10).
