     Durham's involvement in the Birthplace of Lord Buddha project (Japanese       Funds in Trust for UNESCO: see Section 2), is stated by UNESCO as being       central to the on-going purpose of conservation and protection at Lumbini       [Source 1].
By bringing to bear in Sri Lanka a pioneering research       approach developed by Durham, UNESCO recognises that the Durham team is       uniquely placed to provide evidence vital to the protection of Lumbini's       Outstanding Universal Values (OUVs), citing them as `the only team with a       proven track record and capacity to undertake the highly specialised       archaeological activities' [So2 pp.4 &amp; 6].
By verifying that fragile       but extensive sub-surface deposits relating to the life-time of the Buddha       survive, Durham's research has become integral to the development of       management and protection at Lumbini `to prevent future damage' [So3       pp.2-3].
With an estimated 795,794 visitors in 2012       (http://www.lumbinitrust.org/articles/view/198), as compared against       16,780 in 2000 (www.lumbinitrust.org/buletins/ec4f6233d1b87506.96216119.pdf),       Lumbini is a fast growing attraction for pilgrims and tourists.
This       massive increase in numbers, and related changes to local infrastructure       including a larger airport, new link-roads, and also new water, sewerage,       power lines and mediational paths, all place pressure on Lumbini and its       associated sites (eg.
Tilaurakot and Kudan), and could compromise       Lumbini's OUVs (http://whc.unesco.org/en/list/666/).
The results from this Durham project are thus significant to Lumbini in       particular, and are also relevant to Buddhist heritage in the wider       region, and are of broad international interest as well: evident in the       commissioning by National Geographic in 2012 of the film Buried         Secrets of the Buddha, due for release in December 2013.
Impact is       claimed in three specific areas:     A.
New UNESCO Guidelines for the Management of Lumbini       Previously, management approaches at Lumbini have focused on the       conservation of brick-built structures on the surface.
Sensitive       archaeological deposits, hitherto unrecognised, have been jeopardised by       the laying of electrical cables, water pipes and footpaths.
By identifying       and mapping sub-surface structures, Durham's project has prevented further       damage [So3 p.2-3] and in 2012 UNESCO recognised that it was `reinforcing       the capacity of the Nepalese authorities for the protection, enhancement       and sustainable development of the property' [So4 &#8212; Current         Conservation Issues].
This field research has also fed directly into       new guidelines that ensure the proper preservation and presentation of the       Sacred Garden (the most sacred part of the complex) by highlighting two       key principles against which to test future developments at the site:       Non-intrusive and Reversibility.
Recent plans for the construction of a       pilgrim walkway funded by the Thai PhuongThai Foundation.
responded to       these principles.
The result was the resituation of a new modern access       route specifically to avoid damage to subsurface archaeological remains       [So4 General Response to Decision 33 COM 7B.79a &amp; So5 p.23 -       28/1/2011].
With support from UNESCO, the Durham key principles have been       adopted within UNESCO's new in press volume on Perceptions of The         Sacred Garden of Lumbini: in preparing an integrated vision for the         sacred garden, which will form the basis of Lumbini's new draft       Integrated Management Plan [So6 p.153].
B.
Government of Nepal Proposed Modification of World Heritage Site         Boundary       When Lumbini was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1997, its       designation was limited to a cluster of standing monuments.
The Durham       team have now demonstrated the presence of important natural and cultural       sub-surface features outside the protected property [So7 p.13].
Of       particular importance is the recovery of a deep sequence at the Village       Mound, which is currently occupied by the Divisional Police Headquarters,       confirming `the presence of early cultural and natural levels' [So3, p.       8].
This has prompted UNESCO to undertake the relocation of these existing       structures in order to protect the fragile but important archaeology [So5,       p. 23] and crucially, has directly informed a request by the Nepal       Government to the World Heritage Committee to recognise the extension of       Lumbini's buffer zone to include these sub-surface assets within the       property [So7 p.12 &amp; So 4 Conclusion].
C. Government of Nepal and UNESCO Development Plan/s and Translation         of Approach to Neighbouring Sites       The Government of Nepal considered the Durham approach so integral to       meeting the challenges to its World Heritage Sites, that an extension of       field activities was agreed in 2011 [So8].
This extension supports the       development of the nomination dossier for Tilaurakot, a site associated       with the life of the Buddha and also on the tentative World Heritage list       for Nepal.
Durham's strategies, methods and guidelines outlined above, are       central to this activity with field seasons in 2012 and 2013.
Durham has       also advocated the development of a broader survey of the region, and was       contracted by UNESCO in 2012 to prepare the outline for a Lidar survey of       the Greater Lumbini Area to support general infrastructure and cultural       zoning [So9 p.9].
This proposal has now been included within UNESCO's       brochure for key components that require assistance and financial support       from national and international stakeholders, demonstrating acceptance of       Durham's multi-disciplinary approach [So5 pp.
28-9].
