     In 2007 we appointed David Petts as a Lecturer in North East Archaeology       and Director of Research for ASDU.
With a remit to respond to Shared         Visions he developed a programme of co-productive, participatory       research in the region which united academic, commercial and public       interests.
Recognised as a distinctive initiative by a Beacon North-East       Fellowship award for community engagement (2012), Petts successfully       reconnected local communities with their regional archaeology by cascading       skills training to the public in three particular ways that draw       materially on our research.
(i) Co-production with the Archaeological and Architectural       Society of Durham and Northumberland (AASDN) at Binchester Field School       (2008-13) responds directly to the research priorities identified in Shared         Visions and draws upon the participatory ethos advanced in our       research (Ref 3) to open up an internationally important research       excavation to over 600 regional volunteers.
Public participants range in       age from 16 to 60+, among them AASDN members, local schools, youth       projects and the `Know Your Hadrian's Wall' heritage initiative (Sources 1       &amp; 2).
An English Heritage capacity-building grant, secured with AASDN,       has facilitated widening participation in training and development       opportunities at the Field School (2010, &#163;21,382: So1).
Participants       testify to acquiring new archaeological skills, allowing full engagement       in all aspects of on-site investigation (eg.
So3, Qu.
2: survey,       recording, excavation); and they acknowledge improved well-being through       opportunities for team-work, companionship and collaboration in an       enterprise in which diversity and socio-economic inequalities are       recognized (eg.
So3, Qu.
4: working alongside like-minded people, the       sharing of knowledge informally between staff and volunteers,       opportunities to meet people and learn about other volunteer       opportunities).
An on-site blog runs concurrent with the project and       allows volunteers and the wider public to follow daily progress.
By       helping people stay in touch, public involvement is broadened and       deepened, with 82,762 hits during 2008-13 (So4).
The partnership is       `exceptionally valued' by AASDN and `important to the health and success       of the society', a claim realised in the doubling of the society's       membership since 2008-11 (159 new members).
English Heritage recognise the       initiative as having `a long lasting and beneficial impact', `transforming       many local people from simple "consumers" of expert historical and       archaeological knowledge into active participants in the production of       their own history and archaeology' (So1).
(ii) We have also developed a distinctive suite of training         opportunities.
The North-East Heritage Partnership (NEHP 2012-13),       led by Petts and funded by the AHRC, has delivered a programme of skills       and research training, widening and enhancing community knowledge and       experience (So5).
Eight hands-on events have provided tuition in research       techniques eg.
historic landscapes, buildings and human and animal       remains.
In parallel, `master classes' have been delivered as spin-offs       from Binchester, including sessions on geophysical prospection (Hale) and       environmental and finds processing (ASDU).
These make direct use of our       research expertise, for example, large-scale geophysics at Whitley (Ref       2); Shapwick as a multi-period, village-based research project (Ref 4);       our investigation of the Roman/early medieval transition (Ref 5); and we       have deepened and enriched volunteer experience by making our equipment,       facilities, expertise and research knowledge freely available.
50       individuals from 10 community groups have attended, acquiring new skills       and knowledge (So6 and 7: techniques for standing building recording, use       of historical archives, geophysics and post-excavation techniques).
Informal systems of third-party training also disseminate expertise beyond       the attendees; elected members of local groups participated in the       training workshops and then shared knowledge and practice with members of       their heritage group (So6).
NEHP training was also enhanced by free online       training guides (www.ne-heritage.org.uk).
(iii) The participatory frameworks of Binchester and the       NEHP initiative have stimulated an increased number of co-productive       partnerships with local societies.
These take our research expertise out       to the community to provide bespoke training direct to on-going projects       that are already in process (eg.
delivery of training in combined       geophysical prospection techniques; excavation and grant application       writing at West Hagg, Swaledale).
This draws significantly and materially       on our research expertise (eg.
Haselgrove (Ref 1): prehistoric-Roman       transition; Hale (Ref 2): geophysics; Petts (Ref 5): Roman to medieval       transition).
With an in-kind contribution valued at &#163;19,273, we supported       16 such programmes from 2008 to July 2013 (So8).Co-enquiry in 2012 with       the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty has also facilitated       the HLF-funded project `Altogether Archaeology' and over 400 volunteers to       date have benefitted from training in geophysical survey, expertise which       has developed directly out of the research and commercial experience of       Hale and others (So9).
