     The creation of a new compositional method has made a distinct       contribution to two separate users and beneficiaries: (a) cultural       enrichment through concert performances and CD sales and (b)       pedagogy/education.
(a) Cultural enrichment &#8212; impact and reach: Beneficiaries include       concertgoers, music-listening public and public buying discs.
Evidence for       this impact is reflected in the number of performances, CD sales and       reviews surrounding the output.
Performances of the compositions derived       from the tool total approximately 100 since 2010, and sales of the CD       further indicate the cultural enrichment, impact and reach of the       research.
CD reviews of Formes Audibles include: The Wire       issue #344 (UK), October 1, 2012, Rif Raf Magazine, issue #187       (Belgium), February 1, 2013, Blow up #180 (Italy), May 1, 2013, Revue         &amp; Corrigee #95 (France), March 1, 2013 and Nonpop       (Germany), January 22, 2013.
In a Chain DLK (USA) online review, (March       12, 2013) &#8212; "A breath of fresh air over electroacoustic and acousmatic       scene wafts from the very first album by young English sound-artist       Manuella Blackburn, whose remarkable curriculum isn't frankly the one you       could expect from a newcomer."
Direct impact upon listening audiences has       been gauged through emails and letters of support from concertgoers and CD       listeners, for example&#8212; "I was just listening to the Wire sampler,       including your "Switched on" piece.
It is wonderful!
Congratulations" (Wire Tapper CD listener), "I just wanted to tell you       that yesterday night an important Italian radio Radio Rai 3 transmitted       one of your composition..."Kitchen Alchemy" I thought it was       brilliant!!
Very good acousmatic piece..." Radio Rai 3 Italy listener.
(b) Pedagogy and education &#8212; impact and reach: Beneficiaries found       within the education sector include students from primary and secondary       schools, colleges and universities.
The research yielded a viable and       flexible tool for teaching electroacoustic music composition to those new       and uninitiated with this genre.
The research provided three methods of       engaging with the tool: [i] pairing visual shapes with sounds worksheet,       [ii] building structures based on starts, middles and ends in text and       video format and [iii] a Pro Tools (a industry standard digital audio       sequencer) template designed to initiate compositional activity with       starts, middles and ends, all freely available from       http://www.hope.ac.uk/music/interactingwithsoundshapes/ website, designed       to widen access and engagement.
The available methods (i, ii and iii) were       publicised on the CEC (Canadian Electroacoustic Music Community) forum and       Electroacoustic music composers Facebook group, which both reach       international audiences, educators and practitioners.
The compositional tool was delivered initially as a workshop as proof of       concept, involving all three aspects described above given by Dr Blackburn       and Dr Carman (post-doctoral teaching fellow) in 2012.
These schools       include Sir John Deans Sixth Form College, Northwich and Hartford High       School, Cheshire.
A post-workshop survey indicated the benefit of       accessible visual tools for composition in the classroom.
A statement from       the Head of performance at Sir John Deanes Sixth Form College outlined       that "within the sessions, students studied sound recording and       manipulation, and also how sounds can be represented visually in graphic       score."
Further educators within schools, colleges and HEIs have integrated this       tool into their teaching of electroacoustic music and music technology       autonomously.
The pairing exercise [i] has been integrated into the EARS       II project as a listening task, which will be launched in 2014.
The       starts, middles and ends construction method [ii] was taken up by       Professor Leigh Landy in his textbook for children aged 11-14, Making         Music With Sounds, (Routledge, 2012), where Chapter 4 is devoted to       outlining the tool in a visual format, and the tool and visual shapes       appears in a university e-textbook (awaiting publication by Routledge) Sonic         Recipes and Reasonings (given to all first year students on the BMus       degree in The University of Sheffield).
Other institutions including Edge       Hill University, Manchester Metropolitan University, University of       Manchester, Coventry University and McGill University (Montreal) have all       implemented the tool (in formats i, ii, and iii) as resources for teaching       electroacoustic music for first year students and have provided positive       feedback for the use and success of the methodology within the classroom.
For example, Edge Hill University stated that the tool is "a fantastic       exercise that is not age bound and provides focussed learning, developing       skills in aural training and improving the ways in which individuals might       conceive of gesture as compositional tool".
A composition course lecturer       at McGill University, Montreal stated that the "prescriptive compositional       aid has enriched students' understanding of these concepts, and benefitted       them in the compositional thinking.
I believe they may also have broader       applications for experienced composers in linking their compositional       processes to these ideas."
These statements were collected via feedback       forms after the compositional resources had been utilized in teaching.
