     Results of the research have particular significance for existing and       aspiring SSTC practitioners in their quest to survive in a highly       competitive and insecure industry.
Cultural benefits go beyond this       specific group given that SSTC's are seen as the `life-blood' of the       theatre world by feeding into established national and regional       institutions more generally.
The research has had the following specific benefits to SSTC's and drama       educators.
It has led to the establishment of networks, support groups and       dissemination events that:     a) have helped to break down the isolation experienced by SSTC's in their       quest to perform, improving access to support networks and training;     b) have fostered the sharing of resources such as venues and skills,       enhancing the dissemination of cultural products     c) have enabled the dissemination of sector-specific knowledge and the       acquisition of production skills leading to the development of resources       to enhance professional practice.
Results from the research have       influenced training and programme development within drama schools in and       outside Brunel.
An inaugural event to disseminate findings and to discuss key issues       arising from the research ("Counting The Cost: Risks and Rewards in       Today's Theatre") was held on 26th May 2010 in The New Diorama,       London (ref 4).
The panel comprised:     Barry Edwards, Director, Performance Initiative, Brunel University;     Nick Giles, Director, Corn Exchange and Newbury Arts;     Kerry Irvine, Producer, ScenePool;     Chris Mellor, Senior Arts Development Officer, Camden Council;     Ria Parry, Leverhulme Director in Residence National Theatre Studio     Ninety people attended (a high figure for a local event) &#8212; indicative of       the level of interest the research engendered among local theatre makers       and the theatre community.
These included research participants, other       interested SSTC founders, members of local arts groups, local authority       and higher education employees.
Several outcomes followed directly from       this event:-     Firstly, ScenePool was invited and became a member of the Camden         Consortium, an industry board of 30 professionally run theatres that       meets regularly to discuss issues and projects within the theatre       industry.
Through Scenepool's involvement, Brunel research informed policy       and practice on assistance given to new SSTC's through the sharing of       venues and the development of joint work.
Secondly, ScenePool joined Camden to steer a `freelance surgery'       which meets on a quarterly basis to advise SSTC founders and related       people on a `one to one basis' on their company in terms of its future       development.
This initiative has now been replicated by Islington Council.
Thirdly, on 29th May 2010 in partnership with Camden Council       the Creative Producer's Collective was launched as a support       network to encourage entrepreneurship and greater commercial awareness as       foundational to the creative process of making theatre.
One hundred and       twenty producers attended &#8212; considered an exceptionally high figure given       the local focus.
Below is an extract from a recent press release (November 2010): -     "The Creative Producers Collective fuses creativity, enterprise and         practice, in order to create an environment where producers and theatre         companies can strengthen their work, developing their entrepreneurial         awareness, engaging and attracting new audiences, and fostering         partnerships with venues.
In the current economic climate, it is more         vital than ever for Arts organisations to find new and innovative ways         of working to ensure their own survival.
Working closely with theatre         artists and along with several industry partnerships, this new         initiative aims to present opportunities and support to enhance quality         and heighten the profile of theatre production."
Fourthly, arising from the initial partnership with Camden Theatre (i.e.,       Camden Council), ScenePool Ltd has also secured further partnerships with       the following organizations and individual: &#8212; Camden People's Theatre; The       New Diorama; Upstairs at the Gatehouse; Ms Skye Crawford (Freelance Arts       Consultant &amp; London Editor of Fringe Review).
The Collective held       regular meetings in London and by Oct 2012 had approximately 110 members.
It has presented a three-week festival in all three venues, drawing in 19       companies and 95 practitioners, that are in the partnership and funded by       ScenePool, Camden Council, Camden People's Theatre, The New Diorama and       Upstairs at the Gatehouse.
These festivals are based on learning new       skills, the sharing of expertise and costs (e.g.
marketing, resourcing set       and transport, print, rehearsal), exchanging marketing ideas and       promotional work, swapping contacts, facilitating access to finance       opportunities, engaging in methods to attract audiences and supporting       each other's work &#8212; all adding to the professional knowledge of SSTC       founders.
While one can normally expect small audiences (average of 12) at       fringe theatre events, the festival attracted a total of 750 and brought       in a box office return of &#163;4033.
Fifthly, The Creative Producers Collective initiative has led to the       creation of TheatreLab which includes a broader spectrum of roles       within the sector such as writers, directors, composers and/or anyone who       collaborates towards a creative product.
This expanding network currently       has 60 members and has been meeting on a monthly basis since January 2012.
Its key purpose is to provide training and to establish and share the       necessary individual and team skills &#8212; including filling skills gaps &#8212;       that are required for successful performances and for effectively managing       a SSTC in a sustainable way.
It offers SSTC's opportunities to show their       work &#8212; such as the partnership with the Shaw Theatre in August 2011 and       offers workshops and 1-2-1 surgeries.
TheatreLab network has a growing       membership, with 108 followers on Twitter and the professional networking       site Linked In.
It facilitated a weekend of new work from over 20 theatre       makers on the 11th and 12th August 2012 with its       industry partner The Shaw Theatre in London.
The collective plays a key       role in supporting theatre making and practitioner debate has been       informed by the findings of the research.
Finally, in terms of more educative dissemination of commercial       awareness, Ms Kerry's departure from Brunel University after the       conclusion of this project to a new teaching post at Bath Spa University       has given rise to new opportunities for teaching developments &#8212;       specifically a new module in arts management on their BA in Drama Studies       that incorporates professional development and entrepreneurship.
She has       also set up TheatreLab at Bath Spa that facilitates the knowledge exchange       from the TheatreLab network working with Bath Spa students to develop new       theatre product and enhance professional skills suitable for the industry.
