     DEFRA practitioners have used the application of the FCM technique in       order to understand and explore how causal inter-relationships influence       decisions and drivers relating to incentives to mitigate climate change &#8212;       and the subsequent downstream effect this has on the UK farming industry       and society in general.
Three workshops were delivered to DEFRA participants over 2011 and 2012       to show, enhance and advance the process by which DEFRA planners and       policy makers develop the agribusiness element of UK climate change policy       (GHG abatement at farm level).
These workshops involved collaboration       between Brunel and DEFRA participants in order to shape and identify       pertinent farming scenarios, through the application of FCM techniques.
Scenarios included:            Abolition of CAP pillar 1 in preference of pillar 2 payments (direct /         indirect payments to farmers).
Introduction of a purchase tax on manufactured mineral fertiliser.
Banning all types of conventional agricultural practices in preference         for adopting wide- scale organic farming practices from 2013.
The benefits of the research and the workshops are as follows:     Environmental and Policy Impacts     DEFRA statisticians, economists, operations researchers and project       managers have used this research to widen and explore the driving factors       which may lead to the abatement of greenhouse gases from the agribusiness       sector (i.e.
farms, on-farm practices and the wider agribusiness supply       chain).
DEFRA can now carry out more effective scenario modelling through       knowledge transfer, collaboration and engagement between the Brunel       researchers and DEFRA in pursuit of improved management of environmental       risks.
This is based upon the "Climate Change Mitigation for Agriculture and         the Food Change Evidence Plan 2011/12" report by DEFRA and set       against the backdrop of proposed changes to the European Union Common       Agricultural Policy (CAP), 2014-2020.
The context for the driving policy       factors are shown below in Figure 1.
Hence, the impact of applying the       research techniques and expertise to these factors, are identified in the       light shaded ovals below, with the triangles signifying those aspects       which were used specifically in the knowledge transfer sessions with DEFRA       practitioners.
Figure 1.
Relationship between key factors driving UK agribusiness GHG abatement (source: adapted from DEFRA, Climate Change Mitigation, Agriculture and Food Chain unit)      Thus, the engagement and transfer of knowledge to DEFRA has resulted in       enhanced capacity and capability within and across climate change       mitigation project teams and experts (which as a result of this research       and collaboration, has allowed DEFRA practitioners to add FCM modelling to       their collection of futures techniques).
According to DEFRA, this allowed impact in terms of improved "understanding,         development and adoption of alternative economic models (using         political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental         perspectives relating to EU/UK agribusiness policy)."
DEFRA also       commented that through "an improved design / implementation of         environmental policy or regulation", the research impact allowed       DEFRA to expand the range of policy modelling techniques they currently       use and to put "GHG abatement/UK agribusiness farming policy and         behaviour into a wider context".
Practitioner Impact     In addition to the above, the research has had an influence on       professional standards, guidelines and training &#8212; along with the       development of DEFRA resources to enhance their professional practice.
These impacts are significant given the size and potentially       damaging environmental effects of UK agribusiness: the sector contributes       over &#163;80 billion in revenue to the UK (approx.
10% of GDP) and the food       system as a whole is responsible for 18% of UK greenhouse gas emissions.
The UK food chain alone creates 19 million tonnes of CO2 per       year (DECC UK Emissions statistics).
Against this background, Brunel       research made significant impact through a) the influence on environmental       policy relating to the UK agribusiness as well as on DEFRA practitioners       leading to changes in environmental awareness of environmental products       (i.e.
livestock, foodstuffs) and practices b) the usage of the FCM       technique in general within the climate change mitigation unit as an       alternative modelling technique that they can now add to their repertoire       of scenario planning and c) the potential to include the technique as part       of their practice of environmental planning across climate change-related       project teams within DEFRA (which involves upwards of 20 individuals).
The reach of this impact is in adding to the modelling of policy       scenarios that can influence how UK farming and the agricultural sector       may operate in the future and in turn how any future climate change policy       changes will affect the population on general.
Through the facilitated       workshops delivered to DEFRA practitioners this research has enabled a       wide range of policy makers to come together and to think more       holistically about those factors which are important in changing       agribusiness practices, through a shared policy modelling approach.
As a result of this research relationship Professors Sharif and Irani       were appointed as advisors on climate change mitigation, agriculture and       food chain (appointment letters attached in addendum).
