     As Rowett has shown, Presocratic philosophy continually inspires new       ideas in its readers in every       period of Western thought.
This is no less true now, as is evident in the       recent thought-provoking       effect of her work on a variety of readerships beyond the academy, in the       UK and abroad.
It should       be noted that making people think is itself the impact &#8212; not so much the       content of what they think,       since the point is not just to inform readers about the philosophy of the       past, but to provoke them to       engage in thinking afresh, about the questions that past philosophers       raise.
The impact on       intellectual life is found in the very fact of people becoming interested       in what the Presocratics said,       and in their being caused to reflect on how those sayings apply to their       own life experiences.
Rowett's work in this field has generated two kinds of impact:     (a) Benefits to cultural and intellectual life in the UK and abroad,         particularly making people think         about philosophical ideas.
Osborne's Presocratic Philosophy: A Very Short Introduction (IS1)       has been widely distributed, and       succeeds in transmitting the questions and puzzles opened for discussion       in the above research       (particularly RR2) to audiences outside academia.
This generates awareness       of the riches of the       early history of western thought and of its relevance to the reader's own       concerns.
Readers include       both the interested layman, and some of the people whom the REF calls       "users" of philosophical       research, evidenced (in this case) by Raymond Tallis (IS5), who then       provides further routes to       cultural and intellectual impact, particularly in his work for BBC Radio       (IS5, IS6).
In addition, public       engagement achieves local impact in the UK: note particularly Rowett's       2012 Public Lecture in the       UEA Public Lectures on Philosophy and the Economic Crisis series, funded       by the Royal Institute       of Philosophy (IS10).
Audience participation at the time (available on the       podcast) evidences the       activity of genuine open-minded thinking, including asking important       questions about current affairs       and policy, actually going on live in the lecture room on this occasion,       provoked by a lecture that       drew upon Presocratic ideas.
Reach:     We measure the reach of this intellectual impact by (i) sales of       IS1 (on the basis that with each       book bought, someone's thirst for knowledge of their cultural heritage is       slaked and their ability to       think philosophically is provoked), (ii) the demand for translations of       IS1 for markets beyond the UK       and America, and (iii) audience numbers at public events (IS3, IS4, IS10).
(i) Sales of IS1 in English currently exceed 10,000 (approaching 13,500       in 2013).
For some       years it has been the best-selling book about Presocratic Philosophy on       Amazon.com (not       counting translations of the texts).
Customer reviews on Amazon show that       the readers are       actively engaging with the research issues presented &#8212; that they are being       made to think.
Some       respond enthusiastically, others more reluctantly, to that challenge: both       reactions show that       the challenge is working.
(ii) Free distribution of a Greek translation of IS1 in 2006 to over       40,000 readers of the Greek       daily newspaper has led to further translations being envisaged, e.g.
Portuguese, Vietnamese.
Further Francophone audiences are reached via Osborne's chapter in Histoire         de la         Philosophie ed.
Jean Fran&#231;ois Pradeau, (IS2) for which sales       currently stand at over 5,000.
(iii) Public engagement activities featuring Presocratic Philosophy have       been frequent, starting       with the first UEA public lecture series.
Rowett's inaugural lecture in       2009 drew a mixed       audience of over 100.
In April 2012 Rowett featured along with       primatologist Professor Volker       Sommer and anthropologist Professor Ruth Mace in a panel discussing the       "origins of       humanity" at the LSE (podcast available, IS4), part of a popular programme       for the public       organised by the Forum for European Philosophy, with 200+ in the audience.
Podcast hits in       five months, May-Sept 2012 totalled 14,260 (NB this measure is hits         recorded by the server,         not downloads or viewings.)
Rowett co-tutored an extra-mural weekend       school for the Oxford       Department for Continuing Education at Rewley House, with Malcolm       Schofield, on The Origins         of Metaphysics in Presocratic Philosophy in May 2012 (IS3).
There       were 46 resident attenders,       and the podcasts were then circulated to 330 members of the Oxford       Philosophical Society.
In       Autumn 2012, Rowett's lecture `Learning from Greece: thinking about       austerity and monetary       union in Pythagorean and Platonic politics' in the UEA Philosophy Public       Lectures series on the       Economic Crisis drew an audience of c.70, and explored the roots of the       economic crisis and       possible solutions and revaluations by way of reflections on Pythagorean       and Platonic political       thought.
(Podcast available: IS10).
Significance:     Quantifiable measures of the significance of this work include       statistical measures of the       uptake of the various events and publications, such as book sales,       audience numbers and       podcast visitors.
These give some indication of the importance that people       attach in their lives       to such intellectual activity, by quantifying their commitment in terms of       the time and money       that they will spend on improving their understanding and engaging with       the cultural heritage of       Western thought.
Another key marker of significance is the extent to which       these topics feature       in public debate, e.g.
on BBC Radio, Oxford Literary Festival, Hay on Wye       Festival, European       Forum, etc.
Raymond Tallis reports (IS5) that he found Rowett's work very       useful for situating       Parmenides, in preparing his Continuum 2007 book The Enduring Legacy         of Parmenides:         Unthinkable Thought, and that "this fed into various popular       outlets: articles in Philosophy Now       and Prospect and Night Waves and a very well attended talk       at the Hay Festival."
The Night         Waves programme (IS6) chaired by Philip Dodd, (BBC Radio 3, 19th       April 2011), investigated       Rowett's key question about the significance of Parmenides in Western       Philosophy,       problematised in RR2 and disseminated to non-academic users via IS1.
Tallis also has a       podcast on this topic, on Philosophybites.com, which has had 1,596 viewers       on YouTube (IS5).
The choice of "Presocratic Metaphysics" as a topic for IS3 (Oxford       Extra-Mural weekend       School) testifies to the importance this ancient wisdom has for those       outside professional       philosophy, for whom philosophy is (as it always has been) an authentic       way of life.
(b) Impact on new investors on the stock exchange     Rowett's work on the Sophists, has been adopted by the Reuters       journalist Alexander Davidson.
His book The Money Myth: A Classic Introduction to the Modern World of         Finance and Investing,       commissioned by FT Pearson (IS7), is a guide for beginners planning to       invest in stocks and       shares.
It warns them of the risks of untrustworthy advisers.
Of the       significance of Rowett's work,       Alexander Davidson writes (IS8) "This book was my `eureka' moment as a       financial journalist.
By       showing that the ancient Greek sophists were just like our spin-doctors,       Osborne proves there is       nothing new about the propagandist techniques that helped to crash the       City in the Credit Crunch       but then rescued it.
I read this book in one sitting &#8212; and it gave me in       return a cutting edge seminar       in ancient philosophy and its modern messages.
More questions than answers       for the City and       politics, but, at last, I am thinking solutions."
The reach of this impact is measured by sales figures of The         Money Myth (IS7), currently in excess       of 2,000, foreign language editions (currently includes a Japanese       translation already out), and       uptake of articles and reviews that discuss its message (examples in IS9).
Its significance might be measured by the success of its readers'       investing practices, and the       monetary value of their investment in enterprises that yield economic       growth.
Customer reviews       (IS9) and readers' correspondence would testify to a rather small part of       this.
