     Summary     The impact of the research is primarily economic, and can be judged in       terms of the income generated and the jobs created.
This has been achieved       through the establishment (in 2010) of the company Ossila Ltd [S1].
Ossila provides a catalogue of materials, components and consumable items       to researchers working on the development of organic electronic devices [S4],       and mainly exports its products to foreign markets (40 countries in total,       worldwide).
The breakdown of sales per area in 2012 were: UK 15%, EU 36%,       US 8%, rest of world 41% (including India, China, Brazil, Korea, Japan,       Mexico, Canada, Singapore, Malaysia) [S3].
Ossila also undertakes       contract research projects for other companies and has helped such       companies to apply for further funding.
In the three years of trading to 2012-13, Ossila has had a total turnover       of [text removed for publication], with all profits deriving from sales       having been re-invested in the company.
[text removed for publication] [S2,         S3].
Ossila currently employs ten part-time and full-time workers       (~7 people at full time equivalent).
In total, the company has offered       over 131 man-months of employment at technical, graduate and post-graduate       level.
Development of the company [S4]     Ossila was founded in 2010 by Professor David Lidzey, Dr Alastair       Buckley, and Dr James Kingsley, working at the University of Sheffield.
The initial investment to found Ossila and to purchase stock was made by a       director's loan.
The majority of Ossila's sales are through the company       website.
The first products developed by Ossila were based on the       technical know-how of its founders.
These were based on a patterned ITO       electrode, connector-device and encapsulation system.
Since then, the range of products sold by Ossila has expanded       significantly.
The company now sells a range of laboratory consumable       items, electronics and other testing equipment to researchers working in       organic electronics.
In 75% of cases, the products supplied by Ossila are       designed in-house, with the company playing a direct role in their       manufacture.
Ossila also sells a range of organic semiconductor materials that each       come with a full-process recipe that allows the user to fabricate       high-efficiency OPV/OLED devices.
Ossila commissions the synthesis of many       of the organic semiconductors that it sells.
Other materials are produced       by partner companies and are then re-sold by Ossila; however, considerable       value is added through testing material performance, performing quality       control and developing processing protocols that are supplied to       customers.
Joint testing     Ossila undertakes contract device development with other companies       engaged in organic electronics research.
This has enabled such companies       to explore the development of new, innovative products that has enabled       them to make investment decisions that are underpinned by experimental       data.
Employment     Ossila is based on the North Campus Nanotechnology site at Sheffield       University.
The company has created 7 FTE science-based jobs in a region       of the country that has suffered economic decline due to a historical       dependence on heavy industry.
Wider impact     Ossila has produced further impact by making the research and development       of its customers more effective.
It has sold products to over 200 research       groups worldwide, including to many of the world's top Universities, with       this research helping to drive the commercialisation of organic       electronics.
