     There was considerable press response to the finding that many active,       new manifestations of feminism exist in Britain, with similar       characteristics to 1970s feminism.
The Guardian (2010) cited the findings as `one of many signs that       we seem to be entering a new heyday for British feminism', naming Aune and       Redfern two of `the next famous five young feminists'.
New Statesman       (2010) explained: `Reclaiming the F Word...charts the emergence of       a new breed of feminist: young, political, pragmatic and attuned to issues       of class and race, violence and power that are elided by sex-and-shopping       feminism'.
Evening Standard (2010) said the book `hopes to dispel       the notion that feminism is a derogatory word, one which is no longer       needed or wanted', adding: `This is full-on fighting feminism, of the       marching and protesting kind.
A little less angry than its Seventies       sister, perhaps, but sharing much of the same DNA'.
The book ignited public debate about the vibrancy of contemporary       feminism.
London Review of Books (2011) debated the effectiveness       of `the feminist revival that's said to be going on', adding: `evidence of       such a movement might include recent books such as Reclaiming the F         Word.'
New York Times (2012) listed it as one of five books       responsible for shifting public debate about feminism `from the perennial       `Where is feminism?'
debate to `What can this resurgent feminism       achieve?''
Reclaiming the F Word attracted reviews by the national and       international press, women's organisations and readers' websites.
Bloggers       commented that it introduced and inspired readers towards activism to       challenge gender inequalities: `If you have a younger sister, teen       daughter...who's been known to preface a pro-feminist thought with "I'm       not a feminist, but...," RFW might just be the thing to bring her       around' (Easyvegan, 2010); `The great thing about the book is that it is       littered with quotes, statistics and examples, and each chapter ends with       a "Take Action!"
box that lists a few easy activism tips, thereby       encouraging the reader to acknowledge what is wrong but also take action'       (glandtastic.blogspot 2012).
Readers discussed it at book groups.
Aune's       media articles (Ms Magazine 10/2010, TES 02/2012) highlighted       young people's role, and suggested how teachers could teach feminism.
Interviewed by civil society and women's organisations (New Left Project       03/2010, Feministing (USA, 10/2010) and De Wereld Morgen (Belgium,       03/2013)) and on TV and radio (BBC Radio Derby 1/11/12, BBC 1 News at Ten,       07/2011), Aune discussed the need for feminist activism to alleviate       gender inequalities.
Aune's talks, debates and panel discussions at non-academic events       included: seven student feminist societies, three bookshops, one book fair       (Edinburgh, 2010), women's groups (Derby Women's Centre 2012, Progressive       Women, London 2010, Nottingham Women's Centre 2013), secularist       organisations (London and Glasgow 2011), a teachers' conference (Durham,       2011) and women's conferences (Feminism in London conference, 2010;       National Union of Students Women's Conference, Oxford, 2011; Women of the       World Festival, London, 2012; Bristol Women's Literature Festival 2013;       Derby International Women's Day 2013).
Reclaiming the F Word sold       7,500 copies, indicating considerable public reach.
The second project, Hogan's RSRA project (Look at Me!
Images of Women         &amp; Ageing) also ensured considerable public outreach through film       and photography.
It gave older women opportunities to engage in       photography, discussion groups, exhibitions, phototherapy workshops and       participatory arts at Sheffield's Guildford Grange (an extra-care home),       Green Estate (a community development initiative) and The Circle (a       community venue).
Outputs included five films.
Art works challenging       stereotypes were exhibited in numerous locations and made into postcards       and a DVD.
A website http://www.representing-ageing.com/       was created as a permanent resource and teaching aid, and features the       project films, exhibition areas and art work samples.
The films received       public screenings at festivals (e.g.
Bristol Encounters and Sheffield's       Showroom Cinema).
Images produced reached many audiences: three exhibitions in Sheffield       attracted over 400 people (at The Workstation and Jessop West exhibition       space); exhibitions were held at the Royal College of Art's Inclusive       Design conference, British Society of Gerontology's 40th Annual       Conference, Derby University, Age UK Sheffield, and will be on permanent       display at Swansea University's Centre for Innovative Ageing (and included       in a Coming of Age tour which garnered an estimated 30,000 participants: http://comingofageswansea.com/comingofage/).
The project received local press coverage and in the THES       (12/2009) and was featured at local authority anti- ageing events, such as       the York 50+ Festival (York City Council).
The team presented at prominent       ageing events, such as Ageism &amp; Sexism in the Media (NDA &amp; Age       Concern) chaired by Miriam O'Reilly, Chair of the Commission for Older       Women.
The Labour Party Commission on Older Women cites the impact report       in its Interim Report (Sept 2013: p31).
The End of Award report explains that participants felt activities made a       lasting impact on their quality of life; their attitude towards their       ageing was significantly altered as a result of taking part: it `brought       attention to them as individuals' and `celebrated' their ageing.
Exhibition visitors commented on their `celebration of the ordinary',       calling for `more truthful images of older women in the media.'
Exhibition       questionnaires show that 87% of visitors found the exhibition `good' or       `very good'; 83% found it `thought-provoking' and 88% would like to see       more images of older women displayed in public -`I've thoroughly loved       this exhibition.
Some of the pieces brought tears to my eyes.
I only wish       my mum could see these images and have them speak to her as they have to       me' and `excellent piece of work on a subject that needs a lot more       publicity' (see project website).
Project team members have been invited to contribute to shaping Sheffield       City Council's new Strategy for an Ageing Population.
RSRA was selected by       the ERSC to emphasise the issue of ageism; they produced a film entitled Monday's         Child is Fair of Face for the project.
Images from the work also       featured on book covers (Dolan &amp; Tincknell, 2012, Ageing         Femininities; Yl&#228;nne, 2012, Representing Ageing).
Together, working across and with a variety of media, these projects       exemplify UoA researchers' commitment to challenging gender inequalities       and highlight the value of activism and research to challenge stereotypes       and improve women's lives.
Ongoing work on gender includes an AHRC grant       looking at the birth experience, including the experience of birth       partners, as well as further work on women within psychiatric services.
