     DECoRuM model and consequent research projects have had a considerable       and on-going impact on defining best practice, identifying changes in       household energy behaviours and brought improvements to environmental       policy and building practices.
The following narrative presents selected       examples in support of these benefits.
Policies and Practice       In 2008, working in partnership with the GeoInformation&#174; Group,       DECoRuM research was used to provide carbon mapping services to UK local       authorities.
Furthermore, principles of carbon counting research have       underpinned the development of several tools, protocols and practices.
Professor Gupta, drawing on his research expertise of DECoRuM, through his       role as technical advisor, contributed to UNEP's Global Common Carbon       Metric tool7 and protocol through the Sustainable Buildings and       Climate Initiative.
The Common carbon metric protocol is currently being       developed as an ISO standard on carbon metric of building (ISO/TC 59/SC17)8.
Principles from carbon counting research have also been applied to       development of the world's first carbon neutrality standard, through       Professor Gupta's contributions as member of the steering committee, the       British Standards Institution's (BSI) `UKPAS 2060 Specification of the       demonstration of carbon neutrality' 9(taken up by nearly 100       organisations).
Community engagement       Through the EVALOC project4, DECoRuM incorporates a `community       energy monitoring toolkit', designed to present results on impacts and       effectiveness of low-carbon interventions.
A `community engagement       toolkit' is also included which provides usable materials and guidance for       community energy projects: nationally through monitoring and evaluation of       six case study low carbon communities funded through the Department of       Energy and Climate Change's Low Carbon Communities Challenge programme;       and locally through the steering group membership of the Low Carbon Oxford       initiative since 201210.
More recently, through the DECC-funded Local Energy Assessment Fund       (2012)11, DECoRuM has enabled a local community in Bicester       (Oxfordshire, UK) to prepare for the National Green Deal programme, by       assessing the potential for applying costed refurbishment interventions       (packages) based on a combination of best practice energy saving measures,       and low carbon technologies.
Findings from the DECoRuM-Bicester model have       been directly used to install cavity and wall insulation in 42 dwellings,       resulting in CO2 savings of least 50tCO2 per year.
To share       insights from carbon counting research, since 2013 Gupta has been       appointed a steering group member of the Department of Energy and Climate       Change's English Housing Survey (EHS) Modelling project.
Future proofing and designing for the future       SNACC project assessed the risk of climate change driven overheating for       existing suburban homes5.
The effectiveness ranking of       interventions for tackling overheating in homes6 have been       explicitly applied in Department for Communities and Local Governments       seminal report, published in 2012, `Investigation into overheating in       homes'13.
The report, citing Professor Gupta's research       directly, identifies policy instruments to tackle future overheating in       new build (Building Regulations) and refurbishments (National Green Deal       advice).
Furthermore, overheating findings from SNACC research project       have been taken up and disseminated through a National Overheating       Guidance note14 prepared by United Kingdom Climate Impact       Programme (on behalf of Department for Communities and Local Governments)       with endorsement from the Green Deal Oversight and Registration Body in       addition to Department for Energy and Climate Change.
This guidance note       will be distributed to all Green Deal advisors and assessors.
In addition       to these, UK's Adaptation and Resilience to a Changing Climate       Coordination Network (ARCC-CAN) has taken up SNACC's research findings on       overheating to produce a detailed guidance note to underpin the National       Overheating Guidance Note15.
Impacts from DECoRuM-adapt model are continuing to be realised through       Professor Gupta's continued engagement with industry and communities of       interest.
Since 2010, the risk-based methodological approach developed in       the SNACC project has been successfully applied in five Technology       Strategy Board-funded `Design for future climate' projects with nationally       leading architectural practices and consultancies e.g.
Farrells, BDP       Partnership, Medical architecture, Penoyre and Prasad LLP, and Ridge and       Partners.
The projects have systematically evaluated, through downscaling       of UK climate change projections and simulation, the potential for       incorporating adaptation strategies for tackling overheating into live       designs of future low/zero carbon homes, schools and hospitals in the UK.
In particular, findings from one of the Design for future climate project       on future-proofing NW Bicester eco-town, has led to the introduction of a       new local planning requirement for developers by Cherwell District       Council, related to testing of new housing for overheating in 2050s16.
Achieving real CO2 emission reductions       The approach of DECoRuM carbon counting research has also been applied in       advanced low carbon refurbishments of three TSB funded Retrofit for future       projects (by Oxford Brookes University) out of which one project (Oxford       Whole House Carbon Reduction) has achieved 80% carbon emission reductions       in reality (wide media coverage) and is the only case study profiled by       TSB in their Retrofitanalysis report17.
