     The project developed a novel Powder Impression Moulding (PIM) process       which can manufacture lightweight sandwich structures from 100% mixed       post-consumer polymer.
The process has exceptionally high tolerance to       feedstock variations (contamination, dissimilar materials and particle       size) and thus it is energetically and economically competitive to       conventional PIM and uniquely effective recycling technology for dealing       with mixed/comingled plastics difficult to recycle using other existing       technologies.
Potentially, these panels can replace plywood in construction       applications, of which over 25 milion sheets are used every year in the       UK.
This process also creates a value-added market for mixed waste       plastics by capturing waste plastics for reuse.
The UK uses over 5 million       tonnes of plastic each year, of which only 19% is being recovered or       recycled (source: British Plastics Federation 2010).
Environmental Recycling Technologies Plc (ERT), the lead industrial       partner on the TSB grant, owns the worldwide IP for the PIM process, sells       licences to manufacturers and retailers to produce and sell PIM products.
Extending the use of PIM to mixed post-consumer plastics, and reducing the       need for extensive segregation, cleaning and grinding, has increased the       value of this IP.
In 2009, 2K Manufacturing Ltd was launched to exploit the new technology.
They signed an exclusive &#163;2M licence with ERT to manufacture EcoSheet,       produced by the novel PIM process, made of 100% recycled waste plastics in       the UK.
2K Manufacturing Ltd now employs 16 people and has ramped up       production very quickly.
In 2011 the Economist reported that 2K       Manufacturing could produce 360,000 EcoSheets per year and ERT have       reported since then that the capacity of the plant has increased       substantially.
For commercial reasons, exact production and sales figures       are not available, but we estimate that at least 1 million boards have       been produced and sold since 2009.
Both ERT and 2K Manufacturing       acknowledge the contribution of Brunel University research to the early       commercialisation of EcoSheet on their respective websites.
EcoSheets received a Federation of Small Business Award in June 2012, a       National Recycling Award in July 2011 and a Manufacturing Excellence Award       in July 2011.
EcoSheet retails at the same price as plywood, but it is       easier to work because it does not produce dangerous splinters.
It does       not rot, so has substantial advantages in a number of application areas,       such as in the agricultural sector, where it is used for animal shelters.
Finally, whereas the plywood it replaces would end up in landfill,       EcoSheet, even if it has been painted and is full of nails, can be       recycled into more EcoSheet.
ERT Plc have granted further licences to:            Contour Showers Ltd to manufacture high-value shower trays from over         90% recycled material.
Brownwater Plastics in Kentucky, USA to manufacture long-span barge         covers.
Dodge Dakota to manufacture a complete truck bed section of pick-up         trucks.
The novel PIM process can also produce encapsulated automotive parts to       protect them from corrosion, as well as defence shields, flood barriers,       roll cages, pallets and fence panels.
