     The estimated impact of the possible changes, based on the number of       total sentenced prisoners in February 2009, at the time the second       consultation paper was published, was approximately 28,800 prisoners, if       the vote were given to all prisoners serving a sentence of under 4 years.
The prison population has risen considerably since then, reaching over       87,000 in the autumn of 2011 so the numbers potentially benefiting from a       change are now much greater.
The first consultation on prisoners' voting rights took place during       2006-7.
The second consultation was published in April 2009 and included       Easton's suggestion in her response to the first consultation, on using a       prisoner's last address to avoid block voting concerns, in Question 5       where "The government proposes that prisoners should be entitled to       register and vote on the basis of their previous or intended address ..."       .
The second consultation paper also appeared to have taken account of       Easton's suggestion that the decision to grant or withdraw voting rights       for convicted prisoners should not be left to those passing sentences, as       it would constitute an additional burden for them, as this issue became       only one of the options to be considered, rather than the greater role       contemplated in the first consultation.
In September 2009, Liberty published its response to the second       consultation and cited Easton's work to support their argument that "for       principled and practical reasons a sentence of any term of imprisonment       should not lead to the loss of the right to vote".
Liberty also cites       Easton in these words:     As Susan Easton has argued: `To further punish prisoners by         disenfranchisement is excessive and irrational and in most cases, bears         no relation to the nature of the offence.
Denial of the right to vote         undermines respect for the law, and the principles of equality and         inclusion.
Conversely, allowing prisoners to vote affirms the legitimacy         of the values of democratic society.
The right is not a privilege but a         fundamental civil right... Voting would give prisoners a much-needed         voice in the democratic process.'
Also in 2009, UNLOCK circulated Easton's 2006 Modern Law Review paper to       its members as part of its Voting for Prisoners Campaign.
Easton discussed the issue in an article in The Guardian in February 9       2011; this article was reproduced on other news sites, including Ekklesia,       and was cited by the Criminal Justice Alliance http://criminaljusticealliance.org/11-02-18.htm#11       The article itself generated over two hundred comments from the public.
Easton has also been interviewed by Channel 4 News http://www.channel4.com/news/echr-judges-rule-on-thorny-issue-of-criminal-voting-rights       and http://www.channel4.com/news/uk-must-allow-prisoners-to-vote-european-court-rules       and has participated in a debate on LBC radio on this issue.
On 11 April 2011, the ECtHR gave the UK government six months to       introduce legislative proposals.
However, an extension was granted in       August 2011 which allowed the government six months from the publication       of the judgement in the Scoppola v Italy (No 3) case.
The hearing       took place on 2 November 2011.
In response to the Scoppola       decision a draft bill has been produced which is under review and its       options include restoring the vote to selected groups of prisoners.
The       Committee has been taking evidence from interested parties and will be       reporting to Parliament in the autumn of 2013.
Easton's work, specifically the Probation Journal article, is       also cited in the briefing paper Standard Note SN/PC/01764, dated 7       September 2011 given to MPs in support of their parliamentary duties.
It       was also given to members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee to read       prior to the Round Table held at Westminster in June 2013 on the issues       raised by the Bill which Dr Easton was invited to attend.
She was       questioned by the Committee on the arguments and evidence offered in her       paper and asked to consider the implications of the options in the draft       Bill.
She informed the Committee of the advantages of allowing some       prisoners to vote.
The Chair of the Committee has said that he is hoping       to reach a compromise on the issue.
Easton has also submitted a written response to Draft Voting Eligibility       (Prisoners) Bill http://data.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/WrittenEvidence.svc/EvidencePdf/966       published on the Parliamentary website on 21 June 2013.
