     There have been several impacts of the research.
Firstly, in Corbett's research, approval of cameras was determined by a       calculation of an attitude score derived from an 8-item questionnaire that       we devised that was used with all drivers in the study.
Subsequently, four       of these eight statements were used to assess respondents' attitudes to       speed cameras in all three National Speed Camera Partnership (NSCP)       evaluations commissioned by the Department for Transport, (DfT, 2003: 5-2,       5-3; Gains et al, 2004: 45-50, 2005: 7, 62, 73).
This means that those       local Road Safety Partnerships which evaluated local drivers' attitudes to       speed cameras since 2008 as part of their annual road safety audits are       likely to have continued to use these four statements as part of their       official evidence base for assessing support for cameras and whether to       develop coverage of speed cameras in their areas.
Hence drivers' responses       to the four statements have become part of the official barometer to test       public opinion on cameras.
This information is noted by Wells, H. (2010)       p.66 - 68.
Secondly, indirect beneficiaries of the Brunel research are the road       using public because as a result of the increase in speed camera       installations after the research was published, fewer people have been       killed or injured as a result of speed-related collisions.
This is       affirmed by Professor Allsop's (2010) review of the effectiveness of speed       cameras which concluded that taking all factors into consideration, speed       camera operations prevented around 1,000 people from serious injury or       being killed in 2004 in Great Britain.
He concluded that similar fatality       savings would be expected in other years.
Thus this research has       ultimately contributed to road casualty reductions since 2008, probably       around 6,000, through flagging up continued majority support for cameras       as measured by local SCP audits and hence encouraging and facilitating       their continued use nationally and now internationally (e.g.
Europe, the       USA and Canada).
Thirdly, the Brunel research work fed into public debates about the worth       of speed cameras in saving lives and whether the intention of cameras is       solely altruistically based and not linked with revenue generation for       government.
The questionnaire dimensions, including the four statements       mentioned above, tapped into these debates and so contributed towards       raising public awareness of speed camera enforcement and speeding.
The       topic is still emotive.
Fourthly, not only have the fruits of the Brunel 1999 research project       and the 2008 joint Brunel/TRL study made a `major contribution to the       evidence base on drivers' responses to speed cameras and penalty points       for speeding', they also `have helped shape the government's policy       options and policy development for improving compliance on the roads', as       acknowledged by Mrs D O'Reilly, Head of Social Research and Evaluation of       the Department for Transport (see no.
5).
For example, the 2008 study       found that a slight majority of 1100 drivers with different profiles of       penalty points approved of cameras as a useful means of casualty       reduction, though a significant minority of them referred to cameras being       used for revenue-generation rather than collision reduction, possibly       undermining public confidence in the use of cameras for enforcement.
This       information would have been helpful to government and to local authorities       and their road safety partnerships in decisions whether to continue to       operate speed cameras at a time of some public disaffection with cameras       as expressed in the popular print media.
