     This programme of research has achieved impact at four levels: (1) direct       influence on clinical practice and its development, (2) informing       and influencing local and national policy, (3) underpinning a commercial         business, and (4) development of a novel research paradigm to inform       clinical guidelines.
As well as describing these high-level       changes, we provide some local examples of the way in which CORE has been       used in practice to enhance services and patient care.
Impact on clinical practice     Until the past decade, mental health services used a disparate array of       outcome measures.
Many were not validated and were not useful for       developing service quality or improving patient outcomes.
The CORE       provided a free-to-use measure with a support and a feedback process, so       that clinical data could assist services.
Sheffield-based research has led       to the CORE suite of measures being widely adopted within NHS primary and       secondary services (approximately 150 services currently), changing the       landscape of outcome measurement in the UK and internationally (where the       CORE system is used in Portugal, Holland, Norway, Denmark, and Sweden).
It       now has an online distribution and data collation network (CORE-Net),       backed by a commercial arm (CORE-IMS &#8212; see below).
Service users rate       CORE-OM as one of the best outcome measures available [S1].
Mainstream health service settings     Within the current REF time frame, the CORE is one of two or three       measures that have been most widely adopted by psychological services in       the UK, with the highest popularity among clinicians (see the report by       the Centre for Health Economics, University of York [S2]).
The       Royal College of Psychiatrists identified that 80 out of 357 participating       services were using the CORE-OM for routine assessment of outcomes from       psychological therapies [S3].
Other clinical settings     The adoption of the CORE-OM has been particularly impactful in       counselling services, which have used it to provide evidence of the       effectiveness of their interventions (e.g., person-centred therapy).
Example services that use the CORE-OM include Khiron House (www.khironhouse.com), which       has a Harley Street Day Clinic and an Oxfordshire Residential Clinic, and       Counselling Works (www.counsellingworks.co.uk),       which offers sessions face-to-face and via the internet.
The CORE-OM has also been adopted by clinicians in other health service       settings, such as practitioners working with low-vision services and       nurses in Intensive Care Units.
Another example is the Leeds Women's       Counselling Centre, which has adopted the CORE-OM as their evaluation tool       and used it to demonstrate positive and long-lasting benefits from their       treatment.
There is also evidence of change in clinical provision as a direct result       of implementation of CORE measures.
For example, the `My Sister's Place'       service for victims of domestic violence reports that it has changed       several central elements of its provision as a direct result of using the       CORE system.
Those changes affect their assessment procedure, model of       care, provision for those with more complex problems and those from more       marginal groups, and testing of the value of newly introduced therapeutic       approaches [S4].
University &amp; college counselling settings     The online CORE mechanism (CORE-Net) has been tested for utility in       evaluation of university and college counselling services under the       auspices of the Association of University and College Counselling division       of the British Association of Counselling and Psychotherapy.
The system is       available to all such institutions via a network called UNICORE.
At       present, 35 student-counselling services within the UK have implemented       the CORE-OM as a routine measure.
Children and young people     The measures are increasingly being used in counselling young people.
For       example, YP-CORE is used at Entrust Associates (www.entrust-schoolcounselling.com)       &#8212; a London-based counselling service for schools, and in child counselling       at Therapeutic Education Counselling Centre (Birmingham) (www.teccservices.co.uk).
Off The Record Youth Counselling (www.offtherecordcroydon.org)       uses CORE-OM in their services for 11-25 year-olds.
International uptake     The CORE-OM's international uptake is evidenced by its translation into       20 languages.
(www.coreims.co.uk/About_Core_Translations.html).
There are official CORE-OM websites in Spanish (www.ub.edu/terdep/core/#.Ul3TvihTTGI)       and Dutch (www.telepsy.nl/core),       and it is also used in Portugal, Norway, Denmark, and Sweden.
Impact on policy     A number of national governments and practitioner organisations recommend       use of the CORE suite of measures as a standard component of service       delivery and evaluation.
This includes the Scottish Government [S5];       the Welsh Government (where most local authorities direct their school       counselling services to use the YP-CORE, and uptake is increasing [S6]);       and the Department of Education for Northern Ireland (which requires       school counsellors to use one of three routine evaluation measures, with       preference expressed for the YP-CORE [S7]).
The CORE-10 is one of       two measures recommended by the UK Royal College of Psychiatrists (2012)       for evaluating outcomes of psychological therapies with older adults [S8],       and is the only generic outcome measure suggested by the Royal College of       Psychiatrists (2011) for evaluation of the range of psychological       therapies among adults [S9].
Commercial impact     The research has underpinned the creation of a commercial business,       CORE-IMS [S10], which has enhanced the implementation of the       measure and enabled the development of large data sets (as outlined       below).
Barkham is a company director (listed at Companies House) of the       CORE System Trust.
The suite of CORE measures, their development (e.g.
translation) and       their distribution into new markets are managed by CORE-IMS, which awards       licences for the use of two computerised outcome management systems &#8212; CORE       PC and CORE Net.
CORE-IMS has been established for 10 years and employs 7       people.
The company reports that there are over 250 organisations across       health, workplace, education, voluntary and private sector services that       use CORE PC, with an estimated 3500 psychology, psychotherapy and       counselling practitioner users within those organisations.
Furthermore, in       2010, 40 organisations held licences for CORE Net in the UK, Portugal,       Norway, Holland and Denmark.
CORE IMS also distributes CORE-OM (for free),       and reported that, in 2010 alone, 3000 individuals downloaded copies for       their personal use.
A major provider of online treatment for depression (as recommended by       NICE) is Ultrasis Ltd, which provides a package called Beating the Blues       (BtBs).
The CORE-OM is packaged within BtBs, which is widely used in the       UK and has now been rolled out in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the       Netherlands.
Ultrasis confirm delivery of BtBs to more than 100,000       people.
Those CORE-OM data have been used to support the implementation of       BtBs in New Zealand.
Development of a novel research paradigm to inform clinical guidelines     Widespread adoption of the suite of CORE measures has resulted in       securing very large clinical data sets, resulting in the development of       the Practice-Based Evidence paradigm (as outlined in the 2010 book of the       same name, Barkham, Hardy &amp; Mellor-Clark [Eds]).
Traditionally, the       efficacy of psychological interventions has been described by the       evidence-based practice paradigm, founded on the synthesis of outcomes       from a limited number of randomised control trials.
Critiques of this       latter approach have been concerned about the generalisation of these       research trials to routine practice.
Barkham's approach to adopting large       data sets such as CORE-OM &#8212; collected regularly through routine clinical       practice &#8212; provides a complementary evidence base for the derivation of       clinical guidelines and good practice advice.
The inclusion of       practice-based evidence in addition to evidence-based practice has been       acknowledged in the 2010 report New Ways of Working for Psychological       Therapists, commissioned by the National Institute for Mental Health in       England (NIMHE) National Workforce Programme.
