     These new insights into the issues faced by survivors of childhood cancer       have implications for the work of practitioners, information available for       survivors and their families, and on clinical guidelines in the UK.
Impacts on guidelines for clinicians and other practitioners     The Children's Cancer and Leukaemia Group (CCLG) is responsible for the       national organisation of care in the UK, and through a number of Working       Groups helps to ensure that children throughout the country receive the       highest quality care available.
From 1995 to 2005, Eiser was the only       psychologist on three Working Groups (Late-effects, Psychosocial, and       Palliative care), and chaired the Psychosocial group (1999-2002).
The       remit was to ensure that treatment and follow-up recognised the quality of       life issues associated with cancer treatment.
The need for a balanced       approach to care was reflected in a series of multidisciplinary meetings       in the UK and Europe.
The output of these guideline meetings led to the       research questions as to whether the current guidelines were acceptable to       patients.
To ensure standard care of survivors across the UK, the Late-effects       group published guidelines for follow-up of survivors that included       recommendations regarding routine assessment for physical and       psychological late-effects [S1].
Eiser wrote sections on Quality of       Life and neuropsychological follow-up.
The aims were to make clear to       clinicians (including GPs and junior hospital staff) the different ways in       which survivors may experience problems and ensure that likely       late-effects were systematically investigated.
Inclusion of Eiser's       sections on quality of life and neuropsychological outcomes was innovative       and ensured a continuing debate about achieving balance between quantity       and quality of survival.
Subsequent guidelines by other national and       international groups followed a similar pattern.
Sheffield research has       been cited in NICE guidelines, originally published in 2005, but still in       force today [S2], as well as the Scottish equivalent, SIGN,       republished in 2013 [S3], and CureSearch [S4] a non-profit       research foundation in the US.
The research has been cited by non-government organisations including       UICC (Union for International Cancer Control).
Eiser was also asked to       write a chapter on the psychosocial aspects of childhood cancer in a UICC       report.
Eiser has worked closely with cancer charities such as Cancer       Research UK, the Lisa Thaxter Trust, CLIC Sargent and ICCCPO       (International Confederation of Childhood Cancers).
This has involved       providing feedback to research meetings, fundraisers and parent self-help       groups.
Impact on child education     A good experience at school is considered vital in facilitating normal       psychological development and integration into the adult world of work and       social relationships.
Eiser's work identified problems resulting from       teachers' lack of understanding of the disease and reluctance to make       demands on children to avoid distressing them.
Accurate information and       advice about how to manage the child was provided in terms of patient       information booklets for parents and teachers, `Children with a brain       tumour in the classroom' and `Welcome back'.
The booklets were distributed       to all children's cancer centres in the UK (n=22) and used by clinic       nurses as they felt appropriate.
Following demand from treatment centres,       CCLG has just taken over copyright from CR-UK for `Welcome back' and       `Children with a brain tumour in the classroom' and the two booklets are       being reprinted, combined into one.
Work with survivors showed that some were reluctant to attend follow-up       and unclear why they were asked to do so.
To address this, the leaflet       "What's the point of coming to clinic?'
[S5] was produced, aimed at       children, to explain the purpose behind attending follow-up clinic and the       tests that are performed there and to promote the need to adopt a healthy       lifestyle.
In January 2007, an original print run of 7,000 was made (1,454       remaining: 270 copies were requested in 2012).
Due to demand from clinic       staff, the booklet is now being reprinted.
The pdf was downloaded 114       times in 2012.
"What's the point of coming to clinic?"
was received       positively by young people attending clinic, with 75% learning new       information, and greater awareness of risks after cancer treatment and       rationale for follow-up.
[S5]     `After cure' is aimed at young people aged 16+ who have survived cancer.
The booklet covers a variety of topics such as follow-up and future care,       education, jobs, disability issues, life insurance, mortgages, fertility,       travel, survivor groups and useful links, and has been translated into       Punjabi, Bengali and Gujarati.
[S6]     Although there is no specific information on the extent of use in       clinics, the CCLG Publications Committee, comprising multi-professional       experts in the field of children's cancer (paediatric oncologists,       radiographers, nurses and parents) meets four times a year and evaluates       publications for usefulness.
Only approved publications remain in print.
In line with MRC requirements, a quality of life assessment was included,       for the first time, in the most recent trial to determine changes in       treatment protocol for children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia [S7].
The basic research conducted by Eiser and Morse [R1] contributed       significantly to knowledge of how best to measure quality of life in young       children and acceptability by medical staff that it could be successfully       achieved.
Eiser designed the quality of life assessment in the trial and       led data collection for the national five-year study.
This involved       collaboration across 22 treatment centres in the UK and collation of       parental questionnaire responses at five time-points during the course of       treatment (approximately 900 children involved).
Impacts on public policy     Eiser's group worked with the CLIC Sargent charity to determine the       financial impact on families caring for children with cancer.
The       publication (Eiser, C.; Upton, P. 2007 Costs of caring for a child with       cancer: a questionnaire survey, Child: care, health and development,       33, 455-9) formed the basis of the charity's `Cut the red tape' campaign [S8].
Following the change from Disability Living allowance (DLA) to Personal       Independence Payment (PIP), a memorandum was submitted by CLIC Sargent [S9]       citing Eiser's findings, that 83% of families incur significant extra       costs associated with their child's cancer treatment with 68% of families       experiencing worrying financial difficulties following diagnosis.
This is       coupled with parents often cutting back on working hours to spend more       time caring for their child (9/10 parents surveyed do so), leading to       decreased income.
With other charity partners, CLIC Sargent used the       evidence from Eiser's research to successfully persuade the Government not       to increase the qualifying period for the new benefit to six months, which       would have particularly penalised those with sudden onset conditions such       as leukaemia [S9].
