     International and National Clinical Guidelines     Major systematic reviews and international clinical guidelines for the       prevention and treatment of       PTSD published since 2005 have referred directly to the Sheffield research       concerning the       ineffectiveness of self-help.
The studies are cited by IMPACT (2008) [S1], the Dutch equivalent       to NICE, as regards disasters,       cautioning against the use of psycho-education and psychological       debriefing, and also by EUTOPA       [S2], an EC funded European Network for Psycho-social Aftercare in       Case of Disaster.
Turpin was       invited to join this network, gave a keynote address at its Amsterdam       meeting in 2008 and       coordinated its working group on psycho-education at the subsequent       meeting in Cologne in 2011.
Finally, the studies are cited by the European Network for Traumatic       Stress [S3], which produces       the TENTS guidelines.
Good practice guidelines     Reviews targeting the management of PTSD within the military have cited       Sheffield RCTs.
The       Disaster Mental Health sub-committee of the US National Biodefense Science       Board used the       Sheffield findings to inform its recommendations for preparedness for       interventions in mental       health in the event of significant disasters [S4].
In 2010, the US       Department of Veterans' Affairs       and the Department of Defense updated their Clinical Practice Guideline       for the Management of       PTSD and recommended further research into non-CBT approaches to       significant PTSD before       approaches such as self-help or writing therapy could be recommended [S5].
This guideline affects       a significant number of Veterans in the US, with 442,000 new requests for       support with PTSD in       the five-year period.
The guidance was also cited by the Australian Centre       for Post-traumatic       Mental Health [S6], and the "Guidelines for psychosocial support       for uniformed workers" published       by IMPACT and the Trimbos Institute [S7].
The research has been cited by several non-governmental organisations       concerned with effective       disaster management, such as the Turkish Red Crescent [S8] and the       Belgian Red Cross [S9].
Turpin contributed to a EUTOPA study visit (2012) to Israel to look at       community resilience to       disasters, and to the Bangladeshi Clinical Psychology Association's annual       conference (2011) on       Psychological Responses to Disasters and Flooding.
He has been invited to       an expert panel (1st       international workshop in the EUNAD project: Psychosocial Crisis       Management - Assisting people       with visual / hearing impairment in Disasters) in Prague (October, 2013)       to discuss disaster       planning for the disabled.
Commissioning guidance     A national programme in the UK since 2008, Improving Access to       Psychological Therapies (IAPT),       directed by the Department of Health, has seen the expansion of access to       psychological therapies       for common mental health problems.
Although guided self-help is a commonly       adopted strategy for       anxiety and depression, both the IAPT implementation toolkit       (2008) and Self-help Good Practice         Guide (2010) recommend against self-help as a stand-alone       intervention for PTSD, based on the       Sheffield research.
Turpin coordinated the production of the Good         Practice Guide in his role as the       National Advisor for Education and Training to the IAPT Programme.
Educational guidelines     The Sheffield randomised controlled trials (RCTs) have been identified in       reviews and textbooks for       a variety of practitioners including clinical psychologists,       psychiatrists, A&amp;E physicians, and       occupational medicine practitioners.
Specifically, the texts have       cautioned against the efficacy and       appropriateness of self-help for trauma and has been cited in, for       example, within the Oxford         Handbook of Traumatic Stress Disorders (Beck &amp; Sloan, 2012), the       Handbook of Evidence-based         Practice in Clinical Psychology (Powers, Kayak, Cahill &amp; Foa,       2012), International Encyclopaedia         of Rehabilitation (Stone &amp; Blouin, 2012) and a treatment review       within Psychopharmacology         Review (Dowd &amp; Philip, 2008).
The studies are mentioned in       various on-line reviews and sources       for continuing professional development for psychiatrists (for example,       Hobfoll et al., Psychiatry         Online, 2009).
Essentially, they warn against mental health       practitioners relying solely on psycho-       education as an effective early intervention for PTSD.
The research has been highlighted as an example of inconsistency between       patient self-report and       clinical outcomes in a recent review of "Best evidence and best practice"       in mental health       (Newham &amp; Page (2010) Clinical Psychology Review, 30, 127-142)       and was the subject of a       British Journal of Psychiatry (2006, 189, 200) editorial where it       was described as "a nugget of       gold", representing scientific discovery that has elements of the       unexpected.
Finally, given that until very recently mental health services did not       routinely collect outcome data,       it is difficult to quantify the numbers of clients who may have benefited       directly from this research       and its impact on therapist practice.
We would expect that these       guidelines will have helped       clinicians direct patients to more effective interventions for those 150k       new cases of PTSD that       present to services each year.
Nevertheless, the indirect measure is the       large number of clinical       guidelines published across the world that have identified the research       conducted at Sheffield and       have cautioned against the use of self-help as an initial treatment for       PTSD.
