     The key beneficiaries of this impact case study are in the commercial and       health sectors.
To date,       DBO commode has been sold to more than 60 hospitals in the UK, and       contributing to a significant       reduction in hospital infections.
As an infection specialist commented       "The CQC(Care Quality       Commission) who regulate us and assess us against the hygiene code have       been in and carried       out a thorough audit and they're very happy with the commodes."
The commode has been exhibited in the Design Council and Design Museum,       as well as Made in       Brunel Show and the Danish Design Centre.
It was shortlisted for the BRIT       Best Design of the       Year (2009) award.
It is now manufactured and sold by Kirton Healthcare       and has proved to be a       most successful product for the manufacturer in the last few years.
The project started from scratch in September 2008 when the NHS       Purchasing and Supply Agency       and the Design Council joined forces to launch a competition for the       design of hospital furniture       and accessories that would help reduce the frequency of healthcare       associated infections.
It was       the panel's idea for designers, manufacturers and researchers to form       teams to tackle the issues.
The Brunel team met Kirton Healthcare at the Design Council in the "Design       Bugs Out" (DBO)       briefing event and we decided to team up with PearsonLloyd Design to       answer the design briefs on       "commode" and "patient chair".
As the designer's existing knowledge of the       commode was little,       the research conducted by the Brunel team proved instrumental in helping       defining the problem       and suggesting design directions, which led to successful prototype in       April 2009.
The commode prototype was then taken on a national tour of selected       hospitals for trial, and since       2010 it has been manufactured and sold by Kirton Healthcare.
To date, over       2,000 DBO       commodes have been sold.
They prove to be effective in infection control       in hospitals, raising the       profile of the manufacturer in the healthcare sector, and driving up       sales.
The design company       PearsonLloyd also gains new recognition of its competence in the       healthcare sector.
The Designer from Kirton Healthcare said "Brunel's input to the project       has been instrumental."
The Senior Designer from PearsonLloyd commented, "the collaboration       between Brunel and us       has been extremely helpful and informative for this project."
The interview of Dona Winter, an Infection Prevention and Control       Clinical Nurse Specialist for       Scarborough and North East Yorkshire NHS Trust explains the effectiveness       of the DBO commode       in the Kirton newsletter (A):     "There are obviously other commodes out there and some claim to have bugs       designed out, but       they simply aren't as good as the Kirton.
I always say they're the Rolls       Royce of commodes.
We do       random swabbing to test cleaning and so far results have been really good.
The main benefit to the       staff is the ability to clean the commode properly by turning it over       easily and doing the underneath       rather than dismantling it.
Every reservoir of infection has been designed       out."
"The innovative Kirton top-loading commode pan eliminates gaps and       openings, preventing waste       contaminating any hard-to-reach parts of the commode.
The depth of the pan       is greater than       current commode pans to accommodate more waste, reduce splash back and       provide a better       patient experience."
"A patient obviously has to feel comfortable on a commode and one of the       benefits we've seen of       this product is that our pulp usage has decreased.
I can't give exact       numbers but I know for the last       few months we've actually cancelled our pulp delivery and that's mainly       because people are liking       the commode so much they're taking people to the toilet rather than       leaving it by the bedside.
From       a patient dignity perspective it's fantastic and it has saved the Trust a       significant amount."
"The solid construction of the commode has also made a difference at       Scarborough.
`It doesn't       sound like a commode, rattling about in the middle of the night disturbing       everybody," "It's very       silent when you're pushing it.
The manoeuvrability of it is fantastic; the       brakes don't stick on and       you don't have to use loads of pressure to get them on or off.
Everybody       loves it.
But overall for us       the main thing is being able to clean every single part of the commode       properly and easily."
The research associated with the DBO commode has been disseminated       through journal and       conference papers, as well as popular articles in international       newsletters.
The beneficiaries of the project include patients in the manufacturers,       patients, medical staff and       the NHS more generally.
