     Pathway to impact: After undertaking early work with funding from       Pfizer Howmedica Ltd and the Medical Research Council, in 1992 staff at       Sheffield (Hatton &amp; Brook) were successful in securing funding as part       of a European consortium to work on the optimisation of glass-ionomer       cements for new clinical applications including bone repair (EC Brite       EuRam grant no.
6062-92).
One important output from this project was the       identification of an optimised composition for bone cementation in middle       ear surgery, and Hatton and Brook initially considered forming their own       company to commercialise this under the trade name "Biocem".
However,       following discussions with a commercial contact, the decision was taken       instead to licence the optimised composition to a new start-up company,       Corinthian Medical, which was formed specifically to take this new cement       to the market.
The new company was started in 1997, with an agreement to       pay royalties from sales to Sheffield University who would distribute this       fund to the other institutions (University of Limerick and Royal Free       Hospital) in accordance with the original European project consortium       agreement.
The cement was originally placed on the market in 1997 with the       name Biocem, but this was later changed to SerenoCem&#174; because another       company had already registered the former name for the Swiss market.
Healthcare impact: The cement is used in bone repair or device       fixation in middle ear surgery, and Corinthian estimate that it has been       used in at least 10,000 clinical procedures worldwide since 1st January       2008 [S1].
The cement is now used in a large number of clinical procedures       in otorhinolaryngology including repair of the ossicular chain, occlusion       of bony defects, and fixation of other medical devices such as the       Cochlear implant [S2-S7].
Clinical research papers from centres throughout       Europe and the USA are included in the supporting evidence (see Section       5).
There are many independent clinical evaluations of performance in a       large number of otological surgical procedures published in the leading       ENT journals, and together they demonstrate the versatility and excellent       performance of the new bone cement [S2-S8].
With respect to versatility,       it is also possible to use the cement as a pre-set granular bone graft       substitute [S3,S4].
Several of these clinical reports and studies were       published in this REF period, with four examples provided here [S5-S8].
These more recent papers also report the use of ionomeric bone cement in       successful reconstruction of the incus [S5], and revision stapes surgery       where significant hearing improvement was identified along with a       reduction in morbidity [S6].
In comparative studies for incudostapedial       joint reconstruction, cement was used in 31 out of 66 patients, and       improvements in hearing were greater in the cement group [S7].
In       addition, the product based on Sheffield's glass-ionomer technology       consistently provided the best clinical results in type 2 ossiculoplasty       [S8].
No fatalities or serious adverse incidents have been reported to       date (unlike the previous commercial cement formulation, Ionocem&#174;)*.
*Sheffield research (identified in Section 3 above as R6) identified the       neurotoxic potential in a previous otological cement, albeit too late to       save the lives of a number of patients in France and Belgium who the same       year underwent surgery where the cement was placed in contact with brain       tissue (Renard et al.
Post-otoneurosurgery aluminium       encephalopathy.
Lancet 344:63-64.)
Commercial impact: The decision by Sheffield University to licence       this new, optimised composition was in part driven by the need to replace       Ionocem&#174; with a demonstrably safer formulation.
The licensing of the new       cement formulation led directly to the start-up of a new UK company       (Corinthian Medical Ltd., later called Corinthian Surgical), created       solely for the purpose of placing our cement on the market [S1].
The       founder and Managing Director of Corinthian Surgical Ltd. has testified:     "The optimised composition for an ionomeric bone cement licensed to         Corinthian by the University of Sheffield remains a unique and         significant innovation in the field of otology that has transformed the         lives of thousands of patients worldwide.
Corinthian Surgical Ltd. is         indebted to Paul Hatton and Ian Brook for identifying the formulation         for our bone cement, SerenoCem&#174;, as I would not have been able to start         up my company without their insight and support.
While we are an SME,         employing 5 persons including myself as Managing Director, I should         point out that we inevitably contribute to many more jobs in a complex         supply chain that includes glass-making, polymer synthesis, capsule         manufacture, distribution, regulatory compliance, and financial         services."
[S1]     With our further assistance, Corinthian Surgical obtained approval to       place our optimised composition on the market in Europe and the USA.
Hatton and Brook contributed significantly to the company gaining a CE       mark and FDA approval via a 510(k) submission (for example, Hatton       presented to the US FDA in Washington as an expert witness), we advised on       packaging and sterilisation, and we advised on the wording for clinical       contra-indications that are identified on the packaging of the device at       sale (important given the previous deaths following use of a competitor       product) [S1].
Sales of the cement have generated &#163;65,000 royalties to       date [S1].
In addition to job creation noted above, wealth has been       generated via sales including exports.
In addition to Europe and the USA,       the medical device is exported to several other countries including       Australia, Turkey, New Zealand, and Saudi Arabia [S1].
The culmination of       Sheffield's more recent work resulted in research leading to 2 new patent       applications [S9, S10] for novel formulations based on aluminium-free       bioactive glass compositions, and we are currently working with Corinthian       to develop new medical device products based on this intellectual       property.
