     Since 2008, this research has had a significant impact in a number of       diverse areas:     Care and Education Practice     Leadership programmes: Over 1,250 clinical/service managers and       other practitioners in health and social care have undertaken leadership       programmes explicitly based on the `Senses' Framework.
Over 400 of these       have been care home managers on the MyHomeLife leadership support       and community development programme.
This programme was singled out for       praise in the NHS confederation `Achieving Dignity' Report.
Over 850       nurses, midwives and AHP's have been through a range of `Senses' Framework       based leadership programmes in NHS Lothian.
The Head of Corporate and       Clinical learning for Lothian notes that the `Senses' Framework have been       at the `core' of their Leadership Programmes over the last 6 years and       that they have become `embedded' into practice and thinking, leading to       improved outcomes for staff, patients and their families [S8].
Practitioners using the research findings in conducting their work:       The carer assessment indices CADI/CASI/CAMI have been translated into over       20 languages and are in widespread use globally.
As noted above, the COAT       assessment model is used by practitioners in 104 Swedish municipalities       and in the City and County of Swansea.
It has been validated for use in       French-speaking Quebec.
An indication of the significant practitioner interest in this work is       apparent in the 25 invited keynote addresses given to national and       international practitioner conferences in the UK, Europe and Australasia       on either the `Senses' Framework or the `Carers as Experts' model between       2008-13.
Enhanced Service User Experiences     Over one third (104/290) of all Swedish municipalities are users of the       Carers Outcome Agreement Tool (COAT).
The Head of Services for Older       People in Jonkoping Municipality (one of Europe's leading centres for       innovation in geronotological practice) notes that COAT provides the basis       for all family carer support, improving assessment of need and subsequent       action [S7].
Both `Carers as Experts' and The `Senses' Framework have driven an       extensive programme of service redesign undertaken by the City and County       of Swansea.
The Planning Officer for Older People has confirmed that this       has resulted in major culture change and enhanced service delivery       impacting on over 700 family carers, 400 older people and over 100 staff.
Estimated saving in one service alone is over &#163;150K annually [S5].
Decisions by regulatory bodies informed     The Inspection Standards produced for Care Homes by the Care Quality       Commission (Scotland) and applied to all care homes in Scotland drew       significantly on `Senses' Framework in defining their quality criteria.
This focussed attention to a broader conceptualisation of quality that       engaged older people and carers more fully in the assessment process.
Public and practitioner debate informed     The on-going and increasingly important public debate about the future       role and status of care homes is being led across all four home countries       by Age UKs' `My Home Life' campaign, impacting on 18,000 care       homes and over 400,000 older people.
The Executive Director of the My       Home Life Programme states: `Relationship-centred care and the `Senses'         Framework underpins My Home Life's vision for best practice which has         crossed national boundaries.
MHL has shared this evidence-based and         relationship-centred vision with 18,000 care homes and over 400 care         home managers have been supported through the MHL leadership support and         community development programme'     Influence on International Policy Guidelines     The EU `PROGRESS' initiative for Employment and Social Solidarity       produced guidelines on indicators for the measurement of impact in care       homes throughout Europe.
This large-scale collaborative project       synthesised the best research in the field across Europe and engaged a       wide range of experts in extensive Delphi surveys.
Hundreds of pieces of       research were consulted and yet one fifth (18/94) of the quality       indicators generated were based exclusively on the CARE profiles developed       during research undertaken at Sheffield [S3].
The model of partnership working encapsulated in the Carers as Experts       model was used as the conceptual basis for the Carers National Competence       Centre in Sweden.
It has been highly influential in other policy       developments in Sweden.
Policy debate informed     The `Senses' Framework was provided in verbal evidence to the influential       Commission on Dignity in Care and were one of only two programmes of       research explicitly cited in the final report [S2], `Achieving Dignity in       Care' (Recommendation 15) produced by the NHS confederation/Association of       Directors of Social Services/AGEUK.
In the wake of both Francis and Keogh,       debates about dignity and compassion in care have assumed ever greater       import and the `Senses' Framework represents probably the most important       addition to this debate to have emerged in the last decade.
