     4.1 Policy-makers nationally and internationally     Mead's research has contributed to policy debates, started to shape       developments and influenced policy pronouncements by official bodies and       institutions.
His research (and formal evidence) has informed both the most recent OSCE     guidelines on peaceful assembly &#8212; the most authoritative "soft law"     standards on the scope of the right at European level &#8212; and the JCHR in its     two reports on protest and policing in 2008/9 (sources 5(a)-(b)).
For     example, his argument that there should be a limited/qualified right of     public access to quasi-public land (references 3.1 pp.131-136 &amp; p.420     and references 3.6) features in the 1st JCHR report (source 5(a))     and forms one of its conclusions (para 68).
That report also features other     aspects of his research and submissions: its conclusions on the need to     protect peaceful albeit disruptive/inconvenient protest (para 148) and the     need to be wary of conflating terrorism and protest (para 93).
The second     report features his views on Austin (references 3.5) and Wood     (references 3.1 pp.
376-8) His analysis of Austin can also be seen     in the 2010 OSCE/ODIHR (Office for Democratic Integration and Human Rights)     Venice Commission Guidelines on Peaceful Assembly (2nd     ed).
Furthermore, the Guidelines conclusion on blanket bans and     legal restrictions (para 43) cites Mead's view on proportionality in his     book (references 3.1 pp.101-2).
Mead met senior officials in the Home Office Public Order Unit about       reform of protest law (Dec 2010).
The Coalition agreement included a       commitment to "restore the right of non-violent protest".
One early change       has been reform of the laws limiting protest around Westminster, (Police       Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011, s.141) heavily criticised in       his book (references 3.1 pp.146-161) and discussed at his Home Office       meeting.
4.2 Practitioners and end-users nationally and internationally     Mead's research has been drawn upon by those implementing or "dealing"       with the law.
Mead's research has featured before both the UK and New Zealand Supreme       Courts: (sources 5(d)-(e)).
Material in his article on Ollinger       (references 3.4) was used by counsel for the defendant in Morse v         Police [2011] NZSC 45.
More recently, the Supreme Court gave leave       to appeal on a point of law of general importance in Richardson v DPP       [2012] EWHC 1238 (Admin) in part because Mead's research &#8212; that arrests       for aggravated trespass are more widespread than appears from the few       reported cases (references 3.1 p.416) &#8212; was relied on during the       application (source 5(e)).
His research that we should be wary of       labelling protesters as domestic terrorists, drawn upon by the JCHR       (source 5(a) para 87), also forms part of the judgment in the ECHR       decision in Gillan v UK: see (source 5(g)).
Mead was consulted by the McGill Association of University Teachers to       assist draft its response to a draft university protocol on Governance,       Protest and Security (arising from student sit-ins and protests): (source       5(h)).
He was invited as a keynote speaker at McGill's "open forum       academic symposium" in 2012 on protest, free speech and dissent.
The views       he expressed there, drawn from his book (references 3.1 pp.306-310,       417-418) on the need to distinguish legitimate disruptive protest from       unlawful disruptive direct action, were referred to in the final report       (by Dean Manfredi): "David Mead ... characterized acceptable disruption as       short-lived and incidental.
Mead's characterization provides a way of       thinking about the problem that might assist further deliberations within       the University."
(source 5(h)).
4.3 Interest groups nationally and internationally     Mead's research has changed organisations' understanding and awareness       and contributed to democratic participation by shaping activists'       knowledge have of the legal framework.
In February 2011, he gave a paper at "The shrinking democratic space" at       the Belgian Parliament co-organised by Greenpeace and Amnesty       International.
In March 2011 he was a panel member for a two-day seminar       "Public participation and peaceful protest" at the Danish Human Rights       Institute in Copenhagen, organised by Greenpeace and Civicus, the civil       society NGO.
His book (references 3.1) has helped to inform Greenpeace's       position (source 5(i)) in various legal cases; his participation at the       conferences helped improve Greenpeace's position in Danish society       significantly and his "early recognition of the value of the 2012 Dutch       ruling in Shell v Greenpeace NL and Greenpeace International [see       references 3.2 p.118] for the right to peaceful protest has helped       solidify best practices in this field".
Mead's research has led to providing advice and assistance to activists       and groups such as his expert evidence on the functional value of peaceful       protest before the court in the Occupy LSX case City of London v         Samede [2012] EWHC 34 (source 5(f)).
