     The impact of Dr Gottlieb's work has resulted from the process of sharing       her research with a wide and diverse audience, including: a range of local       community groups, regional and national audiences on BBC Radio, the       readership of the BBC History Magazine, and as a podcast.
These       activities have resulted in some striking transformations in personal       understanding.
This work has had a particularly powerful impact on communities whose       identity was forged out of the disruptions caused by fascists in the       1930s.
She has been invited to address community-based Jewish historical       societies.
Speaking on "BUF women" to the Leeds Jewish Historical Society       on 7 September 2009, the audience of 40 members was amazed to learn that       women were both the purveyors of anti-Semitism and its victims.
This       stimulated a discussion about the often conflicting and contradictory       narratives recorded in personal testimony versus scholarly research.
She       appeared on `The Jewish Citizen' on BBC Radio Manchester (10,000       listeners) on 7 November 2011 to talk about her research on women and       anti-Semitism and to publicise her upcoming talk on behalf of the charity       Shaare Zedek UK in November, 2011, speaking on "Blackshirts and       Broomsticks" [S2, S9].
As the host and chair at the Shaare Zedek event       (audience of c.35) commented in a personal communication to Gottlieb, "some,         as you know were already informed to a degree, but you highlighted         details they were not aware of which stimulated not only discussion on         the night but I know they shared what they learned with other members of         the Manchester Jewish Community.
Your talk revived memories of fascism         in Britain and provided a forum for the discussion of how to develop         strategies to combat present day anti-Semitism" [S4].
Gottlieb's work has attracted a wider audience and media attention due to       public interest, intellectual and often personal, in the participation of       politically active women on the far right.
About a dozen times she has       been contacted by genealogical researchers, such as the granddaughter and       great-granddaughter of ex-suffragette fascist Norah Elam.
Using       Gotttlieb's research as a launching pad for their own study of their       ancestor, Mosley's Old Suffragette (2010/13, ISBN 978-1446699676),       the granddaughter first contacted Gottlieb in 2008: "I am learning         about [my grandmother's] activities with great incredulity and some         ambiguity given what is coming out, but have to congratulate you on an         excellent book, [Feminine Fascism], which is so well written that I can         follow, understand and grasp some of the significance of the role of         women like Norah in that period of British history".
Descendants of BUF women have contacted Dr Gottlieb requesting more       information, and their confrontations with their fascist family histories       have been transformative.
One descendant first contacted Gottlieb about       her mother and grandmother: "I have read, with great interest, your         powerful and detailed accounts of female fascists in Britain in the         1930's and 40's...My specific interest stems from my own family history.
My grandparents... were members of the BUF, and my mother, as a child,         was a participant in rally's [sic], campaigns and anti-Semitic activity".
The producer of "My Mother was a Blackshirt" (a half-hour slot which aired       midday on BBC Radio 4 on 4 January, 2010) is another case in point.
Gottlieb acted as historical consultant and talking head on the programme.
She spent many hours in discussion with him, helping him to situate his       own mother's experience in a wider context, and she placed him in touch       with other descendants of BUF women who then contributed to the programme.
Gottlieb has supported people interested in inter-war political extremism       through her work with Special Collections at the University Library, which       has one of the richest collections available for studying this subject.
She has facilitated the deposit of new material from private collections,       for instance from the holdings of the Friends of Oswald Mosley, and she       has directed genealogists and non-professional historians to these       collections, which have been consulted by 51 external users during the       census period.
Her work on the impact of suffrage has also excited public interest.
She       organised, together with Prof. Richard Toye (Exeter University), an       international conference on "The Aftermath of Suffrage" at the University       of Sheffield, 24-25 June 2011.
The 50 delegates included 7 or 8 students       and interested persons from outside academia.
She convinced the producers       of BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour that this was a topic that would       interest their diverse national listenership, and she was interviewed       together with Prof. Pat Thane by Jennie Murray on Woman's Hour on       the morning of 24 June 2011 (average Friday audience, 1.36 million) [S1].
Sheffield listeners of her Woman's Hour appearance contacted her       to invite her to give a lecture on "Suffrage&#8212;What Happened After the Vote       was Won?"
to the Time Well Spent Group (a local luncheon discussion group       for seniors) in Sheffield on 31 May 2012 to an audience of 60.
Through the       discussion that followed, it became clear that these women and men,       despite having lived through Second Wave Feminism, were surprised to learn       about the continuing gender gap in politics and the long campaigns waged       by women to be part of the political process.
In addition, she was       commissioned by the BBC History Magazine to write a feature       article: "Guilty Women?"
that appeared in the Christmas 2011 edition, and       she was interviewed by podcast for the Magazine (70,000 copies sold per       issue, and a readership of 250,000) [S7].
Placing Margaret Thatcher in a       trajectory of women's politicization on the Right, Gottlieb published a       blog, "Which Witch is Which: Margaret Thatcher as Lady Politician" two       days after the death of the former Prime Minister&#8212;it had 629 visits by       June 2013 [S6].
From her vantage point as a historian of women and Europe in the first       half of the 20th century, Gottlieb has also made public       appearances speaking about her late mother's Holocaust memoir, published       posthumously.
In August 2008 she was interviewed about this on BBC Radio       Manchester.
This led to an invitation to make a 50-minute presentation,       with visuals, to the Manchester Jewish Historical Society at the       Manchester Jewish Museum (audience c. 40 people) in June 2010 [S5], and       she presented a similar paper to Group Sixty-Two in Sheffield on 6 July       2011 (audience c. 30 people).
The organiser of the latter wrote to her to       express how the talk "had heightened understanding of the generational         effect of involvement in the Shoah".
On both occasions a forum was       created for sharing memories of Holocaust experiences and confronting       emotional memories of family trauma and mother-daughter relationships.
On       8 April 2013, Yom HaShoah, she addressed the Juniors (over 100 pupils) at       North Cheshire Jewish Primary School on "The Holocaust Through the Eyes of       a Child".
On behalf of the pupils, a teacher wrote to her: "We were         drawn in by your mother's moving insights into a child's view of the         complex happenings during the terrible period of World War II...
Your         brilliant presentation for us will be treasured in our minds for the         rest of our lives" [S3].
In sum, Gottlieb's research has provided a forum for intellectual and       emotional interaction between diverse communities and across the       generations.
It has enabled those personally affected by the dislocation       and the stark political polarization of the interwar years to come to       terms with the past.
