     Reform of the UK's parallel systems of social care and disability       benefits - Attendance Allowance       (AA) and Disability Living Allowance (DLA) - for older people have been       the subject of active       debate for a number of years.
AA and DLA are not means-tested.
The 2006       King's Fund Review of       Social Care (chaired by Sir Derek Wanless) suggested that public funds       used for AA and DLA       might be better channelled through the means-tested social care system, on       the grounds that AA       and DLA were not well targeted on those in greatest financial or       disability need.
The then       Government's 2009 Green Paper on the future of care endorsed the option of       redirecting funds       away from disability benefits into social care as worthy of further       consideration.
Our research       challenged the premise that AA and DLA are not well targeted.
We highlighted a fundamental flaw in previous analyses which had       suggested that recipients of AA       and DLA were located within the middle and upper parts of the income       distribution.
Our first       analysis drawing attention to this flaw was published in February 2008 and       also presented to a       seminar held at number 11 Downing Street, in the presence of the then       minister for social care.
The journalist David Brindle covered our findings in the Society pages of       The Guardian the same       day.
We then conducted more detailed research and drew on it in written       evidence to the Health Select       Committee's 2009-10 Inquiry into Social Care.
Our written evidence was       used by Age UK in their       oral evidence (corroborating source 1a) and by a committee member in the       oral evidence session       with the Secretary of State for Health and senior officials from the       Departments of Health and Work       and Pensions (source 1b).
It was also quoted heavily in the Committee's       report published on 4th       March 2010 (source 2).
The Committee called on the Department of Health to       publish evidence       that contradicted our research, if they had any.
The White Paper on Social       Care published on 30th       March 2010 ruled out, at least for the next Parliament, any reform of AA       and DLA to fund its       proposed reform of social care.
The subsequent change of government led to the establishment of the       Commission on Funding       Care and Support (CFSC) whose report recommended retaining non       means-tested disability       benefits for older people.
Before its report was published we presented       our research at a high       profile seminar organised by the Strategic Society Centre (source 3) which       was attended by       representatives from the CFSC, relevant government departments (HM       Treasury, Department of       Health, Department for Work and Pensions), voluntary sector organisations       (e.g.
Age UK), Local       Authorities, the private insurance sector and academics.
Papers and       briefings published by the       Strategic Society Centre (sources 4 and 5) and Age UK (source 6) quoted       heavily from our work,       and have continued to do so (source 9).
The 2012 Welfare Reform Act has       replaced DLA with       Personal Independence Payment for new claimants, which differs from DLA in       detail but remains a       non means-tested benefit for disabled people.
AA is still in place.
For       the foreseeable future older       people in the UK therefore retain access to non means-tested cash       disability benefits to help them       meet the costs that disability brings and these benefits are no longer       seen as a primary source of       funding for social care reform.
They currently reach some 2.44 million       people aged 65+ in Great       Britain.
These are the immediate beneficiaries of the decision to retain       these benefits.
Some of       them would have lost as much as &#163;79.15 per week (April 2013 rates) had AA       and DLA been       withdrawn completely.
Perhaps more importantly, a public policy change       based on an incorrect       premise has been avoided.
There were of course many voices arguing for the retention of AA and DLA,       and providing       evidence of their benefit to older people.
Our distinct and material       contribution was to highlight the       flaw in previous analysis, conduct rigorous academic research which       corrected this flaw and       improved in other ways on previous analysis of the influence of income and       disability on receipt of       AA/DLA.
The underpinning research and dissemination activities were undertaken in       collaboration with       colleagues at the University of Essex with each institution making equal       contributions.
