     The sustained and international nature of the impact is shown first in       terms of its reach: the volume of worldwide sales.
Since 1998,       Penguin Books has published five single-authored volumes on Hitler [R1-5]       and the Second World War, and Hubris and Nemesis have been       translated into 20 languages, including German and Hebrew.
The continuing       appeal of this work is demonstrated in the fact that Penguin has also       produced an abridged, single-volume biography (Hitler, 2008), a       stand-alone reissue of chapter 17 of Nemesis, published for       `Penguin's 70th Birthday' (Death in the Bunker, 2005),       and a short book on Operation Valkyrie (Luck of the Devil, 2009),       again taken from Nemesis.
Lifetime sales of all these works stand       at over 500,000 (it has not proved possible to get a separate figure for       the REF period) [S1].
The End appeared in English, German, and Dutch in 2011 and has now       been translated into 17 languages and issued as a Penguin audiobook       (2012).
It has sold a total of 106,000 copies and has attracted attention       all over Europe.
Its publication led to interviews in The Guardian       (17 August 2011), where it was billed as `saying farewell to Hitler' and Der         Spiegel (14 November 2011) [S5].
The book was reviewed in all the       major British and German papers and many other international broadsheets,       including the New York Times, Sydney Morning Herald and Globe         and Mail, as well as the Daily Mail and the political       website, The Daily Beast.
It was featured at the Hay Festival in       June 2012 and has been highlighted on personal blogs such as `Resolute       Reader' and on-line book clubs, including `Good Reads'.
A further indication of the impact of Kershaw's work on Nazi Germany lies       in his own public profile.
In 2008, he was one of only 18 historians       chosen by the Institute of Historical Research to be interviewed for the       website `Making History' and he has a significant profile on public       history websites such as History.net.
and ww2history.com, where he is       interviewed by Laurence Rees.
Shorter interview clips are available in       English and German on YouTube.
His seventieth birthday in April 2013 was       marked by published appreciations in leading German broadsheets (Sueddeutsche.de,       Stern.de and Frankfurter Allgemeine (all 29 April 2013).
In       the last, Patrick Bahners described Kershaw as `today the world's         leading authority on Hitler and Hitler's state'.
The public impact of Kershaw's published work has been multiplied by its       dissemination on TV.
Kershaw's collaboration with Laurence Rees and the       BBC dates from the BAFTA-award winning television series they made in the       1990s and early 2000s, when they worked on four series for BBC2 [S2].
Their most recent collaboration was The Dark Charisma of Adolf Hitler       (2012).
With Kershaw as historical advisor, this programme was screened in       three episodes in November 2012, attracting an audience of 2.1 million for       the first episode [S6].
This programme derived directly from the body of       research cited in section 3 and, as the audience figure indicates, reached       a far wider audience than the published works.
These are supplemented by       the continuing accessibility of the television series Kershaw and Rees       made prior to 2008: The Nazis: A Warning from History (1997),       which won an International Documentary Award (1998) and the BAFTA for the       Best Factual Series (1998); Horror in the East (2001); and Auschwitz:         The Nazis and the "Final Solution" (2005; screened on PBS in the USA       as Auschwitz: Inside the Nazi State), which won the 2005 Grierson       Award for Best Historical Documentary.
Given the plethora of available       viewing formats&#8212; DVD, iPlayer, numerous download sites&#8212;overall viewing       figures are impossible to ascertain, but some audiences are clear.
Both The         Nazis: A Warning from History and Auschwitz featured on       teacher resource lists for the AQA A level syllabus `Anti-Semitism, Hitler       and the German People' (2008) and testimony from The Nazis: A Warning       is used as source questions in unseen exams (e.g.
AQA AS exam paper June       2010) [S7].
Worksheets to accompany the series are available from http://www.activehistory.co.uk/       reinforcing the point that these programmes continue to be used as active       teaching tools.
This use of the testimony and documentary evidence that       underpins the television work reflects the archival depth of Kershaw's       work.
The reach and significance of the substantial impact of this body       research is reflected in the transformation of public understanding of the       nature of Hitler's leadership.
The Hitler biography has become a       fundamental point of reference in university teaching and, together with       his other research publications, routinely appears on university reading       lists around the world (e.g.
Princeton, UC Santa Barbara, Victoria [NZ],       Newcastle [UK and Australia], and the LSE).
Kershaw's concept of `working       towards the F&#252;hrer' has redefined students' and teachers' understanding of       Hitler's place and role in the Nazi state.
Though central to the study of       German history, the influence of this thesis means that the work is also       widely assigned on general European history and comparative fascism       courses.
The Hitler biography itself features as an example in textbooks       on the writing and philosophy of History, e.g.
John Tosh, The Pursuit         of History (5th edition 2009), pp.
68-9.
In addition to the TV programmes, Kershaw's published work is also widely       used by sixth-formers studying for A levels or the International       Baccalaureate: `working towards the F&#252;hrer' is a theme and object of study       on the Edexcel A2 History paper on Germany 1900-45 and both the Hitler       biography and Hitler, the Germans and the Final Solution are used       for possible source questions (Barbara Warnock, My Revision Notes         Edexcel A2 History: from Kaiser to F&#252;hrer [Feb 2013]; Alan White and       Adam Bloomfield, Student Support Materials for History &#8212; Edexcel A2         Unit 3 Option D1 [June 2012]).
The book features on numerous       secondary school reading lists (eg.
Whitby High School; Lyc&#233;e Fran&#231;aise;       Burgate Sixth Form; Tapton School, Sheffield [S3]), and it is available in       school libraries and features on chatrooms [S10].
Perhaps most remarkably, Kershaw's work on Hitler has encouraged the       German people to rethink the relationship that individual German citizens       had with their leader.
In October 2010, the first major public exhibition       in Germany to focus on Hitler opened at the Deutsches Historisches Museum       in Berlin.
The exhibition drew directly on Kershaw's research; he was a       member of the Advisory Council (Beirat), contributed a chapter to       the exhibition catalogue (published 2010), and gave an opening lecture       that was attended by hundreds.
Hitler und die Deutschen had been       due to close in January 2011 but was extended for three weeks to 27       February 2011 as a direct consequence of public demand.
At the point that       the decision was taken to extend the exhibition, it had been visited by       170,000 people.
It was not simply, however, a question of public interest.
The exhibition also sparked considerable debate around how the Nazi past       should be presented in contemporary Germany, which ran through German       press (including Der Spiegel), indicating the profound impact that       this work on Hitler has had in Germany.
It is precisely this public debate around the reassessment of a uniquely       difficult past that led to the award of the Leipzig Book Prize for       European Understanding in 2012.
Awarded jointly to Kershaw and Timothy       Snyder, who works on Eastern Europe during the Second World War, the prize       not only acknowledged the substantial contributions these historians had       made to European co-operation but also recognised their achievements in       demonstrating the relevance of understanding the past to the contemporary       world.
The judges referred to `Ian Kershaw's enlightening book' as         `a godsend for historiography, but also for a wider, open-minded reading         audience' and also maintained that `European reconciliation         [Verst&#228;ndigung] is not possible without the work of historians such as         Ian Kershaw [and Timothy Snyder]' [S4].
The impact of Kershaw's work       in re-evaluating a troubled and troubling past is also shown in the high       profile public lectures he has given since 2008: the annual lecture to the       Centrum voor Holocaust- en Genocidestudies Amsterdam in 2009, the Adam von       Trott Memorial Lecture in Oxford in 2010, and the Holocaust Memorial       Trust's Lord Merlyn Rees lecture in the Houses of Parliament in 2012.
This       final lecture is available as a Holocaust Educational Trust free podcast,       the most popular on their iTunes site [S8].
As the ultimate example of Nazi power, the Holocaust raises continuing       ethical and historical questions, and Kershaw's work has done much to       illuminate public debate.
German commentators have stressed that this       research is `in the very best tradition of British empiricism' (Sueddeutsche.de,       29 April 2013).
This accounts, in part, for the impact of his work, which       has cut through the tendency to moralise in public debates, with       proponents often either condemning Nazism as the absolute&#8212;and therefore       incomprehensible&#8212;evil, or trivialising it by emphasising its banality.
Kershaw's work replaced these interpretative clich&#233;s with real historical       knowledge, moving public debate on to a sober analysis of the mechanisms       that allowed Hitler to seize and maintain power to the very day of his       suicide.
Reframing understandings of charismatic authority as `working       towards the F&#252;hrer' underlines this shift, which also reflects Kershaw's       ability, as noted in reviews, to combine analysis and narrative in a way       that provides an accessible but nuanced and sophisticated explanation of       immensely complex historical circumstances [S9].
