     Impact on National Policy and Practice     McDonnell's research has affected national policy and practice in two key       ways: (i) The Social Impact of Theatre provided a benchmark for       the Arts Council to use for evaluating funding applications and gave       theatre companies a framework round which to structure applications [S4];       (ii) It has informed the teaching of participatory theatre in the UK.
This       impact has been achieved first, through a collaboration with Frances       Rifkin, Artistic Director of Utopia Arts, a London-based community arts       and training company [S5].
As a result of McDonnell's published research       on participatory theatre, Rifkin asked McDonnell to act as academic mentor       for her pioneering project, `The Ethics of Participatory Theatre in Higher       Education: A Framework for Learning and Teaching' [S6], funded by a Higher       Education Academy grant (2008-10).
Building on the principles of ethical       practice laid out in The Social Impact of Theatre and in       McDonnell's 2005 RIDE article, Rifkin's project develops a       framework for an ethical approach to the teaching, learning, and       professional practice of participatory or applied theatre; this research       underpins teaching at Durham, Manchester, Newcastle, Northumberland,       Queen's Belfast, Rose Bruford, and the University of East London.
McDonnell's published research on ethical practice and participatory       theatre is likewise used for teaching at other UK HEIs (e.g.
Exeter [S8],       Goldsmiths, Manchester [S7]).
Impact on Education     McDonnell's research into, and commitment to, the social value of theatre       also led him to establish, in 2002, `Acting Together', an educational       theatre company comprising volunteers (both staff and students) from the       University of Sheffield.
This company delivers 3-4 projects annually,       working with schools from ethnically diverse areas defined by `significant       economic and social disadvantage' (OFSTED) and with a high proportion of       pupils on free school meals and with Special Educational Needs (for       example, one partner school, Southey Green Learning Community, has over       50% of its pupils on free school meals).
The projects support work on       literacy and oracy, social relationships, and the delivery of curriculum       topics.
For instance, projects in the academic year 2012-13 comprised `Not       just a number', working with Y8-10 on articulating personal experiences       (Hinde House School); an excerpted performance by Y6s of Shakespeare's Macbeth,       using the original language (Southey Green Learning Community); and two       projects around learning topics: `Egyptians' (Y4) and `Circuses' (Y1),       both at Southey Green [S1][S2].
In 2009-11, a significant strand of the work produced by Acting Together       was delivered through collaboration with the Culture Lab, the outreach       unit of Museums Sheffield [S3], which has the remit to `inspire young         people to explore, stretch and develop their language, creativity,         understanding and confidence in arts, crafts, culture and heritage',       principles which also underpin the practice of Acting Together.
This       collaboration focused on three projects, the first two of which were       funded by HEIF Knowledge Transfer awards: (i) `A Picture of Us' (Graves       Art Gallery, 2009), working with staff and pupils from Hucklow Primary       School and Beck Primary School; (ii) `Food Glorious Food' (Weston Park       Museum, 2010), working with staff and pupils from Southey Green Learning       Community; (iii) `The Trial of Spencer Broughton' (Weston Park Museum,       2011), also with Southey Green Learning Community.
All of Acting Together's projects are underpinned by, and implement, the       principles developed in the research study The Social Impact of         Theatre and explored in McDonnell's articles and 2008 monograph.
The       projects with Culture Lab also related to wider national schemes.
`Picture       of Us' belonged to a Tate Britain sponsored initiative, `The Great British       Art Debate', which looked to `pioneer new ways of working with school and       community audiences' in exploring `what Britishness is'; `Food, Glorious       Food' connected to national healthy-eating initiatives.
Educational Impact: Children     All Acting Together projects impact on the cultural life and education of       the children at participating schools, giving them the opportunity to       create and interpret cultural capital, enriching and expanding their       imagination and sensibilities, as well as enhancing their learning.
This       applies to the pupils who witness the performances (which are staged for       the entire school) as well as those who create them.
For example, at       Southey Green Learning Community, after the Macbeth project with       Acting Together, the school proceeded to run two further workshops on the       play, indicative of the momentum that had been built up and the impact       that the project had had in connecting and engaging the children with       Shakespearean literature.
Pupils were reported as reciting lines and       acting out Shakespeare in the school corridors (including parts given to       other children to learn), and even children who were not involved in the       performance contributed voluntarily by making stage properties at home in       their own time [S2].
The children involved in performances develop basic theatre skills       (devising, image work, narrative, voice and movement) as well as social       skills (team work, respecting each others' abilities and differences) and       generic skills (debating, analysing, researching).
Those children involved       in the projects with Culture Lab also had the opportunity to broaden their       engagement with and understanding of Museums Sheffield's collections and       its cultural and civic role.
This interaction brought them specific       subject knowledge about the exhibitions and creative ways of learning; it       also allowed them to intervene in, and contribute to, public understanding       and perception through their performances.
For example, in `A Picture of       Us', the largely British Black and British Asian children were able to       offer their own witty commentary on an art exhibition which manifestly did       not picture them, whilst `Spencer Broughton' &#8212; about the trial of a local       eighteenth-century highwayman - drew on extensive research in the city       archives and the Local History unit of Sheffield Libraries.
Whilst all of Acting Together's projects break down barriers (e.g.
between city and University), those with Culture Lab in particular       initiated new relationships, bringing the children into contact with the       museum and its staff, as well as the University.
These projects       consequently opened up access to cultural spaces, which, for the most       part, both they and their parents do not visit, or feel ownership of [S3].
The public performances at the museums implicitly constituted a civic       celebration and endorsement of the children's creativity, and were a       public expression of the value of partnerships founded on the role of the       arts in education, formal and informal.
The work was also a contribution       to the schools' educational and social development goals, by offering the       children new ways of exploring history and art, and by bringing them into       the centre of major cultural spaces not as visitors but as commentators.
Educational Impact: Practitioners     Since its foundation in 2002, Acting Together has established strong and       mutually beneficial relationships with partner schools, based on trust and       understanding.
As the company is invited back to the same schools time and       again, this longevity is a measure of the impact of its activity and       recognition by the teachers of the ways in which the process and practice       of participatory theatre enrich the learning experience of their pupils.
Besides the specific projects on which Acting Together collaborate, the       company &#8212; led by McDonnell &#8212; has also contributed to the teaching       environment and experience by training teachers in partner schools in       basic role-play and theatre workshop methods, giving them the confidence       to use these techniques in day-to-day teaching.
The relationship with       Acting Together has consequently had a positive impact on teaching       practice and curriculum delivery at the partner schools.
The post-project evaluation of the Macbeth project is indicative       of the impact in this area [S1].
The teacher interviewed noted that it had       made a real difference to their own teaching practice to witness how the       theatre workshop methods (such as freeze-framing) had helped the children       to understand complex texts.
The programme had also opened their eyes to       what children with low levels of literacy are capable of, and also to the       value of increasing the repertoire of the children's cultural experiences,       which they now plan to integrate within the curriculum to a much greater       extent.
Further to that, the partnership with Acting Together had allowed       the school to provide this experience without significant &#8212; and therefore       prohibitive &#8212; financial outlay, by giving them access to the University's       theatre spaces and resources.
Cultural Impact: Museums and Community Engagement     The theatre projects in collaboration with Culture Lab made a practical       contribution to Museums Sheffield's participation targets for the delivery       of Sheffield City Council's `Kids Can Do' programme, which supports the       development of positive outcomes for all young people aged 8-13 years in       Sheffield.
As the then Director of Community Education confirms [S3], the       projects also `contributed to capacity building in neighbourhoods [to         which] the Museums had been dedicating long-term audience development'.
All three projects were notable for the high and regular attendance: the       pupils' participation was voluntary and extra-curricular; despite that,       all the children stuck with the projects, demonstrating a level and       consistency of commitment that was considered unusual by their teachers       [S2].
Culture Lab staff also noted an impact in respect of the take-up of       places on subsequent projects, as children who had been involved in the       theatre programmes signed up for other initiatives at the Museums, an       indication of the way in which working with Acting Together had helped       break down very real cultural barriers.
Further to that, the theatre       projects also enriched the visitor experience.
For example, 100% of       responders to the museum survey distributed at the promenade performance       of the `Spencer Broughton' project said they would like to see more museum       theatre.
Representative comments include `very informative', `very         enlightening'; `it brought history to life'; and `it should be         here every week'.
The collaboration with Acting Together also demonstrated the value, for       Museums staff, of theatre as an educational method and it allowed them to       develop new ways of interpreting and showcasing their collections.
As the       then Director of Community Education states [S3], `The projects         diversified the profile of our public programme and diversified the         creative experiences of these young people in their own communities.
For         us as staff we definitely benefited from the fresh perspectives the         students leading the projects brought to their interpretations relating         to exhibitions and displays of collections material in the museums,         experiencing the stories and meanings of objects and narratives in         different ways and in particularly through the eyes and imaginations of         young people.
The projects helped us think through quite rigorously what         the success factors for quality cultural and community engagement are,         thinking that means there is a continuing commitment at the museums to         sustain the continuation of such work in partnership to deliver creative         activity rooted in interpretation of culture and heritage with         community, cultural and public outcome'.
The work with Acting       Together was consequently presented by Museums Sheffield staff as a model       of innovative practice at a national seminar in Norwich in 2010.
