     Toulmin's research into early film and popular entertainment, and her       position as Director of the       National Film Archive, led to her role as initiator of public engagement       projects aimed at       disseminating the history of popular entertainment in cinema, street       theatre, fairground, resort       complexes, and variety halls (especially in the North of England), and at       archiving, preserving, and       recreating those entertainments.
Her work in Blackpool &#8212; a partnership       which began after she had       given a public lecture in the city on Mitchell and Kenyon &#8212; exemplifies       the ways in which her       research has helped to preserve, conserve, and present cultural heritage,       and to increase       economic prosperity through tourism and creative endeavours (e.g.
shows,       exhibitions).
Cultural impact       In 2007-8, Toulmin was the lead investigator of the AHRC-funded `Admission       All Classes:       Entertainment for the Masses, 1850-1950' (&#163;173,731), which directly       addressed aims set out in       Blackpool Council's Heritage Strategy (2006-10), namely: to establish and       celebrate the history of       the UK's first mass leisure resort to accommodate working-class       holiday-makers.
During the       eighteen months of the project, Toulmin curated a series of ten themed       events, underpinned by her       research into the history of fairground, music hall, circus, and seaside       entertainments that drew       nineteenth- and early twentieth-century visitors to the resort.
These       included the `Cabinet of       Curiosities' (recreating sideshows from Blackpool's entertainment       heritage), exhibitions (Top of the         Bill, Showtown), and a weekend of screenings of early films       featuring Blackpool held in the       archives of British Film Institute.
The programme was also designed to       revive historic       entertainment venues (Grand Theatre, Winter Gardens, Tower Circus and       Ballroom) and highlight       their value both as architectural heritage and as contemporary performance       spaces.
To further this       aspect of the project, Toulmin developed a heritage tour of venues       designed by the renowned       nineteenth-century theatre architect, Frank Matcham.
The cultural impact       of `Admission All       Classes' was also extended beyond Blackpool through Toulmin's       collaboration with Nick Patrick       (Radio 4, Making History) to produce a series of podcasts       exploring the themes of the project       (15,000 downloads).The success of the events in `Admission All Classes',       which attracted 14,000       visitors, led directly to the following cultural legacies:     1.
The foundation in 2008 of `Showzam', Blackpool's annual       festival of Circus Magic and New       Variety, developed in partnership with `Visit Blackpool' as part of the       North West Development       Agency (NWDA) programme for bringing high quality arts organisations to       Blackpool.
With Toulmin       as creative director and drawing on her research into popular       entertainment, the festival &#8212;       subsidised by Arts Council grants (&#163;148,000 since 2009) &#8212; showcases the       best of contemporary       magic, circus, and new variety but also brings to the forefront       Blackpool's entertainment heritage       buildings such as the Winter Gardens, the Grand, and the Ballroom.
The       festival has grown year       by year and at the most recent festival in 2013 attracted 30,000 visitors.
It brings more than 150       performers from over twenty different countries to Blackpool each year and       &#8212; as one of the UK's       largest and most innovative entertainment events &#8212; it provides a platform       for artists from across the       UK and Europe.
The annual festival is also accompanied by exhibitions,       curated by Toulmin, on       the history of popular entertainment.
These attract a heavy footfall and       extensive media coverage       (e.g.
in 2009, Circus of Wonders attracted 17,000 visitors in 8       days and featured on `Good Morning       America' as well as The Sunday Telegraph, Times, Independent,       and Radio 4).
The partnership with the NWDA was extended with the `Cine Variety' project       accompanying       `Showzam' in 2010: Toulmin was granted &#163;30,000 from NWDA to curate a       ten-day programme       presenting the history of Blackpool on film with ten events, featuring       rare and unseen film footage       of the North West's rich entertainment heritage in the first half of the       twentieth century.
These       played daily, interspersed with public lectures given by Toulmin.
2.
`Admission All Classes' informed Blackpool Council's tourism and         heritage strategy by       feeding into their consultation process for a new public space.
The       Council's aim was to bring       entertainment out of the venues and onto the streets, and therefore to       wider audiences.
This       provided a taster of what happened inside the buildings and increased       people's awareness of the       different types of events on offer.
In support of the consultation and in       order to demonstrate the       cultural value and commercial possibilities of outdoor entertainment,       `Admission All Classes' put on       a weekend of street theatre in collaboration with Blackpool's Townscape       Heritage Initiative.
This       was followed by a day of talks on popular entertainment in the Grand       Theatre Studio.
As a result, a       series of decisions were taken by the Council to ensure that the new       public space incorporated the       necessary facilities for flexible entertainment, both street-based and       stage-based.
For example,       outdoor electrical points were installed which rise up from the ground to       supply sufficient power to       any activity taking place in that space, something which had not been       considered originally.
Blackpool City Council acknowledges Toulmin's impact here, with the then       Chief Executive stating       that `Admission All Classes' brought `high quality variety and street         performance back to the resort,         drawing on Blackpool's history and contemporising it.
This project         directly influenced the design of         a key town centre space in front of the Winter Gardens, helping to         justify a &#163;3.5 million spend to         create not just a quality piece of public realm but outside performance         space' [S1].
3.
Saving the Winter Gardens: The relationship established during       `Admission All Classes' led to       Blackpool Council commissioning Toulmin to research and write Blackpool's         Winter Gardens: The         Most Magnificent Palace of Amusements in the World (Boco Publishing,       2009), a commemorative       volume celebrating the history of this magnificent Grade II* listed       building with its opera house,       ballroom, theatre, arena, Spanish hall, Olympia, Baronial and Renaissance       halls.
The publication       was used by Blackpool Council to lobby Parliament and funding bodies on       the desperate need to       preserve the buildings, which were close to being condemned.
&#163;40 million       was secured from       Blackpool Council, European Regional Development Fund, Homes and       Communities Agency, and       NWDA, and in March 2010 Blackpool Council purchased the Winter Gardens,       saving a crucial part       of Blackpool's architectural and cultural heritage and securing a vital,       and profitable, entertainment       venue for the town.
The Council acknowledges that Toulmin's research, and       her own lobbying,       played an essential role in driving the campaign.
Toulmin's research also       underpins the heritage       pages of the Winter Gardens website [S1, S2].
4.
Productive partnerships with voluntary groups, leading to more         innovative programming:       Alongside various Council departments, `Admission All Classes' worked in       conjunction with a range       of non-academic partners, including Blackpool's Theatre Group (a       consortium of the resort's       private commercial venues) and the Blackpool Civic Trust, to enhance the       visitor experience [S3].
This collaboration encouraged local groups to expand their programming       range, having been       shown during the project that it is possible to accommodate new and       different audiences alongside       those traditionally associated with popular entertainment in the town.
The       success of `Admission All       Classes' also raised Blackpool's profile and allowed the town to secure       bigger names from the       world of entertainment, including cutting-edge shows such as performances       from the award-winning cabaret La Clique (2010).
5.
The acquisition for the city of a significant archive: In       2009, Toulmin played a central role in       securing funding and appropriate facilities for housing, in Blackpool's       local studies library, the       private collection of Cyril Critchlow, founder of Blackpool Magic Club and       former proprietor of       Blackpool's Museum of Entertainment, thus ensuring that this substantial,       nationally important       collection (25,000 items) was accessible to the people of the city that       produced it.
Since the launch       of the collection (with an exhibition curated by Toulmin), the profile of       the local studies library has       increased markedly, and the Critchlow Collection is used extensively: for       TV programmes, arts-for-health programmes, creative writing exercises, education for local       schools, and in a regular       programme of public heritage talks.
As the head of the library       acknowledges, Toulmin's       championing of the collection has also had longer-term impact, since it `led         to a far greater local         understanding of our rich heritage resources, and opened up the way for         us to secure other local         collections of significance.
Quite simply the Cyril Critchlow Collection         has eased the way for         present and future projects, and opened up our own story to a new         audience.
Professor Vanessa's       role in this important process cannot be overstated' [S4].
6.
Greater understanding of Blackpool's entertainment heritage:       Subsequent to the volume on       the Winter Gardens, Toulmin has produced a further three volumes about       Blackpool's       entertainment industry: Blackpool Tower: Wonderland of the World       (Boco Publishing, 2011),       Blackpool Pleasure Beach: More Than Just an Amusement Park (Boco       Publishing, 2011), and       Blackpool Illuminations: The Greatest Free Show on Earth (Boco       Publishing, 2012).
In addition, the       heritage tours developed for `Admission All Classes' are now a fixed       feature of `Showzam', and       Toulmin has trained local heritage champions to deliver these.
The re-valuing of popular entertainment, exemplified by Toulmin's       work in Blackpool, is also       evidenced by Professor Vanessa's Wondershow for the 2012       CircusFest at London's Roundhouse.
This commission resulted directly from her work on `Showzam' and featured       many of the same       artists, providing a contemporary twist on sideshows of the mid-twentieth       century and bringing to a       cosmopolitan audience an `irresistible tribute to the fringes of the fair'       (Exeunt Magazine).
The       production received nation-wide media coverage (in both the print press       and broadcast media),       and all five shows were sold out; Toulmin also delivered a public talk       (`Step Right Up: The Social       History of the Sideshow'), discussing the heritage of the programme she       had curated.
Social and economic impact       Toulmin's work has been crucial in the regeneration of Blackpool, helping       raise its national and       international profile as a leading entertainment resort.
As the then Chief       Executive of Blackpool       City Council acknowledges [S1], `"Admission All Classes" proved that         Blackpool could host         successfully new variety and performance.
This helped to leverage &#163;3         million of NWDA funding as         part of an events programme [...] giving visitors new reasons to come to         the resort, particularly         while the physical regeneration [of Winter Gardens] was underway and not         completed.'
Visitor       satisfaction at `Showzam' is extremely high, and demonstrates the positive       impact on Blackpool: a       study by the UK Centre for Events Management in 2011 reported that over       90% of those       interviewed agreed that initiatives like `Showzam' made Blackpool a better       place to live or to visit; it       also estimated that Management Gross spending associated with those       attending `Showzam' since       2009 is over &#163;6m (with Gross Value Added estimated to be nearly &#163;3m).
Since `Showzam' occurs       in February, this provides a significant income stream during the low       season.
The positive economic benefits of celebrating entertainment heritage are       further exemplified by       Toulmin's consultancy for Butlins (2012-13).
Butlins Bognor Regis       fairground was neglected;       Toulmin's input on its historic significance gave the parent company       Bourne Leisure the confidence       to celebrate and reinvest in this aspect of the resort, creating new       rides, stalls and sideshows, and       featuring it in their promotional material (including a film scripted by       and featuring Toulmin, S8).
The success of this initial project has led to a further consultancy about       Butlins Minehead.
In sum, Toulmin's public-facing research demonstrates how celebrating the       UK's entertainment       heritage leads to positive cultural, social, and economic impacts.
