     From its inception the Poetry Centre has sought to embed external impact       within its research by developing a symbiotic relationship between its       research and outreach activities.
This has resulted in both wide-ranging       external impact and significant cross-fertilisation of ideas leading to       new research insights and outputs.
Impacts have been:            Conceptual &#8212; influencing thinking and ways of seeing important social         and economic issues.
Instrumental &#8212; leading to tangible impacts such as the establishment         of a new Oxford City Poet role and new co-produced publications.
Capacity building &#8212; providing a focus through events and opportunities         to encourage and support new writers from diverse cultural and         socio-economic background.
The Centre makes extensive use of digital media to ensure its research       reaches a global audience, with over 2700 subscribers worldwide from 50       countries, across its digital channels (Twitter, Facebook, a Weekly Poem       mailing list).
From 31 July 2012 to 31 July 2013, there were over 12000       visits to the Centre's Website.7,8 The Poetry Centre maintains       a continuous lively and dynamic presence, through podcasts of poetry       readings, to providing resources and opportunities for interaction with       writers and researchers, publishing new centre research and highlighting       events and projects.
Specific Project Impact examples include:     Oxford Poets and Refugees Project 2008-2009     The work was driven by a concern with place and displacement, and migrant       experiences in a neo-colonial context.
The project operated in       collaboration with Asylum Welcome and Refugee Resource.
Oxford-based poets, including Bernard O'Donoghue, Jamie McKendrick and       Carole Angier, were teamed with 14 exiled and refugee writers.
A series of       workshops explored and created new writing based on stories and       experiences of exile, leading to the writing of 43 new pieces of work and       the publication of an anthology, See How I Land (Heaventree Press,       2009).
To date this has sold 1500 copies, raised &#163;3000 for Asylum         Welcome, as well as making the public more aware of the charity.
The       work was showcased at eight readings and events, including the Oxford       Literary Festival, `Freed Speech', a Poet in the City event at Amnesty       International's headquarters in London14, and an event at       Woodstock Bookshop which was attended by 90 schoolchildren.
The project produced high-quality literature and broke down some of the       perceived barriers between higher education, poetry, and the community.
The project gave a voice to those whose voices are seldom heard and       contributed to debates and awareness about the social inclusion of asylum       seekers, immigration, and refugees.
The project was widely publicized in       local and national press, including in the Oxford Times 10       and Modern Poetry in Translation11.
The project was       shortlisted in the `Excellence and Innovation in the Arts' category at the       2009 THE Awards.12 And a one-hour interview was       broadcast on BBC Radio Oxford on October 23rd 2009.13       Through these means, it reached over 6,500 people.
A trustee at Asylum Welcome, confirmed that `the project made       demonstrable impacts on both its participants and on local refugee,       public, and academic audiences'.
For the refugee writers, she says, `the       project served as a vital source of self-confidence and actualization and       enabled them to communicate their stories, ideas and experiences in       creative forms.
Other writers, already very well established in their       home-countries of Palestine and Afghanistan, gained access to writing,       publishing and media in the UK.
'15     The Arts Council South East Literature Officer, 2003-2010, writes:       'Fulfilling one of the Arts Council's key aims of social inclusion, the       project helped demonstrate to readers and audiences that today's refugee       would probably be tomorrow's upstanding and hard-working citizen...
The       exiled writers for the most part felt validated, accepted and better able       to live confidently in a difficult environment.'
She added, `locally, they       can make a strong and influential impact, both for the participants and       the communities they live in, helping overcome prejudice on both sides of       ethnic divides.
'16     The Oxford City Poet 2011-2013     The role of Oxford City Poet was established in 2011 as a direct result       of Poetry Centre research and undertaken in collaboration with Oxford City       Council.
The Poetry Centre manages the role, most recently held by Kate       Clanchy.
Clanchy has taken poetry out to a range of ethnic and migrant       communities in the Oxford area, encouraging the creation of new work by       schoolchildren from underprivileged educational and economic backgrounds       across the city.
The conceptual and capacity-building impact of the role has been praised       by the teachers involved.
The Head of English at Cheney School, notes that       Clanchy `has a very clear drive to make poetry accessible to young people       from all backgrounds'.
'17 A Cheney governor, states that       Clanchy's work `proved inspirational to the students who felt that their       efforts were being valued by a "real writer".
This enabled the teaching       staff to better appreciate and foster the creative talents of their       students and has contributed to a shift of culture within the school.
'18       He concluded that because the school library stocks the annual booklets of       the Writing Group's work, `other young people either aspire to see their       own writing in print, or to value creative writing, knowing it has been       achieved by their peers.
In a school community as mixed as Cheney's, this       is of key importance in raising standards and aspirations and is a       positive outcome of Kate's encouragement of the Creative Writing Group.
'18     Similarly, the Cultural Development Manager at Oxford City Council,       believes `The Poetry Centre's research and outreach expertise has been       crucial in creating and shaping the role of the City Poet and has had a       positive effect upon the cultural and creative life of Oxford,       particularly in respect to the ethnic diversity of participants and social       inclusion.'
She felt that Clanchy's work as City Poet successfully       promoted the usefulness of creative writing in relation to literacy and       quality of life.
The City Council's Culture Team is now supporting the       development of Writer Squads for young people in the city to build on this       legacy.
The City Poet has also helped the City Council deliver on the objectives       of the Culture Strategy 2012-15, in particular with regards to sustaining,       developing and improving the cultural life of the city and improving       opportunities for young people to access and actively participate in       high-quality cultural activities.
'19     According to the National Director of First Story, a national       literacy charity for deprived schoolchildren, the Oxford programme       `produces consistently excellent work from students of all abilities from       the gifted and talented to challenging and troubled students.
She [Clancy]       has also engaged and re-inspired the teachers she works with and built       lasting and strong relations both with them and with the school as a       whole.
'20
