     Dr Neil Brownsword's research has been disseminated beyond academia       through exhibitions, lectures and publications associated with his       artistic practice.
A broad range of national /international institutions       and esteemed cultural commentators have endorsed Brownsword's work for its       ability to enhance public awareness of the social, cultural and economic       effects of North Staffordshire's ceramic manufacturing downturn, on       people, place and heritage (including Alun Graves, Senior Ceramics       Curator, V&amp;A; Glenn Adamson former head of research at the V&amp;A,       Director Designate, Museum of Art and Design, New York; David Whiting       craft critic and writer; Dr Tanya Harrod, eminent craft historian and       writer).
Critically acclaimed as `one of the great monuments in contemporary         British ceramics' (Adamson Possibilities and Losses, 2010,       p. 11 [1]), Salvage Series' was exhibited in Possibilities         and Losses (2009), at Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art (mima)       to challenge traditional perceptions about clay practice and its       relationship to the historic model of craft.
Possibilities and Losses       attracted 39,000 visitors [2], and led to mima's acquisition of Salvage         Series and Transition &#8212; an early work by Brownsword.
mima       selected Transition to represent their contemporary collection at       Interloqui, an exhibition which attracted 4400 visitors during the       54th Venice Biennale (2011) [3].
The significance of Brownsword's contribution to the expanded field of       ceramics is evidenced through reviews and critical discourse offered by a       broad range of cultural commentators.
The impact of this research       culturally, has positioned Brownsword as a `leading figure'       (Adamson, 2010) [4], arguably `at the forefront of current         experimental and conceptual approaches to clay in Europe and         Scandinavia' (Fielding, 2008) [5].
His experimental material       research has been endorsed by the ICRC and disseminated through its       program of master classes, symposia and residencies &#8212; engaging graduates,       practicing artists and members of the public worldwide.
Brownsword's       research expertise on industrial ceramic history led to his appointment as       artist/curator by Shrewsbury Museum and Art Gallery to redisplay their       nationally recognised collection of Shropshire ceramics (2011).
Although       the museum's original opening date for December 2013 has been delayed,       Brownsword has publically disseminated his research surrounding `hidden'       knowledge and skills within ceramic production that underpin this       commission via a ticketed lecture (29/11/2012) [6].
The Victoria       and Albert Museum also sought Brownsword's expertise in the redevelopment       of their Ceramic Galleries (2009) and in preparing programmes dealing with       ceramic's post-industrial history for their Hand Made in Britain       partnership with BBC4.
For episode 2 of Ceramic's a Fragile History       Brownsword elucidated his creative process as artist/archaeologist and       sought ex-employees from the ceramic industry for interview (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0162yb1).
Screened on 17/10/2011 the episode was viewed by over 400,000 people       (excludes i-player figures), repeated in April 2012 [7].
The exploration of North Staffordshire's pre-industrial ceramic origins       through the Marl Hole project for the 2009 British Ceramics       Biennial (BCB) continues to be influential on a global level.
Johnny       Magee's film output of this site specific articulation of raw clay has       been screened to a worldwide audience though exhibitions, public lectures       and symposia.
Marl Hole has received a total of 11257 views (as of       24/11/13) since posted on YouTube by the British Crafts Council [8].
In 2009 Brownsword received the British Ceramic Biennial's one-off       category award, nominated by a panel of eminent curators and critical       commentators `in recognition for his creativity and achievement across         the breadth of contemporary ceramic practice' [9].
Since this       accolade the BCB invited Brownsword to create new site specific works, and       to co-curate an international exhibition of works made at       sundaymorning@ekwc (formally the EKWC) for their 2011 festival programme.
The 2011 Biennial attracted 32,700 visitors, and generated &#163;2.08m worth of       economic activity in the city [10].
International collaboration continues to be an integral part of       Brownsword's research, which has recently been exemplified in his       initiation and co-leading of the project Topographies of the Obsolete.
This collaboration between Bergen Academy of Art and Design and the BCB,       invited interdisciplinary artists have been to explore the former Spode       ceramic factory and its redundant infrastructure as raw material.
The       project questions, and offers new artistic insights into how ceramic and       clay can be understood as both material and subject in contemporary art       practice, through a range of research strands including the contemporary       ruin, the artist as archaeologist and the globalized landscape of       ceramics.
The success of the project is due to its receipt of funding both       from KHiB and the Norwegian Artistic Research Programme (totalling       &#163;217000.00) [11] which has enabled previously inaccessible parts of       the site to be made safe for public access during the Biennial, and for       future cultural activity.
The significance of Brownsword's impact is further evidenced by the       acquisition of his artefacts for permanent collection in museum displays       internationally.
He has four artefacts on permanent public display in the       Fu Le International Ceramic Museum China (2008).
In 2009 the National       Public Art Council, Sweden purchased Stilt, from his solo       exhibition Elegy in Stockholm.
In 2011 Brownsword seminal work Transition       (1999) was auctioned alongside the works of the Chapman, brothers, Grayson       Perry and Gavin Turk at Material Worlds &#8212; the Contemporary Art       Society's (CAS) annual fundraising event in support of new purchases of       contemporary art for audiences across the UK.
Transition raised       &#163;20,000 (9/03/2011) purchased for Middlesbrough Museum of Modern Art's       permanent collection [12].
In 2011 the V&amp;A Museum purchased Elegy       (2009) to represent Brownsword's `ground-breaking practice' [13],       and Brighton and Hove Museum purchased Waster (2011) for their       internationally renowned collection of contemporary ceramics.
As well as       extensive lectures in academic institutions internationally, Brownsword       has been invited to present public lectures and gallery talks, including:       Ceramic Art London, Royal College of Art (2008); Ceramic City,       British Ceramics Biennial Platform Conference, (2009); The Museum of       Decorative Arts and Design, Oslo (2010); European Ceramic Context 2010,       Bornholm, and Contemporary British Studio Ceramics, at The Mint       Museum of Craft, North Carolina (2011).
