     Commercial investment enabling the Development of Regenerative         Medicine     a) Commercial development of clinical grade stem cells     The development of regenerative medicine, particularly based upon hESC,       is a national priority of the UK government and research councils.
It is       recognized that this development requires active commercial investment,       which must be underpinned by the strength of the UK research and       regulatory environment.
To exploit the opportunities created by the first       derivation of hESC, Axordia was founded as a spin-out company of the       University of Sheffield by Moore and Andrews in 2001.
The initial       investment in Axordia from the White Rose Technology Seedcorn Fund (a &#163;9m       scheme funded by contributions from the then Regional Development Agency,       the then DTI and the White Rose universities) was secured based upon the       strength of the underlying research programmes of the founding scientists       [S1: WRTSF Press Release 2001].
In 2006, Axordia secured additional       investment of &#163;420,000 from BioFusion Ltd [S2: BioFusion Press       Release 2006].
The potential opportunities in Regenerative Medicine,       exemplified by the possibility of treating AMD with hESC-derived RPE       cells, encouraged Pfizer to establish a new unit and wholly- owned       subsidiary, Neusentis [S3: evidenced by letter from Pfizer       Neusentis].
Intercytex purchased Axordia for shares valued at &#163;1.6M in       2008 [S4: Intercytex Press Release].
In 2009, Intercytex sold       Axordia cell lines, including SHEF-1, to Pfizer for $750,000 [S5:       Pfizer Press Release].
Under contract from Pfizer (&#163;165k) [S6],       Moore subsequently derived and developed a clinical grade stem cell bank       (SHEF1.3), which has been approved by the regulatory authorities (MHRA).
This cell bank is being used as starting material in a cell-based patient       trial for AMD in 2013, supported by Pfizer to be conducted by Professor       Peter Coffey at the Institute of Opthalmology, London (www.thelondonproject.org)       [S7].
Thus, this work has had a significant direct commercial       impact of several million pounds (purchase of Axordia hESC lines by       Intercytex and Pfizer, development of Neusentis, Pfizer contract work at       Sheffield), has influenced commercial decisions of a major pharmaceutical       company, and has influenced the emerging field of novel health outcomes       via the generation of clinical-grade stem cells.
b) Regulation of the Clinical Use of Stem Cells     The use of stem cells in regenerative medicine is an emerging field in       which the regulatory authorities are still developing guidelines.
Moore       has contributed to the development of these guidelines.
He served on the       MRC working group on the commercialisation of stem cells (2008- 2011),       which reported to both the MRC and government [S8].
Moore was also       a member of the Human Clinical Stem Cell Forum (2009-2012), which informed       the Human Tissue Authority, influencing regulatory procedures.
The retinal       pigment epithelial cell therapy using SHEF1 hESC has UK Regulatory       approval to proceed to a clinical trial [S3].
