     Through scientific collaboration by the University of Sheffield with       Interleukin Genetics, the intellectual property from these discoveries was       patented and then translated into commercially available genetic tests       marketed in 2007 by Interleukin Genetics (ILG) Inc. in the USA.
The       periodontal susceptibility test is the first example of an objective       leading-edge tool for dentists to manage and prevent the complications of       periodontal disease.
Commercial impact from the development of genetic tests to assess         susceptibility to periodontitis     ILG Inc. has produced an `at patient kit' for diagnosis and management of       periodontal disease PSTf0d2, based on the Sheffield research, which was a       highly significant step in the development of the company and its public       flotation [S1,S2].
Originally Medical Science Systems (1998), the       company became ILG in 2000 and floated on the NASDAQ stock exchange.
The       PSTf0d2 kit has been retailed at $169 and marketed by Oral DNA Labs,       Brentwood, TN; but a new version of the test is available to dentists       across the USA only through Interleukin Genetics Inc. and the cost       is fully reimbursed by Delta Dental (United States Government Securities       and Exchange Commission Filing, 25 February 2013).
[text removed for publication]     Impact on insurance policy provision     Based on the Giannobile et al.
[R3] findings and the U.S.       government guidance on use of genetic information in compliance with the       Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act (GINA), new dental insurance       plans incorporate the IL-1 genetic test for people with certain       characteristics, including: (a) all adults with no history of       periodontitis covered by insurance for 1 annual dental cleaning unless       shown to be at high risk for severe periodontitis based on the IL-1       genetic test plus smoking or diabetes; (b) patients with 1 or more of the       3 risk factors will be reimbursed for 2 to 4 cleanings annually, based on       number of risk factors; and (c) the IL-1 genetic test is fully reimbursed       by insurance.
Of the $108 billion dollars spent on dental care in the U.S. in 2010,       approximately 76% of procedures and 50% of costs were attributable to       routine examinations and cleanings.
Under the above elements of dental       insurance plans based on the IL-1 genetic test, dentists are incentivised       to use the genetic test in order to identify those patients who need and       qualify for insurance coverage of the 2 annual cleanings they currently       have, or even more if they have multiple risk factors.
Of the 3 risk       factors, the most frequent one is the IL-1 genetic test.
Impact arising from driving behaviour change by private dental care         companies in the US leading to billion dollar savings in the sales of         dental care policies.
During the spring of 2013, ILG Inc. [S1] entered into an agreement       with Delta Dental [S4] to take forward the process of refreshing       previous, and developing new dental plans, based on the PST&#174; test [S5].
The new policies use a PSTf0d2 test result as a basis upon which to       stratify the number of dental cleanings routinely included in dental       insurance plans.
All dental providers have received communications       regarding this change to policy through the summer of 2013 as it       represents a change to standard operating procedure.
A low-risk result in       the test results in a policy for 1 cleaning/year while a high-risk result       (indicating increased susceptibility to periodontitis) leads to a       recommendation of 2-4 teeth cleanings/year, depending on the number of       risk factors.
From this stratification, risk-based models project a $37       saving/patient/year.
These relatively modest savings per patient translate       into $4.8 billion saved per year for 175 million patients in the US with       dental insurance (National Association of Dental Plans, 2011).
Policy impact arising from a US government-endorsed example to         insurers of the clinical health value of personalised medicine.
In the US, 42% of individuals have periodontitis (CDC, Atlanta).
The       PSTf0d2 test allows stratification of an `at risk' population and this has       been recognised by the US government as an example of the appropriate use       of personalised genetic tests to allocate preventive care [S6].
This is described in the Federal Register, Department of Health and Health       Delivery 25 January 2013 [S7].
