     Helleday's breakthrough has impacted on economic activity in the       healthcare sector, energising PARP inhibitor research and trials and       stimulating the search for more specific targets in cancer and other       disease states.
The proof-of-concept of the synthetic lethality approach       has improved the prospects for cancer patients.
As a result of this research survival outcomes for a large number of         cancer patients have improved.
The phase I study at the Royal       Marsden National Health Service Foundation Trust and the Netherlands       Cancer Institute (KuDOS/AstraZeneca) was published in 2009 and presented       at the American Society for Clinical Oncology annual meeting in 2009.
The       impact of these studies on the field of clinical oncology was immediately       apparent and the studies were acknowledged for being the first report of       an agent for targeted therapy that improved survival in patients and the       first time a survival benefit was obtained in a randomised phase II       clinical trial [S1].
The initial phase I trial assessed the effects of the PARP inhibitor in       60 patients with a range of solid tumours refractory to conventional       therapies including 22 known to carry BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.
This trial       showed that the PARP inhibitor (olaparib) administered as a single agent       had few of the adverse effects of conventional chemotherapy and had       anti-tumour activity in cancers in carriers of BRCA1 or 2 mutations [S2].
Follow up phase II studies conducted in centres across Europe and the USA       provided "positive proof-of-concept" of the tolerability and efficacy of       the PARP inhibitor in advanced breast and ovarian cancers in patients       carrying mutations of BRCA1 or 2 [S3].
The latest report from a       phase II clinical trial (BioMarin, compound BMN 673) demonstrated clinical       benefit response rates of 82% (23 of 28 ovarian cancer patients) and 67%       (12 of 18 breast cancer patients) [S4].
Six phase III trials       (breast and ovarian cancer) have started or will start before the end of       2013 and regulatory approval of a drug (PARP inhibitor) is anticipated       with three years [S5].
The research has expanded the utility of an existing clinical         technology, the BRACAnalysis test that can now be used to identify       responders and non-responders to therapy.
Previously, BRCA2 status was       simply an indicator of disease (breast/ovarian cancer) susceptibility.
Now       the test can be used to determine which therapy (i.e.
use of PARP       inhibitor or not) could be effective, thus the effectiveness of a         marker of disease has been enhanced.
Nasdaq-listed Myriad Genetics       Inc. developed the BRACAnalysis test in 1996 to confirm the presence of       BRCA1 and 2 gene mutations that confer risks of up to 87% and 44% for       developing breast or ovarian cancer respectively by the age of 70.
Myriad       Genetics now collaborate with AstraZeneca to stratify patients based on       BRACA status on its clinical programme for olaparib development (Phase III       clinical trials) [S6].
Myriad Genetics is a leading international       diagnostics company with headquarters in Europe and North America.
As a direct result of the Helleday discovery, industry has invested         in research and development and new products and services are in         production and jobs have been created and protected.
The       University of Sheffield has benefited financially from the sale of a       patent licence to Cambridge-based KuDOS for an initial fee of [text       removed for publication] and total payments from the licence are currently       at [text removed for publication].
At the time of sale the number of       employees at KuDOS was listed as 75.
AstraZeneca acquired KuDOS for $210m       and the subsidiary now benefits from the pre-clinical and clinical       programs of the larger organisation, while AstraZeneca has significantly       increased the strength of its DNA-repair product platform.
Meanwhile,       there are now eight small molecule PARP inhibitors in clinical trials       resulting from related drug discovery programs by leading pharmaceutical       companies including Rucaparib (Pfizer/Clovis Oncology), Veliparib       (Abbott), BMN 673 (BioMarin) and MK4827 (Merck) [S7].
All of these       research programmes in targeted therapy stem from the initial Helleday       discovery; that has also stimulated a whole new area of cancer biology       &#8212;looking for other targets that exploit synthetic lethality.
There has       been significant investment in identifying and developing diagnostic tests       to identify patients with mutations in DNA-repair genes other than BRCA       that may respond to PARP inhibitors.
For example, Foundation Medicine       specialises in cancer genomics to tailor diagnosis and treatment and is in       collaboration with Clovis Oncology [S8].
The proof-of-concept       demonstration of clinical trials, that breast and ovarian cancers       harbouring BRCA mutations respond to PARP inhibitors, has therefore influenced         the practice of how a disease processes could be controlled, by       exploiting synthetic lethality [S9].
Highly skilled people have taken up specialised roles in companies       and healthcare organisations.
Further phase I, II and III trials using       PARP inhibitors for the treatment of a wide range of tumours are currently       in progress around the world.
A simple search of the National Cancer       Institute (USA) cancer trials database reveals 92 trials on at least 10       different tumour types recruiting thousands of patients [S10].
Included among these trials is the "STOMP" trial (01/2013- 01/2015)       sponsored by the University of Sheffield and supported by AstraZeneca that       tests the use of the PARP inhibitor, olaparib, as a maintenance treatment       in Small Cell Lung Cancer.
