     The research by Pacey has had an impact on society through a public       debate on human       reproduction generated by a film called The Great Sperm Race.
Process to impact     As a result of his expertise in human fertility research Pacey was       approached by a UK production       company (Blink Television) in 2008 to help make a film called The         Great Sperm Race [S1].
A       consultancy contract was agreed with the University of Sheffield       formalising the arrangement       whereby Pacey would give advice to the producer and director over the       script and shooting of the       film (as well as appearing on screen).
The script was based on the papers       [R1 to R6] in addition to       an invited review written by Pacey and Suarez (Cornell University),       published in Human         Reproduction Update.
Pacey also helped in developing on-line       resources for the Channel 4       website including an on-line game made by a small independent game       developer in London, called       Johnny Two Shoes, and `Fertility Tips for Men', a short article authored       by Pacey and available       from the Channel 4 website.
Impact on society &#8212; public debate informed by research     The first UK broadcast of the film was on 23 March 2009 on Channel 4,       where it was listed by The         Daily Mirror and The Sunday Times TV critics as Pick of         the Day and Pick of the Week,       respectively.
It was subsequently shown in Canada on 28 June 2009, France       5 December 2009       (where it was known as Spermatozo&#239;des, que le meilleur gagne!
),       Australia on 10 January 2010,       and Finland on 22 April 2010 [S1, S2].
The estimated UK       audience was almost 1.7 million viewers       and the worldwide audience in the region of 10 million viewers [S1].
The film received many critical       reviews in the media including:     "Lovely and packed with information &#8212; this should be a staple part of       sex-education lessons"       The Sunday Times (Pick of the Week) [S1]     "Inventive, fun to watch and terrifically informative" Radio Times       [S1]     "It's probably the best science lesson you'll ever have" and "my       reproductive knowledge has       been significantly enhanced by The Great Sperm Race; it contains a       few interesting factoids       that may help couples trying to conceive" OntheBox.com [S3].
"No nut was left unbusted in a highly entertaining romp that should be       made compulsory       viewing on the national biology curriculum" The Metro [S4].
"As far as Woody Allen is concerned in his movie Everything You Ever         Wanted To Know         About Sex... it's a comical journey.
But according to this unusual       documentary, the heroic       struggle of sperm to achieve their glorious goal is more like a disaster       movie, with impossible       odds and a battlefield strewn with the bodies of millions of casualties."
The Daily Mirror Pick       of the Day [S5].
It is clear from the number of informal blogs, forums and websites that       discuss the film and its       associated on-line resources that they have increased debate and improved       public understanding       of issues related to reproductive medicine.
More personal comments come       from the entries from       individual viewers on bulletin boards associated with pregnancy and       infertility, such as       pregnancyforum.co.uk [S6, S7, S8], with comments such as:     "An amazing documentary showing how sperm gets to the egg.
They scale the       sperm up to       human size to make it easier to understand.
Really worth watching!"
CholeNat 2011.
"you can see now why it can take so long to conceive!"
Bellarina from       Wales.
The on-line resources developed for the Channel 4 website [S9] are       still being used today and the       game produced with Johnny Two Shoes has been played nearly 10.5 million       times since March       2009 [S10].
To date, over 400 comments have been left by people       playing the game [S9] including:     "A friend at school found this game at school and played it during       Science class last year.
Really fun game."
Alex Smapons on 23 February 2013.
"keegan simpson and I love this game so much keegan does not under stand       a lot about sex       education and this game really helps him understand."
james bignell on 29       January 2013.
"THIS GAME IS ANAZING!
MY FREINDS IN PSHE WERE (sic) LAUGHING AND       LEARNING!
GREAT GAME FROM ALL AT GREENACRE SCHOOL!"
Jordan on 23       November 2012.
"This game is very good, educational and fun."
shawr on 05 March 2012.
"This is a wicked game and its very educational."
thefootballstig       on 24 January 2011.
As a mark of its success, the film was nominated for a Royal Television       Society award in 2010 and       won a Canadian Society of Cinematographers award in 2009 for the best       "Docudrama       Cinematography" and an Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television, Gemini       Award in 2010 for       the Best Science Documentary [S1, S2].
These awards have helped       Blink Films to go on and       prosper as a production company and make further ground-breaking films in       other areas [S1].
