     Overview     Scientific research carried out in Sheffield has informed commercial       decisions on the research and development of a novel herbicide, making a       direct contribution to its identification and potential development by a       global commercial agrichemical company.
The results from Sheffield       persuaded the company to invest in a different research direction to       design this novel herbicide, and to conduct in-house glasshouse trials and       field trials in Europe and both North and South America.
The company       involved (Syngenta) has global reach ($9.2 billion sales, employing over       21,000 people in more than 90 countries).
Glyphosate, the product that the       novel herbicide aims to replace, plays a critical role in maintaining a       large percentage of the world's food supply but its use is threatened by       the emergence of resistance [S4-S7].
Glyphosate currently dominates       the world herbicide market with sales in excess of $4 billion per annum       and the development of a novel product to replace it would have worldwide       implications.
Impact on Commerce     Syngenta has so far invested approximately $20M in the development of a       herbicide targeting IGPD to identify a suitable replacement for       glyphosate.
The work of the Sheffield group has led to the determination       of the structure of IGPD and a deep understanding of the       structure/activity relationships of different classes of lead compounds       that have been developed by Syngenta.
The structural data were key to       decisions made by the company to continue research in this area.
Over the REF period, and based on results obtained in Sheffield, Syngenta       custom synthesised kilograms of the lead compound and recently (2010-12)       performed glasshouse trials followed by a series of field trials (in North       America, South America and Switzerland) to test the herbicidal efficacy of       the lead compound.
This is one of the key steps in the commercial and       regulatory pathway prior to marketing of the product, and equivalent to       the stage of clinical trials in the medical arena.
The costs of performing       such trials are commercially sensitive but are significant.
The results of these trials against their panel of resistant weed       cultivars (which are also commercially sensitive) has had a direct outcome       on both the company's decision whether to take the product through to       market and on the direction of future research in this area.
Thus, the       Sheffield research programme has had a direct influence on the commercial       decisions of a major global company.
In a supporting letter [S1],       Dr Tim Hawkes, who leads research into weed control solutions at Syngenta,       confirms that work at the University of Sheffield "exerted a         considerable and direct influence on our work here at Syngenta" and       "helped to lead Syngenta into a programme of chemistry aimed towards         new inhibitors" and that "over the last few years Syngenta has         certainly invested multi-million pounds in the IGPD area".
As a result of the discoveries by the Sheffield team, over the REF period       Syngenta invested considerable expenditure on chemical consumables and the       employment and training of several synthetic chemists.
Syngenta also       co-funded the IGDP structural studies in Sheffield, resulting in the       employment and training of a team of research scientists, and co-funded       three PhD students at the University [S2, S3].
Ongoing Impact on Commercial Research and Development     The research collaboration between Sheffield and Syngenta represented a       rational-design approach to the development of novel herbicides in which       precise knowledge of enzyme structure/activity relationships is used to       model/design/screen potential inhibitors.
This approach has influenced       on-going work between Sheffield and the commercial partner, and the       collaboration continues to influence ideas for further lead compound       optimisation in an on-going project funded by BBSRC and Syngenta [S3].
