     Research in Sheffield provided mechanistic understanding of the role of       5-HT in visceral pain and demonstrated that a specific receptor antagonist       (alosteron) has visceral analgesic properties, effective in the treatment       of diarrhoea-predominant IBS (D-IBS).
The research undertaken in Sheffield       was part of a substantial investment by GSK in the research and       development of Lotronex for treatment of IBS [S1,S2].
The       importance of Grundy's contributions is confirmed by the project leader at       GSK, Dr Allen Mangel, currently vice-president at RTI Health Solutions.
A       letter from Dr Mangel explains how "the pivotal work from Dr. Grundy's         laboratory provided the basis to explain why 5-HT3 receptor antagonists,         such as Lotronex, behave as visceral analgesic agents reducing         debilitating abdominal pain in D-IBS.
This information was provided both         to the FDA Gastroenterology Reviewing Division and the GI Drug Advisory         Committee that led to the ultimate approval of Lotronex in the United         States for the treatment of female D-IBS patients" [S3].
Sheffield research was an important early step towards the launch of       Lotronex for the treatment of patients with irritable bowel syndrome.
This       is currently the only drug available to treat IBS and has resulted in       considerable impacts on commerce and on health and welfare.
Commerce     The socioeconomic impact of functional gut disorders is significant, with       direct and indirect healthcare costs estimated at &#163;34 billion in the seven       largest western economies.
In 2008, exclusive US rights to market Lotronex were acquired from GSK by       Prometheus, a US company that specialises in diagnostics and therapeutics,       for $80 million plus 714,285 shares of Prometheus Laboratories Inc. common       stock [S4].
In order to reduce the potential for harmful side       effects, Lotronex was subject to a special prescribing program designed to       ensure that only doctors who had enrolled in the "Prescribing Program for       Lotronex" could issue prescriptions [S5].
Recent data show that, of       29,072 patients who received 203,939 prescriptions for Lotronex, the       incidence of serious outcomes has remained rare and cases are typically of       short duration that resolve upon withdrawal of treatment [S6].
The       Prometheus website describes Lotronex as one of two major gastrointestinal       products (the other being Entocort) and therefore represents an important       product in their portfolio.
Sales figures show a steady increase from       $25.2 million in 2008, $30.4 million in 2009 and in 2010 net sales of       Lotronex were $34.8 million, an increase of approximately 14.5% on the       previous year.
In 2010, Prometheus employed approximately 125 sales       representatives, sales managers and regional field trainers [S7].
In July 2011 Prometheus was bought by Nestle Health Science for an       estimated $1.1billion [S8].
Health and Welfare     IBS is estimated to affect between 8 and 15% of the population in the US       and Europe and has an enormous impact on healthcare provision and quality       of life, particularly in women.
Functional gastrointestinal disorders       including IBS represent one of the great unmet clinical needs and are       estimated to account for 40% of all new referrals to gastroenterology       clinics [S5].
The International Foundation for Functional       Gastrointestinal Disorders (IFFGD) describes what life is like for       patients with IBS.
The main symptoms are pain or abdominal discomfort       associated with either diarrhoea or constipation.
It can have a       devastating effect on quality of life because of unpredictable pain,       urgency and incontinence.
Patients complain about the impact it has on       both their professional and personal life, with the misery of incontinence       several times per day.
As one IBS patient describes in an on-line forum, "let         me tell you what it feels like.
You have now gone from being a         productive, full-time working mother, a loving wife, likeable friend and         positive contributor to society &#8212; to a highly anxious, depressed and         housebound individual".
Recent data describe an increased risk of       suicide in patients with IBS [S9].
Lotronex is specifically used for the treatment of diarrhoeal IBS.
Data       from clinical trials documents the improvement in symptoms with adequate       relief of pain and discomfort, as well as improvement of bowel symptoms,       frequency, urgency and stool consistency when compared with placebo       (Cremonni et al, Aliment Pharmacol Ther.
36:437-48, 2012).
An indication       of the extent to which symptoms improve can be gauged from the reaction of       patients following withdrawal of the drug after a small number of patients       developed potentially life-threatening ischemic colitis.
A Lotronex Action       Group was set up by patients who had benefited from treatment that was no       longer available to them in order to lobby for an FDA review and       reintroduction of the drug.
The group gained support from prominent       politicians, including members of Congress who petitioned on behalf of       patients.
The group was demanding the return of the drug that "gave me         my life back and my peace of mind".
Their petition was successful       when the FDA approved Lotonex for the second time in 2002 and to this day       continues to provide adequate relief for large numbers of patients.
The       pressure created by sufferers for the return of Lotronex is clear evidence       of the impact it has had on their lives, and it is well documented.
Patient testimonies included in the Lotronex Action Group submission to       the FDA are evidence of the impact that blocking 5-HT3 receptor-mediated       sensory signalling can have on pain signalling from the bowel [S10].
