     Commercial investment Enabling the Development of Regenerative         Medicine     a) Commercial development of pluripotent stem cells for           regenerative medicine     To exploit the opportunities created by the first derivation of hESC,       Axordia Ltd was founded as a spin-out company of the University of       Sheffield in 2001 with Professors Andrews and Moore (also of Sheffield) as       founding directors [S1].
The initial investment in Axordia from the       White Rose Technology Seedcorn Fund (a &#163;9M scheme funded by contributions       from the then Regional Development Agency, the then DTI and the White Rose       universities) was secured based upon the strength of the underlying       research programmes of the founding scientists (Press Release [S2]).
The patent applications relating to reprogramming somatic cells (that had       been filed by Andrews and Kemp in 1999) were assigned to Intercytex Ltd,       another early stage biotech company working towards regenerative medicine       (who later purchased Axordia).
Acquisition of these patents from Sheffield       in exchange for founder shares contributed to Intercytex obtaining its       initial investment of &#163;1.4 million.
Andrews served as an Executive       Director of Axordia and was a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of       Intercytex.
His research underpinned the patents on hESC and his board       membership contributed to assuring investors of the potential of Axordia       and Intercytex.
In 2006, Axordia secured additional investment of &#163;420,000       from BioFusion Ltd [S3].
In particular, collaborative work with       Coffey after his move from Sheffield to UCL on the production of RPE cells       from hESC allowed Axordia to enter negotiations with UCL to provide cells       for future clinical trials for AMD.
Pfizer and Coffey have received       approval from the MRHA to carry out clinical trials for AMD using RPE       cells derived from SHEF-1 (letter from Paul Whiting, Pfizer Neusentis [S4]).
The potential opportunities in Regenerative Medicine, exemplified by the       possibility of treating AMD with hESC-derived RPE cells, encouraged Pfizer       to establish a new unit and wholly owned subsidiary, Neusentis (evidenced       by letter from Pfizer Neusentis [S4]).
Eventually, Intercytex       purchased Axordia for shares valued at &#163;1.68M in 2008 (Intercytex Press       Release [S5]).
In 2009 Intercytex sold Axordia cell lines,       including SHEF-1, to Pfizer for $750,000 (Pfizer Press Release [S6]).
Currently, Pfizer are supporting the clinical trials for AMD using cells       derived from a clinical grade SHEF-1 hESC line isolated at Sheffield under       contract to Pfizer.
As stated in the letter from Pfizer Neusentis:     "The hESC line we are using is SHEF1.
This was first shown by         Professor Andrews (in collaboration with Professor Coffey at the         Institute of Ophthalmology) to be capable of differentiating into RPE.
Clearly this was critical information to enable the subsequent focus on         SHEF-1 as opposed to other hESC lines."
Thus, this work has had a significant direct commercial impact of several       million pounds (purchase of Axordia hESC lines by Intercytex and Pfizer,       development of Neusentis, and Pfizer contract work at Sheffield), has       influenced commercial decisions of a major pharmaceutical company, and has       influenced the emerging field of novel health outcomes via the generation       of clinical grade stem cells that will be used in human trials.
b) Commercial development of markers for quality control of hESC     A requirement anticipated for the approval of hESC based regenerative       medicine applications is a demonstration, using multiple approaches, that       preparations of differentiated cells for transplantation are not       contaminated with persisting undifferentiated stem cells.
One approach is       a demonstration that such preparations do not contain cells expressing       specific surface antigens (such as TRA-1-60) defined by the research of       Andrews.
As stated in the letter from Pfizer Neusentis, [S4]:     "Professor Andrews' research showed that a cell surface marker known         as Tra-1-60 identifies pluripotent stem cells such as hESC.
This         observation has proven very useful for our cell therapy programme as         using an antibody to Tra-1-60 enables us to identify any contaminating         hESC in preparations of RPE cells.
This purity assay is critical to         ensure safety of the therapeutic product, and was a requirement of the         UK regulatory agency, the MHRA"     Following commercial agreement with Andrews, the markers (SSEA3, SSEA4,       TRA-1-60, TRA-1-81) for determining stem cell state are now sold under       licence from the Wistar Institute (a US biomedical centre) by at least 17       companies, including Life Technologies, who acknowledge the work of the       ISCI consortium led by Andrews [S7].
The value of these products is       commercially sensitive but Andrews has received licence revenue from       Wistar [S8].
Regulation of the Clinical Use of Stem Cells     The use of stem cells in regenerative medicine is an emerging field in       which the regulatory authorities are still developing guidelines.
Andrews       has contributed to this policy debate by:     a) Informing government policy     Andrews was invited to advise government on hESC research, as an expert       witness to the House of Lords Science and Technology regenerative medicine       inquiry in 2013 (House of Lords Report [S9]).
b) Safety and regulatory approval     Andrews' research led to the recognition by regulatory authorities that       genetic change can occur in hESC and that this must be taken into account       in safety assessments of hESC-based regenerative medicine.
This       requirement relates directly to the research performed by Andrews.
For       example, documentation about the absence of such genetic changes (e.g.,       gains of chromosomes 17 or 12) was required before the UK government       agency, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA),       provided approval for the planned UCL/Pfizer AMD clinical trial (see       letter from Pfizer Neusentis, [S4]).
The development of regenerative medicine, particularly based upon hESC,       is a national priority of the UK government and research councils.
It is       recognized that this development requires active commercial investment,       which must be underpinned by the strength of the UK research and       regulatory environment.
Prof Andrews' activities have had considerable       impact in the development of policy and in the commercialisation and       testing of hESC lines for research and clinical use.
