     The research has had an impact on Health and Welfare (decisions       by a regulatory authority have been informed by the research); impact on commerce       (a business sector has adopted a new policy to which the research has       contributed); impact on public policy (the policy has informed new       regulations, control measures for infection have been improved); and       impact on services (professional standards have been influenced by       the research).
Impact on policy     Professor Siva-Jothy's research expertise informed and guided the task of       the US Environmental Protection Agency's Scientific Advisory Panel (SAP)       to consider and review methods for efficacy testing of bed bug pesticides       [S1].
Siva-Jothy was asked to become a member of the EPA Scientific Advisory       Panel and to assist in defining product testing and control protocols for       bed bugs.
He travelled, at the EPA's expense, to attend a 2-day meeting at       the Environment Protection Agency conference centre in Arlington, in March       2012 [S2].
Notably, Siva-Jothy was the only member of the panel       from outside of the USA.
The policy document resulting from this meeting       defined, for the first time, how products used to eradicate bed bugs       should be tested and what variables are required to show that they are       effective.
The new regulations mean that it will no longer be possible for       practitioners to use unregulated control techniques that have previously       exacerbated the problem because they (a) failed to control local       infestations (which then expand), (b) often enhanced dispersal (because       they use non-lethal compounds in generic ways that stimulate the resistant       bed bugs to disperse) and (c) produced a distrust of reputable       pest-control practitioners, so that infestations went unreported,       enhancing population growth.
A letter from the Executive Secretary of the       EPA Scientific Advisory Panel acknowledges the value of Siva-Jothy's       contribution "It is because of Dr Siva-Jothy's extensive and renown         expertise on bedbug life history, behavior and ecology that he was         invited to participate in this meeting [the SAP].
The knowledge he has         gained from his research experience contributed greatly to the         scientific underpinnings of the Panel's advice and recommendations as         contained in SAP Minutes #2012-03."
[S3].
Impact on Industry and changing practice.
Many legitimate urban-pest controllers were using compounds and       techniques designed for other urban insect pests (such as cockroaches or       termites), which had no effect on bed-bugs.
More worryingly, because there       was no informed guidance on the application protocols, they were being       used in a manner that was compounding the problem (i.e.
producing       dispersal).
The SAP document defines the objective testing protocols in       respect to chemical efficacy by experimental designs that capture efficacy       on wild bed-bug populations `in the field'.
This means that the standard,       long-established laboratory-based approaches are now considered       inadequate.
The research output and expertise from Siva-Jothy was critical       in informing the design of the protocols in this document.
The SAP       document is the first attempt by any government to provide evidence-based       guidelines for control practices and pesticide efficacy for this globally       resurgent pest.
The consequence of this regulation in the USA is that the       bed-bug pest control industry is now largely restricted to professional       practitioners who follow the guidelines and use chemicals that have been       approved via the protocols in the SAP document.
Untrained,       fly-by-night practitioners using cheap, untested chemicals can no longer       operate and customers now get an effective professional service.
Two main       professional bodies currently ensure that the standards in the SAP       document are applied by their members: BedBug Central and The National       Pest Management Association of America (NPMA).
These member associations       who provide a broad-based training for thousands of companies across the       US, recognise that the research conducted by Siva-Jothy has been core to       the provision that has increased the effectiveness of their practitioners       [S4,S5].
The impact of Siva-Jothy's contributions is confirmed in       letters from the Technical Director of BedBug Central, and the Executive       Officer of The National Pest Management Association who state that:     "Prof. Siva-Jothy's and his group's research (via publication and the         plenary to our members) has influenced the practices of BedBug Central         and assisted in advancing its recommended protocol which reaches         hundreds of thousands of people every year", and "Having Mike         present the results of his evidence-based research on bed bug behaviour,         ecology and life-history has been crucial in helping the industry         develop innovative control strategies across the United States.
Our         members are involved in thousands of treatments nationwide; therefore         the impact of Mike's research is far-reaching and very important."
Impact on individuals/health.
Best estimates suggest that ca 1M people are affected by bed bugs       in New York City alone.
Figure 1 shows web-site notification of confirmed       infestations across the USA: This registry tends to capture       hospitality-related infestations, as reported by an affluent, web-literate       demographic.
The demographic affected by bed bugs is much wider than that       represented in the data and, in the developed world, the nucleus of urban       infestations tends to be social housing and/or vulnerable members of       society.
Figure 1.
Bedbugregistry data on location of reported bed-bug       infestations since 2006.
The majority of these are from the hospitality       industry: residential infestations are under-represented in these data.
The EPA's web site (http://www.epa.gov/bedbugs/)       reflects the urgency for education of the problem.
For example, control       measures in apartment blocks initiated by a single complaint subsequently       revealed that &gt;50% of apartments were infested, with the occupants       failing to report despite presenting to doctors with "allergies" &#8212; i.e.
extensive exposure and reaction to bed-bug bites.
The bedbugregistry (http://bedbugregistry.com/metro/)       allows self-reporting of infestations (Fig.
1) and is the only       organisation tracking infestation at a national scale.
The number of people affected in developed continues to rise, and       although bed bugs do not transmit disease, they have a huge economic cost.
Extermination and management costs can exceed $6,000 pa per       apartment; litigation in the hospitality industry exceeds $500M pa       in the USA, and indirect effects (on mental health, fatigue caused by loss       of sleep and itching) are only just beginning to be measured.
Although the       socio-political relevance of this pest is largest in the USA, it is an       increasing if less visible or officially acknowledged problem in London,       Paris, Sydney and most major international cities.
Impact timescale     The nature and extent of the impact is long-term: the Environmental       Protection Agency document published by the Scientific Advisory Panel       (including Siva-Jothy) now underpins product certification, and has       galvanised the control industry in the USA to standardise its protocols       and codes of practice.
There are now standardised, scientifically       informed, review, testing and application protocols being implemented.
Since the SAP document sets the standard by which other national testing       protocols will be developed, the likely impact will reach beyond the USA.
The level of Professor Siva-Jothy's contribution to this impact is       underlined by Dr Feldlaufer, an entomologist at the United States       Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service (USDA/ARS) who       states "Prof. Siva-Jothy's laboratory has made seminal contributions         to our knowledge of bed bugs in the context of modern ecological and         evolutionary theory and had generated most of our modern understanding         of bed bug biology.
The body of knowledge generated by his research         effort has provided critical reference sources on which to build control         strategies in the United States" [S6].
