     Our pathway to generating impact from researching Sheffield's industrial       and civic development       began through a Knowledge Transfer programme, incorporating media and       popular publications       (e.g.
Time Team Special 2004, onsite interpretation at Riverside       Exchange).
In 2009, we initiated a       new civic engagement strategy that involved working closely with key       partners, and employing a       Knowledge Exchange model of engagement and impact.
A key aim was to reach       economically and       socially deprived communities in the city, particularly young people.
This       furthered the University's       strategic aim of employing community engagement as a means to `actively       contribute to the       success and prosperity of the city'.
Several of our partnerships, e.g.
HCF, have evolved into       creative and co-produced research projects; others are leading to       sustainable social enterprises       that will deliver innovative heritage resources for the city's future       (e.g.
Point Blank, SCC).
The impact of our city-wide archaeological research is demonstrated       through three initiatives:       Manor Lodge, Heeley City Farm, and Sheffield Woodland Heritage.
Through       co-created cultural       events that changed how people think about the city's heritage (including       excavations enjoyed by       thousands of young people), these projects delivered cultural, educational       and environmental       benefits for the people of Sheffield and for our partner organisations.
1.
Manor Lodge The research at Manor Lodge, initiated in 2009 with       HEIF funding (&#163;150K),       was undertaken in partnership with the site's custodians, Green Estate, a       social enterprise that       seeks to transform the community through landscape, cultural and social       initiatives.
The       excavations at Manor Lodge, an area of recognised economic and social       deprivation (in the top 5%       most deprived areas in the Government's 2010 Indices of Deprivation), were       a vital contribution       towards the regeneration of the site, leading to environmental,         cultural and social impact by       enabling ground works to facilitate access, especially for disabled       visitors, and the creation of       Tudor-style gardens in the Inner Courtyard.
The gardens are acknowledged       by Green Estate's       CEO as `a massive gain', and together with the results of the       archaeological excavations underpin       a unique educational programme delivered by the organisation's education       team (S1).
A key development in delivering cultural and economic impact from       the Manor Lodge research       has been a partnership with Point Blank theatre company, a charitable arts       organisation working       across South Yorkshire, which has enabled Crewe and Hadley to reach new       audiences through an       interpretation of their research as a play entitled `All Sorts of       Wickedness'.
This presents a vision of       the site's `hidden' 19th-century history &#8212; usually overshadowed by the       story of Mary Queen of       Scots' imprisonment at the Manor in the 1570s.
The production had an       audience of c.290 people in       a Spiegeltent in Sheffield City Centre during the University's `Festival       of the Mind' (2012) - an       event designed to engage the public and local communities with academic       research.
Professional       and community actors, including two residents of Manor Lodge Estate,       performed in the play.
One       of the community performers has used the experience to gain employment as       a professional actor.
Comments from the audience included: `really insightful.
I immensely       enjoyed it and learnt       something new about the city'; `left me wanting to find out more';       `thought provoking' (S2, S3).
According to Point Blank's creative director, the production was a `step       change', as it was their first       tangible partnership with academic researchers.
The experience they gained       performing in the       Spiegeltent contributed to Point Blank's successful application to the       Arts Council for a strategic       touring programme in South Yorkshire comprising 25 performances in 10       venues, together with 15       workshops providing training in `identified needs areas'.
Two productions       on historical themes,       devised with Crewe and Hadley, are supported by HEIF funding (&#163;7K).
Point       Blank and our       researchers are now working to establish a sustainable social enterprise       that generates income       from heritage-related theatre, street performance, and interpretation, for       communities throughout       South Yorkshire (S3).
2.
Heeley City Farm In 2009, we initiated a collaboration with       Heeley City Farm (HCF), a charity       that confronts and addresses the problems of poverty, inequality,       prejudice and lack of opportunity       in its inner city community.
We co-produced a heritage project based       around the excavation of two       19th-century terraced houses &#8212; Life at 57 Alexandra Road (funded by       Business Link: &#163;14k).
The       collaboration aimed to engage under-represented and deprived communities       and vulnerable       individuals.
We achieved cultural impact by creating opportunities       for these groups to participate       in the project during educational events or as volunteers.
Approximately       2000 people,       representing 29 different communities or groups, participated in the       excavations of two terraced       houses during 2009-11.
These included young people (e.g.
local schools and       the Children's       University), community and support organisations (e.g.
Sheffield       Conversation Club &#8212; for refugees       and asylum seekers), Sova (a charity designed to help people build a       better life, steering them       away from crime), Rotherham Multicultural Centre (a charity which aims to       integrate all members of       the local community), Lai Yin Association (a Chinese women's support       group), Autism Plus, adult       learners and volunteers (e.g.
York People First and Workers' Educational       Association), and       commercial companies (e.g.
Veolia Environmental Services).
Participant       testimonies demonstrate       both engagement and enjoyment through learning e.g.
`F has loved her first       go at archaeology.
Muck from head to foot!
And I've rediscovered how much fun it is.'
(F is       now a member of the       Council for British Archaeology's (CBA) Young Archaeologists Club and a       HCF volunteer.)
(S4)     The educational impact of the activities are demonstrated by four       volunteers from the project       being awarded CBA community archaeology training bursaries, which provide       a year's paid work-       placement to develop the skills, experience and confidence to work with       voluntary groups and       communities.
The excavations formed the catalyst for two further heritage       projects led by HCF:       Tools of the Trade (a collaboration with Kelham Island Museum) and Heeley       Explore (funded by       Museums Sheffield and the CBA).
HCF also undertook organisational changes       as a result of the       project by establishing a Heritage Section and securing the appointment of       a Heritage Project       Officer.
This will have a lasting impact on the development of key       educational aspects of the       research and enable the continuation of heritage activities for young       people at HCF.
`Life at       Number 57' was recognised nationally through shortlisting for the CBA's       Marsh Award for       Community Archaeology (2009) and the National Enterprise Educator Awards       (2011).
(S4)     The collaboration at HCF developed further around Doonan's experimental       research.
Working       with a variety of groups, he led the construction of a roundhouse at HCF       that now serves as an       outdoor classroom and a Forest Schools educational resource.
This enabled       HCF staff to acquire       new skills in traditional and sustainable building techniques, which they       have employed on other       projects with community groups and schools (S4).
With HCF, Doonan and       students from the       Department have now constructed roundhouses at a nearby primary school and       a charitable       residential centre for young people in Derbyshire.
The roundhouse at the       primary school is,       according to the head teacher, `a fantastic resource which should be used       not only by the children       at [the] school but by the children from schools in the local area'.
3.
Sheffield's Woodland Heritage Our partnership with Sheffield       City Council (SCC), while       researching the industrial history of the City's woodlands, has supported       a diverse programme of       educational activities with significant cultural, educational and         environmental impacts.
The       collaboration began during field-based research in the woodlands of the       Rivelin Valley in 2007.
Johnston worked closely with SCC to develop &amp; deliver a fresh       perspective on the cultural history       of the valley and led SCC to commission three new interpretation panels in       2011, one of which,       based on Johnston's research, was located at the site of the Sheffield       excavations.
A programme       of outreach and educational activities ran alongside the excavations, with       organised visits from       three local schools and open days that attracted over 500 visitors.
These       included reconstructions       of historical iron-working by Doonan, based on his metallurgy and       experimental research.
In 2007 Merrony (with Sheffield students) conducted a landscape study in       preparation for a       successful HLF bid to restore the 16th century water-powered       industrial workshop at Shepherd       Wheel, and our staff were involved in the subsequent restoration (opened       2012) (S5).
Doonan,       with Sheffield students, and in collaboration with SCC and The Friends of       the Porter Valley, played       a major role in the `Brook to Blade' event (2011), which turned the Porter       Valley back into an       industrial landscape for 3 days of exploration and organised, hands-on       learning.
c. 1000 people       visited, and 270 young people participated in the education days.
Schools       provided positive       evaluations of the event.
The teacher of a Y7 class (12-13 years), from a       Sheffield school with       major behavioural and educational difficulties, wrote: "The students       gained in their knowledge of       the history of Sheffield, in their knowledge about industrial life in       Sheffield in the last few centuries.
They also got to experience workshops outside a classroom in a       kinaesthetic way, which really       engages them."
A teacher from a local primary school commented that for       her Y4 class (8-9 years):       "The event fitted into our work on rivers and greatly enhanced the       children's understanding of the       importance of our local river."
Visitors to the restored site number       30,000 per year, and the       community project was recently shortlisted for the English Heritage       `Angels' award for the best       rescue of an industrial building or site (S6).
A second programme of craft activities took place at Wincobank, the site       of an Iron Age hill fort       that has long suffered from neglect and inappropriate use (e.g.
fly-tipping and trials-bike erosion).
The activities were organised by SCC, Sheffield (Doonan) and other       partners, as part of the HLF-       funded Wincobank Hill Revival Project (WHRP), which aimed to reclaim the       woodland for the       community and ensure preservation of the hill fort.
During the `Light up       the Hill' event in November       2012, over 250 children and adults from the local area celebrated the       hill's 2000-year heritage with       a torch-lit procession, music, theatre, and experimental iron smelting.
At       the end of the WHRP, the       project officer for SCC wrote that working with University of Sheffield       was `key in helping deliver       community events, excellent education sessions, and the project has helped       forge strong links with       the community...which will continue to flourish once the project is       complete.'
The local community       group also recognised the social impact of the University's       contribution: `Dr Doonan's involvement       has raised the self-esteem, aspiration and public standing of the       [Wincobank] community.'
Building on Doonan's research (particularly the experimental       metal-working), these educational       activities contributed to SCC's establishment of a Heritage Crafts Skills       programme at the       Woodlands Discovery Centre at Ecclesall Woods, in west Sheffield.
The       Centre, an important       educational resource, is a hub for organising woodland craft activities       throughout the city,       particularly in economically deprived areas, through the `Access to       Nature' programme.
The       initiative, involving experimental craft sessions, has proved so       successful that a permanent space       has been created at the Centre for the Sheffield team to run heritage       craft workshops.
The income       from these in turn subsidises free craft workshops in areas such as       Woolley Woods, Shiregreen,       parts of which are in the 5% most deprived areas nationally (Government       2010 Indices of       Deprivation).
Events at Woolley Woods in April 2012 and 2013 (SCC with       Doonan) involved 764       young people and adults, the majority from economically deprived       communities and many from       BME backgrounds.
The medium-term aim of the SCC/Sheffield partnership is       to make this a       sustainable programme of heritage craft activities that reaches diverse       communities throughout the       city.
Summary: Co-created cultural events, such as the `All Sorts of       Wickedness' play and historic       craft demonstrations (`Brook to Blade' and `Light up the Hill'), changed       how people think about and       value the city's heritage.
Thousands of people participated in and gained       educational benefits from       archaeological research during the excavations at HCF and the workshops       organised through       `Access to Nature'.
We worked with organisations to transform the historic       environment (Manor       Lodge) and make places safer and more accessible for people to enjoy and       value (Wincobank Hill,       roundhouses at HCF and other sites, Shepherd Wheel).
Our impact pathway       has evolved from       creative and co-produced research projects into sustainable social       enterprises that will deliver       innovative heritage resources for our city's future.
