     The original discovery of the cave art and subsequent dissemination and       use of the findings was a product of the symbiotic link between the       University of Sheffield and Creswell and close collaboration between the       two units.
The University of Sheffield has maintained a close and       continuous involvement with archaeological research at Creswell Crags       since 1976.
In 1990, it was one of the founders of the Creswell Heritage       Trust (CHT), the charitable organisation that manages and interprets the       natural and cultural heritage of Creswell Crags and its caves.
The       University nominates a representative member to the Council of Management       of the Trust and provides archaeological advice to the officers of the       Trust.
Several past and present staff of the Heritage Trust, including the       Director, were trained at the University of Sheffield and they continue to       maintain close links with the University, and since 2008, 3 students have       been tour guides [S1].
Raising awareness of Creswell Crags and improving public understanding       The cave art discoveries in 2003 proved to be a turning point for Creswell       Crags.
The initial far-reaching media coverage generated by the       discoveries has been built upon by deliberate efforts by Pettitt and       Chamberlain to disseminate their research locally, regionally and       internationally, to raise public understanding of Ice Age Britain and cave       art, to involve the local community in their local historic environment,       and to support the CHT in turning Creswell into one of the UK's leading       prehistoric archaeological attractions.
Pettitt built upon his research by       writing a popular book Britain's Oldest Art: the Ice Age Cave Art of         Creswell Crags (2009, English Heritage) which aimed to present the       cave art in its national and international context to a general       readership.
The book has sold over 1500 copies and was shortlisted for the       best Archaeology book in the British Archaeological Awards 2010 [S2].
Following its coverage in international journals the research was       published in regional archaeological journals, such as Transactions of         the Thoroton Society of Nottinghamshire, disseminating the results       to a local and more diverse audience.
The project still continues to raise       interest in the press and popular magazines such as National Geographic       (28 Oct 2010, readership of &gt;9 million and translated into 36       languages) [S3], Minerva (front cover Jan/Feb 2010, circulation 10,000)       and BBC History magazine (Aug 2009, readership 69,000 in 2010, also       featuring in their online magazine www.historyextra.com).
The opening of the visitor centre featured in the Daily Telegraph on 8       Sept 2009 (readership 790,000) and in Current Archaeology Nov/Dec 2009       (circulation 17,000).
A wide-ranging programme of public engagement activities was implemented       to ensure that local, regional and national communities have been kept       fully informed and engaged with the importance of the cave art finds       within their context.
For example, Pettitt and Chamberlain gave invited       lectures, based on their research of the recent discoveries, to general       audiences at meetings of regional archaeological societies (e.g.
Plymouth       and District Archaeological Society, Oct 2010, (86 attendees), a workshop       and tour of the excavations and art with the Yorkshire Archaeology Society       on July 2012 (17 members plus guests) and a day funded by HLF Ice Age       Journeys at the Crags (22 attendees).
They also contributed to national       and local events such as the ICOMOS summer event at Creswell Crags Trust       (June 2013, 25 participants), the annual CBA Festival of Archaeology 2009       (250 delegates, featured in Culture24's Top Picks), a CBA members' weekend       trip to Derbyshire and Creswell (14 Sept 2012, 68 visitors) and a series       of `Family Learning Ice Age Camps', funded by Derbyshire County Council       and CHT were organised on four days through the summer 2013 (free of       charge) [S4].
During 2009, University of Sheffield archaeology students       gave public tours of the Crags and their archaeology, produced and sold       booklets and created posters for the general public, thereby increasing       public knowledge of the site and finds, and improving public understanding       of Ice Age Britain.
In addition to an increasing number of school groups, in the last two       years, student groups from Bochum, Mainz and several UK universities have       been guided around the Crags by the Sheffield team.
In 2012, Creswell       Crags were runners up in the Big Draw Award Ceremony at the Courtauld       Institute of Art, London [S1].
Their entry `The Big Cave Draw', was       organised at Creswell and led by artist, Georgina Bell, who encouraged       children to produce their own Ice-Age art inspired by the cave paintings,       using primitive technology, engaging children by participating in early       history.
The Creswell cave art has had a significantly diverse popular appeal.
A       succession of recent popular radio and television programmes have       incorporated the art into their content, including The Drawings on the         Wall, presented by George Nash (BBC Radio 4, 3 February 2008 &#8212;       quarterly R4 listeners 9.5M), Arturart, presented by Arthur Smith       (BBC Radio 4, 7 April 2009, quarterly R4 listeners 9.9M), Digging for         Britain (Alice Roberts, BBC TV, 26th August 2010 (online       16 September 2010), 2.34M viewers &#8212; rated 6th for BBC2 for that       week) and A History of Ancient Britain, presented by Neil Oliver       (BBC 2 TV, February 2011, 3.2M viewers &#8212; barb.co.uk) [S5].
It has even       been featured in walkers' and ramblers' pages, e.g.
in the Guardian       `Travel/go walk &#8212; Nottingham's cave art' web page (Guardian web site has       ~3 million hits per day).
Building a new museum and visitor centre       The large increase in visitor numbers due to the Ice Age discoveries and       subsequent efforts to raise media and public interest, led to a       state-of-the-art new museum and visitor centre being built during 2009,       funded by &#163;4.2M Heritage Lottery funding.
Chamberlain (as Trustee) was a       key advisor on the application to the Heritage Lottery Fund and the ice       age discoveries by Pettitt, in particular the rock art, feature strongly       in the application.
The visitor centre uses the research findings of       Pettitt and Chamberlain to provide exciting exhibitions and permanent       educational displays that use archaeological finds from the site to tell       the story of Ice Age Britain.
It has also hosted exhibitions with other       educators such as the British Museum, Natural History Museum, Manchester       Museum, and others.
The British Museum has worked with the Creswell Crags       team to facilitate the building of the new museum and to effect long term       loans of British Museum material [S6].
One broader impact of the museum is       that it will assist with the wider regeneration of North East Derbyshire       and North Nottinghamshire.
Since its opening in 2009 total visitor numbers       to the new centre have exceeded 200,000 [S1].
To further facilitate visitor viewing of the cave art in 2010, CHT (with       Chamberlain on the CHT board involved in planning and infrastructure       enhancements) obtained &#163;93,000 of grant aid from a consortium of local       development agencies and environmental funds to install a permanent       walkway to the visitor centre, and a viewing platform that enhances the       visitor experience when viewing the cave art in Church Hole.
This       investment in new infrastructure led to a &#163;38,000 grant in 2011 from       Nottinghamshire County council matched by &#163;38,000 from Derbyshire Council,       to run the visitor centre and education programme [S7].
The education       programme and new and extended facilities, including exhibition spaces,       has enhanced the viewer experience and allowed more of the story of the       cave, the art and the background to the discoveries to be displayed,       enhancing cultural understanding of the finds.
Economic impact of increased visitor numbers       Our discovery of, and subsequent research on, the rock art has been of       direct financial benefit to the Trust, allowing longer opening hours and a       dedicated team of educators to be employed.
Since the discovery of the       rock art, and publication of the findings by Pettitt, CHT have organised       regular dedicated Rock Art tours to show off the discoveries and       subsequent research findings from Pettitt's excavations.
So while total       visitor numbers slightly decreased in 2009-10 due to the recession, the       number of rock art tours has increased with 9,000 undertaken between 2008       and 2013, generating a total income &#163;54,610 for the Trust, with       &gt;&#163;15,000 in the financial year 2011-2012.
The director of Cresswell,       attributes this to `the increased interest in the cave as a result of         Paul Pettitt's research and excavation at Church Hole and the         involvement of the excavation team in the public programmes' [S1].
Other business and government sectors that have benefited in terms of       economic growth or cultural development from the cave art discoveries       include the local private sector (shops and cafes) and local authority       tourism organisations through increased tourism in the area.
Using visitor       figures and surveys and economic data provided by the Bolsover District       Council for the local district, CHT has calculated that the total economic       impact for the year 2012-13 in terms of total spending was in excess of       &#163;750,000, which included local, day and overnight visitors who stayed in       the local area [S1, S7].
This is in addition to the national-level income       generated by the sale of TV and radio broadcasts to other networks, and       papers by media organisations.
The research has also had a far-reaching       impact beyond the heritage sector &#8212; for example, it featured in the Royal       Society Many Hands festival and exhibition Nov 2011-Jan 2012 with       18,000 visitors [S8].
Supporting CHT to gain World Heritage Status for the site       Following the cave art discoveries Pettitt and Chamberlain were invited to       formulate a site Research Strategy and co-authored this document.
Due to       their ongoing research at Creswell, in 2010, they also collaborated with       CHT in the preparation of an application for World Heritage Status.
Both       Pettitt and Chamberlain, as members of the World Heritage Steering group       advised the Department of Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) on the Technical       Evaluation, in particular advising about the value of the site and the       contribution the resource makes towards outstanding universal value.
The       application was approved in March 2011 and Creswell is now a Tentative       World Heritage Site.
Having the vision to become a World Heritage Site has       had a major impact on the investment in developing the site, particularly       physical infrastructure improvements (sewage works relocation, road       diversion, centre development, enhanced visitor access and       interpretation).
The WHS strategy has resulted in &#163;17 million investment       to date.
These investments and the income raised (above) have a greater       significance as the Bolsover area, in which Creswell falls, is in the       `top' 18% of English local authority areas in the 2010 English Index of       Multiple Deprivation.
Other impacts include increased community pride and       identity with local heritage.
The aspiration to become a WHS has increased       visitor numbers indirectly through the improvements detailed above.
The impact of the research on Archaeological policy and operating         guidance       The site was pivotal to the development of the English Heritage       commissioned Palaeolithic Research Framework; Pettitt, P., Gamble, C. and       Last, J.
(eds.)
2008.
Research and Conservation Framework for the         British Palaeolithic.
London: English Heritage &amp; The Prehistoric       Society.
This document sets out the key operating practice which       identifies areas of strategic research and conservation that should be       taken forward in the coming years.
The recommendations laid out in this       document will inform future planning and research practices in relation to       all Palaeolithic sites and is used widely in the profession.
Summary       Overall, these benefits are global in their reach &#8212; tentative World       Heritage Status is recognised internationally &#8212; as well as being       significant at the local, regional and national level.
The economic       benefits are measurable and substantial at the local and regional level,       and the contribution of the cave art to education and public understanding       is demonstrable through its prominence in nationally broadcast programmes.
