     The Stonehenge research project has had international impact, with 4       principal aspects: enhanced public understanding; economic benefit to the       area and to the heritage industry through increased visitor numbers;       contribution to cultural life and understanding; and education.
Enhanced public knowledge through popular media outputs and public         engagement activity     The project was a flagship for the AHRC and the findings have been the       basis of worldwide media coverage.
It has reached an audience of millions       worldwide, through TV documentaries, radio programmes, headline news,       international lecture tours and non-specialist publications, to which       Parker Pearson, Albarella, Viner, Chan, and Willis have contributed.
The       research findings have been the subject of a number of documentaries.
On       Channel 4, the Time Team special Secrets of Stonehenge       (first broadcast 1 June 2009) reached 2.27m viewers (and is also available       in video format), while Secrets of the Stonehenge Skeletons, first       broadcast 1 June 2009, reached 2.05 million viewers [S1].
This represented       a 6.9% share of the viewing audience at that time, compared to Channel 4's       average of 5%.
The programme is now available on 4oD, Channel 4's       interactive on-demand service.
Internationally, the National Geographic       documentary Stonehenge Decoded, first broadcast in May 2008,       reached 6.3m viewers in the USA alone, while also being broadcast on the       network's UK channel.
It is now available for purchase on DVD or free to       view on National Geographic's website.
The documentary was nominated for a       2009 Emmy award.
The PBS documentary series NOVA is the highest rated       science series on US television and the most watched documentary series on       public television.
Their special Secrets of Stonehenge, was first       broadcast on 16 November 2010 and is now available for download on iTunes       and YouTube, for which it currently has 49,000 views [S2].
In addition to       the initial viewing figures, each programme has been repeated a number of       times on their host channels, while also being available through on-demand       services.
They have also been shown to many millions more in Britain,       North America, Europe and other English- and Spanish-speaking countries.
In addition, German, Russian, Japanese and other American film crews have       made documentaries about the project.
The widespread dissemination through       the media has increased public awareness of the project results, changing       the general public's perception of the nature and use of Stonehenge and of       society in the British Bronze Age, indicated by the responses of reviewers       to these documentaries such as `by the end you genuinely felt like you         had increased your own knowledge', and `A truly fantastic         programme showing how far our ancestors travelled at a time when we         thought they only moved a few miles from where they were born' [S3].
It was the front-cover story for National Geographic Magazine in       June 2008 (circulation 9 million and published in 36 languages) [S4], and       has appeared in the National Trust's magazine (National Trust membership       is 4 million).
These magazines aim to disseminate science and research       findings in a readable and well-illustrated format to educate and inform a       world-wide public.
The discoveries of the Durrington Walls settlement in 2006/7, the       Stonehenge findings of 2008 (in 430 international publications), and of       Bluestonehenge in 2009 received heavy news coverage.
These included the LA       Times (circulation 572K, ranked 5 in US), Washington Post (circulation       512, ranked 8 in US) and Boston Globe (circulation 360K) amongst the many       other newspapers across the world who carried it as front-page news and/or       ran large feature articles [S5].
The director and staff have given hundreds of lectures to packed       audiences of local societies, museum groups, tour guide groups and the       general public in Britain, the US, Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands,       Spain, Tenerife (Institute of Astronomy), Croatia, South Korea and       Australia.
For instance lectures on Stonehenge by Parker-Pearson in 2008,       2009 and 2010 and the `Stonehenge debate' at Salisbury Guildhall were       attended by 200, 197,196 and 79 attendees respectively.
Economic Benefits for local tourism     Increased public interest in the site has led to economic benefits for       tourism in the Salisbury area, and particularly for Salisbury &amp;       Stonehenge Guided Tours [S6].
Visitor numbers on the tour have increased       year on year from ~300 in 2008 to ~800 for year ending April 2013,       resulting in a 265% rise in turnover (from &#163;20k to ~&#163;53k) over the same       period.
Visitors taking the 5-hour tour frequently travel by train from       London and stay overnight in Salisbury to enjoy the town's facilities,       providing national and local economic benefits.
Comments include &#8212; `[The       guide] made Stonehenge and its surrounding landscape come alive with his       passion, his in-depth knowledge of the monument, related sites and the       area and his "hot off the press" insights gleaned from his involvement       with the on-going "Riverside Project"' and `Simply put, there is no better       way to visit Stonehenge than with PS'.
(Trip Advisor 328/330 reviews       excellent).
Cultural impact and contribution to national cultural life     The project has provided new information on Stonehenge (chronology,       landscape context, narrative, house reconstructions, population, meaning       and cultural significance etc.
), both for updating guide books and for the       complete re-design of the visitor centre (Parker Pearson was consultant       for the exhibition centre) opening in 2013.
At present the site attracts       over 1 million people p.a.
and so the new-look centre is designed to       accommodate and inform such a large international audience.
A new booklet,       arranged by Jennifer Moore at Sheffield, was sponsored by the increase in       visitor numbers from Salisbury &amp; Stonehenge Guided Tours [S6].
In 2008 and 2009, Art+Archaeology &#8212; a group of seven international       artists &#8212; responded to the archaeological excavations of the Stonehenge       Riverside Project [S7].
The Director (an archaeologist) and co-director       (artist in residence at the project 2007 and 2008) presented exhibitions       at the Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester (May-December 2008 with 34,900       visitors) and subsequently at the Oliver Holt Gallery, Sherborne (Sept-Oct       2009).
Another exhibition `Touchstone: an encounter between art and       archaeology' at Salisbury Museum (2010) had 3,800 visitors.
The Stonehenge       Spectacular event for National Archaeology Week in 2008, also at Salisbury       Museum, was attended by 670 visitors [S8].
A photographer also recorded       the excavation and, partly on the strength of this, was subsequently       appointed Leverhulme artist in residence at the University of Sheffield.
Education &#8212; enhancing children's knowledge of Stonehenge     The research has generated interest within different educational media       across different sectors of the community from children's books and       magazines to general interest archaeology.
It has regularly featured in       issues of the popular magazines British Archaeology and Current         Archaeology (each with circulation over 17,000) [S9] as well as the       American children's magazine Dig (current circulation 12,000).
The       research also led to a children's National Geographic book If         Stones Could Speak, aimed at 10-14 year-olds across the       English-speaking world which won the Orbis Pictus Honor for Outstanding       Nonfiction for Children Award 2011, and sold nearly 15,000 copies (to May       2013) [S10].
The readership and range of these different publications       aimed at a younger audience suggests the message relating to the role of       Stonehenge, its peoples and its place in the landscape will become       embedded in their understanding of prehistory.
Educational impact &#8212; Skills training for the next generation     The project has enhanced skills training.
Approximately 1,000 students       from different disciplines (including archaeology) and nationalities, as       well as local volunteers were trained in archaeological techniques at       Stonehenge during the project's lifetime.
The students have come from       universities throughout Britain, Ireland and across Europe, from Sweden to       Portugal.
Many are now professional contract archaeologists, returning in       subsequent seasons to work as supervisory staff.
Local volunteers have       become skilled, passionate and well-trained archaeologists.
Approximately       6,600 interested visitors (about 38% of them from overseas) were shown       around the project's excavations by our outreach team populated by local       volunteers in 2008.
The project also led to the development of new technologies.
Additional       funding from Google to Parker Pearson has enabled development of a new       concept `Google Under the Earth' using SRP's results as a pilot study.
This was launched in 2011, and allows Google Earth users to travel through       the Stonehenge landscape, looking under the surface at the results of our       excavations and geophysical surveys.
