     The researchers aimed to support specific industry employability       orientated solutions.
The aims were achieved by expert advice on specific       assets and research needs in the furniture industry across the world.
The       portfolio of activity contains examples of applied research for both       international relief programmes and international sector assets.
Contribution and Impact in Bosnia Herzegovina     The research conducted in Bosnia Herzegovina, which led to the       establishment of a Resources Management Standard formed the basis of       training of local Bosniacs in sustainable wood manufacturing processes.
This enabled the Bosniac returnees to set-up successful start up       traditional furniture making companies using sustainable resources.
Prior       to this, such artisan work had been dormant for ten years following the       war which engulfed the region in the 1990s, leaving only 141 full-time       jobs in this sector in the Srebrenica region in 2005.
Traditional tooling       and crafting wood can now secure employment and traditional       furniture-making techniques maintained through standardisation and       regulation on waste management, productivity and carbon footprint.
A       number of 757 full time and 174 part time jobs were created in the       Srebrenica region between 2008 and 2012 (3).
Contribution and impact on Employability in Malaysia     The international market requires that tropical countries, such as Ghana       and Malaysia, demonstrate good practice in employee recruitment and       contractual design.
Foreign investment in the wood processing sector is       influenced by competitive pressure of emerging markets as a result of the       globalization process.
New material resources are also presented to the       market for sustainability of employability and diversification of       products.
The research showed that, in countries such as Malaysia, both       manufacturers and exporter need to formulate policies based on creativity       and innovation that would pave the way for higher added-value products       that would ensure the continued attractiveness for FDI in the sector, and       that this strategy would be supported by greater use of permanent       contracts.
The findings of this research have been communicated to the       Department of Employment of the Malaysian Government.
The Department has       subsequently written a report (1), drawing on the research findings, which       proposes changes in employment policy, changing the balance of permanent       and temporary contracts in favour of permanents.
There is also evidence       (2) that there has already been a move toward greater use of permanent       contracts, as recommended by the research team's report.
Contribution and Impact in Ghana     Research on the Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA), a bilateral trade       agreement between the EU and some timber producing countries, has       contributed to Ghana's efforts to achieve this.
VPA is seen as an enabler       to bring the Ghanaian wood processing sector to international standards by       demonstrating sustainability for the wood resources.
The research gave       focus and high resolution information about the process in order to bring       about changes in industry practice.
This information informed the       signature of ministerial documents in Brussels between the EU and Ghanaian       government on achieving the required standard (4).
