     Patients with venous or arterial thrombosis or with prosthetic metal       heart valves are treated with warfarin anticoagulation.
Approximately       600,000-1,200,000 patients are on warfarin in the UK at any time and       6,000-12,000 each year are likely to require emergency reversal of their       anticoagulation due to life-threatening bleeding.
At the time of our       original research most patients with major bleeding on warfarin were       treated with fresh frozen plasma (FFP), whilst now the vast majority are       treated with prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), based on our research       findings.
Impact on national and international clinical guidelines     National and international guidelines now recommend the use of PCC for       the management of life-threatening bleeding on warfarin.
A.
The current UK guideline on the use of FFP published by the British       Committee for Standards in Haematology (BCSH) states that for reversal of       warfarin "FFP has only a partial effect, is not the optimal treatment, and       should never be used for the reversal of Warfarin in the absence of severe       bleeding".
The evidence supporting this statement in the guideline is our       publication of 1997 (R1).
(S1)     B.
The current UK guideline on the management of patients on warfarin       published by the BCSH recommends "All hospitals managing patients on       warfarin should stock a licensed four factor prothrombin complex       concentrate.
Emergency anticoagulation reversal in patients with major       bleeding should be with 25-50&#181;/kg for factor prothrombin complex       concentrate....... Fresh frozen plasma produces suboptimal anticoagulation       reversal and should only be used if prothrombin complex concentrate is not       available."
This guideline lists our 1997 reference (R1) as showing       "Complete and rapid correction of the coagulopathy is more rapidly       achieved with PCC than FFP Makris et al 1997" (S2)     C. The use of PCC rather than FFP in patients on warfarin is also       recommended by a 2013 guideline on the management of bleeding in patients       on antithrombotic agents (S3).
This is the BCSH guideline on       anticoagulation reversal for all the different anticoagulant drugs.
D. In the UK, at the Dudley Group of Hospitals, the policy for reversal       of warfarin in patients with intracranial or major bleeding recommends use       of PCC and quotes our study R1 to support this recommendation (S4)     E. The French national guidelines on the management of major bleeding in       patients on vitamin K antagonists, such as warfarin, recommend the use of       PCC rather than FFP and quote our study R1 as demonstrating the       superiority of PCC over FFP (S5)     F. The Italian national guidelines produced by the Italian Society for       Transfusion Medicine and Immunohaematology working party also recommend       the use of PCC over FFP for treatment of major bleeding on vitamin K       antagonists and use all 3 of our studies R1, R2 and R3 to support this       recommendation (S6).
Impacts on the economy and commerce     PCCs were introduced 40 years ago to treat haemophilia B.
Initially we       used them off-label in our research to treat warfarin related bleeding.
PCCs are no longer used to treat haemophilia B.
In the last 7 years, however, two international pharmaceutical companies,       Octapharma and CSL Behring, have brought concentrates to the market for       use in emergency reversal of warfarin (Octaplex and Beriplex       respectively).
Beriplex, the product licensed in the UK in 2007, was the       product first shown by us in 2002 (R3) to be safe and effective.
CSL       Behring referenced our publications (R1, R3) in the clinical section of       their license dossier submitted to the European Medicines Agency (S7).
In the Australian Public Assessment Report for Human Prothrombin Complex       Concentrate it is stated that our publication R3 was included in the       Beriplex license application as supportive evidence (S8).
Octapharma and CSL Behring have sold more than 20 million units of       Octaplex/Beriplex in the UK in 2012 (S9).
In 2012 CSL Behring has sold in excess of 300 million units of Beriplex       internationally (S7).
In April 2013, the US Food and Drug Administration       approved KCentra&#8482;, the first US FDA-approved 4- Factor prothrombin complex       concentrate for urgent warfarin reversal in patients with acute bleeding,       This is the US name for Beriplex and has enabled CSL Behring to access a       new and very large market with the concentrate (S10).
