     The Sheffield research, via the spin-out company Simcyp, has delivered       commercial and health impact worldwide, thanks largely to its innovative       and firmly user-driven business model.
Since its inception, all customers       have directly steered product development through the Simcyp Consortium,       voting on priorities for annual upgrades to ensure the product remains       current and closely matched to end-user needs.
Consortium members also       provide routine data from their own trials, keeping the simulator as       accurate as possible through the addition of large volumes of real test       data.
The accuracy and reliability encouraged several national regulatory       bodies to accept Simcyp's modelling as evidence in licensing new drugs.
This combination of user-focus, accuracy and regulatory recognition,       coupled with the significant commercial benefits described below, has       attracted more than 20 of the world's top 25 pharmaceutical companies to       buy licences, including AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, Johnson &amp; Johnson,       Merck, Novartis and Pfizer.
Commercial     Simpcyp was spun out from the University of Sheffield in 2001 (S1).
Turnover in 2006 was &#163;1M increasing every year to &#163;4.7M in 2010.
This was       associated with a &#163;0.2M post-tax profit in 2006 rising to &#163;1.9M in 2011       (S2).
It was 15th fastest growing UK company in 2009 (S3) and       as at 31 July 2011 the number of employees was 47 (S2).
In 2012 Simcyp was       sold to Certara for $32M (S4, S5).
The company also delivers significant benefits for its industrial       customers.
It can take 12 years and &#163;1 billion to bring a new drug to       market.
Simcyp allows manufacturers to eliminate dangerous or unsuitable       compounds at an early stage and focus solely on potentially viable drugs.
By cutting short the early testing phase, they can save time and many       millions of dollars that they would otherwise spend testing drugs that       would later fail in clinical trials.
Simcyp won the Queen's Award for Enterprise in Innovation in 2010 (S6).
Health and Wellbeing     The extensive use of Simcyp by the industrial pharma community has       delivered two distinct impacts on health and wellbeing.
Firstly, by optimising the design of trials it has minimised unnecessary       drug exposure among human volunteers and animal test subjects.
Its       contribution to humane research was recognised in 2009 with an OSCAR       (Outstanding Scientific Contribution to Animal Replacement, from the UK's       leading non-animal medical research charity, The Dr Hadwen Trust for       Humane Research [S7].
Secondly, the Simcyp Paediatric Simulator provides valuable information       relevant to first-time dosing decisions and the design of clinical studies       in infants, neonates and children.
It also helps pharma companies meet       their obligations under EU regulations.
A Senior Pharmacist at Sheffield       Children's Hospital and Senior Scientist at Simcyp outlines the tool's       value:     "Traditional dosing decisions have often been taken under the false         assumption that young children are simply little aduts.
This model takes         into account the many changes in pharmacokinetics which occur as a         result of organ maturation and changes in body composition and drug         elimination pathways.
Fewer than 50% of children's medicines have         actually been tested in an appropriate age group.
Simpcyp Simulations         allow a clinical study in children to become `confirmatory' rather than         `exploratory', reducing unnecessary drug exposure.
This is crucial now         that EU regulations insist that paediatric data be included in all         applications for new medicinal products."
