     HEALTHCARE IMPACT     This research has led to a new drug intervention for osteoporosis.
Through our research, we demonstrated that Zoledronic acid is effective       and it was subsequently licensed by the European Medicines Agency in 2007       [S1].
The drug was approved based on the phase III clinical trial studies such       as the HORIZON trial.
It was approved in women [S2, S3], men, people with       hip fractures [S4], and with glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.
As a       result of this research, the drug has been licensed in over 100 countries       and more than 2 million doses of the drugs have been administered since       2007.
The main beneficiaries of this research are patients with osteoporosis;       they receive a well-tolerated and simple to administer treatment that they       prefer to the alternative (oral alendronate) and have a large reduction in       their risk of fracture (by 70% for vertebral fracture).
The development of zoledronic acid as a treatment for osteoporosis is       original as it is the first (and only) treatment that can be administered       as infrequently as once a year.
This contribution allowed for the       successful development of this drug by conducting a well-designed trial,       and allows a clear understanding of the mechanism of action of the drug at       the molecular and whole body level.
The Global Program Head at Novartis       has recognised the part played by the University of Sheffield in both       developing the use of zoledronic acid for treatment of osteoporosis, as       well as sales worth $0.6bn (S3) in 2011 [S5].
Clinical guidelines have changed as a result of the drug being       licenced.
The Scottish Medicines Consortium has recommended that this       treatment should be used in patients who are unsuitable for or unable to       tolerate oral treatment options for osteoporosis [S6].
The treatment has       not yet been considered by NICE, although treatments for Osteoporosis are       currently under review by NICE.
The treatment has been included in international guidelines.
Expertise       gained through our research has been called upon to inform international       practice which recommends zoledronic acid as best practice.
Eastell was an advisor on the Endocrine Society panel during 2009-2012       [S7] in the formation of new international guidelines for male       osteoporosis, which include the recommendation to use zoledronic acid       (S5).
The treatment has also been included in the International       Osteoporosis Foundation (IOF) guidelines for glucocorticoid-induced       osteoporosis and three Sheffield professors were on that panel during       2009-2012 (John Kanis, Eugene McCloskey and Eastell).
The use of bone mineral density to identify response in the individual       patient was the basis for a guideline from the IOF, and Eastell and Kanis       were two of the members of the panel [S8].
Monitoring of zoledronic acid       with bone turnover markers and bone mineral density was described in       guidelines from the IOF on which Kanis and Eastell were members.
The user experience has improved.
According to research into patient       experience conducted in the USA, 66-79% of patients preferred an annual       infusion of ZA to weekly oral alendronate [S9], the standard treatment of       osteoporosis currently recommended by NICE.
ECONOMIC IMPACT     The costs of treatment have changed as a result of research-led       changes in practice.
The treatment is the most cost-effective for       postmenopausal osteoporosis (Scottish Medicines Consortium).
Research       conducted in France found that, for example, treatment with zoledronic       acid cost &#8364;1,216 per hip fracture avoided compared to &#8364;1,323 for standard       treatment [S10].
Industry has invested in research and development.
Novartis has       funded studies into the efficacy and safety profile through establishing       clinical trials of more than 11,000 patients for up to 9 years.
