     Research at the University of Sheffield into the outcome of treatments       for patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) has led to a new       drug treatment being developed, trialled with patients and positive       outcomes demonstrated.
The research has also had commercial impact through       the creation of a spin-out company, Diurnal Ltd, to commercialise the       treatment, which has successfully raised investment from both venture       capitalists and the pharmaceutical industry, and created new jobs and       major industrial contracts.
Process to impact:     In 2005, following a meeting with Ross, the European Medicines Agency       (EMA) agreed that there was an unmet need for patients with CAH and       adrenal insufficiency and that Chronocort&#174; could provide a       significant improvement in treatment, and granted Ross Orphan drug       designation for Chronocort&#174; to treat CAH (S1) and adrenal       insufficiency (S2).
This designation is to encourage drug development when       a condition is chronically debilitating, the prevalence is &lt;5 in       10,000, and the medicine would be of significant benefit to those       affected.
This enabled Phase 1 trials of Chronocort&#174; to go       ahead.
The EMA stated that if use of Chronocort&#174; could       demonstrate better control of the morning androgen precursor hormones this       would constitute evidence of significant benefit and would be an       appropriate primary outcome in clinical trials of patients (S3).
This led       to a Phase 2 clinical trial in CAH patients.
Following publication in 2010 by the EMA PaeDiatric COmmittee (PDCO) that       there was no licensed preparation of hydrocortisone for neonates and       infants with CAH and adrenal insufficiency, the University of Sheffield       and Diurnal Ltd as an SME partner won a European Framework 7 grant of       &#8364;5.6M to develop a neonatal and infant preparation of hydrocortisone,       Infacort (S4).
Diurnal Ltd then submitted a Paediatric Investigation Plan       (PIP) to the EMA PDCO &#8212; a process usually delivered only by major       pharmaceutical companies &#8212; for the use of Infacort&#174; in neonates       and infants.
The PIP was approved in 2013 (S5), confirming the unmet need       that Infacort can address and that the clinical development plan was       appropriate to provide a Paediatric Use Market Authorisation (PUMA).
This       has enabled the manufacture of Infacort&#174; to go ahead and       Infacort is currently being evaluated in phase 1 clinical studies in       healthy volunteers.
Commercial impact     The spin-out company, Diurnal Ltd, was founded in 2004 with Professor       Ross as a founding director and subsequently Chief Scientific Officer.
Diurnal Ltd was created to develop and commercialise the new drug       Chronocort&#174; based on the research and patents filed by the       University of Sheffield.
Diurnal Ltd licensed the original patent from the       University of Sheffield and has 15 pending patent applications and 5       granted patents all filed since 2001.
Since 2008, Diurnal Ltd has       successfully raised over &#163;3.8M investment for development of its drug       product portfolio from a venture capital consortium including a &#163;461K       investment from a global pharmaceutical company, through an option to       licence Chronocort&#174; from Diurnal Ltd (S6).
Diurnal Ltd has a       Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with the National       Institute of Health (NIH), USA for the development of Chronocort (S7).
CRADAs signify recognition by NIH of the importance of the drug       development programme to patients, with NIH agreeing to fund all       components of the clinical trials performed at NIH.
Diurnal Ltd has       undertaken its drug development and manufacture through both manufacture       (Penn Ltd, Quay Pharmaceuticals Ltd, GLATT GmbH) and clinical (Simbec       Research Ltd) research organisations with contracts worth over &#163;2.7M,       bringing new work and employment to these companies.
Diurnal Ltd employs 5       staff and since 2008 has spent &#163;288K on consultant contracts to help bring       Chronocort&#174; to market (S6).
Health impact     The research has led to the development and manufacture of two new drugs       for cortisol deficiency: Chronocort&#174; for adults and a neonatal       and infant formulation, Infacort&#174;.
In 2008, oral formulations       of hydrocortisone, Chronocort&#174;, were generated with a delayed       and sustained release profile and trialled in 6 healthy volunteers (S8).
The results demonstrated that it was possible to replace the overnight       rise in cortisol with Chronocort.
In 2009, further phase 1 clinical trials       were carried out in 28 healthy volunteers and these demonstrated that       Chronocort&#174; could reproducibly replace overnight circadian       cortisol levels (S9).
In 2010, a 3 month phase 2 trial of Chronocort&#174;       in 14 adult patients with CAH demonstrated improved overnight disease       control, using the primary outcome recommended by the EMA (S10).
Since       2010 Diurnal has moved its manufacture to a facility that can optimise the       formulation and supply phase 3 clinical trial material.
Public understanding     The public awareness of the problems for patients with CAH has been       stimulated by media publicity surrounding the CaH Adult Study Executive       (CaHASE) publications of poor health outcomes in CAH patients.
Patient       group awareness has been increased through presentations by Ross to       patient groups including American CAH patient group CARES (5000 Community       Members), New York 2009; UK CAH patient group, Manchester 2011; and UK       Addison's Disease Self-Help Group (1400 members), London, 2012.
In the USA       CARES are promoting clinical trials with Chronocort&#174;, and Ross       has been appointed an Advisor to the American CAH patient support group.
