 RHVP had significant policy impacts and a wide reach across southern Africa and beyond.
The research team produced 6 knowledge/gap reports, 38 briefing papers and 6 political context reports.
The RHVP website (http://www.wahenga.net) was created in 2005 and was the focal point for the dissemination of ideas on food security and social protection in southern Africa from 2005 to 2012, hosting research outputs, regional social protection news and a resource library.
It was used extensively by senior government officials, regional development agencies and humanitarian organisations [Impact Reference (IR)1].
It also provided the platform for the creation of a social protection policy agency, representing continuity in the application of these ideas (http://wahenga.co.za/) Research Impact 1: Evidence of Use This is demonstrated in three ways: (a) According to the formal evaluation for DFID of the second phase of RHVP [IR1, p.5]: Some key achievements of [the research component] include:  An almost omnipresence of RHVP at every forum discussing hunger and vulnerability / social protection in the SADC region and beyond, and the provision of experience and advice to those &#8212; and the building of excellent links with relevant organisations in the region with which to collaborate The excellent website wahenga.net which has been almost universally acknowledged as very useful in the region but also globally, building on the phase 1 products with a new set of FOSP high quality products and opinion pieces Very interesting support to parliamentarians and policymakers through the SADC Parliamentary Forum, supporting its members to become more aware on social protection A set of resources to provide practical information to those who need it, for example the parliamentary Handbook on poverty and social transfers Enhancement of SADC journalists' ability to report effectively on vulnerability and social protection, and the stimulation of a large number of relevant articles in the regional media  (b) For a separate independent evaluation see IR2.
(c) The policy discussion traffic generated by wahenga.net is captured by an associated Blog called Wahenga Reporter, which remains accessible on the internet in 2013 (http://wahenga.wordpress.com/about/) Research Impact 2: Policy Response The following policy responses are verifiable from agency reports and government executive documents:  the adoption by the Malawi government of a white paper, Social Support Policy, which arose from the initial drawing up of a Social Protection Framework in partnership with RHVP funded by DFID UK [IR3].
This led to the expansion of Malawi's pilot social cash transfer programme [IR4].
the government of Botswana commissioned a new Social Development Policy Framework, designed in collaboration with the RHVP research team [IRs 5 and 6].
This work was undertaken in 2009-10 and involved an examination of existing social protection provision, followed by a collaborative policy discussion with the Department for Social Services to identify gaps and shifts in emphasis, incorporated into a draft framework.
in Lesotho, RHVP conducted research on delivering cash payments by mobile phone and found that this form of delivery was rapidly understood by vulnerable recipients, and resulted in income generation beyond the initial transfers [IR7].
RHVP used this and other evidence regarding innovative cash transfer delivery mechanisms to influence delivery systems in other southern African countries, including Swaziland, Malawi and Mozambique.
in all countries of the southern African region, the research contributed to strengthening vulnerability assessment and analysis (VAA), from which timely information is provided to governments regarding the location of emerging hunger problems across national territory [IR1, with corroboration available from IR8].
beyond the southern African region, RHVP's work came to the attention of the Australian government aid agency AusAid, which subsequently adopted social protection as one of its aid priorities in the countries and regions that are the main recipients of Australian aid [IR9].
Research Impact 3: Policy Outcomes RHVP research was instrumental in achieving policy shifts in many countries.
One example is the expansion of the Malawi social cash transfer pilot and its impact on its beneficiaries IR10].
While it would be difficult to demonstrate that social cash transfers in Malawi resulted only from RHVP activities, it is also true that without RHVP's co-authorship of Malawi's Social Protection Framework based on knowledge gained from the research, the acceptability in public discussion of this type of policy intervention would almost certainly not have reached the critical point at which scaling up of the pilot scheme was politically feasible.
Between 2008 and 2012 the number of households covered by the scheme grew from under 2,000 to 26,000 (IR4).
For evidence of the benefits of the scheme, see IR4; for corroboration of RHVP's involvement, see IR8.
