     Sheffield research has led to the development of a routine test for the       genetic defect regulating the use of 6-mercaptopurine, a thiopurine drug       used to treat childhood leukaemia.
Routine tests for this genetic defect       are now recommended (and in some cases are mandatory) prior to starting       thiopurine drugs.
TPMT testing is one of the first pharmacogenetic       analyses that has passed from research into routine clinical use and has       become a textbook example of pharmacogenomic research.
Impact on health and welfare     The detection of thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) deficiency prior to       the start of thiopurine treatment allows the early identification of the 1       in 300 genetically disposed to serious side effects from treatment with       thiopurine drugs.
Identifying TPMT deficiency spares patients painful and       potentially life-threatening sepsis     In the UK, approximately 400 children and young adults are diagnosed with       acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) per year.
All these children are       tested for TPMT deficiency prior to the start of thiopurine treatment.
The       thiopurine drug used is called 6-mercaptopurine; daily oral       6-mercaptopurine chemotherapy is taken for two (girls) or three (boys)       years.
The detection of TPMT deficiency prior to treatment allows       immediate thiopurine dose reduction to 10% of the "normal" dose and so       avoids catastrophic myelosuppression.
TPMT-guided dose reduction for the       drug 6-mercaptopurine allows the other chemotherapeutic drugs to be given       at their maximum tolerated doses and avoids the withdrawal of chemotherapy       (and the potential for the re-emergence of the leukaemia) that would have       occurred if the full dose of mercaptopurine had been given to the TPMT       deficient patient.
In addition, children with very high TPMT activities may not respond to       standard doses of thiopurine drugs and require protocol-directed dose       escalation to accumulate sufficient concentrations of the cytotoxic and       immunosuppressive metabolites (called thioguanine nucleotides).
Monitoring       of drug metabolite concentrations is clinically useful in this situation;       assays initially developed by Lennard are now available in Clinical       Pathology service laboratories internationally (S1, S2) to measure       thiopurine drug metabolites in addition to TPMT genotype and activity.
Thiopurine metabolite monitoring enables the child who forms sub-optimal       amounts of cytotoxic metabolites due to high inherited TPMT (approximately       10% of patients) to be differentiated from the child who lacks thiopurine       metabolites for other reasons (e.g.
due to tablet taking problems), prior       to dose escalation.
Changes to trial guidelines     The work by Lennard and Lilleyman, to identify the impact of the TPMT       genetic polymorphism on the action of thiopurine drugs and the detection       of TPMT deficiency, has led to changes in trial guidelines in both the UK       and USA (S3, S4).
The detection of TPMT deficiency prior to the start of       mercaptopurine chemotherapy was incorporated into the protocol for the MRC       ALL 2003 (recruitment 2003 to 2011) therapeutic trial for childhood ALL       and it is an integral, mandatory, component of the current national trial,       UK ALL 2011(recruitment from 2012).
The Sheffield Clinical Pharmacology       Unit (led by Lennard, funded by Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research; LLR) is       responsible for the organisation and implementation of the thiopurine       studies within these ALL trials; about 400 children are diagnosed       annually.
Evidence of enhanced awareness of health risks and benefits by           practitioners (NHS consultants)     The importance of inherited TPMT to thiopurine treatment outcome,       initially demonstrated in children with ALL by Lennard and Lilleyman, has       been translated to other disease states (S5).
Thiopurine drugs are used       extensively to control autoimmune conditions e.g.
inflammatory bowel       disease which affects approximately 180,000 people in the UK; potentially       some 600 patients with TPMT deficiency who can be detected and thus       patient care and the quality of life improved by avoiding severe and       costly myelosuppressive adverse drug reactions.
Overall, 67% of UK       consultants test for TPMT prior to starting thiopurine based       immunosuppression (S6).
The cost of treatment and in-patient care for a       severe episode of bone marrow failure due to thiopurine induced       myelosuppression is over &#163;9,000.
The TPMT genotype test is currently &#163;27       per patient thus the cost of detecting 1 patient with TPMT deficiency is       slightly less than in-patient treatment, but TPMT testing enables a       reduction in treatment-related morbidity and mortality and improved       patient care.
Treatment guidelines for dermatologists advocate TPMT       testing (S7) whilst rheumatologists and hepatologists recommend TPMT       testing (S8).
The British National Formulary suggests that clinicians       should consider TPMT testing.
A new diagnostic or clinical technology has been adopted     As part of Lennard &amp; Vora's current LLR funding, TPMT genotyping and       thiopurine metabolite analysis (and guidelines for clinical       interpretation) within the ALL 2011 trial was transferred from research       laboratories into laboratories with Clinical Pathology Accreditation (CPA)       within the NHS service sector; the transfer was successfully completed in       July 2013.
The interpretation guidelines for TPMT testing are disease       specific (S9).
In the UK thiopurine assays are now available at       super-regional pathology centres (S2).
In addition to the 400 children and       young adults diagnosed with ALL per year, adults treated with thiopurine       immunosuppression will also be tested, with the current take-up of TPMT       testing approximately two thirds of the 180,000 adults diagnosed with       inflammatory bowel disease.
Impact on public policy and services     Decisions by a health service or regulatory authority have been         informed by research     The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) directed label modifications       for 6-mercaptopurine (July 2004) and azathioprine (July 2005) to reflect       the pharmacogenetics of metabolism and recommends TPMT testing prior to       initiating thiopurine therapy.
Guidance in the UK from the National       Formulary recommends that patients have their TPMT status checked prior to       starting thiopurine drugs benefiting both the TPMT deficient individual (1       in 300) and the 11% of patients who are heterozygotes and are at an       increased risk of myelosuppression.
Evidence of improved cost-effectiveness     The cost-effectiveness of TPMT genotyping, for both UK and European ALL       treatment protocols, was demonstrated prior to the widespread introduction       of the test (S10).
Routine TPMT testing prevents the TPMT precipitated       episodes of profound myelosuppression that are caused by standard doses of       thiopurine drugs in the TPMT deficient patient.
TPMT testing prevents       possible death from neutropenia-induced sepsis and thus improves the       health-related quality of life.
In a child with ALL, current costs (2013)       of in-patient care due to thiopurine induced bone-marrow failure is       approximately &#163;200 (with drug support running at an additional &#163;50 to &#163;60)       per night.
Admission to the Intensive Therapy Unit (ITU) would be more       expensive.
This would be followed by the task of management of the bone       marrow failure over a period of 6 to 8 weeks &#8212; this would entail the       treatment of recurrent infections and associated use of expensive blood       products.
A total cost of about &#163;10,000, or more, depending on the       severity of the bone marrow failure and the recovery time.
