     Impact arising from the research undertaken is evidenced across three       substantive and interlinked areas outlined below.
While impacts of user       engagement, service provision and policy development are demonstrated       during the REF period, they emanate from Miller's longer term engagement       with national/international bodies and publics.
1.Public policy, parenting and gender     The findings from the fatherhood research led in 2012 to an appointment       to serve as a member of a Labour party policy review panel on fatherhood       chaired by the Rt Hon David Lammy MP.
The report and policy       recommendations have recently been published [7].
Other advisory       invitations following from the Fatherhood research have included a DfE       funded project '4Children' involving discussions on parenting with       officials from No.
10, the Cabinet Office and DfE (July 2011).
The policy       implications of the fatherhood research findings also led to an invitation       to write a commentary for IPPR on coalition changes to parental leave       policy [6] and in June 2013 the research was highlighted in a       parliamentary debate on young fathers and family engagement and Miller and       her research were noted in Hansard [8].
2.Socio-cultural dimensions of reproduction, gender and international         policy     As a direct result of the publication of her 2005 monograph `Making         sense of Motherhood' which included analysis of childbearing in the       UK, Bangladesh and the Solomon Islands, Miller was engaged as a technical       advisor by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to report and advise on the       socio-cultural contexts and challenges relating to the global introduction       of the Human Papillomavirus vaccine.
Initially this involved a       presentation on sociocultural issues and reproductive health at the       WHO/UNFPA meeting on `Preparing for the introduction of HPV vaccines:         policy and programme guidance' held in Switzerland in 2006.
Key       points from Miller's presentation on socio-cultural issues were included       in the final implementation document and policy guidance in 2007 [9].
Miller was also invited to contribute to a subsequent WHO (Europe) meeting       (`Role of health professionals working with adolescents in the         introduction of HPV vaccines') in Copenhagen, 2007 to present her       research findings on gender and reproductive health to policy makers and       programme managers rolling out the HPV vaccine across Europe.
In the       period since 2008 the implementation of international HPV guidelines       resulting from these meetings and the roll out of vaccine coverage has had       global reach and significance.
Following these appointments, Miller's       research findings from her studies on motherhood and fatherhood       transitions have led to further appointments with WHO including a       sabbatical spent in the Department of Maternal, Newborn, and Child Health       in 2011 as a member of an expert international team who undertook a       systematic review of global changes in providers of childbirth care [5].
Miller is currently an advisor to another WHO international systematic       review team examining the influence of sociocultural issues on childbirth       service use.
This review results from a concept paper (`Interventions         to address cultural barriers to the use of maternal and newborn health         services: An overview and concept paper') which WHO commissioned       Miller to write in 2007.
3) Contemporary parenting and professional/public engagement     In the UK the findings from Miller's research relating to aspects of       parenting have led to professional and public engagement activities e.g.
talks to practitioner audiences and groups providing antenatal services to       men (e.g.
the National Childbirth Trust, Oxford Mental Health services) as       well as invited commentary pieces in Midwifery practitioner journals (e.g.
`Maternal spheres: what are we doing with men?'
The Practising         Midwife, January 2013).
Her research monographs [1 and 3] are       recommended as `key texts' by the National Childbirth Trust (NCT) [10],       the largest parenting charity in the UK and both are used in preparation       classes for prospective parents and used as training materials in       professional development by NCT practitioners.
Miller's research has also       been used in the design of a current national NCT survey on Transition to       Parenthood (2013) and her appointment as an advisor to the project [11].
She has also contributed as an invited expert to a Guardian       roundtable discussion on how to involve men more effectively in       childbirth, leading to a newspaper article in 2012 [12].
Her       research findings are also used by the think tank, the Fatherhood       Institute reaching a wide public via their online presence [13].
Miller's research has successfully combined academic rigour with a focus       on micro-level processes in family lives through periods of transition and       the resulting findings have resonance in policy, health and public spheres       and resulting from this Miller has been invited to engage a wide range of       audiences.
In the post 2008 period her research findings have received       national/international media recognition including personal invitations to       discuss aspects of the research on BBC Breakfast TV (July and September,       2013) and the Australian Morning Television Show (April 2011).
BBC Radio 4       `Woman's Hour' have also carried three programmes related to the research       findings between 2008 and 2013 on topics of maternal ambivalence,       father-baby bonding and fathers experiences of birth [14].
The research       findings regularly receive `popular' media attention (e.g.
The Sunday       Times, February 2011) and have also been used in an award winning play       `Mum's The Word' [15].
Popular dissemination of her research recently led       to her selection for the inaugural BBC female expert scheme (2013) [16]       and on-going meetings with a production company who want to produce a       programme based on her research monograph `Making Sense of Fatherhood'.
Other invitations have included Miller presenting her research findings on       fatherhood to the Labour Policy Review group at the House of Commons       (February 2013) and giving the opening keynote lecture at the Museum of       Motherhood in New York (May 2013).
