     We are claiming significant impact on awareness and understanding, policy       and practice.
Impact on the Mathematics Education of Engineering Undergraduates     Explicit aims of HELM (http://helm.lboro.ac.uk)       were to share knowledge gained through developmental research and testing,       and to promote wide use of HELM learning materials.
These aims were very       successfully achieved; the outcome was a comprehensive mathematics       learning package for the first two years of engineering degrees.
Nothing       approaching this was available before or has been provided since.
Unlike       many projects HELM's impact has been both significant and lasting.
Evidence is presented in three categories: (1) Three HELM Surveys, (2)       Nine HELM Interviews, (3) BESTMATHS data analysis.
These demonstrate       HELM's impact has been substantial in both reach and significance in the       period 2008-2013.
Evidence summarised below is supported by a 25-page HELM       USAGE report (5.1), two external reports (5.2, 5.3)       and is corroborated by five external referees [5.4-5.8].
(1) HELM SURVEYS     Three surveys were conducted in 2012.
Survey 1 targeted all UK       Universities (excluding LU), and also Further Education (FE) Colleges       providing Higher Education (HE).
Survey 2 targeted the 58 UK respondents       in 55 institutions who confirmed their use of HELM materials (49 in       Universities, 9 in FE/HE Colleges).
(In addition, there were a small       number of overseas users, three in the Republic of Ireland.)
Survey 3       targeted 17 UK respondents willing to provide additional detailed       information.
[5.1 sections 1, 4, 5, 6].
HESA data available (for 2011-12) for 42 UK HEIs containing staff known       to be using HELM revealed that they had 48,710 FTE Engineering &amp;       Technology students, out of a sector-wide total of 102,710.
[5.1       section 2].
Face-to-face interviews were undertaken with 9 academics in 5 HEIs using       HELM materials.
[5.1 section 3].
The data reported below may be significant underestimates: not all       relevant departments could be identified or contacted, many did not       respond or did not provide analysable data.
Practice     Survey 1 revealed that based on 58 responses 55 UK HE providers were       confirmed active users of HELM materials and six others had HELM web links       for their students.
[5.1 sections1 and section 4 table 4:1].
Survey 1 also revealed that of 55 responses by staff, concerning the       impact HELM had made in their institution, 27 cited `significant impact',       19 `some impact' and 7 `little or no impact', with 8 `don't know'.
[5.1       section 4 tables 4:2, 4:5]     Survey 1 revealed that of 34 responses by staff who had used HELM and         subsequently developed their own materials, 29 said their experience       of HELM had helped them.
[5.1 section 4 table 4:2].
Awareness and Understanding by Staff of HELM's Value     Survey 1 responses revealed very positive feedback on the quality of the       materials and benefits to staff and students.
Respondents cited `improved       performance' or `improved retention' as significant impacts.
When asked       why they continued using HELM many said because the `quality is very       high'.
Some cited great saving in staff time (for developing materials).
100% of 59 respondents (including four not using HELM currently) said they       would (or did) recommend HELM to others.
[5.1 section 4 tables 4:2,       4:4].
Policy     Survey 2 revealed policy decisions in the use of HELM resources:     (a) Years 1-2 engineering undergraduates were the main HELM users,     (b) Students in many other disciplines used HELM - from Acoustics to       Sport Coaching,     (c) Students across a wide range of levels used HELM - from Access to       MSc.
[5.1 section 5].
Practice     Survey 3, covering 17 institutions, showed that almost all 34 core       Workbooks were each being used by 60 to 180 students per institution.
As a       typical student studies five or six workbooks per year, this equates to       about 725 students per institution per year, i.e.
about 12,000 in total.
[5.1       section 6].
(2) HELM INTERVIEWS     Interviews in 2012 with academics at five universities provided       additional insights on HELM's significant and enduring impact.
Comments       recorded include:            "HELM CAA questions are much appreciated....
I see an increasing role         for HELM in our new Department."
[Mechanical Engineering Principal         Lecturer].
"When HELM was adopted results went up dramatically.... feedback was         tremendous... retention improved."
[Aeronautical Engineering Senior         Lecturer].
"HELM is very helpful to PhD students acting as tutors."
[Learning         Development Officer]       "Our aim is to implement HELM's CAA regime widely across the School         &amp; University."
[Civil Engineering Senior Lecturer, responsible for         University online support]       "HELM saves a great deal of time when preparing a new course."
[Mathematics HoD].
[5.1 section 3].
(3) BESTMATHS ANALYSIS     Policy     In 2002 the Royal Academy of Engineering made the policy decision to ask       LU to develop and run a distance learning project based upon HELM's       workbooks and CAA regime, for gap year students.
The `BESTMATHS'       programme has run each year since 2002 (rebranded as LUMEN (Loughborough       University Mathematics for ENgineers) in 2010).
Practice     Data for academic years 2008/9 to 2011/12 show that in those four years       738 of the most able future engineers and scientists undertook this       distance learning programme, with 90% successfully completing the course       and receiving certificates.
Participants have gone on to a range of       universities, the five commonest being Cambridge, Imperial, Bristol,       Durham and Bath.
[5.1 section 7 table 7:1].
Awareness and Understanding     Feedback from students has been very positive, typical examples being:       "The exercises are challenging, which is good.
A brilliant opportunity to       learn advanced mathematics."
[Imperial]; "I have been impressed ... the       material is easy to understand."
[Cambridge]; " I am really enjoying the       maths and find the workbooks brilliant."
[Dundee].
[5.1 section 7       table 7:3].
