     This case study describes wide-reaching impact resulting from still       on-going research: (a) the       development and use of mathcentre (www.mathcentre.ac.uk)       and (b) the adoption of mathematics       support by HEIs in the UK and elsewhere.
These have impacted on the       learning outcomes of large       numbers of students studying a wide range of courses with a mathematical       or statistical       component including those with additional needs such as dyslexia.
Mathematics support informed       by the Loughborough Model has had significant reach: it is now embedded in       many HEI's support       policies (e.g.
Office for Fair Access (OFFA) Agreements at Coventry,       Sheffield, York and       elsewhere) and facilities (details below).
In response to Croft's and Crook's research, LU led a consortium in       setting up mathcentre, an       online collection of learning resources (leaflets, workbook, video       tutorials) designed to support       students in the transition to mathematically demanding undergraduate       courses.
This resource       continues to be widely used and in the period 06/2008 to 05/2012 received       1.65 million visits from       1.1 million visitors, which includes a widespread international user base.
These resources are used       extensively by the academic community: an analysis in 2012 showed 80% of       UK universities       directed students to mathcentre from their institutional Virtual       Learning Environments (VLEs).
mathcentre resources are a valued and highly trusted resource, the       MSC manager at the National       University of Ireland Maynooth wrote that his institution uses "material       directly from mathcentre,       mainly videos, texts and quizzes" [5.1], and that his evaluations       have shown that students who use       these resources regularly "do better in their modules than those who do       not" [5.1].
In line with the findings of Crook's ESRC-funded research, LU not only       developed web-based       mathematics support, but also a real-world support centre designed to       foster a productive learning       community.
An initiative to develop such provision led to a collaborative       venture with Coventry       University, and LU was awarded Centre for Excellence in Teaching &amp;       Learning (CETL) status by       HEFCE (2005-2010).
A key goal of the CETL, which became known as sigma,       was to encourage       the development of MSCs at other universities.
This was accomplished via       two mechanisms.
First, sigma offered funding for the establishment of MSCs at       universities without such centres.
This required matched funding and buy-in from senior management and became       a catalyst for       placing mathematics support on institutional agendas.
In 2005 three MSCs       were set up with sigma       funding (Bath, Sheffield, Leeds), all have continued to successfully       operate during the REF       assessment period.
As part of their funding agreement, the MSCs were       required to monitor student       usage: in the three years from 2008 a total of 9684 visits were made by       students to these MSCs       (suggesting that there were around 19,000 visits across the assessment       period).
Second, sigma staff engaged with the mathematical community to       disseminate on-going research       and the Loughborough Model via practitioner conferences.
One clear example       is the annual MSOR       (Mathematics, Statistics and Operations Research)-CETL Conference,       co-organised by Croft,       which has grown significantly and is now attended by over 100 delegates       annually [5.2].
With the end of CETL funding in 2010, the importance of sigma's       work for tackling the       `mathematics problem' was recognised by the HE STEM Programme through the       award of &#163;295k       in 2010 [5.3].
A further &#163;818k of continuation funding was awarded       by HEFCE in 2013, and sigma       was subsequently described as an "important initiative" by the Minister of       State for Universities and       Science [5.4].
To date this additional funding has enabled sigma       to transfer and embed the       Loughborough model at over 20 UK HEIs [5.3].
All these MSCs, and       others, have made heavy use       of the mathcentre online learning resources [e.g.
5.1, 5.5,         5.6].
To illustrate the success of these centres, in 2012 the University of       York cited its sigma-funded       MSC in its OFFA Access Agreement, stating that "[the service] has been       very well utilised and we       plan to expand this service to meet some additional areas of identified       need" [5.6, 5.7], and the       2012 Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) Institutional       Review of the university       found the MSC to be a headline feature of good practice [5.6, 5.8].
Between 2010 (when the       service was founded) and 2012 there were 1751 visits to the Centre, and a       university-administered       evaluation concluded that 95% of users believed that the centre helped       their mathematical       attainment [5.9].
The significance that the research-based practice developed at       Loughborough University has had       throughout the higher education sector is now widely recognised.
Indeed,       external colleagues have       praised the impact of the Loughborough Model directly.
The Executive       Director of the Institute of       Mathematics and its Applications wrote that "It is hard to overstate the       importance of the expansion       of the sigma Network to the higher education community."
[5.10],       and the Director of the Irish       Centre for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching and Learning       remarked "We stand on       the shoulders of giants.
From our view, the giants are Coventry and       Loughborough Universities       and sigma.
We have unashamedly copied our ideas from them" [5.2].
