     Parsler has applied this research by acting as a senior consulting       designer for Mediatonic, a leading player in the field (listed as one of The         Sunday Times `top ten tech companies to watch').
The company works       with major companies such as Disney, Adultswim, Microsoft, Electronic       Arts, CapCom and many more, its games having been played across many       platforms by some 60 million people to date.
Parsler's research has directly shaped the design strategy of all of       Mediatonic's social or mobile game releases, having been applied to       several design briefs, some of which are detailed below.
The research was       applied directly by Parsler (in authoring game mechanics) and indirectly       (in advising others) to eight separate projects, each a significant, well       financed endeavour.
A full list of the impact achieved by this research       would be impossible within the available space.
Two notable examples are       as follows:     Superbia (Disney, 2012): This game is aimed at early and       pre-teens and allows players to personalise their own space while       progressing through a series of pre-defined challenges.
The whole of the       core structure of the game was devised with reference to the research       insights detailed above.
Specifically, what were deployed in the game were       insights into the manner in which a sense of ownership of labour and       consumption within game activities can be experienced as amounting to an       impression of freedom on the part of the player.
This allowed the design       to both grant the player the expected freedoms (they make       ice-cream, get paid, and buy clothes and furniture) but also to grant them       some real, deeper, freedoms (as to exactly how they choose to navigate the       game and present themselves to others), which ultimately led to a higher       level of overall satisfaction and led to the game offering less shallowly       `consumerist' a playing experience than would otherwise have been the       case.
The game is free to play, has achieved a player base of more than       one million in the UK and is being launched across Europe.
Games of this       kind frequently fail to understand that mere consumption alone is       not enough to create a meaningful experience (which is vital if players       are to engage with it every day for months or years) and fail to achieve       any market penetration.
Even with the backing of a major corporation,       there are hundreds of examples of games of this kind that have failed both       commercially and artistically.
The success of this example can be       attributed specifically to the implementation of the research insights       detailed above.
Amateur Surgeon: Bleed Everywhere (2012): This game is part       of Mediatonic's hugely successful Amateur Surgeon franchise (with 65       million + downloads).
Following a `freemium' model, in which players can       play the game for free but pay for extra services, the percentage of       players that monetise (choose to pay) is one of the most significant       industry metrics.
[text removed for publication]     The game received a 2013 BAFTA nomination for best online browser game       and established Mediatonic as a world leader in freemium social gaming.
[text removed for publication]     The logic of the research in both cases suggested that more value would       be associated with rewards for which players were made to work harder than       is common practice in such games; and thus that when players were allowed       to pay to gain those rewards more quickly, they would pay more money more       frequently.
The research, which focuses on the formal structures available       to implement such a system, informed the specific manner in which the       design team created a particular balance in the effort/reward loop.
[text removed for publication]     The beneficiaries of this research are Mediatonic and the companies for       which it has produced these and other successful games, each of which has       benefitted commercially; also the wider constituencies of players who have       enjoyed an enhanced playing experience as a result of the improvement of       game design resulting from the application of the research insights.
