     Ratification of the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) created       opportunities for Dr Wood and Professor Wilby to interact with environment       and conservation agencies in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern       Ireland, as well as with the UK water industry.
The following section       outlines the significance and reach of their research and how it has       contributed to the implementation and delivery of WFD legislation in       practice.
In 2003 Dr Wood was granted access to a unique hydrological and       ecological dataset (the Lotic-invertebrate Index for Flow Evaluation       [LIFE] paired dataset) collected as part of monitoring programmes set up       by the Environment Agency of England and Wales to examine       macroinvertebrate community response to river flow regime variability [5.1].
This provided an opportunity to independently test the recently developed       LIFE methodology and highlighted the potential to identify sites that       could fail to meet Good Ecological Status (GES) as a result of river flow       pressures.
The outputs of this project have had significance       internationally across the water sector with reach to environmental       regulators and resource managers within water companies.
This resulted in       Dr Wood's participation in several national scale projects between       2006-2009 to develop environmental standards for water abstractions [5.2]       and flow releases (environmental flows) from impounded rivers [5.3].
Dr Wood provided technical expertise in relation to macroinvertebrate       community response to flow variability and abstraction pressures.
These       projects made recommendations to the UK Technical Advisory Group (TAG)       responsible for coordinating implementation of the EU WFD which, following       consultation with all UK responsible agencies, formed the basis of the       adopted UK standards.
Since 2009 Dr Wood has been collaborating with Natural England to examine       how rivers and sites with special conservation designations or supporting       designated fauna (Sites of Special Scientific Interest or EU Habitats       Directive designations) may be influenced by changes in flow regime.
He       applied palaeoecological techniques to define `reference conditions' for       EU WFD purposes in lowland rivers where little if any of the system       remains un-impacted [5.4].
Since 2010 Dr Wood has provided technical support to UK Water Industry       Research (UKWIR) (2010-2011) to raise awareness, provide scientific       evidence to underpin, and assist sector compliance with the EU WFD Good       Ecological Status (GES) and Good Ecological Potential (GEP) for rivers       subject to significant modification or impoundment (Heavily Modified Water       Bodies &#8212; HMWB).
This collaboration resulted in the development of an       industry approved guidance document and interactive database for UK water       companies and their regulators centred on identifying and assessing       appropriate management actions to mitigate the ecological impacts of       reservoirs [5.5].
Collaboration with Yorkshire Water (2011-2013)       and Thames Water (2010-2013) identified how instream macroinverebrate       communities respond to modification of the river flow regime associated       with impoundment and abstraction for public water supply and how this may       be mitigated to ensure compliance with GEP [5.6, 5.7].
In 2006 the EU Groundwater Directive was adopted and for the first time       highlighted the importance of groundwater dependent ecosystems when       considering pollution of sub-surface water bodies.
In 2008, Dr Wood joined       a team led by the University of Ulster examining Irish groundwater       biodiversity funded by the Environmental Protection Agency Ireland [5.8].
In June 2011 and December 2012 Dr Wood hosted workshops at Loughborough       University under the auspices of the European Committee for       Standardization (CEN) to develop international standards to improve the       consistency and quality of sampling of the hyporheic zone of rivers.
The       draft guidelines are currently passing through Europe-wide consultation       prior to adoption.
Professor Wilby also provided technical advice on freshwater conservation       and management from the river reach to catchment scale.
For example, in       2008 the European Commission asked him to write the Executive Summary and       substantial parts of their guidance on River Basin Management in a         Changing Climate [presented in Brussels in January 2009].
The report       was circulated to competent authorities in each Member State and explains       how processes within the WFD could be used to strengthen resilience of       freshwater ecosystems to climate change.
In 2008 Professor Wilby provided technical support to WWF's Thames         Vulnerability Assessment which examined the potential impact of       climate change alongside a host of other pressures on the health of the       capital's river.
In 2009 his analysis of long-term hydrometric data helped       to shape WWF's public awareness campaign Rivers on the Edge [5.9]       which explained the direct links between unfettered water demand and harm       to river ecosystems.
Likewise, in 2011 he advised WWF's Itchen         Initiative which assessed the scope for `smarter' licensing to       better meet the water needs of both society and the environment under       climate variability and change [5.10].
WWF used this document to       inform Defra's 2011 White Paper and OFWAT's review of regulatory       arrangements for the water industry in England and Wales.
In November 2011 Professor Wilby gave an invited speech about `Adapting       conservation science, and conservation organizations to climate change' to       WWF's 50th Anniversary Fuller Symposium       at the National Geographic in Washington, DC.
The event was transmitted by       live webcast and attended by the general public, non-governmental       organisations, schools and charities.
