     Petley's work on press regulation (and in particular on the matter of       privacy and press freedom) led to his being asked to give oral evidence to       the Department of Culture, Media and Sport joint committee in 2012 and to       the Press Complaints Commission's Governance Review in 2009.
As a result       of his work on media freedom and regulation, he was asked by the Equality       and Human Rights Commission to comment on a draft of the Human Rights         Review 2012, and by the Director of Public Prosecutions to comment       on draft guidelines on the public interest for prosecutors involved in       cases involving journalists.
He also gave evidence to the Making Good         Society report published by the Carnegie Trust.
In 2011 the Leveson Inquiry was established to investigate the role of       the press and police in the phone-hacking scandal, and more generally to       enquire into the culture, practices and ethics of the press.
As the       concerns of the Inquiry were central to Petley's own work, he submitted       written evidence to it, and was subsequently invited to give oral       evidence.
He is a founder member of Hacked Off (the campaign group created       in July 2011 that led to the setting up of the Inquiry in the first       place), and also of the Media Reform Coalition, which was set up by       academics and NGOs when the Inquiry was announced to help to coordinate       responses to Leveson.
One of these NGOs is the Campaign for Press and       Broadcasting Freedom, of which he is co-chair, and which has campaigned       for years on precisely the issues of central concern to the Inquiry.
In       the wake of the Leveson Inquiry he has intervened extensively in the       debate around how best to implement Leveson's proposals, and in this       respect he writes among others regularly for Inforrm, a highly respected       and authoritative blog which is run by Hugh Tomlinson QC, of Matrix       Chambers.
Petley has established a productive relationship with the BBFC, and       contributed (at their invitation) a substantial chapter to a book       published in 2012 by BFI/Palgrave to mark the Board's centenary year.
He       also wrote a chapter on current BBFC practice for the edited collection Controversial         Images.
He has published lengthy interviews with both the current       Director and his two predecessors, and has regularly engaged in public       debates of one kind or another as a means of impacting upon public       perceptions of this aspect of the censorship process.
In November 2012 he       took part in two discussions at the National Film Theatre season marking       the Board's centenary.
These matters are extremely hard to quantify, but       he would certainly claim to have had impact on the relaxation of film and       video censorship in the UK since the late 1990s, and on the fact that       there have been no major moral panics over film and video violence during       the same period.
In this respect, it is significant that he was asked by a       DVD distributor to help it with its submission of a particularly       controversial film to the BBFC (Cannibal Holocaust); this was       originally banned outright, then cut by over six minutes, but on this       submission it was cut by a mere sixteen seconds.
Petley's concern with censorship also led to his involvement in       high-profile campaigns in connection with the 2008 Criminal Justice and       Immigration Act, following evidence provided to the Home Office during       consultation preceding the measure.
He was among a small group of       academics who briefed Liberal Democrat MPs in their attempt in April 2008       to amend clauses defining `extreme pornography'.
On the basis of expertise       gained during the genesis of the Act, Petley has on several occasions       briefed the solicitor (Myles Jackman of Hodge, Jones and Allen) who has       taken the lead role in defending cases brought under these clauses since       they came into effect in January 2009.
He has also acted as an expert       witness in a case involving internet material prosecuted under the Obscene       Publications Act.
This came to court on 29 June 2009 and immediately       collapsed.
All the cases in which he was involved were successfully       defended, demonstrating a direct impact on the outcome of these.
He is a       member of the advisory board of Index on Censorship, and of a new       high-profile group, Censure, recently established by Myles Jackman to       challenge the government's apparent desire to extend still further       controls over material, both off- and on-line, which it considers to be       unacceptable.
He has been invited to join the editorial board of the new       Taylor and Francis journal Porn Studies, which came about as       result of the Sexual Cultures conference at Brunel, which he helped to       organise.
Petley was also a member of a small group of academics consulted       by Dr Tanya Byron when compiling her report Safer Children in a         Digital World, published in 2008.
In all of these cases, the main impact of Petley's interventions role has       been to inform public and political debate in key areas relating to       various forms of regulation that shape the nature of media content       consumed by the British population at large.
These have included very       high-profile issues in which Petley's research-based arguments have gained       a strong voice in fora at the highest levels of national policy-making and       inquiry and in national media.
