     This research project had a positive and empowering impact on the diverse       group of volunteers who participated in the theatrical production in terms       of political consciousness and self-esteem, as demonstrated by their own       comments both in the film and outside.
Audiences for both the theatrical       production and the documentary film also benefitted from an engagement       with the question of class that challenged dominant conceptions and which       enhanced their understanding of a major public issue at a time of       considerable social dislocation, as evidenced in responses during       screenings attended by the creators and comments posted on the film's       website.
Fifteen volunteers participated in the theatrical project.
They ranged       from some in their teens to others in their 50s, which enabled the film to       explore problems for working people that are recycled across the       generations.
Younger participants talk about how the project awoke an       interest in political issues and how it provided them with a framework to       understand things they only knew before somewhat inchoately or       intuitively.
The project helped place individual experiences in a wider       class context, thus enhancing their knowledge of social and historical       determinations.
Older participants talk of having their political       interests reawakened.
In the documentary we see the participants telling       their stories &#8212; literally to the rest of the group for the first time,       then dramatising those stories in rehearsals and reflecting on these and       how the process of production got them thinking about the significance of       what happened in new ways.
This process of production and       reflection is critical to the impact of the film itself because audiences       see the protagonists growing, learning and achieving something       important about their lives.
The theatrical performances (six in three cities) had a major impact on       the approximately 260 people who saw the shows, especially in Salford and       Manchester.
Audiences recorded their favourable responses in a comments       book (pages of which can be found on the film website).
Here is an       indicative example: `Great energy &#8212; sincerity &amp; REAL &#8212; well done.
Loved every second of it.
It really makes you think.'
The actress Sinead       Cusack saw the play in London and described it as `so moving and funny and       politically smart... the sort of things that should be heard and seen on       the stage'.
The connection between Engels' text and the contemporary       situation, the authenticity of the performances and the representation of       class issues from a working class perspective, had a significant impact on       audiences.
They were intellectually stimulated and emotionally moved by       the play.
The documentary film built upon the network of interest the theatrical       performance had generated.
It premiered at the Salford Arts Theatre (as       the play had done) on April 5th 2013.
The film was subsequently       shown in museums, cafes, bookshops, theatres, community centres,       independent cinemas and universities around the UK (and the Republic of       Ireland).
More than 30 screenings to both working and middle class       audiences were organized between April-July 2013, viewed by more than       1,000 people.
In this period the film sold 165 copies after screenings or       from the film website while another 95 were sold via the retailers       Bookmarks and Housemans.
The film was sold by Bookmarks as part of a       special offer with Ken Loach's film Spirit of '45, to which it was       favourably compared in reviews and in post-screening Q&amp;As.
Most of the screenings were attended by Wayne and his co-director,       engaging audiences in discussions that increased the impact of the film as       a stimulator of debate and dialogue about class and representation.
Typically audiences spoke of how the film had `fired' them up and how       `incredibly powerful' they found the film.
They were also fascinated to       learn about the unusual model that underpinned the making of the play.
The film focuses on the process of theatrical production and       audiences appreciated and understood that this was a metaphor for what can       be achieved by collective, collaborative work on the part of the working       class.
As one review put it: `we see a sense of solidarity and       understanding develop through the realisation of shared experiences and       their common place in the class system.
A hint of the strength that can       come through collective organising can be seen' (Left Unity website).
Salford         Online described the film as `a real history lesson and a true       monument to Salford solidarity'.
The Salford Star noted: `the film       shows...it's back to the days of Engels and poverty, with a bullet'.
The       film also made an intervention into the heart of the political       establishment.
Wayne and O'Neill published an article about the film in       the Labour Party newspaper Tribune.
On the invitation of Labour MP       John McDonnell the film screened in the House of Commons on 11 June 2013.
Referring to `distortions' in our political system, McDonnell wrote: `This       film makes a significant contribution to tearing aside that veil of       distortion and manipulation'.
Labour MP and historian Tristram Hunt wrote       in an email that the film `made me think about some of Engels' work in a       new way'.
Trade unions recognised the relevance of its social and human       rights agenda to their members: the Irish Congress of Trade Unions invited       the film to be screened at their Festival of Ideas in June 2013 and the UK       TUC screened the film at Congress House to approximately 160 people.
The       film also had an international reach &#8212; screening as part of the Workers       Unite!
Film Festival in New York and selling around the world, including       Canada, America, Australia and Latin America.
The depth of the film's       impact on some audiences is recorded on the film's website.
Working class       audiences especially felt that the saliency of class as a lived experience       had been given an all-too rare expression by the film.
