     Growth in demand for high-resolution climate change scenarios created       opportunities for Professor Wilby to interact with the policy arena.
The       following examples illustrate how his research contributed to       environmental sustainability and long-term security of public services       (water and energy) through raised awareness of climate risks in the UK and       beyond.
Application of SDSM in policy-making and provision of public           services     SDSM is freely available to practitioners via a web-portal (http://www.sdsm.org.uk/).
Up to September 2013 there were approximately 7000 registered downloads of       the software from more than 100 countries.
Over 1000 registrations       originate from Africa, Asia, Central and South America, with strong recent       growth in demand from China and Iran.
Examples, of the impact and reach of       this research in public policy-making and sustainable development are       given below.
Interest in SDSM grew after referrals by the United Nations Framework       Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) [5.1] and the United Nations       Development Programme (UNDP) [5.2].
SDSM was also cited repeatedly       in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Working Group I       Fourth Assessment Report (AR4).
Another important factor was the       endorsement and web-delivery of the software via the Environment Canada       sponsored Canadian Climate Change Scenarios Network portal [5.3].
By 2008, SDSM had even been cloned by the Global Environmental and Climate       Change Centre in Quebec to automate some aspects of the software.
Professor Wilby and Dr Dawson obtained sponsorship to undertake training       (of groups of up to 30 practitioners) in the use of SDSM on behalf of       Environment Canada [Toronto workshop, May 2010], Chinese Ministry of       Agriculture [Xi'an workshop, October 2010], the British Council in       Bangladesh [Dhaka workshop October 2011], and EPSRC [Tunis workshop, July       2012].
Meta-analysis of over 200 studies based on SDSM reveals that impact       assessments for water resource and flood risk management account for       nearly half of all outputs, with lower levels of activity in agriculture,       the built environment, energy, human health, and tourism (see: 3.4       and http://co-public.lboro.ac.uk/cocwd/SDSM/Bibliography.pdf).
The range of end-users and applications is very diverse.
For example, SDSM       was used to evaluate design standards for urban drainage infrastructure in       Ontario, Canada.
In 2008, SDSM was used to assess tidal surge risk within       the Environment Agency Thames Estuary 2100 study.
Alongside evidence       provided by the Met Office, this work enabled planners to design a       long-term strategy for adapting London's flood defences to rising sea       levels [5.4].
Since 2008, SDSM was used in World Bank studies to       evaluate regional climate changes and potential impacts on rural       development in Djibouti, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Syria, Tunisia and       Yemen.
This work was subsequently incorporated in a flagship report on Adaptation         to Climate Change in the Arab Countries showcased at the UN       Conference of Parties (COP17) in Durban [5.5].
Scientific advisory services to Government, industry and           international donors     Thanks, in part, to the visibility of SDSM, Professor Wilby was asked to       provide technical advice on climate scenarios and risk management by a       range of communities.
Since 2008 he has counselled the Adaptation Sub       Committee (ASC) of the Committee on Climate Change; Department for       Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra); DFID; EBRD; Environment Agency       of England and Wales; European Commission; Tearfund; UK Collaborative on       Development Sciences (UKCDS); UN Environment Programme; UN International       Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD); US Water Research Foundation;       and the World Bank.
Three examples of these scientific advisory services       are given below.
First, Professor Wilby has sat on technical steering committees formed by       UK Government.
These were: Defra's 2009 UK Climate Change Projections         (UKCP09) to which he provided technical advice and a user       perspective (to 2009) [5.6]; the High Performance Computing       Subgroup for cross-department provision of climate science services to UK       Government (in 2010); the Steering Committee of the Met Office Hadley       Centre &#8212; DFID Climate Science Research Programme (CSRP) (2010-2012).
His       review in 2012 informed early thinking by the Committee on Climate Change       on the shape of the next UK Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA) [5.7].
Second, since 2008 he has chaired the British Energy Climate Change       (BECC) Working Group: an expert panel formed by EDF to provide technical       advice on potential climate risks and their management over the 200-year       life-cycle of proposed new nuclear build at Hinkley Point and Sizewell C [5.8].
The EDF-BECC partnership also acquired UK Research Council funding to       investigate the resilience of coastal energy systems [G3.6].
In       2013 he reviewed scientific evidence behind credible maximum sea level       change scenarios for the UK to inform the planning and design (flood risk       assessment), and operational (safety case) of new nuclear build.
Third, in 2011/12 Professor Wilby advised the World Bank Independent       Evaluation Group (IEG) on climate modelling as part of their corporate       assessment of the utility of climate scenarios for adaptation project and       lending decisions [5.9].
He developed a typology of adaptation       practice then appraised their portfolio of water projects to determine how       useful climate models had been for discriminating options.
The World Bank       accepted his principal recommendation that operational procedures for       identifying and managing climate risks should be standardized across the       Group.
Guidance issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and       Development (OECD) at the 2013 World Water Week also drew heavily on his       risk-based approach [3.5] as "a promising way forward" for adapting       to climate change in ways that promote water security [5.10].
