     Automated grain-sizing Automated Grain Sizing (AGS)       procedures are fast and efficient, driving down field time and costs       whilst maximising data quality.
These significant advantages make AGS       methods very attractive to practitioners charged with measuring surface       grain size in rivers.
The AGS procedures described above were developed       into a commercial software package, marketed under the Sedimetrics&#174;       brand (full details at http://sedimetrics.com).
The international reach and extent of this impact is evidenced by sales       of the Digital Gravelometertm software made to North America       (USA, Canada), Australasia (New Zealand), the Middle East (Israel) and       across Europe (UK, Greece, Czech Republic, Italy, Germany, France,       Slovakia).
A total of 36 licences have been sold since 2008 [5.1].
The software has been used by the commercial sector in high-profile       consultancy projects, including assessing the environmental impacts of a       new 1100 MW hydroelectric power dam for the British Columbia Hydro and       Power Authority [5.2].
Other commercial clients include the       National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research in New Zealand, the       US science and innovation company Batelle, and international engineering       consultancy Knight Pi&#233;sold [5.3].
The software has also been used by public sector agencies responsible for       environmental protection and regulation, including the Pacific Northwest       National Laboratory (US Department of Energy), the US Geological Survey       and the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection in the Emilia-Romagna       region, Italy [5.1].
Officers of the Canada Department of       Fisheries and Oceans use the software in assessments of fish habitat and       potential fishery productivity, and urge consultants to use it in routine       assessments of environmental impacts of gravel removal from rivers [5.2].
The Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) is using it to perform       their regulatory and statutory functions more effectively; for example, to       assess sediment characteristics prior to channel engineering activities       and evaluate the quality of restoration activities [5.3].
SEPA are       also using it in a large-scale project to validate the national sediment       budget model for Scotland, enabling them to meet their obligations under       the EU Water Framework Directive, the Water Environment and Water Services       (Scotland) Act 2007, and the Flood Risk Management (Scotland) Act 2009 [5.3].
As part of this work, Dr Graham has provided consultancy services to the       SEPA Hydromorphology Team to ensure maximum benefit is obtained from the       software and to assist in developing appropriate national protocols for       its use.
Sedimentary links in fluvial landscape ecology Professor       Rice's research on sediment transfer networks and their ecological       importance has underpinned several impacts.
First, Natural England       commissioned him to establish the extent of sedimentation problems in the       Upper Dove catchment of the Peak District, drawing on his research in       sediment connectivity to identify likely sources of sediment pollution and       management solutions.
Two projects in 2010 produced a fluvial audit of       sediment sources, problems and mitigation strategies within DEFRA's       English Catchment Sensitive Farming Delivery Initiative and completion of       six statutory Condition Assessments.
Three reports were delivered to       Natural England in 2011 (currently in press) and Natural England's view is       that "at least partly as a result of this work, water quality in the         Dove catchment has improved."
In addition to this benefit, the       reports led Natural England to identify a number of river restoration       projects for future funding and the Condition Assessments have been used       by Natural England as a template for similar assessments on other rivers [5.4].
In North America, government agencies (such as the United States       Geological Survey and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)       have applied Rice's work on sedimentary links, demonstrating its reach and       significance.
For example, a Research Landscape Ecologist at the United       States Geological Survey [5.5], writes that the "concept of         sedimentary links and the role of tributaries in structuring physical         habitat and biological response in rivers has changed the way we think         about managing watersheds and monitoring trends in fish populations.
We         have applied this concept in ... the Oregon Coast Range and along the         Yakima and Elwha rivers in Washington State (non-academic partners         include tribal governments, the Washington Department of Fish and         Wildlife, and the National Park Service), and we have developed an         entire study around the concept in collaboration with Weyerhaeuser         Company ... to minimize the effects of road building and timber harvest         on fish populations."
Rice's conceptual ideas about sedimentary       links have reached the private sector where the Earth Systems Institute       (Seattle, Washington) refer to his publications as a "guiding light"       [5.6] in developing GIS-based tools for assessment of riverine       habitat.
Most recently this includes NetMap [5.7], a       community-based watershed GIS system that uses Rice's work on the       importance of tributary junctions as biodiversity hotspots.
