     Allison and Seeley's study was the first to robustly identify a pattern       of high HIV prevalence across fishing communities, link it to an       understanding of the development context, rigorously synthesize the       epidemiological evidence, identify obstacles to addressing the problem and       suggest strategies to overcome them.
Since 2008, their work has       consistently been used by a wide range of organisations to argue for and       support policy change and to obtain funds for investment in reducing       vulnerability to HIV/AIDS in fishing communities.
The research has had a significant impact on a wide range of influential       actors and in international discourse at different levels:     International agencies: The initial 2003-5 wave of research had an       immediate impact on a broad range of important international agencies,       including bilateral development agencies such as DFID and the Swedish       International Development Agency (SIDA).
The research contributed to an       influential FAO Policy Brief Series and the inclusion of HIV/AIDS for the       first time in FAO's Fisheries Department's bi-annual flagship publication,       The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture (2006).
Its impact has       continued since 2008, both through these organizations' toolkits and key       resource documents [Impact References (IRs) 1, 2, 3] and via their       influence on other development actors [IR4].
This impact was facilitated by the research team's strong international       networks, including Allison's 2003-7 secondment to FAO.
With FAO, Allison       and Seeley developed a partnership in 2005 with the WorldFish Center       (CGIAR) and SIDA funding Fisheries and HIV/AIDS in Africa: Investing in       Sustainable Solutions (2007-11), a USD 5 million programme of       institutional support for African fisheries agencies and health service       providers to reduce vulnerability to HIV and AIDS in fishing communities.
Allison was involved in writing the pre-proposal to secure funding for FAO       and WorldFish; Seeley was a keynote speaker at a workshop in Zambia used       to convince SIDA of the importance of investing in reducing vulnerability       to AIDS in Africa's fisheries sector.
Among many other initiatives, the       programme has led to the development and implementation in Zambia of the       `Fish Trader+' intervention model to reduce female fish traders'       vulnerability to HIV through the formation of savings groups, with funding       from SIDA and the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, [IR5].
National Governments: The research has influenced the governments       of several countries, including Kenya and Malawi to recognise fisheries       workers' vulnerability to HIV/AIDS and the need to address this in       fisheries sector policy [e.g.
IR6].
It has strengthened the case for the       inclusion of fisherfolk in government HIV plans, including National AIDS       Commissions and Ministry of Health Plans [IR7].
NGOs: The research findings have also been directly taken up by       smaller, national NGOs in Kenya, Uganda, Ghana, and Indonesia to develop       specific programmes for fisherfolk.
For example, HIV and AIDS awareness       raising is one of the four main focus areas of Diakonia's Lake Victoria       Livelihood Programme, [IR8]; and an Africa Social Development and Health       Initiatives (ASDHI) worker used RRs 1, 2, 3 and 4 to persuade the       organisation's management committee to extend its HIV services to fishing       communities in Uganda in 2008.
This initiative grew and attracted local       government, NGO and university partnerships and funding.
A daily clinic is       now held at Ssenyi fish landing site in Ssi-Bukunja sub-county in Buikwe       district, where fisherfolk are tested for HIV, treated with ARVs, can       access opportunistic infection treatment and are provided with safe male       circumcision [IR9].
HIV Intervention trials: Fishing communities were included in the       establishment of cohorts for HIV intervention trials for the first time in       2008, and ARV projects increased their targeting of fisherfolk in 2011.
The DEV research made an important contribution to specific interventions       by several development agencies.
One of these was the Uganda Virus       Research Institute's successful bid to the European and Developing       Countries Clinical Trials Partnership to include fisherfolk in Uganda and       Malawi as key communities in intervention trials partnered by the       International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.
Seeley led the social science       research [IR10].
The ultimate impact of our work is on citizens in fishing-dependent       communities and others who benefit directly and indirectly in their       economic, social and sexual networks from improved access to       anti-retroviral therapies and basic health (including sexual health)       services [see IR8].
This has led to a significant increase in the number       of health and livelihood-focused projects and support programmes in       fishing-dependent regions, such as the Lake Victoria and Malawi fisheries.
