     Advisory services to Government and private sector at a national           level     Professor Smith's research on HMO raised awareness amongst politicians,       policy makers,       practitioners, local communities and other stakeholders of the effects of       students on university       towns and cities.
As a leading academic expert of student housing,       Professor Smith engaged with       a range of policy makers and stakeholders in local and national contexts,       as exemplified below.
First, Professor Smith was called upon by the Minister for Communities       and Local Government, to       provide evidence for revisions to the Use Classes Order planning       legislation in 2010 [5.1].
As part       of this process, Professor Smith's research was cited in the national       consultation documents for       proposals to change housing and planning legislation to regulate more       fully the production and       management of HMO, and government-commissioned evidence-gathering reports       for changing       housing and planning legislation in 2010 [5.2].
Professor Smith was       invited as an expert witness in       2009 and 2013 by the Brighton and Hove City Council and Charnwood Borough       Council Scrutiny       Panels on student housing, respectively [5.3].
Second, Professor Smith was invited to advise on the merits of proposed       changes to housing and       planning legislation as part of a review of the wider private rented       housing sector in 2010 [5.4], and       proposed changes to the definitions of the Use Classes Orders.
This led to       the creation of a new       Use Classes Order for HMO in the UK planning system in 2010, which now       requires planning       permission for the conversion of dwellings to HMO.
Third, Loughborough University research on studentification has been       cited in parliamentary       debates about growing student populations in the constituencies of MPs,       and has been used by       MPs as evidence to support their calls for changes to planning and housing       legislation.
This       research has been referred to in numerous government-level reports       including Scottish       Government Planning Circulars and Committee Reports, House of Commons       Regional       Committees, Northern Ireland Assembly (see for example a Parliamentary       question to the       Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government [235974] on       Community Relations and       Students in:       http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200708/cmhansrd/cm081118/text/81118w0029.htm).
Planning student housing in strategic ways for local contexts     The impacts of Professor Smith's research on local policy formulation on       student housing can be       divided into two key areas:     First, Professor Smith's research led to the development of student       housing and student       population-specific policies and strategies.
This includes the first-ever       development of designated       Local authority Student Housing Strategies (Brighton and Hove, Charnwood,       Leeds, Newcastle,       Nottingham) [5.3], and University Student Accommodation Strategies       (e.g.
University of Brighton,       Bristol, Leicester) [5.5].
Second, thanks to Professor Smith's research, student housing is now       recognised as a key       dimension of wider housing and local community planning within: five       Regional Housing Strategies       (e.g.
London Plan, County Durham); 15 Local Housing Strategies (e.g.
Newcastle, Nottingham,       Oxford) [5.6]; 8 Local Housing Market Impact Assessments (e.g.
Canterbury, Leicestershire,       Liverpool); 3 Student and Community Relation Strategies (Cardiff,       Portsmouth, NUS) [5.7];       management of private sector providers of student housing (e.g.
Unite       Student Homes); national       and local community organisations (e.g.
National HMO Lobby, Nottingham       Action Group) [5.8]; and       national voluntary, professional and practitioner organisations (e.g.
Royal Town Planning Institute)       [5.9].
His research has been cited in planning applications and at       public planning appeals (e.g.
Manchester in 2011).
The impact of his research also reached beyond the UK       to influence policy       making in Australian and North American university towns (e.g.
Montreal,       Canada) [5.10].
