     The impact arises from three types of activity: the establishment of the       first ever archive of       contemporary Middle Eastern compositions; advocacy and promotion; and the       direct curation of       events.
Archive.
BICMEM has established online and physical archives at       Brunel University representing       the work of over 100 composers from 27 countries.
This has become a       regularly consulted       resource and a core basis for advocacy, promotion, networking and       performance, with more than       6,000 on-line users to date.
Advocacy.
The Institute has built an extensive network of       diplomats, politicians, academics,       advisors, funders, promoters, composers and supporters to enable a greater       understanding,       knowledge and performance of contemporary Middle-Eastern music.
Sustained       advice and help       has been given by senior advisors within this network, including The Hon.
Dominic Asquith (former       British Ambassador, Iraq, Libya, Egypt), Baroness Symons (Chair, Arab       British Chamber of       Commerce), Noel Rands, (Hon.
Sec.
British-Egyptian Society), Professor       Salwa El-Shawan       Castelo-Bronco (Professor of Ethnomusicology at the New University,       Lisbon, and Fulbright       Visiting Professor at Columbia University), Waseem Kotoub (Director       Damascus International       Piano Competition for Youth), Lena Saleh (Edward Said National       Conservatory of Music).
This       advice has enabled fruitful dialogue; for example, in September 2012       Butterworth addressed all 25       Arab London Ambassadors at the invitation of HE Mr Khaled Al-Duwaisan       GCVO.
BICMEM is has       established relationships with 12 higher education institutions in Egypt,       Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, the       Palestinian Authority, Qatar, Syria and Turkey.
Two case studies demonstrate positive outcomes of this advocacy:     (1) a new opera.
BICMEM was contacted by Professor Rosalind Morris       for advice in finding a       composer to create an opera about the beginnings of oil discovery and       excavation in Saudi Arabia.
She was introduced to distinguished Syrian composer Zaid Jabri and a new       work is now in       production with a creative team drawn from Holland, Germany, Syria and the       USA.
(2) David Staples `Theatre Projects'.
David Staples has engaged       BICMEM to advise on new       creative content for concert halls they are developing across the Middle       East, including the       National Theatre in Bahrain, the Opera House in Oman and a new `creative       laboratory' in Dubai.
BICMEM will advise on artistic content and help ensure these new       international centres integrate       creatively with regional and national artists.
Curation.
BICMEM has directly raised funds for, promoted and       directed many events both in       London and in Middle Eastern countries; in London, to date, the music of       41 Middle Eastern       composers has been performed.
For example, 'Music from Egypt', a       Composers Ensemble       concert at St John's Smith Square, London in March 2011 led to the British       Egyptian University       and British Council raising &#163;18,000 to fund BICMEM projects in Cairo,       including:            a concert at the British Embassy of Egyptian music given by Wiegold         and the Composers         Ensemble,       a workshop in the Conservatoire, introducing new educational         techniques to staff and         students,       a talk at British Council on `the nature of cross-cultural         collaboration', and       an improvisation in a club with traditional Egyptian musicians.
Extensive networking facilitated by the Chair of the British Council, Sir       Vernon Ellis, the American       University in Cairo and the Egyptian Centre for Culture and the Arts has       enabled further concerts       and conferences.
The BICMEM inauguration event at St Luke's, London in July 2011 included       a concert with works       by Zaid Jabri (Syria) and Amr Okba (Egypt) who also took part in a       conference on `The Integration       of Middle-Eastern and Western Music'.
An inaugural speech was given by The       Rt.
Hon Baroness       Symons of Vernham Dean.
In January 2012 BICMEM hosted Missak Baghboudarian, conductor of the       Syrian National       Symphony Orchestra, who visited the LSO and BBC Symphony Orchestra and       gave a Foyles       interview.
His visit was sponsored by an &#163;1,800 British Council grant.
In May 2012 Butterworth was a panel member with Gidon Kremer and Arab       composers at the       University of Music in Vienna, debating `Contemporary Music: Between       Heritage, Individualism and       Dialogue &#8212; An Arab Perspective'.
In November 2012 the A M Qattan Foundation hosted a discussion at the       Mosaic Rooms, London       on `Arab Spring: Symphony or Requiem?
What does the future hold for       composers in the Middle       East?'
including Houtaf Khoury and Abdallah El Masri.
A concert of Lebanese music was given on 7th November 2012 in       St John's Smith Square,       including works by Toufic Succar and Bushra El Turk was supported by       &#163;12,000 from the       Makhzoumi Foundation.
In December 2012 BICMEM presented the Dante String Quartet with Prof.       &#214;zkan Manav speaking       on `Microtonal traditions in Turkish music and its reverberations on new       music composition in       Turkey' and Prof. Hasan U&#231;arsu on `The changing approach to maqam music       among the present       generation of Turkish composers as a result of social, cultural and       economic changes' as part of       the University of London's Institute of Musical Research seminar series.
In June 2013 in collaboration with the Egyptian Cultural Centre, Shubbak,       BICMEM participated in       the London Shubbak Festival presenting composers from Morocco, Egypt,       Sudan, Palestine and       Jordan.
In October 2013 BICMEM presented a fundraising concert in the Cadogan       Hall, London, with Gala       El Hedidi (singer), Mohamed Shams (pianist), the Darb El Ahmar School of       drummers and       acrobats, traditional Musicians from Makan and the Egyptian Contemporary       Classical Music       Ensemble (works by Bahaa El-Ansary; Mohamed Saad Basha; Ahmed Madkour)       Sponsored by       Shell International Limited, Tower Hamlets, Vodafone, British Arab       Commercial Bank and Alfanar       the event raised &#163;23,500.
Projects currently in progress include work with Ardah musicians and       dancers from Saudi Arabia       (supported by HRH Prince Mohamed bin Nawaf), the Qatar Symphony Orchestra       (supported by       HE Khaled Mansouri), the Gaza Music School (supported by the Qattan       Foundation), and a       London concert of Moroccan music.
