     The focal point of this case study is Run to the Beat, a groundbreaking       series of mass-participation events that fuse half-marathon running with       scientifically-selected music performed by live acts and DJs along the       route.
As the leader of the Music in Sport and Exercise Research Group, Dr       Karageorghis was approached by the International Management Group (IMG) to       provide scientific consultancy and to serve as a figurehead for the event;       opportunities that gave him a platform to communicate the findings of his       group's research to a wider public.
On Sunday 5 October 2008, the inaugural event featured 8,000 runners who       pounded the streets of Greenwich to the sounds of 30 live bands.
A       successful renewal on Sunday 27 September 2009 demonstrated the maturity       of the concept; indeed, a 50% growth in participant numbers was realised       (12,000+).
In 2010, the London event had 15,000 participants, and in 2011,       17,000.
The Run to the Beat concept was rolled out across mainland Europe,       with the 2010 launch in Basel (Switzerland) being the first (2,500+) and       replicated in 2011 and 2012 with similar numbers.
The event series exerts       considerable charitable and economic impact which has been alloyed by       global music sales (e.g.
Run to the Beat CD and download albums in       association with Ministry of Sound and City Showcase) and the launch of       cutting-edge music players and mobile phones.
Dr Karageorghis served as a spokesperson and scientific consultant for       the launch of the Sony W-series of wearable MP3 players as well as two       Sony Ericsson mobile phones (W760i and W995 Walkman Phones).
His       involvement continued until after the third renewal on 26 September 2010,       by which time the event was firmly established on the running calendar and       represented a prominent brand that was adopted by Nike Inc. for the period       2011-14.
Sustained impact has occurred under the stewardship of Nike Inc.       with 18,500 participants competing at the 2012 event.
The research underpinned the impact by giving the event a strong       scientific premise which was fore-grounded in public relations       initiatives.
Indeed, the science underpinning the event was eponymous in       that the title referenced the human predisposition to entrain to a musical       rhythm.
The work of the research group linking exercise heart-rate with       music tempo was the main focus of the media activity associated with the       event.
Coverage presented the research in a favourable light describing it       as "novel" and "cutting edge" and using the concept of Run to the Beat to       address the wider question of how music can play a motivational and       assistive role in physical activity.
The way in which runners' exercise       heart-rates were used to "contour" the tempo of the musical selections was       a principle incorporated prominently in all marketing materials and album       releases.
Media-related activities engaged in by Dr Karageorghis included press       conferences, workshops for journalists, a pop-science section on the event       website explaining the principles underlying the music selection and       several product launches.
The breadth and reach of Run to the Beat's       social impact was aided by worldwide media exposure culminating in       dedicated broadcasts on Channel 4, slots in primetime documentaries,       magazine shows throughout Europe and South America (e.g.
UK, France,       Sweden, Brazil), and numerous spreads in broadsheet newspapers (e.g.
The         Times and The New York Times).
The primary beneficiaries       were event participants who were given a window on the research, offered       support to incorporate the findings into their event preparation, and were       able to experience it in action on the day.
Carefully-selected music has       been shown to reduce perceptions of exertion by 8-12% while enhancing       affect by 10-15%.
Similarly, it may improve movement efficiency by up to       7% and extend voluntary endurance by as much as 15%.
For these reasons,       the music programmes provided were integral to the popularity of the       events.
Through the considerable media activity associated with Run to the Beat,       a wider pool of several million readers, listeners and viewers were       offered insights to support their own use of music in exercise.
Economic       benefit from Run to the Beat was felt by the media, equipment       manufacturers (e.g.
Sony and Sony Ericsson), sports promoters (IMG), the       running community who were provided with an additional and novel event in       London, and charitable institutions who gained a fulcrum for their       fundraising endeavours.
London-based artists also benefitted from the       event as they were given a platform (online and on stage) to perform their       work and develop their public profiles.
For example, the relatively       unknown south London rapper, Tinie Tempah, was booked for the 2010 event       and his single Written In The Stars went to #1 in the Vodafone Big       Top 40 chart on the evening of the event following his performance on the       main stage (26 September 2010;       http://www.bigtop40.com/chart/archive/2010/39/).
A distinctive characteristic of the social impact and capital generated       by Run to the Beat has been the uniting of those in the sporting,       mercantile, entertainment and creative industries.
Alliances have       developed between the various beneficiaries: national charities, musical       collectives such as the Panjabi Hit Squad and the Royal Artillery Band,       blue chip companies such as Sony Ericsson, and local government.
As the       group's research is synonymous with the event, every form of publicity and       outreach directly amplifies the impact of this work.
Impact was also       created along civic lines through the provision of social events that       generated community interest and an influx of visitors into the local       authority area (Greenwich).
The Run to the Beat brand cemented the       association of Brunel with the use of music in exercise and furthered the       profile of Karageorghis as its foremost practitioner.
Subsequent to his       involvement, Dr Karageorghis has been asked to fulfil numerous knowledge       transfer projects and consultancy work that has generated considerable       impact.
These projects include appearing as a witness to support claims of       musical rights agencies to obtain proper rights for their content when       reproduced in gymnasia, the compilation of a BASES Expert Statement, which       is the most viewed of all 11 statements (4,695 unique page views; source       BASES), the invitation to produce an encyclopaedia entry on the topic for       Sage, and more recently, his appointment by the American College of Sports       Medicine as Chair of MusicMoves: A Global Health Initiative.
Run       to the Beat has spawned further innovative projects that found their focus       in the 2012 London Olympiad.
In an initiative sponsored by Red Bull,       Karageorghis teamed up with Urban music producer Redlight and Team GB       Athletics captain, Dai Green, to devise a new piece of music to help the       athlete prepare for his 400-metre hurdles bid; this work proved to be very       much the `heir apparent' to the case study described herein       (http://www.redbull.co.uk/cs/Satellite/en_UK/Video/Red-Bull-Performance-Track-021243219217531).
In summary, Run to the Beat generated wide- and far-reaching impact which       was felt across an array of sectors (industry, charity, art, media and       civic) and by event participants in the UK and Europe, media users across       the globe (e.g.
via prominent coverage in the USA and Brazil), and the       local communities that hosted the races.
Run to the Beat has brought the       subject of exercise to music into the public consciousness in a way that       has not occurred since the surge in popularity associated with aerobic       dance exercise in the early 1980s.
The output of the Music in Sport and       Exercise Research Group has percolated society at an increasing rate,       informing both the knowledge base and practice of sport and exercise over       the last decade.
As an index of the reach of the impact, the Brunel-based       music research is cited &gt;100,000 times on Google.
