     The application of historical, literary and performance research       initiated by `Henrician Court Drama' has led to both cultural life and       practice benefits.
This is evidenced through the improved visitor       experience and visitor numbers at Hampton Court Palace, as well as the       contribution to Historic Research Palaces' research policies and public       engagement strategy.
`Staging the Henrician Court' and `Medicine, Birth and Death at the Tudor       Court' (through A Little Neck) have had a lasting impact on the       practices of Historic Royal Palaces, who benefited through collaboration       in research-led performances that both embodied research and piloted new       modes of audience and visitor engagement through performance.7,8       Through the public rehearsals, curators gained insights into how       interpretative staff might inform their own research practice, and how       their work might both be informed by and enable performance research.
Historic Royal Palaces' commitment to the projects was reflected by their       in-kind contribution of &#163;104,441 to `Staging the Henrician Court'.
The Chief Executive of Historic Royal Palaces comments that, "`Staging       the Henrician Court' had an important impact upon Historic Royal Palaces'       research into the Great Hall at Hampton Court Palace and more generally       the court of Henry VIII.
Within Historic Royal Palaces it demonstrated the       value of performance as research as a methodology for investigating public       spaces, particularly where there are limited textual and archival       records.
"7 He identifies three distinct areas of impact arising       from `Staging the Henrician Court' `research, research management and       visitor experience' and states that `it is no exaggeration to say that Staging         the Henrician Court has had a pivotal role in helping to motivate       and inform H[istoric] R[oyal] P[alaces]'s development of a New Research       Strategy'.7     Betteridge has informed and influenced Historic Royal Palaces' policies       through an improved understanding of the relationship between research and       visitor experience.
Prior to `Staging the Henrician Court', Historic Royal       Palaces felt that engaging in large scale research projects in public       space would be detrimental to the visitor experience; however the project       demonstrated that this was not the case, in fact day visitors responded       positively to public rehearsals.
Furthermore, subsequent projects within       Historic Royal Palaces have adopted the research and public engagement       strategy of `Staging the Henrician Court/'A Little Neck' e.g.
`The Rover',       by Aphra Behn, 2012 for which Betteridge was dramaturge.
Following the       success of `Staging the Henrician Court' Betteridge (with Rawlinson)       produced a strategy paper for the Historic Royal Palaces' board, `Theatre       and the Performance of History at Historic Royal Palaces'.
Historic Royal       Palaces are now applying for Independent Research Organization status.
Betteridge's status as an international expert in the field of Tudor       studies was reflected in 2009 when he became joint chair of the research       advisory panel established by Historic Royal Palaces to provide support       and advice on the representation of Hampton Court Palace for the       commemoration of the succession of Henry VIII.
The research advisory panel       had a key role in helping develop new visitor's attractions, in particular       the restoration of the Henry's council chamber and the decision to focus       the interpretative offering on the wedding of Katherine Parr.
The Research       Advisory Panel also had an important role in staging a major international       conference on Henry VIII at Hampton Court Palace and in the design of a       series of public lectures given at Hampton Court Palace.9     Audiences of 140 Historic Royal Palace professionals and public attended       the productions of The Play of the Weather in The Great Hall       during 2009/2010.
The total audience for A Little Neck was 2,100       and was sold out for its entire run.
Historic Royal Palace's target for       increased visitor numbers in 2009 was 50,000 (10%) and the actual increase       was 115,287 (43%).7 The project's impact has been further       extended via successful transfer into other media, including films of the       performances on the project website,8 interviews with       researchers and participants, and a wiki.
AHRC Assessors of `Staging the Henrician Court' noted that these       additional resources `give [the project] lasting value as a teaching and       research tool...I am not aware of any other similar academic website that       currently offers this kind of interactivity' and `The website and wiki       will be the main lasting outcome.
Websites with a performance element       embedded are rare, so this is an innovative suggestion which could set a       standard for comparable projects in future.
'5 The project is       highlighted in the AHRC's Summer 2009 newsletter,12 and offered       in the AHRC's Annual Report and Accounts for 2010-11 as a case study of       good practice in `Supporting the Cultural Sector'10 and in the       Research Councils UK publication What's in it for Me?
: the Benefits of         Public Engagement for Researchers.14     Through the historical, literary and performance research outlined in       this case study Historic Royal Palaces are better informed to understand       the court of Henry VIII and its spatial politics.
Furthermore, this       research-led approach has demonstrated the increasing value of       interpretive practices and performance research to the policies and       strategies of major heritage sites.
