     Work on equality policy in research careers was said to have made       `a significant contribution to the development of the policies and       practices that are linked to the new Research Excellence Framework'       (Policy Director of ECU, 8).
The research report was sent by ECU to all       Vice-Chancellors as it was seen as `particularly useful in influencing       practice at local level' (8).
The recommendations based on the research       had demonstrable and direct impact on the content of the Funding Councils       Equality Guidance for REF 2014.
They were taken up in the REF 2014       guidance: (para 111 Research Excellence Framework Second Consultation on       the Assessment and Funding of Research (HEFCE 2009) and Assessment       Framework and Guidance on Submission (HEFCE July 2011, 6) and by ECU       (6,7).
Below are the details of these recommendations (see report section       3.1 pp 28-29,1) which show that they were instrumental in shaping the       equality guidance issued by the Funding Councils and ECU for REF 2014:     This research identified that the pro-rata approach adopted by some       panels to deal with equality related circumstances had the advantage of       clarity and that a more flexible approach, although less restrictive,       could open up more subjective interpretations: REF 2014 equality guidance       has adopted a clear distinction between defined personal circumstances to       be dealt with by adopting a pro-rata approach, and complex circumstances       where a more flexible approach is needed (paragraph 67, ibid).
The need for greater consistency in the equality guidance issued by panels       and sub-panels particularly with regard to the treatment of early career       researchers was identified and led to the adoption of more consistent       rules in REF 2014 (paragraph 72, ibid).
Institutions were recommended to have `robust procedures' to facilitate       self-disclosure of personal circumstances.
This is directly reflected in       paragraph 220 (Assessment Framework and Guidance on Submission (HEFCE July       2011) on Disclosure of Individual Staff Circumstances.
Following the       recommendations the ECU developed a template for universities to gather       equality-related personal circumstances (7).
Equality training should focus on the REF context and take a case study       approach.
In response ECU and the REF Equality Advisory Panel have       designed REF specific equality training and developed a bank of case       studies for training purposes (7).
HEIs should be encouraged to undertake Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs)       of REF submissions (paragraph 212 Equality Impact Assessments, ibid)       All equality related appeals should allow for a timely resolution of any       complaint.
In response to this the Funding Councils are requiring that       `appropriate and timely procedures should be put in place' (paragraph 227       Feedback and appeals, ibid)       The impact of this work has also been recognised by those affected by it:       for instance Manfredi and Vickers were commissioned to carry out REF       equality training by the University of Surrey (2012) for those involved in       decision making in the REF 2014.
Furthermore as HE sectors in other       countries like Australia are considering the adoption of similar       approaches to assess research outputs, the findings from this study are       likely to influence practice internationally.
Age equality and retirement policies: The research on age equality       and retirement policies has been used extensively in knowledge transfer       workshops/training for HE human resource managers, equality specialists       and trade union representatives.
It has also informed written guidance for       universities in developing best practice to manage extended working lives.
The direct impact of this research is demonstrated by the following       evidence from sector stakeholders, HR managers, equality specialists, and       lawyers:     Key findings from the research were included in 2010 HEFCE report on the       HE workforce and future management challenges (9).
ECU funded (&#163; 2,000)       the production (2011) of a written resource guide informed by the research       findings on managing flexible retirement and extended working lives to       influence and improve practice in this area (11).
This guide was sent to       all HR university Directors and other key stakeholders in the sector and       published on the ECU web-site (13).
Law firms have used the research       findings widely in their briefings to clients and in the preparation of       cases involving the enforcement of an employer justified retirement age       (2010-2013) (10).
Manfredi and Vickers were commissioned (2009) by       Equality Forward in Scotland to design and deliver training, based on this       research, for HR managers in higher and further education.
As Manfredi and       Vickers continued to examine the changing legal regime on age       discrimination and retirement, later research findings informed new       training sessions for HR and equality managers which were delivered in       several universities in England (2011) and at a workshop, commissioned by       ECU, in Scotland (2012).
Overall these sessions were attended by HR and       equality specialists from over 50 universities and FE colleges.
Written       feedback from these sessions shows how the research influenced managers'       thinking and practice: `used of the resource guide to improve practice';       `used evidence from research to tackle prejudice and stereotype about       older people, especially about their performance in the workplace'; helped       to `think creatively about how work could be organised to accommodate       extended working lives' `considered links between equality strands';       `checked retirement/age process for good practice'; etc.(12).
This       research has also `shaped the thinking and action' of the University and       College Union (14) which led to the adoption of a motion at their Congress       in 2012 on Sustainable Working Lives.
Manfredi has been invited to be part       of a working group convened by UCU in 2013 to look at sustainable working       lives in HE (14).
Finally this research has attracted media coverage and       stimulated a wider debate on age discrimination and retirement policies in       the HE sector (15).
