     Although as a society we have only recently started talking about       Sustainable Mobility, efforts to reduce travel times, improve business       performance and help protect the environment have always been the key aims       of research for the improvement of urban and inter-urban transport       control.
The research presented in this case study in the CSI Unit has       been dealing with these issues since 1995 and the impact from these       studies is evident in the number of applications developed and implemented       by local businesses and also in the number of policies implemented in the       regional traffic control centres (East Midlands).
These achievements have       been recently extended (2011) further afield, to influence European-wide       decision-making and are considered as Europe-leading in the area of       car-to-car communication for traffic data gathering, traffic knowledge       generation and traffic control.
Evidence for this is clearly visible in       the text of the support letters from 4 different EU member countries       (2013) e.g.
"the budgetary saving proved to be significant, while           the amount of data gathering increased substantially"&#8212; (after       adopting the Unit's wireless approach to infrastructure in their centre,       Sources to corroborate, 2).
The main indicator of the impact of this research into the design and       implementation of next generation Intelligent Transport System is the       degree of penetration of the Unit's wireless and mobile networking       technologies and algorithms in the design of the architecture of the new       ITS across Europe.
This is emphasised in the support letter from the       Nottingham Traffic Control Centre &#8212; "The most sizeable influence           however is the move to mostly wireless environment for real-time           traffic control.
This shift in paradigm has been possible only under           influence and the information provided by the NTU's wireless research           group".
(Sources to corroborate, 1) The transfer of knowledge       from the wireless and mobile arenas into mainstream traffic control       systems started with the CSI Unit helping to create the Nottingham Traffic       Control Centre's (NTCC) presence on the web &#8212; first implementation went       live in 1999, modernised in 2009.
The widespread adoption of mobile phone technology led to the design of an       SMS messaging service with a prototype implementation first developed in       the CSI Unit.
A local company &#8212; Infohub Ltd &#8212; furthered these ideas and       developed a website for journey planning which is essential today (since       2009).
The product is based on combining the SMS service with journey       planning software development.
This won "The Innovation Prize for the Bus       Transport Industry" award in 2005.
Subsequently the company developed       their flagship website "Triptimes" in 2009, and has been a valuable source       of traffic origin-destination data and wireless devices support for the       Unit's research (Sources to corroborate, 6).
The next impact has been the creation of new solutions for building a new       generation of Intelligent Transportation Systems, based on wireless,       mobile and pervasive networking in 2010 &#8212; recognised and funded by the       European Commission &#8212; the &#163;3M MODUM project (288205).
NTCC and Coventry Traffic Control Centre (CTCC) implemented wireless       systems in 2013 as a result of the Unit's research, and the current       control is delivered through wireless devices mounted in traffic lights.
The degree of incorporation of wireless devices in the NTCC's       infrastructure is underlined by the merger of the Unit's own wireless test       bed infrastructure with the NTCC's traffic control infrastructure.
One of       the NTU's tallest buildings (the Newton building &#8212; due to its strategic       location), has been used by NTCC to mount antennas on its roof for       delivering essential NTCC control services.
As a result of the expertise gained during research on Intelligent       Transportation Systems, members of the Unit's research groups have been       invited to participate in the strategic planning processes for the       following public bodies: The Big Wheel consortium, the Greater Nottingham       Transport Partnership (GNTP) and the NTCC Strategic Decision Board.
In       2010 the impact of the growing number of wireless applications for traffic       information gathering, processing and control resulted in the award of the       &#163;3M FP7 EU MODUM project (288205).
This is recognised in the support       letters from the Netherlands, Belgium, UK and Bulgaria.
For all these       countries it is envisaged that the potential impact of the MODUM project       will be even greater in the future.
Preparations are under way to feed the       real-time data collected in the MODUM project into Intelligent       Transportation Systems (November &#8212; December 2013): including bus real-time       GPS data, crowd (smart phone) sourced data, infrastructure collected data       (non-SCOOT infrastructure &#8212; SCOOT is the current traffic control system       using inductive loops for car counting &#8212; Split, Cycle and Offset       Optimisation Technique &#8212; SCOOT), and car-to-car communication data.
