     The scale is extensively used in schools and ITE in the UK and worldwide       because it has been found to be helpful in promoting reflection on       classroom climate and developing understanding of the factors which       influence the working atmosphere in classrooms.
The research has also had       an impact on public and policy debates about the extent to which behaviour       is a problem in UK schools (Daily Mail, 12/5/09, TES, 18/6/10,       Independent, 6/9/12).
Although there were earlier indications of the impact and use of the       scale, it was not until the publication of the 2007 book (research       reference 2) detailing the research and explaining how the scale might be       used that the impact on practice in schools and in ITE became more       substantial.
The book and media reporting of the AERA paper in 2009       brought the scale to the attention of a broader public, professional and       policy audience.
The scale was reproduced in the Times Educational       Supplement (TES), The Guardian and the Telegraph.
On three occasions the       TES has given full-page coverage to the scale.
The Telegraph printed a       letter from a prospective teacher saying that they had been advised that       she should read `The Haydn Scale' before going into teaching.
The research       was featured in the Daily Mail (12 May 2009), Sunday Telegraph (8 August       2009), and Independent (6 September 2012).
Haydn was also invited to write       a two-page feature on behaviour in UK schools, featuring use of the scale,       for the TES (18 June 2010).
The impact of the research can be gauged in       part by the fact that it is highly unusual for an educational assessment       instrument to be given such extensive coverage in the national press.
Throughout this period, the scale was disseminated through invited       lectures at ITE institutions, the Behaviour for Learning and Higher         Education Academy websites, and Teachers TV (2009), as well       as Haydn's own website.
Because of interest in the scale, the       author was appointed to be part of the Behaviour for Learning       project, a major teacher education online professional resource network       funded by the Training and Development Agency.
As well as being part of       the working group responsible for developing the network, he was Eastern       Regional Co-ordinator (2007-10), running seminars for head teachers and       senior managers on behaviour.
Throughout this period, Haydn has delivered       an annual keynote lecture to PGCE students at the Institute of Education,       University of London, as well as at UEA, and more recently, Oxford       University.
This has been recorded by Teachers TV (www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8ofQ_3CXA0).
Over 15,000 UK teachers have been directly inducted into use of the scale       in invited lectures, in addition to those who have used the scale as a       result of encountering it online, on Teachers TV and in the book `Managing       pupil behaviour' (research references 2 and 5).
The book is on the reading       list of most Higher Education-led secondary ITE courses and the scale is       widely discussed on teacher blogs and websites (see, for example, http://urbanschoolteacherblog.blogspot.co.uk/2009/09/rate-your-teaching.html).`x       Impact has also been assisted by the availability of the scale and       supporting information on a number of education websites (see, for       example, www.behaviour2learn.co.uk,       www.teachfind.com, www.playbackschools.co.uk,       www.prometheanplanet.com/PDTV,       www.tes.co.uk/video, www.laserlearning.tv,       www.schoolsworld.tv, www.teachersmedia.co.uk,       www.viewmy.tv, www.uea.ac.uk/~m242       (e.g.
corroborating sources 1-4.)
There is evidence to demonstrate that the scale is used, and is thought       to be useful, in Scotland and Northern Ireland and beyond the UK (North       America, Europe, Australasia).
Over a third of the sales of the book are       to the `US and Rest of the World' (email from publisher 20/12/12).
The       research outputs and web/media coverage of the scale have raised the       profile of the role of classroom climate in educational outcomes, and       challenged the recent very positive portrayal of behaviour in schools       presented by Ofsted and the Steer Report on behaviour in schools (see:       TES, 1 May 2009; Haydn, 2012).
The research has also drawn attention to       equal opportunities issues surrounding the tensions between pupil       inclusion, and situations where some pupils may be spoiling the learning       of others.
(e.g.
corroborating sources 5-11.)
The research has had an impact on policy as well as practice.
The author       has been invited to talk to the policy and research committee of the       General Teaching Council about the scale (8/6/10) and to deliver a talk on       the scale for the University Council for Teacher Education (UCET,       10/3/11).
The research has also been identified by the Department for       Education (DfE) and the National College for Teaching and Leadership       (NCTL) as a recommended resource for improving the training of teachers in       the field of pupil behaviour 	  (http://www.education.gov.uk/schools/careers/traininganddevelopment/initial/b00210912/improving-tt-beh/approaches-to-reflection).
The significance of the research is that the scale has become the most       widely used instrument for considering classroom climate from a teacher       perspective.
The reach of the research is global with the scale being used       in North America, Europe, Africa, Asia and Australasia (e.g.
corroborating       sources 8-11).
