     Steinert's work has had impact on education, public discourse, public       services and policy making.
(a) Co-operation with the Imperial War Museum, London (education, public       discourse, public services)     Dissemination of the research results on displaced persons and British       humanitarian assistance in Germany led to a co-operation with the Imperial       War Museum, London and the joint organisation of the first international       multidisciplinary conference on `Beyond camps and forced labour: Current       international research on survivors of Nazi persecution', held at the       Imperial War Museum January 2003.
Further conferences followed in 2006,       2009 and 2012.
Participation in this conference series has been highly selective, and       the submission of a total of more than 400 proposals for the 2009 and 2012       conferences alone underlines that `Beyond camps' has become the       international platform for communication and collaboration between       academics and third sector agencies engaged in the field.
Among the 217       speakers in 2009 and 2012 were delegates from the US Holocaust Memorial       Museum Washington/DC, Yad Vashem Jerusalem, the museums/memorial sites in       Auschwitz, Bergen-Belsen, Dachau, and Ravenbr&#252;ck as well as       representatives of organisations like Memorial (Moscow), KARTA (Warsaw),       Falstadt (Norway), the Association of Jewish Refugees (London), the Former       Internees of Bergen-Belsen Association (France), the Institute of National       Remembrance (Poland), The Centre for Dialogue in O&#347;wi&#281;cim (Poland), and       the UK Holocaust Memorial Day Trust.
Additionally, both conferences       attracted around 90 other participants, including delegates from       organisations, associations and memorials.
Impact can be seen in the conference series' contribution to       `commemoration, memorialisation and reconciliation' as well as its       influence on the work of the Imperial War Museum.
According to Suzanne       Bardgett (Holocaust Exhibition), `Beyond camps' was "an inspiring model"       for the museum, which "will do more conferences with our fresh drive on       research".
(b) Co-operation with the UN Office of the Special Representative of the       Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict (public discourse,       public services)     Steinert has initiated and - together with colleagues from the       universities of Salzburg and Wolverhampton (Prof Buckley / History and       Prof Galasi&#324;ski / Cultural Studies) - co-organized two international       multidisciplinary conferences `Children and War: Past and Present', held       in Salzburg in 2010 and 2013.
Shortly after the 2010 conference (with 133 speakers from both academia       and NGOs), the organisers were asked by the UN Office of the Special       Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict to       develop a conference series on this particular topic in association with       the Office.
According to a `Concept Note' received, the UN regards the       conference as "an opportunity for a closer and continued engagement with a       broad spectrum of researchers".
In January 2012 Ms Radhika Coomaraswamy,       the Special Representative of the Secretary-General (2006-2012), wrote to       Steinert that "we must work closely together to develop new ideas and       approaches to enhance the protection of children during armed conflict".
This commitment was reinforced by her successor, Ms Leila Zerrougui, who       underlined during the opening of the 2013 conference that "strengthening       this partnership" was a UN aim.
Besides this, Steinert has accepted a       request to contribute his research experience to the deliberations of a UN       Academic Advisory Board that will "contribute guidance, based on academic       research, to the objectives of the Office".
The Call for Papers for both Salzburg conferences attracted a total of       nearly 500 proposals and a final number of 276 speakers, among them       representatives of leading international humanitarian and human rights       organisations (such as Save the Children, Watch List for Children and       Armed Conflict, War Child Holland) as well as field workers engaged in       Africa, Asia and South America.
Eamonn Hanson (Global Advocacy       Coordinator, War Child Holland) summarized the feedback received from many       NGO representatives: "It was a great learning experience and a good       platform for us to get feedback on our work."
(c) Co-operation with Stowarzyszenie Dzieci Wojny w Polsce (policy         making)     Most recently, Steinert's research on Child Forced Labour has had impact       on the political work of the `Association of Children of the War', &#321;&#243;d&#378;,       Poland.
This organisation advocates the rights of former child forced       labourers, including those who stayed at home while forced to work for       German military or civilian authorities.
As both the German and the Polish       government have denied these children any form of compensation and also       the social and economic benefits granted to officially recognized forced       labourers, the Association regards Steinert's research of "great       importance in getting the same national and international rights and       privileges as enjoyed by forced labourers deported to Germany".
In 2010,       the Association honoured Steinert, Galasi&#324;ski and Koz&#322;owska with its       Golden Cross, followed by the highest decoration, the Blue Cross of Merit,       in 2012.
