 4.1 Management of water in peatlands NTU research on peatland hydrology and restoration informs on-going management of large areas of peatland in the UK and overseas.
Conducted at catchment scale, it has been readily applicable to conservation of exploited peatland landscapes and has been applied by major landowners, water companies, conservation charities and statutory conservation bodies.
Labadz contributed to a consultation day hosted by Severn Trent Water on catchment management for the water company's Price Review 2009 (PR09).
Research by the Unit has informed the National Trust's management of its estates, including its 50 year plan for the High Peak Moors (2013), catchment management policy by Yorkshire Water, Severn Trent, the United Utilities sustainable catchment management SCaMP project and Defra's "Making Space for Water" project.
Clutterbuck's work has informed the Natural England Review of Evidence on Burning in the Uplands (Glaves et al, 2012) and was disseminated via a presentation to the Upland Hydrology Group, which brings together stakeholders including water companies, land-owners, conservation agencies and research scientists, aiming to reach a consensus about how land and water should be managed in the uplands (http://www.moorsforthefuture.org.uk/upland-hydrology-group).
Work by NTU is amongst key literature references for the Defra-funded Peatlands ESUK (Ecosystem Services UK) project available at https://sites.google.com/a/york.ac.uk/peatlandesuk/academic/biography.
The Unit also produced hydrology reports for a suite of internationally designated sites (raised bogs in Cumbria and West Midlands Meres and Mosses) which were part of the Environment Agency's Wetland Framework for Impact Assessment at Statutory Sites in England and Wales (published in 2009, as Appendix 4 of Wheeler, Shaw and Tanner, Environment Agency Science Report SC030232/SR1).
In 2010-12 NTU led an assessment of peatland hydrology for the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Commission on UK Peatlands.
Sponsored by the North Pennines AONB (Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty), this involved reviewing available evidence, coordination of a stakeholder group, organising and hosting a workshop, an invited presentation and attendance at an open inquiry event.
Labadz is a named author on the report of the Commission of Inquiry http://www.iucn-uk-peatlandprogramme.org/resources/188, where the patrons state that "it comes at a crucial time, with high level strategic decisions being made at national and international level on climate change, biodiversity, water and agriculture which will impact on the way we manage our peatlands and how we pay to keep them in a healthy state.
This assessment draws together the Inquiry's findings and clearly demonstrates the value of peatlands to society, the damage which has been done to them and the huge liability of doing nothing to repair this damage".
4.2 Conservation of peatland habitats Work on erosion of blanket bogs by Labadz and Yeloff et al (2005, 2006) has been used by organisations including Natural England and Yorkshire Peat Partnership to inform management and restoration of degraded peatlands, and has been cited by Scottish Natural Heritage (2011) in a report on peat erosion and the management of peatland habitats (http://www.snh.org.uk/pdfs/publications/commissioned_reports/410.pdf).
Labadz and Clutterbuck contributed to and were cited in the IUCN 2010 assessments on Peatland Restoration and Burning.
The final report of the IUCN Commission of Enquiry was presented both at the Scottish Parliament and at Westminster.
In February 2013 a letter was received from the Ministers responsible for the Environment in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland setting out their welcome of the Commission of Enquiry and outlining their actions and intentions to enhance the natural capital of UK peatlands.
This made a commitment to continued support in land management policies for conservation of peatlands, funding support, engagement with the work of IUCN and further research on the management of peatlands.
In 2012 Labadz was one of two academic experts appointed on the Natural England Evidence Review on Restoration of Uplands (Shepherd et al, 2013).
Clutterbuck contributed to the Review on Burning (two in a series of five reviews intended to provide a sound evidence base for future policy and practice in upland management) http://publications.naturalengland.org.uk/file/10510011 and http://www.naturalengland.org.uk/ourwork/uplands/uplandsevidencereviewfeature.aspx ).
The Director of Evidence and Chief Scientist stated that more than 1000 downloads of the series were recorded from the Natural England web site in the first week and that "the conclusions and research recommendations from the five topic reviews have entered the next stage, moving evidence into our guidance".
4.3 Changes in commercial practice (Horticultural industry/peat extraction/alternatives) The group's research on lowland bogs has contributed to the body of knowledge leading to the cessation of peat extraction on many sites and associated targets for a total ban on the use of peat as a horticulture medium.
Impacts include the designation of one of the areas of study as a European Special Area for Conservation (SAC) (Bolton Fell Moss, proposed 2008), with management guidelines influenced by the research.
In 2010 Natural England negotiated a &#163;9million plan for cessation of peat cutting on this internationally important site and research is continuing.
The Unit's research into alternative growing media has led to changes in commercial practice.
The William Sinclair Horticulture environmental policy now states that they will actively promote peat alternatives.
In 2010 they used 370,000m3 of peat alternatives and intend to increase this to 600,000m3 by 2020 with 450,000m3 coming from recycled materials.
Which?
Gardening (Jan/Feb 2010) rated New Horizon Organic &amp; Peat Free Growbag (http://www.william-sinclair.co.uk/gardening/products/green_organic_range) as a "best buy growing media for seeds".
The International Peat Society produced a strategy for responsible peatland management in 2010 and in January 2013 Defra announced a package of measures to support the horticulture industry in moving towards more sustainable growing media.
