     The cost of IEP installation to the process owner is non-trivial, so       offering a transparent mechanism for comparing cost versus safety       trade-off is clearly valuable and fulfills a previously unmet user need in       the explosion protection installation industry.
A typical IEP installation       on a process plant costs between &#163;40,000 and &#163;120,000, with some       installations costing as much as &#163;700,000.
To pay any extra money for a       `better' (or safer) IEP system, the process plant owner needs to know what       `better' means in the context of improved safety.
The Brunel-Kidde       algorithm, backed by peer reviewed academic research [1] and presented to       industrial researchers at multiple international conferences [2], is the       first such algorithm which can compare two IEP systems in terms of their       safety integrity levels.
Kidde, and later UTCFS, were sufficiently convinced of the value of this       research to give a contract worth &#163;75,000 to an external, UK-based       software developer (Optirisk Systems Limited, London) to develop a       commercial level version of the software (2009-2012).
In addition, the       company made a very significant and sustained in-kind investment in       laboratory experiments to calculate the flame propagation probabilities in       typical process plant set-ups.
After the handover of the software by       Optirisk Systems in 2012, UTCFS trained their entire worldwide sales force       of 31 sales operatives in its use.
Training for this software tool is       mandatory for new sales staff as it is now a standard tool used in IEP       sales by UTCFS worldwide.
For each candidate protection installation, the       software provides a transparent demonstration of the trade-off between the       cost paid by the process owner and the reduction in residual risk       achieved, and since 2012 it has played a key role in negotiating the sale       of explosion protection installations.
The value of this work to       Kidde/UTCFS can be judged from a letter to Brunel from their Principal       Research Scientist.
A quote from his letter reads: "We conduct this very       complex and challenging business in a competitive and a code compliant       environment.
Every design ultimately causes us to address and review with       our clients the trade-offs between protection options.
The envisioned       benefit from this work will be to make available at the point of sale a       systematic means to assist us and our clients, to make the best decisions       in specifying process explosion protection safety measures.
Moreover the       quantification of the standing residual risk will allow the client to       elect a safety integrity level pertinent to their process application."
UTCFS believes that this algorithm is beneficial to the entire industrial       explosion protection industry (both for the process plant owners as well       as protection sellers).
Thus the algorithm was put into the public domain       via publications [1]-[2].
In addition, the work has been disseminated       through three major international conferences on loss prevention in the       process industry which focussed on industry-relevant research.
Company       users made presentations at two of these conferences, both of which were       in or after 2008 (see corroborating sources [S1] &amp; [S2]).
The       algorithm and its commercial development has given the company a `first       user' advantage whilst, for the process plant owners, the algorithm       provides an improved method of risk assessment together with a way of       determining the cost of mitigation, which is now becoming widely accepted       by both academia and industrial peers.
As the safety installations sold using this algorithm become commonplace,       it is very likely that the computation of the residual risk for an IEP       system will become a standard practice in the process plant safety       industry.
Further, it is expected that some form of quantification       of residual risk, similar to that achievable by Brunel-Kidde algorithm for       IEP in process plants, will eventually become mandatory in the practice of       buying and selling explosion protection installations in a variety of       other sectors (such as passenger aircrafts and offshore oil platforms).
Thus the impact of this work has a wide potential reach even beyond the       specific industry sector.
