 Zhao's development of the mild air hybrid engine technology has been exploited by China's largest bus engine manufacturer, Yuchai.
This company manufactures and sells 80% of the engines for city buses in China.
In October 2010, Brunel University and Yuchai successfully reached a commercial licence agreement and Yuchai made a &#163;40,000 initial payment to manufacture and retrofit RegenEBD in buses in China plus loyalty payment.
The initial RegenEBD engine buses operated two city routes in 2011 and have demonstrated impressive fuel savings of between 4.7% and 10%, according to Yuchai.
For the typical mileage of 45,000 km/year per vehicle, a 5-10% improvement in fuel consumption is equivalent to saving 1,100-2,200 litres of fuel and 3.6-7.2 tonnes of carbon per vehicle per year.
Compared to other electric hybrid powertrain technologies, RegenEBD technology has proved to be much more cost effective in terms of manufacturing processes and fuel consumption.
Yuchai report that Prof Zhao's research has opened a new business opportunity for them.
They have decided to re-align their manufacturing strategies and development efforts so that they can be ready for major manufacturing and retrofitting of RegenEBD engines in 2014.
They have spent 3 years (2011-13) investing significant resources in the development and preparation for the manufacturing of engines with RegenEBD.
They have employed over 30 new engineers and purchased equipment for RegenEBD engine testing and bus operations in different cities.
As is common in the automotive industry, the market introduction of such a significant new fuel saving technology requires robust engineering tests and evaluation.
At the start of 2014, a few dozen vehicles will be manufactured with RegenEBD engines before significant production can commence.
Yuchai expects that hundreds of buses equipped with RegenEBD will be on the road within the next five years.
Consequently, they are in the process of realigning their manufacturing and production process and business strategy to cater for this new product.
8 Patents have been filed for the air hybrid technology with 2 granted internationally and the other 6 pending.
RegenEBD won the Low Carbon Vehicle Technology Challenge Award in 2009.
The technology was presented at the London Low Carbon Vehicle and the SAE Congress and Commercial Vehicle Conferences in 2010, 2011, and 2012, and also at the 2012 FISITA World Automotive Congress, where it was selected as one of the 3 projects for the Islands of Excellence Award.
Between 2009 and 2013 Brunel explored opportunities with several OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers in the UK and overseas and has subsequently entered into a development programme with a UK SME partner, PTech, to apply the technology to the UK and European bus retrofit sector.
Collaborating with a bus retrofit company, and securing &#163;130k of TSB funding, PTech is working on the retrofit engineering design, testing, and optimisation, exactly as has been the case with Yuchai.
This application will be trialled on UK buses at the start of 2014.
