 The work of the LGRU-led APSE, one of the UK's leading local government associations, to advocate nationally a new Ensuring Council vision for local government.
The LGRU and APSE generated this vision collaboratively, with the end-of-award KTP evaluation grading it as outstanding'.
Impact on APSE's organisational strategy: APSE's National Council (its governing body of senior councillors and local officials) adopted the Ensuring Council as its strategic vision in March 2011.
The Ensuring Council principles were the object of APSE's chief executive's keynote speech, 'Developing Effective In-house Services', at the 2011 annual seminar, while APSE's October 2011 study of the green economy, undertaken with the think tank Infrangilis was entitled 'The Transition to a Green Economy.
The Vital Role of the Ensuring Council.'
Its November 2012 report `Local Authority Sport and Recreation Services in England.
What next?'
also endorsed the Ensuring Council as central to the future of leisure services &#8212; it was distributed UK-wide to all 300 member authorities.
In 2012, APSE undertook a national commission into the potential strategies open to an Ensuring Council in 2020.
As part of a national call for evidence in June 2012, the Ensuring Council KTP report was distributed to over 80 leading opinion-makers, organisations and think tanks (including the Communities and Local Government (CLG) Select Committee, Local Government Association, TUC, UNITE, UNISON, Centre for Local Economic Strategies, Local Government Information Unit and the Institute for Public Policy Research).
The chair of the CLG Select Committee publicly endorsed the Ensuring Council in his response to APSE.
In August 2012, APSE's chief executive briefed Jack Dromey MP, shadow housing minister, and Chris Williamson MP, shadow local government minister, on the Ensuring Council.
Impact on APSE's national policy advocacy: The research undertaken with LGRU increased the capacities of APSE chief officers to influence national policy debates, professional organisations and think tanks.
In March 2012, O'Brien, APSE chief executive, gave evidence to the Associate Parliamentary Corporate Responsibility Group on public sector mutuals, endorsing the systematic review of cooperatives and mutuals (`Proof of Delivery' report) undertaken as part of the KTP.
In May 2012, Bramah, assistant chief executive, gave evidence to the inquiry by the CLG Committee on mutuals and cooperatives, directly referring again to the `Proof of Delivery' report.
The CLG Committee subsequently make reference to the systematic review in its final report.
In addition, KTP research on municipal entrepreneurship was taken up by the think tank Localis in its policy guidance on the `catalyst council' and public services.
The shared services research was promoted by Councillor Arwyn Woolcock (Neath Port Talbot) `as a good source of guidance for Welsh local authorities' (APSE, press release 23 March 2012).
In May 2012, APSE advocated its findings to the Head of Policy Improvement at the Welsh Local Government Association.
Generation of tools and guidance on policy development: Seven sets of tools and guidance were circulated to member authorities.
APSE principal advisors took these tools into their work with councils.
Principal Advisor Mo Baines used guidance from the `Proof of Delivery' research in work with the Senior Management Team at Telford Wrekin Council on service delivery models in October 2012.
The work on cooperatives generated a diagnostic tool used with local government officers in London in March 2012.
The same research was applied, in July 2012, to a project on joint working with Hampshire UNISON; it was used in August 2012 to generate an option appraisal tool for APSE consultancy.
In June 2013, APSE and the LGRU were engaged to design moves towards area working on the model of the Ensuring Council by Derbyshire County Council.
Additionally, LGRU's research has been used for training seminars with member authorities.
In June 2012, the shared services research was presented at the APSE Wales' seminar on innovation, income generation and efficiencies, following the circulation (August 2011) of a policy briefing on the research to all APSE Wales member authorities.
The youth unemployment guidance was used in August 2012 at an APSE Wales Seminar on skills and apprenticeships.
The lessons on municipal entrepreneurship were promoted at a policy development seminar in November 2012 to over 200 paying delegates.
Finally, the KTP research was popularised in the professional press.
O'Brien published articles on mutuals and the Ensuring Council in the Society Guardian, Public Finance, Municipal Journal, the Guardian Local Government Network, as well as articles in Direct News magazine (circulated to 27000 local government practitioners), his Chief Executive's Blog and 24dash.com.
Leading professional journals, Local Government Chronicle and Municipal Journal, also profiled research findings.
