     The NCfCE regularly disseminates its work to a range of audiences via       peer-reviewed journals, seminar programmes, practitioner workshops,       professional consultancy and training and through Christian media.
This       has earned the NCfCE national recognition as a centre of expertise in the       field.
Examples of the kind of commissions the Centre has attracted       include:            Developing an expanding on-line interactive distance learning         programme for teachers in Catholic schools (onging)       Consulting on the development of an Academy charter for the Diocese of         Oxford (completed 2011)       Commissioned by the North West Training Partnership to run a         conference for new and returning teachers to Catholic Education (12th         March 2011)       Commissioned to review the Archdiocese of Dublin's Parish Pastoral         Worker Programme (completed October 2010)       Commissioned to evaluate the impact and effectiveness of the Porticus         Trust funded `Professional Ethics Programme (a three year evaluation         project completed 2010)       Commissioned to evaluate the impact and effectiveness of two projects         developed by the Liverpool lighthouse Trust &#8212; `Harmonize' and `Youth         Connect' (these evaluation reports formed the basis for development on         which the Liverpool Free School was approved by DfE)          On the basis of Professor Sullivan's research into the spiritual       formation of Christian teachers and leaders, he served on the National       Steering Group for the ecumenical project, Transforming Lives,       which exists to promote teaching as a Christian vocation.
Professor       Sullivan has provided consultancy services for the Free Church Federal       Council, advising them on their statement of education and presented a       paper on Faith Schools: Freedom of choice or recipe for division?
Their impact on Education and Wider Society at a St George's House       Consultation on Faith Schools (November 2009).
Professor Sullivan       regularly delivers professional development and training for teachers and       leaders working in institutions of Christian Education, two recent       examples include a one day conference in Dublin for Chaplains entitled Bridge-Building:         Chaplains in Education and an inservice training day for the       Catholic primary schools in Blackburn on Catholic education: context         and mission and challenge and response.
On the basis of Dr. Morris's research into institutional effectiveness       and Catholic school outcomes, NCfCE has been commissioned to evaluate       educational programmes provided and/or funded by the Archdiocese of       Dublin, the Liverpool Lighthouse Trust, and Porticus Trust.
Based on his       work in relation to the performance and outcomes Catholic schools, he is       an international conference speaker and advisor to Institutes of Higher       Education, Local Authorities, the Catholic Education Service and a number       of Catholic dioceses in England &amp; Wales.
He is an Associate of the       National Institute for Christian Education Research at Canterbury Christ       Church University and of the Maryvale Catholic Higher Institute of       Religious Sciences, Birmingham, where he acts also as an occasional book       reviewer for the `Sower' magazine.
He is a regular contributor to Catholic       Education Service research documents and publications, and has contributed       to the `faith school' debate through commissioned articles for the       `Tablet', and `Universe' newspaper and on local radio.
On the basis of Dr. Green's research into impact of Christian ethos on       pupil culture she was commissioned by the public theology think tank Theos       to write a review of the research literature in Christian education       suitable for a non-academic and practitioner audience (see below source       5).
This review was launched at a St George's House Consultation on Faith       Schools (November 2009) where Dr. Green and Professor Sullivan were       invited to speak on the impact of spirituality in faith schools.
Dr. Green       appeared on Premier Christian Radio and UCB to comment on       the publication and there was a short piece in the Times Educational       Supplement.
Mapping The Field is widely acknowledged to be a key       document shaping the research and practitioner agenda in Christian       Education.
Dr Green has developed an innovative analytical framework for       research in the new academies (see above, reference 1) and this has formed       the basis of consultancy and staff development work for Oasis Learning       Academies (Leading in a Culture of Change Project).
This was a       collaborative project with the National Centre for Christian Education       Research at Canterbury Christ Church University; Dr. Green co-authored a       resource toolkit for the development of middle leaders and chaplains.
