     Dr. Hodkinson's research into temporal cognition has been disseminated       through peer-reviewed journals, professional association journals,       pre-service and CPD activities, websites, newspapers, international report       and television programmes.
This dissemination has led to an increased       public and professional awareness of the issues concerned with the       teaching and learning of primary history in general and specifically in       the area of chronological understanding.
[Evidence 5.1, 5.2 &amp; 5.3]     Dr. Hodkinson left his employment as a primary school teacher to       undertake research to understand why many children fail in their general       understanding of history and specifically of chronology.
Having conducted,       what has been observed to be ground breaking research in this area [Evidence         5.1&amp; 5.6], he was committed to ensuring that the work was       disseminated beyond a Higher Education audience and that he engaged the       teaching profession with these issues [Evidence 5.1, 5.2 &amp; 5.6].
To this end, he has actively sought out membership of the Primary       Committee of the Historical Association &#8212; the only body of this kind for       teachers of primary history.
Through this position he has engaged as a       consultant with CPD work both face-to-face and through the innovative uses       of electronic CPD units.
He has also worked with the History Educators'       International Research Network, through one of its founders Professor Jon       Nichol, to influence history education in other countries.
Such       involvement has led to the research being disseminated in Turkey, Iran and       also presently in the Netherlands [Evidence 5.1].
Hodkinson's work has directly influenced thinking in terms of the       temporal language and that children are capable of assimilating AD and BC       historic dates.
His work, on the importance of dates, led to four articles       being published in the Times Educational Supplement [Evidence         5.3].
His work has also been recognised by educational publishers,       not least, Oxford cartographers/ Schofield, who employed him in 2009 &amp;       2010 as a consultant for their major new resource &#8212; a world history       timeline and British timeline [Evidence 5.4].
The reach of Hodkinson's research impact is evidenced by       the viral nature and the proliferation of websites that now promote his       work on chronology.
A Google search using the key words such as ` Alan       Hodkinson chronology' &#8212; reveals a wealth of websites that promote Dr.       Hodkinson's work in this area.
In addition, Dr. Hodkinson's work is       referenced in numerous newspaper publications and an international UNESCO       report on Effective pedagogy [Evidence 5.5].
The significance of Dr. Hodkinson's impact is       evidenced by the invitation he has been offered to be involved with       curriculum development at a national level by both the QCA and by       government [Evidence 5.6].
His work in this area has been awarded a       Research Fellowship of the Historical Association [Evidence 5.2].
The greatest significance would appear to be, that in the draft schemes of       work primary history will now be taught in a chronological order for the       first time in the history of the National Curriculum [Evidence 5.1, 5.2         &amp;5.6].
Further, the manner in which his work has been targeted       in the educational press and the way in which it is employed in teaching       training, both in-service and initial teacher education, combined with       requests to deliver training work in schools, universities and by the       Historical Association evidences the significance of his work in schools.
