 The reach of Clapson's research has been both national and international since 2008, consolidating and extending his reputation.
In the media, Clapson's work has been taken up by the journalists Andy Beckett, who writes for the Guardian, Tom Chesshyre, a travel writer for the Times, the broadcaster and writer Dominic Sandbrook (freelance) and Daniel Knowles, who writes on British affairs in the Economist.
Clapson was consulted by Knowles for an article in the Economist (October 5 2012) on growth areas in Southern England, in which he was quoted.
He was further consulted by Knowles on 26 July 2013 for an article on the British new towns, in which he was quoted, published in the Economist on 2nd August, 2013.
Weekly sales of the Economist are currently 1.5 million.
Clapson was invited by the Housing Industry Association, Australia, to speak at their annual summit Building Better Cities: Housing Australia's Future, held at the Sofitel Hotel, Wentworth, Sydney, 4 July, 2013.
Entitled `The housing crisis and its social consequences', his talk followed that of the then Shadow Treasurer in Australia, Joe Hockey.
He also participated in the panel session, speaking alongside leading economists from Australia and the OECD, Australian academics from the universities of Sydney and Wollongong, and housing industry experts.
Over 180 people attended the Summit, and the speaker's slide were posted on the HIA website and are available at the following link: http://hia.com.au/media/Industry-policy/Housing-Australia-Summit.aspx (current October, 2013) In 2011-2012, having included photographs from Reading Museum Service in his monograph Working-Class Suburb, Clapson was invited by the Community Engagement Officer for Reading Museum Service, to advise on the Reading in Living Memory permanent display at Reading Museum.
An initial display was launched in December 2011, attended by over 50 people including the Mayor of Reading and members of Reading Borough Council.
The final version of the permanent display was launched on 17th January, 2012.
Reading Museum receives 140,000 visits annually: the first exhibit that visitors encounter is Reading in Living Memory.
Clapson was invited to speak to an evening session entitled `Connections', held by the Milton Keynes Forum, the Civic Society of Milton Keynes, which includes councillors, members of Milton Keynes Council and members of the public, on 16th July 2009.
He spoke against traffic planning expert Professor Stephen Potter of the Open University on popular preferences for transport in Milton Keynes.
Over thirty people were in attendance.
Clapson was invited by the two-year UrbanBuzz programme, investigating the nature and potential of sustainable communities in London and the South East, to host the evening conference `The Social Life of Suburbs', jointly organised with UrbanBuzz and held at the Old Cinema, University of Westminster, 23 April 2008.
Clapson spoke against the writer Iain Sinclair at the conference.
Over eighty people including members of the public attended.
(BuzzNet contract 0805: &#163;5,274.61) Clapson's research and its impact since 2008 consolidated the recognition he gained prior to 2008.
For example, Invincible Green Suburbs was quoted by Jules Lubbock, the architectural expert, and a former speech-writer to the Prince of Wales, in an online article entitled `Planning is the problem' in openDemocracy on 3 July 2001, an article with over 4,500 reads: http://www.opendemocracy.net/ecology-urbanisation/article_442.jsp (current October, 2013) he was also invited to contribute to a BBC Radio 4 `You and Yours' programme feature on English suburbia, broadcast 7 May 2004.
His work on Milton Keynes was enhanced by a financial award in 2003, of &#163;2,200 from English Partnerships to provide colour illustrations for A Social History of Milton Keynes: Middle England/Edge City (London: Frank Cass/Taylor and Francis, 2004).
The journalist and planning expert Paul Barker wrote a favourable review of A Social History of Milton Keynes in the Independent, 11 February, 2005.
He was invited to contribute to `Voices from Milton Keynes', with Jonathan Glancey, a programme broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in `Archive Hour', 19 June, 2004.
That Clapson can claim to be an authority on the history of Milton Keynes was further evidenced in the invitation by the Taylor and Francis to write a lengthy introduction to the republished Plan for Milton Keynes (Routledge, 2013).
This is an output in REF2.
Finally, Clapson's work has also had some impact on policy discussions.
It has informed publications by Milton Keynes Council and the Department of Communities and Local Government (DCLG), whose web-links are still current (October, 2013).
This demonstrates influence upon professional town planners and the local authority for Milton Keynes, and on experts working for the DCLG.
