 The reach of Professor Harding's work is evidenced by his role as Chairman of the Society for Nautical Research Whilst Chairman he was a trustee of the Royal Naval Museum, Portsmouth and on its curatorial committee (2005-2010).
He was subsequently appointed to the management board of the museum at Portsmouth as it evolved into the National Museum of the Royal Navy.
In these roles he was involved in ensuring that the history of the Royal Navy was presented to as wide a public as possible.
As Chairman, he led the Centenary Events of the Society across the UK, which aimed to widen the audience and public understanding of maritime history.
Whilst Chairman of the Society for Nautical Research, Professor Harding turned his attention to the future of maritime history and its potential for public history.
Partly as a consequence of his media activities prior to 2008 (given below), which boosted his name recognition, but also because of his professional reputation, he was invited to give the Society's centenary lecture in June 2010, entitled `The Life of the SNR: An Exploration in Maritime History' at the Royal United Services Institution, Whitehall.
This lecture was also delivered at the annual conference North American Society for Maritime History in May at Mystic Seaport, Connecticut.
This later appeared as `Organisational Lifecycles, the SNR and Maritime History' in the Mariner's Mirror, 97 (May 2011), 5- 20.
This was supplemented by a further article for the Society entitled `The Society for Nautical Research: Where are we now and where are we going?'
in Mariner's Mirror, 97 (Feb. 2011), 10-21, in which he set out the opportunities and threats for maritime history in relation to the wider public.
The Mariner's Mirror is an important pathway to impact for maritime historians.
It is the long-established quarterly journal of the Society for Nautical Research, and is a forum not only for academics but also experts within the Navy, and curators in maritime and naval museums.
Since stepping down from the Society, he has been asked to contribute to the development of a new gallery at the National Maritime Museum dedicated to the period 1650-1815.
(Work began on this in December 2010 and officially opens in October 2013.
Professor Harding is a speaker at the lecture series that commemorates the opening of this new gallery on 10th October 2013).
The National Maritime Museum is affiliated to the Association of Leading Visitor Attractions, and is the foremost museum of its kind in the United Kingdom.
It is also one of the largest and most significant maritime museums internationally.
The National Maritime Museum attracted over 2.3 million visitors in 2009.
Aside from public lectures, reach and significance is also evidenced by a long-standing commitment to dissemination which included, as noted above, contributions to television and radio.
Notable among these were Broadside: The Influence of Sea Power on History (Articulate Television, USA), Sept 2007; Britain as a Global Power (Central China TV) November 2005 ; Prisoners of the British (Discovery Channel) May 2004; BBC Radio 4 `Soldier Sailor' Nov. 2003; World in Arms (3MTV Channel 4), March 2002.
The Emergence of Britain's Global Naval Supremacy synthesises many key themes in his work: it was short-listed for the Anderson Medal of the Society for Nautical Research as the best contributions to maritime history for 2010.
The years since 2008 have witnessed an augmentation and consolidation of Harding's professional and public reputation and impact.
