     A distinctive feature of the impact was its reach amongst members of       `hard to reach' societal groups &#8212; specifically women and the gay       community.
For example, Tiernan's research was used as the historical       basis for a play on Eva Gore-Booth by playwright Alan Flanagan, performed       at the 2013 Dublin Gay Theatre Festival.
The festival's key aims are to       `develop channels of communication to the gay community' and `promote       youth integration and participation' (www.gaytheatre.ie).
The festival       attracts thousands of visitors, having grown since its 2004 inception to       become the largest event of its type in the world.
The reach of this is       demonstrated in that Flanagan then set about writing a play based on Eva       Gore-Booth's life for the festival the following year.
Flanagan wrote to       Tiernan in December 2012 confirming "I absolutely loved reading the       biography" and "I've been using your biography as a reference throughout"       (see Tiernan-Flanagan correspondence).
In February 2013 Tiernan       disseminated her research further amongst the gay community, delivering       the key-note public address at the LGBT History Month event at The Working       Class Movement Library in Manchester, which attracted 100 members of the       public.
Flanagan's Tiernan-inspired play sold out every night of its       week-long run at Dublin's gay theatre festival in May 2013, its impact       demonstrated by a review on popular culture review site entertainment.ie       in which it was described as `in its element in this festival as a play       that lambasts the primacy of the familiar and accepted norms'.
Another measure of the reach of Tiernan's research was its feature on BBC       Radio 4's Women's Hour on 5 October 2012 (listenership 2.68 million people       &#8212; source BBC).
Moreover, Women's Hour broadcasts an annual `Power List' of       influential females.
In doing so the programme's producers claim that it       demonstrably enhances women's social standing and sense of worth by       profiling women with `the greatest impact on British politics, society,       culture and the economy' (www.bbc.co.uk).
Tiernan was one of two female       historians who assisted in the compilation of the `Power List' by       reflecting on the legacy of power, in an episode of the programme       broadcast on 21 December 2012.
The Irish public benefited from the political insights provided by unit       members' research.
Bryce Evans' research was widely disseminated in the Sunday         Independent newspaper, which enjoys the highest readership and       highest female readership of any publication on the island of Ireland; two       thirds of that newspaper's readership is female.
A significant and       distinctive feature of Evans' research was its impact in altering       assumptions about not only its subject, Se&#225;n Lemass (the man commonly       dubbed `the architect of modern Ireland') but the Ireland he `created'.
Evans challenged previous hagiographical biographies and, in doing so,       challenged popular historical perceptions about the very nature of the       `forward-looking' modern Ireland associated with Lemass.
This was at a       time when the national debt crisis (2008-2009 &#8212; present) was prompting       widespread political reappraisal.
Consequently, the book was very widely       cited in public discussion, by journalists, broadcasters, politicians, and       across social media.
It was discussed on six separate occasions on RTE       Radio One - 23.4% Irish national listenership (JNLR Irish Radio Listening       Figures Feb 2012) - and a dozen times in the Irish Independent       (readership 465,000 &#8212; Independent.ie) and Sunday Independent.
Commentators cited the book as evidence that the country must rebuild       politically `from the ground up' (Sunday Independent, 2 Oct 2011).
It sold just under 2,000 copies and, in the week after its release,       entered the Irish best-seller lists.
The book received complimentary       reviews in every national newspaper in Ireland.
It was profiled on current       affairs show `Tonight With Vincent Browne' (166,000 average viewers,       Nielsen TAM report) and reviewed in dozens of regional news and radio       outlets across Ireland (for full list see Bryce Evans' research blog       www.drbryceevans.wordpress.org).
Significantly, the reach of the book also       extended beyond the Irish metropole, with many callers on regional radio       stations `phoning in' to discuss the book's findings with Evans and the       presenters: regional radio `phone in' coverage included South Newstalk FM       (4.7% national listenership, JNLR Irish Radio Listening Figures Feb 2012)       East Radio, Clare FM, BBC Radio Ulster, East Coast FM, Ocean FM (Irish       North West radio) and Sunshine FM.
Evans used the strength of this impact to help publicise a forthcoming       edited collection (he is currently researching with unit member Stephen       Kelly) on a political contemporary and colleague of Lemass's: a famous       statesman from the era named Frank Aiken.
Evans' potted biography of       Aiken, in which he revised some of the myths attached to his character,       was published on influential Irish political blog `the Irish Story'       (www.theirishstory.com).
The article was circulated across social media       sites and republished that day by users of politics.ie, the most popular       internet discussion chat board in the country with over 32,000 users.
The       article alone generated 12 pages of comment from over 100 users, with       Aiken being celebrated as a `great man' by some and denounced by others as       a `sectarian thug'.
This heavy citation on social media points to the       impact of Bryce Evans' name and views in provoking and altering popular       historical perceptions about the `Great Men' of Irish history.
The       forthcoming publication on the life of Frank Aiken (Irish Academic Press,       2014) was praised by the Fianna F&#225;il party e-bulletin of March 2013       (circulation 55,000) as promising to be `a reference text for all       interested in learning more about 20th Century Irish history'.
This       commentary followed a public symposium hosted by Liverpool Hope       University, which attracted many men and women from Ireland who are the       surviving political colleagues and family of Frank Aiken.
They, variously,       described the prospect of a publication on the man they knew so well as       `exciting', `wonderful', `affirming' and `emotional'.
Nor was Evans the only unit member to impact online discussion.
O'Callaghan's research for his book on Munster Rugby featured heavily on       online discussion fora and in email correspondence from fans of the       Munster Rugby sports team.
O'Callaghan's research further fulfilled the       criteria of reaching people in the Irish peripheries as a `hard to reach'       sub-group.
In this case, O'Callaghan's research provoked dozens of       comments on the popular `People's Republic of Cork' blog &#8212; a very active       discussion forum patronised by people living in this county of South West       Ireland.
Debate about the findings of O'Callaghan's book also dominated       the Cork-based newspaper The Irish Examiner's (circulation 43,000       JNLR figure) internet discussion forum in November 2011.
O'Callaghan's Rugby         in Munster formed the basis of media interviews on RTE Radio's Sport       at Seven, The Irish Times, and The Wall Street Journal.
The WSJ (circulation 2,118,315, American Audit Bureau of       Circulations) featured O'Callaghan's research (April 30, 2010).
More       pervasive, as discussed below, has been the impact of O'Callaghan's       research in influencing public discourse surrounding an institution of       popular cultural acclaim in Ireland (the Munster rugby team) through fan       internet forums and message boards.
Much of the research on Frank Aiken was itself informed by the party       political research of Kelly.
After the publication of Kelly's Fianna         F&#225;il, Partition and Northern Ireland, the author's critical       perspective was praised in the Irish Sunday Times, 28 July 2013       (readership average 409,000) and the Irish Examiner of 13 July       2013 (readership average per day 189,000).
Kelly's work was also reviewed       in The Derry Journal on 26 July 2013 (readership 59,000), The         Irish News (readership 60,000) and BBC Radio Foyle.
