     As detailed in the summary, Schwarz's research on transatlantic slavery       and abolition has informed learners, educators and public discourse in       museum, school and media contexts.
The impact of Schwarz's work is       illuminated by the context in which it was achieved.
The Labour Party came       to power in 1997 and, following the Stephen Lawrence case in 1999, amended       the Race Relations Act in 2000 and introduced the Equalities Act in 2010.
This was part of a drive to inclusivity after the Stephen Lawrence inquiry       report identified areas of "institutional racism" within the British state       infrastructure.
In 2006, changes were also announced to the National       Curriculum, with sensitive subjects such as slavery to be addressed in       Citizenship and History classes at Key Stage 3.
At this time, the Labour       Party also announced plans to commemorate the Abolition of Slavery Bill in       2007.
Against this backdrop, Schwarz was appointed as an external       consultant and Member of the International Advisory Board for the       development of the International Slavery Museum (ISM), which opened in       August 2007, on the 200th anniversary of the 1807 Slave Trade Act.
The ISM       is a centre of excellence in the history of Transatlantic slavery.
It had       1.4m visitors in 2012 and developed an education programme in consultation       with local, national and international partners which was delivered to       over 8,000 pupils from 150 schools in UK and beyond.2 Schwarz       had already worked closely with NML due to her research expertise in       slavery and maritime history and this led to a wider formal strategic       partnership between Hope and NML from 2008 onwards.3 As noted       above, mandatory changes to the History and Citizenship components of the       Key Stage 3 National Curriculum since 2008 provided opportunities for       teachers to tackle the wider social legacies of slavery, in the context of       diversifying demographic profiles.
Both cultural sensitivities and lack of       subject expertise led to a desire for CPD on the part of the teachers.
Museum educators, since the 1990s, have become increasingly significant       players in the teaching of the slave trade.
This case study, then, charts       the involvement of Schwarz (and fellow Hope academic David Cumberland) in       a pedagogical partnership with museum staff and school teachers to meet       this need for CPD.
Schwarz's experience and expertise in this area led to       her participation by invitation at an international UNESCO-sponsored       workshop for pedagogues on `Teaching African History and African Diaspora       History", concerning revisions to educational curricula around the world       in relation to the slave trade (hosted by the Harriet Tubman Institute,       Toronto, 2010).
As Schwarz herself commented in an ensuing collection of       papers: "Whilst the wider 2007 commemoration across Britain received much       attention in its own right, its impact was short lived.
The educational       initiatives, in contrast have the potential for producing permanent, long       term change in Britain in terms of mutual respect and lowering social       tensions" (Schwarz in Lovejoy and Bowser, 2012, pp.118-119).
The volume       was launched in Paris by the Director-General of UNESCO in 2013, who       commented on the "deep importance" of "transmitting the history of the       transatlantic slavery and its abolition, as being essential to the       struggle against racism, for the observance of human rights, of human       dignity and for building peace.
"4     The Partnership with NML     In 2005, Schwarz collaborated with NML to organize a major international       conference on Liverpool and Transatlantic Slavery', which resulted in       participation by members of the community; then in 2007, she was appointed       external consultant for the ISM.
In May 2008, Schwarz was charged with       helping NML deliver CPD programmes for educators and students in secondary       education.
As a result of this collaborative initiative, a number of       Education staff from NML attended Schwarz's lectures on her Hope final       year course on `The Atlantic Slave Trade, Slavery and Abolition' in       2008-2009.
Schwarz sought to make a history of slaves, slavery and slave       owners come alive, working closely with NML to introduce CPD courses on       the slave trade for teachers, building upon her earlier work with schools.
In March 2009, Schwarz was formally invited to become a member of NML's       International Teachers' Institute, after playing a leading role in its       development and then Schwarz, with other partners from America (Yale       University), UK (Liverpool University) and Ghana, was invited and funded       by the NML to become involved in training 31 teachers from Ghana.5       Khan's NML letter thanked Schwarz for her "invaluable role" in developing       NML's International Teachers' Institute and he considered particularly       important that "the development of this ground breaking Institute is       informed by specialist research".6 This was followed in 2010 by       a joint NML/Hope 8 day National Teachers' Institute event on "Teaching       Transatlantic Slavery: History, Issues and Legacies" which involved more       than 20 teachers and youth workers from England, Wales and Scotland.7       Schwarz, drawing on her research, focused on attitudes to the slave       trade whilst another Hope specialist in Education, Cumberland, contributed       his expertise in the design of PdP for teachers and teaching history in       schools.
The NML Teachers' Institute also commissioned a dramatic       reconstruction and performance of `Slave Captain', a play based on       Schwarz's book (1995, rev.
ed.
2008) as part of its "Theatre in Education"       programme, through which NML has undertaken innovative work with       schoolchildren.
The book dealt with the life of Liverpool slaver James       Irving and brought the key themes of her research to museum staff and       audiences of teachers and youth workers; it was a controversial       performance exploring the attitudes which sustained the transatlantic       slave trade.
Thirty educators attended this NML/Hope CPD event from across       the North West (see Schwarz in Lovejoy 2012, 127-128).
Data supplied by       NML shows there was a clear demand from government, on the one hand, and       teachers, on the other, to improve their academic knowledge of slavery and       maritime history and the pedagogical skills at the same time, after 2006.8       The NML with its specialist collections, and Hope academics &#8212; Schwarz in       History and David Cumberland in Education &#8212; combined their knowledge,       skills and experience to develop CPD courses on the slave trade for       teachers from 2008-2010.
Thus this impact case study demonstrates that Schwarz whilst at Hope       helped bridge the knowledge gap and provided training among Liverpool       secondary school teachers and youth and community workers regarding the       slave trade, abolition and Liverpool's role in this transatlantic       phenomenon (Schwarz 2007a) and thus in collaboration with the NML       effectively responded to government policy changes in education and       successfully responded to the Labour government's view after 2007 that       "education was a crucial role for museums" (Hooper-Greenhill 2007, 2).
Media Engagement     Whilst teachers trained by Schwarz, Cumberland and the NML staff       transferred this knowledge to their colleagues, Schwarz's work in the       public education field was also widely publicised in the media throughout       2008 (see below), generating public discussion of these issues beyond       academia.
Thus, Schwarz sought to encourage not only museum staff and       teachers to rethink their knowledge of the slave trade and abolition and       their practice based learning but also to engage the general public via       media outlets: the Today Programme &#8212; Radio 4; World Today       (World Service); BBC Scotland &#8212; as well as building a major       profile in the regional press.9 As the BBC Local News reported       in March 2007, Schwarz's research helps `address the legacy of       transatlantic slavery and issues such as freedom, identity, human rights,       reparations, racial discrimination and cultural change' and she continued       to do that between 2008-11.
In conclusion, therefore, it is evident that Schwarz's academic input       helped to inform teachers and museum staff of the latest research on the       slave trade and its impact on Liverpool.
This has assisted in encouraging       a sensitive and balanced approach to the difficult topic of slavery and       its contemporary legacy in a multi-cultural Britain and, as one teacher       stated in an NML report (2010), such training and new approaches led to a       "rethink of my practice and subject knowledge".
