     Dr Antonello's research was instrumental for the realization of the       exhibit.
On the one hand he       liaised with two key archives &#8212; the Miroslava Hajek Archive, Novara,       Italy, and the Massimo and       Sonia Cirulli Archive, Bologna and New York &#8212;, and on the other with the       director of the Estorick       Collection.
He suggested the inclusion of specific works by Munari and       supervised the production       of the catalogue, also suggesting some of the contributors to the       catalogue and liaising with them.
His analysis of the influence of Futurist art in the early Munari's       production was fleshed out by the       exhibition, with the inclusion of almost all the works that Dr Antonello       discusses in the essay listed       in the references to the research (n. 2).
The director of the Estorick       Collection acknowledged Dr       Antonello's key contribution to the organization of the exhibit, with       relevant meetings in Italy and in       London, and with a fundamental contribution to the catalogue.
The       co-curator of the exhibit also       flagged Dr Antonello's `ideational inspiration' for the exhibit, as well       as, his `generous work which       contributed to the historical and scientific coherence of the project',       and to the `authoritative       academic validation' he gave to the show.
Dr Antonello also gave an introductory Gallery talk at the Estorick on 29       Sep 2012, attended by       around 40 people, in which he highlighted to a general audience some of       the key features of the       exhibition, including Munari's debt to artists such as Enrico Prampolini       and Fortunato Depero, as       well as its most innovative artistic breakthrough of his early career like       the so-called `useless       machines'.
The exhibition was well attended and from the feedback we gathered it is       apparent that the exhibit       attracted the attention of an international audience: Odessa Swan, from       Seattle (USA) on       21.09.12 said: `Excellent show.
I could have stayed in the Munari       Projection for hours'; James       Knuckles, from California, on 26.9.2012 wrote: `Very nicely curated       exhibition.
Thank you'; another       anonymous visitor from Italy, wrote in the guest book: `I would love to       see this exhibition in Milan'.
More than thirty reviews have appeared in newspapers and specialized       on-line magazines, both in       Italy and in the English-speaking world, including the following: Alice       Rawsthorn, `At London       Exhibition, Celebrating a Visual Master', New York Times, 16       September, 2012; Adrian Hamilton,       `Bruno Munari: Back to the Futurists.
This rare exhibition of his work       reveals an inventive artist who       used wit and imagination to make his work accessible', The Independent,       Monday, 24 September       2012; Laura Gascoigne, `Keeping the faith', The Spectator, 24 Nov       2012; Bruno Munari: My         Futurist Past was one of Sam Thorn's personal highlights of the       year, in Frieze, Nov - Dec issue.
The exhibition contributed to a renewed interest in the work of Bruno       Munari on an international       level.
Twenty of Munari's original works were recently displayed at the       Firstsite exhibit on       Xerographies in Colchester (8 Sept. - 10 Nov. 2013).
Four works which were       present at the       Estorick will be featured at the upcoming exhibition on Italian Futurism       at the Solomon R.       Guggenheim Museum in New York (21 Feb. 2014 - 1 Sept 2014).
A section of       the London exhibit       will also be on display during the same period at the Casa Italiana       Zerilli-Marim&#242; at New York       University, New York, which will be also hosting a conference on Munari       for a more general critical       appraisal of his work and of his legacy.
Prompted by the London exhibit,       other institutions are also       considering hosting a retrospective on Munari, like the MUDE in Lisbon,       and the YU       Contemporary, in Portland, USA.
Because of the versatile eclectic nature of Munari's art, the exhibition       lent itself to all sorts of       outreach activities, some of which were self-led, while other were       organized by the Estorick       Educational Department.
Some of the institutions which visited the       exhibition were: St Mary       Pancras and, William Tyndale, The Italian School (primary); Wollaston       School, John of Gaunt       School, Harrow School (A-level); Middlesex University, London College of       Communication,       Westminster University, Birbeck College, City and Guilds of London Art       School, London       Metropolitan, University of Warwick, Regent's College, Central St Martins       (HEI).
As part of the       evaluation form distributed, the teachers from William Tyndale school, who       came with 30 pupils for       a 2 hour creative workshop, said their visit was "inspiring", "engaging"       and "encouraged thinking       and discussion"; that it "exceeded their expectations", "met curriculum       requirements and learning       objectives" and that they were "highly satisfied" with the workshop.
The exhibit was also of great interest for practitioners and graphic and       industrial designers.
It was       reviewed by websites like `London Design Guide', and `Archilovers'.
A       roundtable discussion was       organized at the Estorick on 20 Nov 2012: Brian Webb (Webb&amp;Webb),       Robert Boon (Inventory       Studio) and John Walters (Eye Magazine) explored Munari's enduring appeal       and iconic status       within the world of contemporary design, attempting to characterise the       nature of his achievement       and evaluate its legacy.
Eye, the international review of graphic       design, a quarterly printed       magazine about graphic design and visual culture published in London since       1990, devoted the       issue n. 85 (2013) to Bruno Munari incorporating some of the insights from       the Estorick exhibition.
A roundtable discussion open to the public was also organized at UCL,       with the participation, along       with Dr Antonello, of Prof Jeffrey Schnapp (Harvard), and Prof Robert       Lumley (UCL).
Video-recordings       of Prof Schnapp's contribution to the UCL event and of the roundtable with       Brian Webb,       Robert Boon, and John Walters were made available, as well as relevant       material related to the       exhibit, both on the Estorick website and on www.munart.org, the most       comprehensive website       devoted to Munari's art, to which Dr Antonello contributed with further       bibliographical information       and general advice about the material that should be included.
The site is       currently visited by ca.
150 people per day.
The importance of the munart.org website is attested       by the fact that Robert       Snowden, art director at the YU Contemporary Museum in Portland (USA), has       recently received a       grant from the Andy Warhol Foundation to translate the entire website into       English to make it       available to an English-speaking audience.
