 The exhibition `My booke and my selfe': Michel de Montaigne 1533-1592' ran from 4 August-23 December 2008, with 14,526 visits to the Exhibition Centre during the period of the exhibition.
In addition to this, the Montaigne Exhibition Site [5.1] received 48,000 hits in 2008, 61,981 hits in 2009, 57,026 hits in 2010, and 46,197 in 2011.
The visitors' book [5.2] shows that a large number of non-academic visitors attended the exhibition, with comments from people from as far afield as Italy (`This exhibition interested me a lot.
I have to read more and more about him', October 2008) and Japan (`Thanks for the exhibition.
I was very lucky and impressed [by] these rare printings including the handwriting by the philosopher.
These can never [be] seen in Japan', December 2008).
Non-academic blog posters [5.3, 5.4] also showed their appreciation, with one who attended Philip Ford's lecture writing on 25 October 2008, `the lecture room holds fifty people and it was pleasing that it was almost full &#8212; deservedly so as we were well served by our lecturer', and another expressing how `privileged' he was to be taken on a tour of the collection by Philip Ford.
The official opening of the exhibition coincided with an international colloquium devoted to `La Librairie de Montaigne', held in Clare College, and aimed at bringing out the potential riches of the collection to be exploited in further research.
Delegates, who included some of the world's top experts on Montaigne from France and North America, as well as the UK, attended the opening of the Montaigne exhibition at the Library and were invited to a private view of the collection in the newly created Montaigne Room in the Rare Books Room.
The Montaigne Room provided the perfect venue for the delegates to be able to browse and enjoy the collection to the full.
One fruitful outcome of the conference was the planned collaboration between the University Library and the CESR, Universit&#233; Fran&#231;ois-Rabelais in Tours to digitise books from the collection for Les Biblioth&#232;ques Virtuelles Humanistes.
As a result, in 2009 the Library signed an agreement with the Universit&#233; Fran&#231;ois-Rabelais, Tours, to digitise eighteen books from the Montaigne Library, including Montaigne's annotated copy of Lucretius's De rerum natura (1563).
This, along with five other texts, have been digitised to date [5.5].
The digitisation of the Lucretius has been considerably enhanced by the transcriptions (both diplomatic and normalised) of the end pages and the marginalia in the main text, and the translation of the Latin notes into French, all by Alain Legros at the CESR.
In this way, this extremely important text has been fully enhanced so as to be available to a world-wide audience, and preserved in digital form.
Furthermore, the CESR have obtained funding from the CNRS to set up a project known as MONLOE [5.5].
According to the project description, `the aim of this project is to bring together, in a vast whole which would represent a single author's body of works, the main editions of the Essais, the diachronic edition of the Exemplaire de Bordaux, all the works bearing his signature held in various libraries, both public and private, and the main works which may be considered as constituting the major sources of the Essais.
The Gilbert de Botton gift to Cambridge University Library in 2008 gave birth to this project, which is both international and collaborative.'
Cambridge is, of course, one of the partners of the project.
On 6 May 2009, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, Ambassador of France to the United Kingdom, visited the University Library to view the Montaigne Library.
The visit was led by Professor Philip Ford, and was highly appreciated.
Cambridge University and its French Department strive to maintain close relations with the French Embassy and its Institute, and this was a useful exercise in showcasing our activities.
The publication of the conference proceedings: La Librairie de Montaigne (see section 3), enhanced both scholarly and public appreciation of the collection.
Philip Ford participated in the University's Festival of Ideas in October 2008, presenting to an audience of 45, comprising of people from the general public, a lecture on Montaigne's education, his attitude to books, the actual room the library was kept in, and the publication and reception of the Essais over the centuries.
In September 2010, he lectured on `Montaigne and his books' for a group of twenty-five visitors to the Library taking part in the University's Alumni Weekend, and gave an interview in 2012 on the collection to The Philanthropist, a magazine sent to donors to the University by its Development Office.
It is hoped to raise money for further, related acquisitions, and funding to digitise the entire collection.
