     Overall, the research has had a significant impact on the conduct of       policy at `the boundary', affecting the conduct and organisation of a key       government committee, changing its relationship to the larger       environmental and sustainability policy community.
It has thus had - and       continues to have - an impact on the environmental policy-making process       itself.
The impact process     Following the closure of the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution       (RCEP) and the end of funding for the Sustainable Development Commission       (SDC) in 2010, the EAC addressed the need to embed sustainable development       across government policy-making through two sequential inquiries.
Based on the above research, a detailed `summary for stakeholders'       briefing was prepared, as was a written submission to the EAC's first       inquiry.
Consequently Turnpenny and Russel were called to give oral       evidence to the EAC on 17th November 2010.
The evidence presented the challenges of integrating sustainable       development into the machinery of government, and outlined recommendations       for how the EAC might operate in the future.
Among the research team's       recommendations were that the EAC should:            focus on fewer issues, while minimising overlap with other Select         Committees, to enable greater depth of analysis       revitalise its cross-cutting role, enabling it to challenge         established `world views' of departmental Select Committees       maintain the credibility, legitimacy and salience of the evidence it         presents by drawing on the latest evidence, rather than just on familiar         actors       develop its `entrepreneur' and `persuasive advocate' roles, filling         the vacancy caused by the abolition of the RCEP; it should be a         legitimate and credible advocate of sustainable development across         Whitehall, not `captured' by any department's agenda or accepted norms         of operation.
be significantly better-resourced, particularly the Secretariat and         specialists, with, for instance, support for more in-depth analysis for         each inquiry.
This would imply a more `staff-driven' committee, so it         would be important to maintain support of members to ensure EAC's         legitimacy and accountability.
This evidence formed an important part of the EAC's inquiry report (EAC       2011a), and the basis for two of its thirteen headline recommendations to       government (paras 73 and 78).
The subsections on `Parliamentary Scrutiny'       (paras 63-69) and `Wider Stakeholder Scrutiny' (paras 70-73) directly       referred to Turnpenny et al's recommendations for greater engagement with       a wide range of expertise at an early stage in the policy process to       `assist [government] in developing more innovative ways of addressing       sustainability issues' (para 73/Recommendation 12).
The fourth section of       the report on `A New Sustainable Development Strategy' was framed around       Turnpenny et.
al.
's arguments for a coherent strategy to `revitalise       Government on this essential foundation for all policy-making' (para       78/Recommendation 13), including embedding sustainable development in the       Treasury manual for policy appraisal, and potential use of sanctions for       under-performing departments.
In its official response (HMG 2011), the Government agreed with       Recommendation 12, but offered no clear mechanism for embedding the       perspectives of such expertise in policy-making.
The Government disagreed       with Recommendation 13, arguing that overarching commitment to high- level       principles of sustainable development and transparency allow `both public       and parliament to scrutinise our progress' (HMG 2011, Response to Rec 13).
In reply, the EAC acted directly on Turnpenny et al.
's research findings       by:     1) Committing to improve links with academic institutions and the       appointment of two specialist advisers (EAC 2011b, para 21).
2) Forming a sustainability knowledge network.
This feeds diverse       academic research directly into EAC inquiries, and advises on appropriate       topics for inquiry.
This network meets annually with the EAC under the       auspices of the British Academy.
3) Pursuing a more `seminar style' format in which different experts       debate ideas, alongside its more traditional adversarial inquiry format -       based on Turnpenny et al.
's recommendations to enable more in-depth       discussion of ideas.
4) Considering a sequential approach to wide ranging topics with long       time horizons (such as the measurement and auditing of wellbeing).
5) Reaffirming its `scrutiniser' role, committing itself to monitoring       `changes in ... legislation and regulations and examine these where they       might dilute sustainability' (EAC, 2011b, para 13) and to monitoring the       `development of ... impact assessment tools' (para 14) - i.e.
appraising       both policy and the instruments of policy appraisal.
6) Confirming the importance of international leadership on       sustainability, and set out its role in this.
The Special Advisor to the EAC confirmed: "the recommendations of the         Turnpenny team have proved influential for the new ways of working of         the Committee, which is continually exploring innovative approaches to         its ways of working" (email E1).
The research has also helped the environmental policy and research       community by broadening the sources and depth of the evidence base upon       which the EAC draws.
For example, the Head of International Cooperation at       the European Environmental Agency (email E4) reported that the research       addressed issues of concern to the EEA, particularly in relation to the       `science-policy interface'; Policy Analysts at the House of Commons       library (email E5) circulated it to other committees because they `may be       able to learn some lessons from it'; and the Sustainable Development       Scrutiny Officer at the Scottish Parliament (email E3) asked for       recommendations for Scotland based on the research.
