 The impact of the research strand has consisted in (a) seeding an overall conceptualisation and specific ideas which have been incorporated in the work of forensic phonetic practitioners, (b) provision of reference data which practitioners can make use of, (c) availability of the DyViS database which can be used by them for test and development, and (d) public engagement.
(a) ideas incorporated in the work of forensic practitioners J P French Associates (JPFA) at York have taken up the challenge, thrown down in Nolan (2005), of using auditory profiling of voice quality in speaker comparison casework.
After testing Laver's voice quality framework on a beta version of the DyViS database (see section (b), below), profiling was routinely incorporated in casework (where appropriate) from 2009 to provide an additional set of parameters potentially separating incriminating and suspect speech samples.
This brings a degree of systematic analysis to a facet of speaker comparison (`voice quality') which was previously the domain of rather vague observations [5.1].
The German Bundeskriminalamt (Federal Forensic Laboratory) have introduced, starting in 2008, the use of Long-Term Formant analysis (Nolan &amp; Grigoras 2005) as an additional tool for characterising speakers [5.2]; and JPFA are testing the technique with a view to introducing it into casework [5.1].
(b) provision of reference data which forensic practitioners can make use of The statistical distributions derived from the 100-speaker DyViS sample population, reported in Hudson et al.
(2007), have been widely consulted by forensic practitioners.
Previously the pitch characteristics of speech samples under comparison had to be referred to normative data on other languages, notably German.
From 2008 J P French Associates [5.1], Martin Barry Forensic Voice Services [5.3], and Duckworth Consultancy [5.4] all report using the DyViS reference data when evaluating differences in pitch between incriminating and suspect speech samples.
(c) availability of the DyViS database The DyViS database, with its 100 accent-matched speakers performing a stylistic range of speaking tasks, has facilitated development and practice across a wide range of activities related to speech and speaker analysis: Oxford Wave Research Ltd. have used a subset of it in their development since 2012 of two software products, one (`VOCALISE') which performs speaker recognition by combining more traditional automatic parameters with phonetic variables, and the other (`CLEAVER') which extracts the speech of one speaker from multi-speaker recordings.
These are now used by UK and European law enforcement organisations and UK government as well as private companies, including the Metropolitan Police, the German Bundeskriminalamt, and several whose identities cannot be disclosed [5.5].
J P French Associates (JPFA) have used the whole database extensively in testing the performance of an automatic speaker verification system (the Agnitio S.L.
`Batvox' system) on forensically quasi-naturalistic speech from the database.
Generally favourable results having been obtained, this system has been used in certain types of case since 2011 to corroborate JPFA's forensic opinion from more traditional forensic phonetic techniques.
Second, the database was crucial in JPFA's testing of voice quality profiling prior to its introduction to casework (see (a), above).
Only with the availability of a large accent-matched, controlled database was it possible to test the method's discriminative power, and collecting such data would have been beyond the scope of a firm engaged in casework on a day-to-day basis [5.1].
Martin Barry Forensic Voice Services have used the DyViS database to test various technical enhancements for their casework, including software for plotting the formants (resonances) of speech on a psychoacoustic (`Bark') scale which MBFVS began to use from 2012 [5.3].
Martin Duckworth of Duckworth Consultancy has explored the occurrence of different kinds of disfluency in collaboration with Kirsty McDougall at Cambridge.
All speakers, not only those with stutters, manifest disfluency in their speech, but testing on the DyViS database has shown that disfluency strategies are sufficiently distinctive to be incorporated in forensic speaker comparison casework at Duckworth Consultancy since 2011 [5.4].
(d) public engagement Public engagement has taken place with the community of legal and forensic practitioners, and more widely with the public at large through broadcasts.
Nolan has addressed: the Criminal Bar Association (29/11/2008), and the Forensic Human Identification course (Metropolitan Police Training Centre, Hendon 03/2008 &amp; 2009; Academy of Forensic Medical Sciences 06/2011, 03/2012 and 2013); and both McDougall and Nolan were featured with others in a `BBC Frontiers' edition (12/12/2012) dealing with the possibilities and limitations of speaker recognition [5.6].
