     The Wrongdoing project runs 2011-2014, so that the REF census date falls       before its completion.
However, even at this early stage the project has       had considerable impact, via principally three routes:     1.
Digitisation and Preservation of Fragile Material     The project has made a significant contribution to library resources by       ensuring the conservation in digital form of fragile material (4500 items       in the UL and BL) thus contributing to the preservation and         presentation of cultural heritage.
By the end of July 2013       digitization of all the material was complete and 69% of all the material       had been catalogued.
Catalogue items are available for consultation online       by the public as soon as they are completed, and the links to the digital       images will be available six months after completion of the cataloguing.
The project has furthered work in the preservation of fragile material in       the following ways: acting as pilot for the provision of virtual       exhibitions in the UL; acting as pilot for the use of optical character       recognition in relation to fragile material for the UL; purchase of more       material (c1600 comedias sueltas of 19c theatrical material by UL,       July 2013; training and professional development of Sonia Morcillo as       expert cataloguer of this fragile material.
[5.1]     2.
Exhibition     The project includes an exhibition at the UL, April to December 2013,       thus contributing to presentation of cultural heritage and enhancing         the quality of the tourist experience.
The exhibition, `Read all       about it!
Wrongdoing in Spain and England in the long nineteenth century'       showcases items of popular literature being digitized and catalogued in       the project, and puts them into play with comparable items from England.
This contextualizes the Spanish material, and makes more immediate the       suggestions of connexion with English history and culture, both       historically and in contemporary life.
By following a life-cycle from the       education of the child to the retribution meted out to the wrongdoer, the       exhibition maps out a well-structured narrative of choice and action, and       social reaction in the two cultures.
From its inception the project has       been outward-looking, and has engaged regularly with non-academic       audiences.
Significantly the exhibition is accompanied by a virtual       exhibition [5.2], which will continue to be available via the UL website.
By the end of July 2013 there had been 4074 hits to this website, and 9577       visits to the physical exhibition [5.3].
The project also has and will       continue to have widespread and public visibility through the Digital       Library page of the UL [5.4].
The Cambridge exhibition derives its narrative from work being done by       Sinclair, and is evident in the sections that track a life-cycle from       childhood to final retribution.
`Knowing Right from Wrong', relating to       visual culture and material for children, (material published in item 6       (2012) of Section 2); two sections on parent/child frictions draw on the       Vilaseca Memorial Lecture, given by Sinclair in 2011; work on bandits as       heroes is published (2011) and submitted for the REF; `What you see is       what you get' relates to Sinclair's work in eugenics as in items 2, 3, and       4 of Section 2); `Unnatural women' and `Monstrous criminals' were       discussed in the Vilaseca lecture as were issues of reaction and reception       of the culture of wrongdoing.
The exhibition material has been presented       to non-academic audiences: an open discussion in collaboration with Anglia       Ruskin School of Art, 7.5.2013, including a Visiting Leverhulme Fellow,       and staff in Art and Illustration; the Cambridge Bibliographical Society       (including library staff) 15.5.13; visit of 30 ten-year old pupils       (Parkwood Primary, Hackney) 21.5.13, with pre-exhibition discussion; visit       of European librarians to conservation department of UL and exhibition       20.6.13; 40 sixteen-year olds from secondary school in Cumbria 24.6.13.
A       teacher with the Parkwood Primary visit commented "The pre- exhibition       lecture/discussion was valuable, providing a focus for what followed.
The       children began to pay close attention in the `question and answer'       session, seeming to follow the discussion" [5.5].
The exhibition has been reviewed in the Times Higher Education         Supplement (2.5.13) , Culture 24, (29.4.13) [5.6], Visit         Cambridge (29.4.13) [5.7] and in the Cambridge Evening News       (30.4.13).
3.Education     The project has already had impact within education.
In the       sphere of HE, it was the source for 8 hours of Master's teaching at the       Universidad Juan Carlos, Madrid, February 2012 [5.8], to an international       audience comprising students from Spain, Latin America and China.
Talks to       secondary schools on the representation of the Spanish bandit has       contributed to access and outreach programmes, and school audiences at St       Paul's Boys School, London (11.5.11), and Petchey Academy for Girls,       Hackney (23.2.12), have been presented with the question of the       construction of crime at the same time as the talk has been an       illustration of the broad nature of work that can be entered into by those       studying foreign languages.
Positive feedback has come from both schools.
A teacher from St Paul's wrote: "Thank you so much for taking the time to       come to St. Paul's and speak to the boys.
The Eurosoc talks are a great       opportunity for them to meet academics, hear about interesting topics and       find out about language-related subjects off the syllabus.
Your talk about       banditry was a perfect example of how the study of language can open up a       variety of other fields and I have had some great feedback from the boys"       [5.9] and a student from Petchey wrote: `I am a year 11 student at the       Petchey Academy where you came and gave a lecture on spanish bandits a few       months ago.
i really enjoyed it and shared my knowledge i attained from       you with my parents and convinced them to take me and my brothers to spain       and also to escape this dreadful british weather' [5.10].
