     Impact on Public Discourse     In 2010, the publication of the monograph was announced via the German       news agencies and an item found its way into nearly every Sunday edition       in the country.
Subsequently, reviews and interviews were carried by Der         Spiegel (30 August 2010, nr.
35, p. 117) Die Zeit online, taz,       Deutschlandfunk (BBC Radio 4 equivalent) and ZDF television.
This coverage triggered multiple opportunities for public engagement on       core themes of Young's work.
He was guest speaker at the awards ceremony       of the German Olympic Academy (Leipzig 2011),where he presented the       contested legacies of 1936 functionaries from across the country;       panellist (alongside media personalities and Olympic medallists) at an       event organized by Der Tagesspiegel and the Olympiastadion Berlin       GmbH to examine those Games on their anniversary; and the only       non-native-speaker contributor in an intervention to the on-going public       debate about their organizer (see Diem article above).
As Munich prepared       its bid for the Winter Games, the book served as the basis for major       features in the FAZ and the S&#252;ddeutsche Zeitung.
On the       personal recommendation of the former Mayor and SPD leader, the current       Mayor commissioned its translation so that it could appear on the German       market in time for the IOC's decision.
On its appearance, the former Mayor       described it as `a book from which today's generation has much to learn'.
On the eve of the 2018 announcement, Young was interviewed on Bavarian       television to explain the lessons contemporary planners could glean from       1972.
Impact on Cultural Life     The monograph was also the principal reference for the exhibition       `M&#252;nchen 72 - Trainingsplatz einer Demokratie', which ran for 6 weeks in       2012 at Munich's main station.
Young served as consultant to the artistic       director, passing on objects from his personal collection (which later       formed part of the show), establishing vital contacts, writing the major       essay for the brochure, and giving a reading in the events series.
According to the artistic director, Young `brought to the project an       extremely rare understanding of both the creative process and political       history', and the resulting exhibition `could not have achieved its       success without his collaboration'.
It attracted over 2000 visitors and       was widely covered and praised in the media for its inventive use of sport       and history to mediate matters of contemporary concern.
It not only       allowed its sponsors, the Nemetschek Stiftung and Gesicht Zeigen!, to       transmit key messages about democracy, but also helped both to enhance       their position and reputation as foundations.
In 2011, Young made, (in the words of the producer), a `hugely       significant' contribution as consultant to three of the six documentary       programmes `Olympic Radio Ballads' (on Berlin 1936, Munich 1972, and       Controversies), which were commissioned by the BBC, produced by Smooth       Operations, and broadcast on Radio 2 in the run-up to London 2012.
Young       advised the makers about content and structure, organized an extensive       list of interview partners, assisted with translation and was interviewed       at several locations in Berlin, Munich and Magdeburg, becoming `a major       voice in the Munich and Berlin Radio Ballads and a spine around which we       could build sequences.'
(idem) Key details of the Berlin and Munich       Olympics were highlighted and inspired songwriters to craft new songs from       the stories told about them.
His contacts to other academics,       functionaries and athletes &#8212; not least the East German sex-change       shot-putter Andreas Krieger &#8212; offered `priceless access' and `unimaginable       editorial treasures' (idem).
Radio 2 is the most listened-to station in the UK and can attract a       million people for a single show.
Gillian Reynolds wrote in the Telegraph,       `The stories it tells of the 1936 Berlin Games are brilliantly researched,       unforgettable once heard.'
The Controller of BBC Radio 2, Bob Shennan,       described the series as the best he has commissioned in a career spanning       six radio networks and 25 years.
Impact on Civil Society     Young's research was the basis of his April 2012 presentation at the       Historian's Speaker Series at the Office of State in Washington.
The       presentation focused on the variety of ways that sport can be used to help       understand a society, its history, and identity, while also comparing and       contrasting Cold War developments (sport, social, and otherwise) in East       Germany with those in West Germany, the Soviet Union, and the United       States.
Those in attendance included historians from the Office of the       Historian, the Office of Records Management, and Foreign Service Officers       who work on German-related issues in the Department's European Division.
Young's work is presently used in the Office of the Historian's Historical       Briefing Program, and has been instrumental in presenting new ways for       briefing attendees to think about German history, the Cold War, and the       implications for present-day society and policy.
The Historical Briefing       Program provides country- specific historical background to U.S.       ambassadors, deputy chiefs of mission, Foreign Service Officers, and       Department of State personnel so that they may better understand the       context in which they operate.
