 Clinical impact in Uganda and Tanzania In Uganda, the underpinning research was used to demonstrate to local leaders and health officers why the existing approaches to treatment were failing.
This led to the acceptance of the suggested alternative strategies in several locations.
His Royal Highness Charles Okumu Ombidi III confirmed that "At first there was a reluctance by many people here to take the drugs, but after your work and your help with sensitising the people, there was widespread recognition that it is important to get regular treatment for this disease...following your recommendations in 2008 and 2009, the procedure for distributing drugs changed in Panyimur sub-county...the local council representatives took responsibility for distributing the drugs in their localities.
This helped a lot.
Many people came forward for treatment and coverage was much higher."
[A] Similarly, the Mayor of Nebbi District confirmed that "the discussions we had on various updates on your findings offered us a great insight on the health situations in the district especially along Lake Albert and River Nile...as a result it initiated behavioral and attitude change in the local population who were initially resistant to use of drugs whereas they were in dear need of treatment.
This I believe was achieved through your participatory approach of research, community mobilization and sensitization."
[B] In Tanzania, the research showed that the majority of the study population in coastal areas were resisting treatment for lymphatic filariasis.
Parker and Allen suggested to Tanzanian officials that MDA should be supplemented with the provision of free surgery for those with hydroceles (swollen scrotums), because the men who were successfully treated would then become positive examples and advocates for the MDA programme.
In 2008 this advice was acted upon and 200 men were offered hydrocelectomies [C].
Research in 2011 confirmed that this had an impact on the uptake of drugs in those locations in which appropriate follow-up occurred.
In one study village (with an estimated population of 2000), uptake increased from 40% in 2007 to more than 90% in 2010.
Influencing practice In 2008 the initial findings [1] were published indicating that MDA in combination with other approaches could be effective but that MDA delivered in a context-free manner commonly faltered or failed.
These findings garnered attention from key figures and institutions involved in the battle against infectious disease.
The head of the Vector Control Division in the Ugandan Ministry of Health, Dr. Narcis Kabatereine, cited this research in discussing the realities on the ground and the ways in which the current NTD control programme could be "jeopardised".
[D] The research was likewise cited by Professor Adel Mahmoud, a highly respected expert on schistosomiasis and global health policy at Princeton University and former head of Merck Vaccines, and Professor Elias Zerhouni at Johns Hopkins Medicine and former head of the US National Institutes of Health.
Writing in Health Affairs, a journal read by policy-makers, practitioners and scholars worldwide, Mahmoud and Zerhouni [E] echoed Parker and Allen's argument for educational and communications strategies at the local level and agreed that "Winning the battle against infectious diseases will require more than purely technological solutions".
The research was also discussed in numerous formal and less formal meetings, including closed sessions of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in June 2009, at which representatives of WHO were present, and at DfID the following December.
The WHO's Tropical Disease Research (TDR) division then commissioned Parker and Allen to write an article on the roll-out of MDA in Uganda as one of a series of papers considering how NTD research and practice "still largely neglect the social, ecological, and other contextual factors that allow diseases to persist in specific populations".
The paper [2] was made publicly available on TDR's website in January 2011[F], and was cited in the lead paper of the series authored by TDR Steering Committee member Pascale Allotey and her colleagues [F] to draw attention to implementation problems at the community level and to call for social science research to assess the effectiveness of NTD control programmes.
The paper was also circulated for discussion to delegates at the 2011 International Society for Infectious Diseases conference, and has been noted as one of the most important publications about schistosomiasis in Expert Reviews, which described it as an "important evaluation highlighting that community compliance with praziquantel treatment needs careful attention" [G].
In February 2011 the underpinning research was again featured in an article written by Parker and Allen [3] for a special issue of Third World Quarterly called "The Millennium Development Goals: challenges, prospects and opportunities".
Allen and Parker's call for a biosocial approach was echoed by UN Secretary General Ban-Ki Moon in his Preface to the issue when he pointed to "knowledge gained over the past decade about the effectiveness of taking a holistic approach".
Challenging MDA strategies The high profile of the Third World Quarterly article, and the call it made to rethink a context-free MDA approach, became the impetus for debate among NTD policy makers and academics.
A vehement defence of the traditional MDA approach in a leading medical journal prompted Parker and Allen to submit a letter to The Lancet in January 2012 entitled `Will increased funding for NTDs really make poverty history?'
[H].
The letter again outlined some of the difficulties with current strategies, observed the lack of critical analysis and debate about "what is actually occurring on the ground", and called for an evidence-based and integrated biosocial approach.
Published on the front page, the letter was timed to appear on the eve of an international meeting in London at which DfID, USAID, the UAE governments, the Gates Foundation, 13 pharmaceutical companies, the World Bank and other global health organisations were announcing a coordinated partnership to eliminate 10 NTDs by 2020, involving commitments of over $785 million and significant in-kind support.
The timing and content of the letter provoked a storm of controversy, and responses from leading proponents and critics of context-free MDA were published in The Lancet.
The debate was noted in the Guardian [I] and by DFID, which had committed &#163;195 million to the NTD global partnership.
Soon, however, the debate began to turn and the significance of the underpinning research to be publicly acknowledged.
In June 2012 Parker and Allen made a keynote address at the International Society for Neglected Tropical Diseases conference at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
At that meeting, the head of the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative at Imperial College, a leading figure in the MDA community, stated to a surprised audience that the kind of work Parker and Allen had been doing needed to be done at all sites at which mass drug administration was being implemented.
In December 2012, Parker and Allen were invited to a meeting in the UK Parliament on the possibilities of mass drug administration, where they discussed their findings with DfID's Chief Scientific Advisor and head of research, Professor Chris Whitty.
A month later, Allen and Parker's research was mentioned during a debate on NTDs in the House of Lords, with the Earl of Sandwich, the Lord Bishop of Derby and Lord Rae citing their findings and most of the speakers endorsing communication, training and a biosocial approach [J].
Following this, Parker and Allen were asked to address MPs specifically about the problems with MDA for lymphatic filariasis at the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Malaria and NTDs.
In this session, one of the leading proponents of MDA openly acknowledged that their research was having a profound effect on shifting approaches to drug distribution and monitoring.
In July 2013 an international conference was convened in London by Parker and Allen with Dr Katja Polman of the Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp to bring together people from across the debate.
The 20-plus attendees included many of the leading supporters of MDA as well as senior figures from African countries.
The impact of the research was again explicitly acknowledged, and there was detailed discussion of how policies were now being reformulated to take the findings into account.
A range of views were filmed and made available online [L] Why does it matter: Over one billion people are at risk or already afflicted by NTDs, 40 countries have multi-year NTD plans and close to &#163;1 billion in funding and in-kind assistance is committed to the control or elimination of NTDs in the next five years.
Only the locally sensitive and effective deployment of this assistance will assure the permanent defeat of these diseases and the alleviation of their deleterious impact on lives, societies and economies around the world.
