 In November 2012 The World Health Organisation pledged to renew efforts on 17 `neglected tropical diseases' including leprosy.
Vital in this effort to eradicate leprosy is a historic perspective that informs modern epidemiology.
Therefore the excavation of the cemetery at St Mary Magdalen and the subsequent analysis of human remains have provided an unparalleled opportunity to study disease expression, proteomics, human/pathogen DNA, and stable isotopes to inform modern understanding of Hansen's Disease.
Indeed as noted above the exceptional preservation of Mycobacterium leprae biomarkers, both DNA and mycolic acids, in the skeletons has major implications for palaeomicrobiology and human pathogen evolution.
The subject matter of MHARP therefore transcends pure archaeological goals and provides previously unexplored links between the study of medieval leprosy, past care for `lepers' and contemporary work to alleviate the suffering of individuals with Hansen's disease.
MHARP also bridges the gap between vocational training, education and research as well as contributing to raising awareness of wider social issues concerning leprosy.
The overall social implications resulting from the project's work are beginning to challenge views of leprosy sufferers in medieval society, which has a direct result on public perceptions today.
The implications of such views are particularly acute today where in much of the developing world many people still suffer from the disease.
Over the last few years the idea of the medieval leper as an outcast has been challenged and data from MHARP have contributed to this revisionist view (see Roffey and Marter 2012).
Furthermore this includes evidence for remedial care suggesting there were attempts to alleviate individual suffering.
Clearly, the level of provision suggests a higher level of social status for sufferers of Hansen's Disease than previously thought.
Such important results cannot be underestimated in the context of modern perceptions of the disease and its treatment.
Since 2012 the project has formed an important alliance with the UK Leprosy Mission and, as well as helping in fund-raising, activities, including a charity pilgrimage walk, is helping to raise public awareness of leprosy by challenging long-entrenched misconceptions of the disease through archaeological research.
The research is being used to highlight issues such as the general `acceptance' of the disease by past societies (largely overturned by Victorian scholars), misconceptions regarding contagion and the fact that the disease and its social implications are as relevant today as in the past.
The guided pilgrimage from Winchester Cathedral to St Mary Magdalen raised funds for the Charity as well as stimulated public awareness through newspaper articles and a feature on the BBC South News.
In addition, the project was featured in an article for Christian Today, the on-line news site that reaches an audience of around 2.5 million people (May 2012).
Results of the project and their wider implications have not only been disseminated in a number of research articles (noted in section 3), but also at number of important conferences and seminars, including papers presented at the Wellcome Unit for the History of Medicine, Oxford; Conference for the History of Medicine, London and the British Museum.
The results have been made available to the wider public via the written and broadcast media.
Significantly the former have been disseminated not only to an archaeological audience, but also within the fields of history, medicine, religion and charitable groups promoting welfare and social awareness (detailed in section 5).
MHARP has received the widest of popular media coverage, featuring on national television and in newspapers, as well as regional outlets.
For example the project featured on the BBC One Show (c. 5 million viewers) on 16th January 2012 and the History Channel's Grave Trade on February 19th 2013.
It has also been filmed for a series of BBC2's `Digging For Britain'.
Interviewed radio features include BBC Radio Solent (2009, 2010, 2011), BBC Sunday Religious Programme (Sept 2009) and BBC Radio 4 Today programme (Feb 10th 2013).
Project updates include interview features on ITV Meridian News (Sept 2009) and BBC News (Sept 2009, 2010, 2011).
Newspaper articles on the site have appeared in The Telegraph, The Independent and The Guardian as well as 'popular' magazines British Archaeology and Current Archaeology.
Further afield, the subject of past societies' views on the care of the sick has provided opportunity for discourse between charities, museums and community stakeholders, links have been made between the project and one of Hampshire's largest charities, St John's Charity, and the Friends of St Cross (Charity).
Open days, public tours and specialist tours have also been conducted for local schools and the local children's hospital in Winchester.
