 Contribution to economic impact and personal and professional development Until relatively recently there was widespread antagonism between metal-detectorists and the academic community.
But the dialogue between Anglo-Saxon numismatists and metal-detector users of non-academic background, spearheaded by Dr Blackburn, has been mutually beneficial: detectorists, collectors and dealers have learned how important their finds are and collaborated closely with scholars to generate significant impact.
A symbiotic involvement with the non-academic community has become integral to research on early medieval currency.
Scholars have made use of detector finds, and finders have in turn gained appreciation of their coins' heritage significance, and hence also the importance of recording them.
This has been accomplished by disseminating conclusions of the research outlined above at meetings of local societies and numerous popular talks and conferences.
Dr Naismith delivered talks on relevant subjects to local numismatic and metal detecting societies in Cambridge on 21 May 2008 and 15 March 2010, in Nottingham on 11 September 2009 and in Worthing on 21 October 2010, each attended by 20-50 people.
The impact of these initiatives is shown in the dozens of contacts initiated each year by individual finders, dealers and collectors; they are reflected in, among others, EMC, Blackburn 2011 and Naismith 2011.
The efforts of Dr Blackburn and Dr Naismith have created such impact among enthusiasts and the commercial sector that the value of recording single-find data that a reliable find-provenance now adds significantly to a coin's commercial value.
It is commonplace to find data drawn from EMC and other research outputs quoted in auction catalogues (e.g., Spink auction 13 December 2011, lots 1-16, drawing on Naismith 2011; Time Line 14 December 2012, lot 108 and 19 March 2010, lot 195 drawing on EMC).
These and many other legitimately discovered coins would never otherwise have come to scholarly attention were they not reported by commercial dealers such as Spink and Time Line, as well as numerous individual finders and collectors.
The value of this symbiotic relationship was emphasized in a testimonial provided by Person 4 (a senior specialist at Spink and Son Ltd): `I have used the Fitzwilliam Museum Corpus of Early Medieval coins database for some years.
This resource ... has proved invaluable.
It has provided us with a research tool when cataloguing coins for auction as it allows us to match and reference a coin with others from the same dies.
Additionally its recording of new single finds, allows us to create a provenance for each coin which will remain with the coin into the future.
This is something which is welcomed both by finders as sellers and collectors as buyers.
The work undertaken by Mark and his staff in building this database has been invaluable and reaches across both the scholastic and commercial arms of Numismatics as a research tool and record of coins' (personal communication, 8 June 2012).
Preserving and presenting cultural heritage The systematic recording of thousands of early medieval coin finds by Dr Blackburn and Dr Naismith (as outlined above) in itself creates major impact through the preservation of cultural heritage.
Moreover, an important counterpart to the economic and personal development of dealers and dedicated enthusiasts is presentation of the results of research to the general public.
Museum exhibitions have been the principal means of doing so.
An exhibition (`Anglo-Saxon Art in the Round') in the Fitzwilliam Museum, curated by Dr Blackburn, focused on the historical significance of Anglo-Saxon coinage (2008).
It was arranged to showcase points and themes raised by the research of Dr Blackburn and Dr Naismith (e.g.
in Blackburn 2003) about the economic role of the coinage and the insights it provides into the cultural history of eastern England in the eighth century.
During three months in Cambridge this exhibition drew some 20,000 visitors and activities accompanying it included well-attended public lectures, handling sessions for disabled visitors and workshops for children (person 2).
A similar range of activities at Ipswich involved 450 participants.
It also set a precedent for regional collaboration, and (in the words of an oral testimonial given by Person 3) has left a `significant legacy' of co-operation between the museums involved (the Fitzwilliam Museum, Norwich Castle Museum and Ipswich and Colchester Museum Services).
In this way productive engagement with finders and buyers of coins, and increased awareness among the general public, combine to show the range and depth of impact this research has achieved outside the academic world.
