     The i~design research focused on understanding the principles of       inclusive design and translating them into guidance, methods and tools to       assist designers and encourage business decision makers to facilitate       inclusive design.
Industry: activity to create impact in industry has taken a       variety of forms; including awareness raising events, training workshops,       design evaluation and the delivery of design tools.
Awareness raising: The DoEng EDC team authored the G3ICT "Product       development and design" contents for the international e-Accessibility       Policy Toolkit for Persons with Disabilities website (2009) in       collaboration with the Irish Centre for Excellence in Universal Design       (Ref 7).
The team hosted a breakfast briefing at the Toolkit       re-launch at the RCA's INCLUDE conference in London (2011) and Clarkson       gave the public keynote lecture for the Institute of Ergonomics and Human       Factors annual conference in Cambridge (2013).
A public report (Ref 8) on       the future of inclusive design, sponsored by BT (Ref 9), was launched to       the press and public at BT Tower (2013) and a technology news article was       filmed and broadcast by the BBC (2012).
Training/coaching: between 2008 and 2010 inclusive design training       was developed and provided by the DoEng EDC in collaboration with       Sagentia, a local technology consultancy, for more than 200 designers and       product managers within BT (Ref 9).
The tools and methods taught were       embedded in their internal product/service development process.
A direct       benefit of the training was the inclusive design of BT's Freestyle 750       series phone and Home Hub 2.0.
The phone was well-laid-out and       easy-to-read push-buttons, a clear display, and excellent acoustical       performance especially in hands-free mode.
The design evaluation process       incorporated best-practice from the DoEng EDC's Inclusive Design Toolkit       and led to a product that has been well-received by customers; the device       has become a best-seller and since its launch in July 2008 sales have       increased 20% over earlier versions of the handset (Ref 10).
The Home Hub       was designed from the outset with simple accessibility improvements to       benefit all users; as a result calls to customer support were dramatically       reduced.
In addition, accessibility improvements to the BT.com website led       to an increase in sales of over 6.5% in the first month alone (Ref 10).
Nestl&#233; designers (Ref 11) have been using methods developed by the DoEng       EDC since 2009 to improve customer satisfaction and drive business       success.
In 2010/11 a European Consortium was convened, bringing together       Nestl&#233;, BBC, Marks &amp; Spencer, Bayer Healthcare, Roche, RBS and       Bosch-Siemens for five two-day workshops to train designers and design       managers.
A direct consequence of this was further engagement with Nestl&#233;,       including two extended training workshops and seven product audits leading       to the redesign of packaging.
The use of the DoEng EDC's Cambridge       simulation gloves and glasses with the CEO provoked Nestl&#233;'s `year of       inclusive design' (2012) and the launch of a new `After Eight' box, the       first of a number of new inclusive packaging designs.
"Putting the         consumer at the centre of packaging development means creating products         and packaging that are easy to use regardless of age, disability or         physical condition" &#8212; Global Head of Packaging and Design at Nestl&#233;       (Ref 11).
Design tools: the DoEng Inclusive Design Toolkit website,       originally launched in 2007, was redesigned by the DoEng EDC team with       support from BT and re-released in 2011.
It includes sections on: What is       inclusive design?
; Why do inclusive design?
; How to get started?
;       Inclusive design tools; and guidance on user capabilities.
An average of       14,000 page views per month were recorded for the site in 2012, accessed       from more than 170 countries.
Simulation gloves and glasses developed by       the DoEng EDC team sold 700 glasses and 140 gloves in 2012.
Design evaluation: emporia (Ref 12) is an Austrian company that       makes mobile phones for seniors, focusing on ease-of-use for people who       are not interested in multimedia applications or complex menu navigation.
The DoEng EDC have been active in evaluating emporia's next generation       products and developing the insights necessary to facilitate the design of       touch-screen devices targeted at the senior market.
In particular, the       DoEng EDC has been actively involved in the development of the Connect,       Click and emporiaME products.
As a direct result of this engagement       emporia have implemented `number navigation' and simplified the interface       with a dedicated on/off button, button for the camera and button for the       menu.
Estimated sales of Click are 250k units (Ref 13).
"As smart as         needed, as simple as possible &#8212; this was the idea behind creating         emporia's latest mobile phone &#8212; emporiaCONNECT.
Working closely with the         University of Cambridge, emporia has designed a phone that is incredibly         easy to use" &#8212; emporia news statement 2013 (Ref 13).
Devices for Dignity (D4D, Ref 14) is a UK National Institute for Health       Research programme established to deliver innovative solutions to support       patients with long-term conditions, preserving their dignity and       independence.
In 2009, they commissioned the DoEng EDC to review existing       concepts and assist in the design of a new UroDiary user interface to       improve its accessibility and utility.
The new diary underwent successful       clinical trials in 2012 (Ref 15).
Education: an EPSRC Public Engagement Grant in 2011, entitled       `Designing Our Tomorrow (DOT)' (EP/H047948/1), led to the DoEng EDC team       developing educational materials for teaching Design and Technology at Key       Stage 3.
This collaboration with the University of Cambridge Department of       Education, RCA and Loughborough University undertook to develop, evaluate       and deliver a set of teaching materials for 12 one-hour lessons focused on       the inclusive design of cutlery.
The resources have been trialled in seven       schools in England and, via additional funding from the Irish Centre for       Excellence in Universal Design, two schools in Ireland.
In the UK schools,       69% of participants (n=50) had not previously examined user needs in the       design process and in Ireland, 79% of participants (n=38) said that they       had not specifically looked at users' needs.
Post-intervention surveys       reveal students' positive responses to the DOT activities focused on user       needs and their enjoyment of the autonomy experienced in the project, with       89 per cent of the Irish schools' participants saying that they enjoyed       the project (Ref 16).
