     We have organised various research-led events for local benefactors in       order to develop impact       from our research.
These have taken the form of exhibitions, public       lectures, discussion fora, and       interactive workshops centred on Norwich &#8212; City of Interculture.
This `festival' celebrating       intercultural relations took place at the Forum in Norwich, a public venue       that houses the       Millennium Library, lecture theatres and exhibition spaces and BBC East.
The Forum was chosen       as the fulcrum of these public engagement activities because it is central       &#8212; geographically and       culturally &#8212; to the life of the city.
The Forum sees a large amount of       footfall from local organisations       and individuals using its facilities, as well as from significant numbers       of tourists visiting the city.
It       has therefore been both the means by which we have presented our research       findings directly to       significant numbers of the public and the central hub from which we have       developed collaborative       work with Norwich City Council, Norwich City Football Club, and Norfolk       Constabulary.
Our impacts       flow directly from the fostering of these communicative networks.
By using       such means to engage       various local beneficiaries with our research we have enhanced their       understanding of intercultural       communication and thereby driven changes in the practice and policy of       Norfolk Constabulary,       Norwich City Football Club and Norwich City Council, in local perceptions       of identity and culture,       and &amp;mdash more broadly &#8212; in the values people hold when thinking       about themselves as global citizens       as well as members of specific local communities.
The impact of Filipovi&#263;'s research results from the public dissemination       of her research findings.
Initial insights from Filipovi&#263;'s research were presented, as part of the       Norwich &#8212; City of Interculture       events, at a public research and engagement seminar entitled `Translating       and Interpreting in       Police Contexts' (5/12/2011) with invited guests from Norfolk Constabulary       and the regional       community interpreting services (INTRAN) including the Head of Equality       and Diversity       representing Norfolk Constabulary Operations and Communications Centre who       comments that       the event `provided valuable new insights into the importance of       interpreting services within law       enforcement and Police interviewing practices' [source 1].
The impact was       immediate: the Police       authority saw that such research &#8212; because it brought to their attention       problems in bilingual       communication of which they were previously unaware &#8212; could improve their       understanding of, and       professional practices in, investigative interviewing with witnesses and       suspects who do not speak       English.
As a result, a further collaboration with Filipovi&#263; was       instigated through invitations to       present further research findings to other Police representatives.
Norfolk       Constabulary has       acknowledged that this collaboration will inform their policy and practice       and they are currently       collecting data of bilingual Police interviews for the UEA collaborative       research team (Filipovi&#263; (PI),       Guillot, de Pablos-Ortega, Musolff and Pounds) to focus on aspects of       cross-linguistic and cross-cultural       communication.
This project, called TACIT (Translation and Communication       in Training), is       endorsed by the National Policing Improvement Agency [source 2].
Since 2011 we have run a series of research and engagement seminars,       public workshops,       public roundtables, exhibitions and lectures under the Norwich &#8212; City         of Interculture initiative, which       encompassed over fifty free events at the Forum in Norwich designed to       promote intercultural       understanding and communication.
The Head of Equality and Diversity at       Norfolk Constabulary       comments that `The Norwich: City of Interculture initiative has       played a key part in raising public       awareness of, and changing the public's sense of, the value of       intercultural understanding in their       lives' [source 1] while Norwich City Council's Executive Head of       Customers, Communications and       Culture testifies: `[This] work with the local community on intercultural       communication has affected       the Council's thinking to the extent that we are looking at whether       Norwich might become a       member of the European Commission's Intercultural Cities programme'       [source 5].
Such       membership would benefit the city and its citizens through Council of       Europe consultancy, and       create `a Diversity Advantage' (Wood 2012) of economic, social and       cultural innovation in such key       city functions as housing, security and education.
The Chief Executive       Officer of HEART (Heritage       Economic and Regeneration Trust) has noted that `this research has been       extremely useful to us in       developing strands of cultural heritage activity and in delivering       economic and social impact'       [source 4].
Another illustration of the impact of the Norwich &#8212; City of         Interculture series can be found in       Baines' research into translation and professional sport, which has had an       effect on the local       Premiership football club, Norwich City's approach to translation.
In       February 2012, we invited the       club's Head of Media to Baines' research and engagement seminar on       professional sport,       globalization, and translation.
Subsequent collaboration with him,       including his involvement in the       Public Roundtable which closed our Cross-cultural Pragmatics at a       Crossroads conference in       2013, has led to the club investing in additional translation of their       social media output in particular       and their interlingual media work with migrant players in general.
The       Head of Media, Norwich City       Football Club, testifies that `exposure to Dr Baines' work has increased       the Club's understanding of       linguistic and cultural assimilation issues potentially faced by foreign       players and staff coming to       work in the English game' [source 3].
