     Impact on Agency policies, policy development and advice:     Our Brunel-led research programme demonstrated the importance of       identifying an impact strategy tailor-made to Georgian culture.
We       therefore developed interventions aiming at producing broad and       significant change within that context.
Our strategy took two forms: (1) a       national campaign in Georgia targeted at nationwide changes in sexual       behaviour of young people, educational practice and training.
This       involved a TV campaign and the widespread distribution of a book written       for the project, leaflets and posters (2) a targeted school seminar       campaign aimed at producing demonstrable changes in attitudes and beliefs       about HIV/AIDS and in behavioural intentions amongst Georgian school       children.
A: National campaign     We produced a professional 22-minute video (Source B) with the aid of a       major TV `soap opera' screen writer (Andro Chiaureli) and involving well       known Georgian media figures.
The video was shown twice on national TV       channels (TV channel `Maestro', the Private Channel Caucasia, both in       2007) and several times subsequently on regional television channels.
In       addition the video movie was downloaded more than 35,000 times on youth       websites www.gol.ge, www.bude.ge,       www.myvideo.ge, www.hop.ge,       www.allfilmebi.com; no download       figures available for other featured sites (www.avoe.ge,       www.2fun.ge, www.vest.ge).
Between 2007 and 2009 we distributed the above DVD, and produced 6,000       colour leaflets and posters for national distribution to schools and other       educational centres based on our research findings (Source C).
Leaflets       were distributed to 96 public schools in the 9 regions of Georgia,       reaching an estimated 5,760 pupils.
A book (`Heroes of Aids': Source C)       was written on the basis of our findings to accompany the video produced       for the TV, with more than 1,000 copies distributed to 98 schools in 11       regions.
The book uses an innovative design: on the left side of the page       is a fictional story on HIV/AIDS based by a well-known Georgian writer       (Kote Jandieri); on the other is the provision of relevant scientific       information and materials based on our survey findings.
The book was       launched at a public presentation at the Hotel Marriott, attended by 50       NGO representatives and members of national AIDS Centres.
Evidence of Impact of the National Campaign     A1.
The work has significantly impacted on practitioners and services         by changing educational practices.
The book and video are currently       part of the school curriculum in several schools in Tbilisi (e.g.
schools       #6, #53) and other regions of Georgia (Kakheti, Ajara) and produced strong       positive feedback from teachers, students and their parents.
The National       Resource Centre (Ministry of Education) provided positive feedback on the       use of these materials.
In a supportive letter the Director of the       National Centre for Teacher Professional Development in the Ministry of       Education and Science of Georgia noted how materials produced by the       project "have been used successfully in different public schools of       Georgia to raise the awareness of students and teachers on the topic of       HIV/AIDS" (Source D).
In a further letter from the Head Mistress of Telavi       Public School in Kakheti region (Source E) she states "The Heroes of       Aids...is presented like a story in a very clear language....
Since 2008       it has been systematically used during the education process".
In a Telavi       school a theatrical performance was designed by students on the basis of       this work and performed to a larger school audience.
A2.
Further impact on practitioners and services is evident via nurse         training.
Both the film and book are included in the recommended       literature for nurse trainees in Georgia.
In a support letter (Source F)       the President of the Georgian Nurses Association states "The project as       well as the publications and other outputs that followed it have provided       important training materials for nurse training across Georgia,       particularly with respect to dealing with risky sexual practices amongst       young people.
In the past 3 years we have used the research materials they       produced in their work as part of our training courses on these topics".
A3.
Health and welfare has been impacted via enhanced awareness       of health risks.
While national sexual behaviour change cannot be directly       attributed to any one campaign, applications for testing at the HIV centre       in Tbilisi rose from 9738 cases in 2007 to 11649 (2008), 13984 (2009) and       17015 (2010; latest available figures)(Source G).
B: Targeted intervention: seminar campaign       Additional educational seminars were held in 44 schools reaching 1800       students in total, in which the Brunel-led team's videos were shown and       the research findings discussed.
These seminars were also attended by       school directors and administrators (180 people).
Evidence of Impact of Targeted Intervention     Impacts on health and welfare of the Brunel-led research have been       evidenced through reductions in high-risk behaviour and attitudes.
Impact of the seminars was demonstrated in a comparative survey using data       collected from the national survey of 2880 adolescents [Paper 6].
This       analysis compared data collected 1) before the educational intervention       (June 2007) with 2) data collected one year later in schools where the       educational materials had been shown (June 2008: N =552), and 3) a control       group of schools, where material had not been shown (June 2008; N=648).
This allowed us to exclude extraneous factors that might have been       occurred during this year.
Data showed that, compared to the year before       and to the control group, in the intervention schools there was a       significant increase in a) awareness about the seriousness of the HIV       problem (e.g.
that AIDS was an incurable disease) b) knowledge about       relative risks (e.g.
risks of shaking hands with a person with AIDS) c)       appropriate behavioural change (e.g.
willingness to have sex with       someone)(all p&lt;.001).
(Source H)     This research and its impact was peer reviewed by the British       Psychological Society Impact Peer Review Panel and selected as a "clear       illustration of the extremely high quality contributions that       psychological research is able to make".
As a result it will be included       on their new impact web portal.
(Source I)
