 The principal aim of this research is to raise awareness and to highlight the nature of the attitudes of people towards, and engagements with, Sat Nav technologies and their impacts on wayfinding behaviour, spatial awareness and graphicacy.
This is especially the case for the geographic and cartographic academies, who to-date have hardly been engaged at all with the implications of such technologies both in people's changing preferences of ways of navigating and their implications for subjects which are centred on `maps'.
Additionally the work has resonance for organisations whose core interests lie with navigational technologies, their production and/or use.
Satellite Navigation (Sat Nav) technologies have become the subject of intense worldwide, comment.
Profiled in the media for navigation blunders, Sat Nav provokes reaction from virtually everyone who encounters it.
Yet there has been little attention given to other major facets of Sat Nav.
At a time of fast and widespread adoption of Sat Nav and Sat Nav enabled smartphones (in 2013 there are an estimated two billion units worldwide), there is an imperative to develop an understanding of the effects of such radical change on: wayfinding behaviour; attitudes towards and engagements with Sat Nav; and the consequential impacts on spatial and cartographic awareness.
Sat Nav research at Liverpool Hope has started to address these issues and to fill, what peer-reviewers on several occasions, have called a 'blind spot' and a 'surprising gap' in geographical knowledge.
The work has made original contributions to the body of knowledge as demonstrated in Axon, et al.
(2011) and Speake &amp; Axon (2012).
In novel ways it applies qualitative approaches to the inherently quantitative science of cartography.
This features in Axon et al.
(2011) but more especially in Speake &amp; Axon (2012) in the exploration of user engagements with Sat Nav.
In drawing on research participants' real words and life experiences, these studies consider the implications for the geographical dimensions of the relationships between people, their spatial awareness and places.
Up until now dissemination has involved show-case research to professional bodies, including the Royal Geographical Society, Cartographic Society and to international academic audiences.
There has been engagement with research units working in the areas of cognition, spatiality and wayfinding in US universities (e.g.
Cornell and Pittsburgh) and Saskachewan (Canada).
Responses from some institutions, with distinctive technological and applied remits (particularly the Australian Defence Force Academy/University of New South Wales), has been significant in encouraging the application of qualitative methodologies.
The research team have been informed that quantitative researchers in navigation and GPS-based technologies knew that qualitative work was needed, but did not previously see how it could happen A direct intersection occurs between the research and GPS/software producers, a common ground where academic research meets the wider cartographic world of map creation and production.
Here this work has direct application and relevance.
These users e.g.
The Ordnance Survey, UK and the Education team at The Environmental Systems Research Institute, USA, have commented on its value in developing qualitative approaches for addressing cartographic and navigational issues and observed that this research theme is "critically necessary", and is "filling a very important gap" because "we don't fully understand how people use maps, even after all these years".
It was also recommended that "The NACIS "[North American Cartographic Information Society] should be told about this too and ICA [International Cartographic Association] even more so".
Similar observations have made by representatives from Google, from whom the reaction on reading the work was, `that's original' with the encouragement to apply to Google research funds.
The work (particularly, its potential impact on young people's engagement with wayfinding and cartographic awareness) has caught the attention of the Geographical Association.
There are curriculum implications for cartography in the classroom and for fieldwork.
These dimensions have also been raised as an issue with the 'Discipline Lead', Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Higher Education Academy.
The paper `Navigating our way through the research- teaching nexus' on the `co-production' of new knowledge is in preparation.
In terms of wider impact, Janet Speake was contacted directly by the New York Times on 11 January 2013 for insights into the impacts of satellite navigation on spatial awareness and was interviewed on 18 January 2013 for a piece on satellite navigation and `The Knowledge' (London cab drivers) to be published in the New Yorker Magazine.
This case study demonstrates how the synergetic interconnectivities between the work and commitment of a small team of researchers may generate impacts with reach and significance.
