     i) Enhancement of Cultural Understanding.
The research findings       have been disseminated beyond conventional academic institutions.
With       Fraser McNeill, Niehaus wrote a review for the Centre for the Study of       AIDS in Pretoria, entitled Magic.
The Centre distributed 3,500       copies to libraries, organisations, and funders in the AIDS Industry (such       as Oxfam).
This study can be accessed on internet and has to date       registered 2,229 downloads, which is more than any other review published       by the Centre.
The monograph, Witchcraft and a Life in the New South         Africa (2013) is written in popular, accessible language.
In June       2013, it was reviewed in the London Review of Books (by Jeremy       Harding), and the Times Literary Supplement (by Tanya Luhrmann).
Niehaus gave interviews to the English service of South African FM Radio       in 2008 and to HBO television in the United States in 2013.
The latter       show draws over 1 million viewers.
(ii) Shaping of Public Debate.
The media have cited Niehaus's       argument that in an era of deindustrialisation male sexual violence       dramatises the ideal of lost masculine dominance.
This suggests that       women's empowerment alone is unlikely to curb the spread of HIV, and       highlights the need for prevention campaigns to address men's gendered       concerns.
A colloquium on violence against women and the structural       drivers of HIV/AIDS, hosted by the organisation 30/30 in Johannesburg on       11 August 2010, debated Niehaus's work.
He is also listed as an expert on       the gender and security research hub of the Social Sciences Research       Council in New York.
The Hub provides researchers, policy shapers, and       practitioners with the evidence needed to advance their work and       contribute to increasing women's security.
An influential research report       by the South African AIDS Foundation, entitled `Towards the Development         of an Integrated Model for the Effective Provision of Heath Care on         Community Level' (2009), refers to Niehaus's arguments on AIDS       stigma and on the connections between AIDS and witchcraft.
(iii) Contribution to the training of academic and health personnel.
Niehaus' work regularly features in syllabi of courses taught at prominent       universities, some with a strong applied element.
These include courses in       political anthropology at Galway in Ireland; African History at Maryland       (US); religion and society in Denmark; and anthropology in Aberdeen and       Illinois.
A course offered by the Centre for Faculty Development at Emory       University in Atlanta called `Viral Cultures' devotes a full week to       Niehaus's research on death and dying.
Pearson Holdings South Africa       recently requested permission from Niehaus to reproduce sections of Magic       in the influential volume, HIV and AIDS: Education, Care and         Counselling (5th edition).
The volume is used as a       training manual for nurses and AIDS counsellors.
(iv) Assistance in the Work of Legal Personnel.
Niehaus has       participated in two influential workshops geared towards empowering legal       personnel to deal more effectively with cases involving witchcraft.
In       August 2010 he worked as an instructor in a course organised by FAHUMA and       the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The course examined       different means of assisting the victims of witchcraft related violence,       and determining their entitlement to refugee protection and human rights.
In 2013 he was also a discussant at a workshop entitled `Witchcraft,       Spirit Possession and Anthropological Expertise in Legal Contexts' at the       London School of Economics.
The workshop involved lawyers, social workers       and police.
Niehaus is currently listed as a specialist on witchcraft by       the FAHUMA Refugee for legal AID Network.
In February 2013, Niehaus advised Ian Nichols, the chief lawyer       representing the families of 34 deceased miners at the Farlam Commission       of Enquiry in South Africa.
In 2012, police killed the miners whilst they       engaged in a strike near Marikana mine.
He wrote a critique of a report       submitted by an anthropologist suggesting that the police acted in       self-defence.
The report contends that the miners had used a potion called       intelezi, which they believed rendered them invulnerable, invisible       and invincible, should they attack the police.
Niehaus disputes the claim       on the ground of insufficient evidence, contending that miners simply used       intelezi to ensure the success of their wage demands.
(v) Assistance in the Production of Cultural Artefacts.
Niehaus       contributed two chapters to the catalogue of an exhibition at the       Johannesburg Art Gallery called Dungamanzi/Stirring Waters.
The       innovative exhibition displays items used by Shangaan diviners and       healers.
The exhibition stood from 2007 to 2013.
Niehaus granted an       extensive interview on the topic of conspiracy theories and AIDS to HBO       Public Television from New York.
The programme is to be screened on the       popular Vice Show throughout the United States.
