     Since its inception in 2009, BIC has attracted 9.2 million euros of       external research funding from       the EU, and over &#163;1.3 million from EPSRC and TSB.
BIC's projects normally       involve multi-national       and multi-partner consortia with SMEs, academic institutions and end       users.
The end-user       beneficiaries of these projects include more than 50 large and small, UK       and international industrial       companies such as Airbus, Doosan Babcock, Network Rail, Jackweld Ltd, H.J.
Heinz, Romax       Technology, Transense, Intrinsiq Materials, Lloyd's Register, and many       others.
It is worth noting       that TWI and Plant Integrity Ltd, TWI's commercial arm, participate in a       number of these projects       which are led by Brunel, providing further opportunities for commercial       exploitation.
Further information can be found via the BIC website: www.brunel.ac.uk/bic.
The experience of co-managing the establishment of large research       facilities, co-delivery of research programmes and co-supervision of postgraduate students led to       exploratory discussions between Brunel and TWI in 2011 about the formation of a large scale       postgraduate campus at TWI       headquarters in Granta Park, Cambridge, aligned to the identified needs of       the UK industry for       enhanced techniques, technology and staff qualified in the field of       structural integrity of large       plants.
Further impetus to these discussions was provided by the       invitation from David Willets       through the UKRPIF call for proposals to develop a new type of university       with a focus on science,       technology and postgraduates.
NSIRC's vision is to become a world-class centre of excellence with a       unique, integrated approach       to research and postgraduate training in the field of structural integrity       (www.nsirc.co.uk).
This will       be achieved through advancing fundamental science, developing innovative       technologies,       optimising the manufacturing chain, conducting holistic product design,       and demonstrating       solutions for long term asset management including condition monitoring,       prognostics and       structural health management, across a variety of important industrial       sectors through user-led       applications, informed by the needs of industry.
The objectives are: to       develop novel postgraduate       programmes (PhD and MSc) to train the next generation of researchers and       engineers to support       the UK science and innovation; to accelerate the translation of science       into commercially relevant       products and services: to contribute to the development of effective       standards and regulations, and       to become the research provider of choice for industry in the area of       structural integrity.
The key       outputs arising are industry-ready engineers and scientists in structural       integrity disciplines such as       innovative, world-leading research on fail-safe design, flaw evaluation,       corrosion prevention and       structural health monitoring.
The NSIRC commitment is that, by 2020, the       centre will have trained       around 200 PhD students carrying out research of direct interest to our       industrial partners and 200       MSc students in the field of structural integrity and related issues.
The economic impact of the Brunel/TWI collaboration is evidenced by the       investment raised from a       UK agency (the Regional Growth Fund) for this new TWI activity, the       re-alignment of TWI's core       business from technology provision and consultancy to research and       postgraduate training, and       the re-allocation of TWI's corporate budget to fund the new research       centre, which will be housed       in a purpose-designed, 150,000 square foot building with state of the art       laboratories, workshops       and lecture facilities.
In addition, a pool of industrial companies, led       by TWI and including BP,       Lloyd's Register, National Rail and possibly other member companies, will       contribute a further &#163;4.5       million per year for a period of 10 years, underwritten by TWI, which       consists of a substantial re-allocation       of TWI's corporate budget.
NSIRC will advance underpinning fundamental       science for       the safe operation of products and structures, develop innovative, fit for       purpose technologies and       design rules and will demonstrate solutions for long-term asset       management.
This will include       structural health, condition monitoring and health management through       user-led applications.
Hence, the results of the Brunel/TWI long-term collaborative research on       the use of ultrasonic       guided waves for the non-destructive testing have supported the creation       of the National Structural       Integrity Research Centre.
Brunel has successfully developed an academic       environment which       combines the benefits of a rigorous research training programme located       within a challenging       commercial setting, providing students with exciting opportunities to       further their research       experience.
NSIRC will unlock the design potential of new materials, products and       structures for whole-life       performance, while safeguarding end-users and operators from the disasters       that have frequently       accompanied technological advance in the past.
It will also make a direct       and important       contribution to the continued economic and safe operation of existing       plant, products and       infrastructure, through improved maintenance and life extension.
The       latter is particularly important       in view of the increasing pressures on energy supply and transport       systems.
This integrated and       collaborative focus is genuinely interdisciplinary and unique amongst       current academic       establishments worldwide.
NSIRC represents a truly innovative       public-private/universities-RTO-industry partnership in a       research field in which the UK has maintained world leadership over the       last 50 years, with the       consequent benefit to the UK economy.
