     The research on dance screening has produced resource papers for       teachers such as the International Association for Dance Medicine and       Science Teacher's Bulletin.
In addition, as an impact of the research,       many training institutions, such as The Australian Ballet School, Circus       Space, London and professional dance companies such as Random Dance and       Akram Khan Dance Company have commissioned Trinity Laban to undertake       screening with their dancers.
The screening programme is also now endorsed       by Dance UK, the national body for independent dance in the UK [1].
The underpinning research is accessible to approximately 1600 registered       individual performers and dance companies, such as Boston Ballet and New       York City Ballet, via the US-based Dancer Wellness Project [2]       The dance specific fitness tests created by Trinity Laban have been       purchased by educational organisations such as: Royal Academy of Dance,       London; Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing, London; governmental       organisations such as Department of Education and Communities, New South       Wales, Australia [3] The tests are currently being used to assess       dancers' physiological capacities in 17 different countries including       Australia, United States and China.
Trinity Laban's research on dance       screening was a major influencing factor behind the formation of the       National Institute for Dance Medicine and Science (NIDMS), which was       launched in April 2012, and comprises a partnership between HEIs       and non-academic dance and health organisations, and comprises: Trinity       Laban; Dance UK; Birmingham Royal Ballet's Jerwood Centre for the       Prevention and Treatment of Dance Injuries; University of Wolverhampton;       University of Birmingham; Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital.
The aim of       NIDMS is to provide specialist healthcare for dancers in the UK, lead       collaborative research and further develop educational and continual       professional development needs for dance practitioners [4].
An       additional impact has been the creation of a Safe and Effective Dance         Practice certificate authored by Trinity Laban researchers and       currently awarded by the examination body Trinity College London [5].
This qualification has been awarded to hundreds of teachers within the UK       and overseas, allowing them to gain knowledge and understanding of the       biomechanics of the body, health and safety, and the nutritional and       physiological demands of dance.
The impact of the talent development research is demonstrable in       terms of the mechanisms whereby young performers are identified, trained       and supported through UK Government funded dance talent schemes [6].
In addition to the underpinning research, two resource factsheets       specifically tailored towards young dancers, musicians and their educators       were also produced from the research and are accessible through the       Department for Education's Music and Dance Scheme's Foundations for         Excellence website [7].
Importantly, the research also led       directly to the development of the Policy for the Prevention,         Identification and Action on Disordered Eating now implemented       across all government funded Centres for Advanced Training in the UK and       available through the national website [8].
Furthermore, a series       of Continual Professional Development events were produced by Trinity       Laban and offered to all Centres for Advanced Training during the period       of research [9].
In October 2011, over one hundred       primarily non-academic delegates from the UK and overseas attended the end       of project symposium, Passion, Pathways and Potential at Trinity       Laban.
The final report which proposes recommendations for dance talent       identification and development is accessed by all Centres for Advanced       Training [10] as well as cited on the individual Centre for       Advanced Training websites such as that of the Northern Ballet School [11].
Subsequent to this research project, Emma Redding and colleagues have been       regularly invited to comment in national newspapers regarding the extent       to which dance talent is innate versus trainable; these appearances have       raised awareness within the dance sector of the implications of the       research [12].
There have also been some secondary impacts, namely       the further commissioning of the Trinity Laban performance science       research grouping to undertake a further study into dance talent       development among young people with disabilities, with funding from the       Department for Education [13].
The research into musicians' health and well-being has led       directly to modified training practices within the National Youth       Orchestra of Great Britain including: instrument specific warm-up and       conditioning classes; injury monitoring; compulsory workshops for young       people on topics such as performance anxiety; staff development workshops       for the support team and movement classes for composers [14].
The       findings of this study were further utilised as a basis of an application       to the AHRC to undertake a collaborative four-year study into the topic of       musician's health, with beneficiaries beyond HE.
The application was       successful and three leading music conservatoires including Trinity Laban,       were awarded over &#163;810k to pursue this project in 2013.
