     Trinity Laban's performance science research has provided the most robust       evidence of the impact of dance on the health and wellbeing of young       people, and hence that dance is a viable alternative to sport in its       ability to enhance physical fitness.
In this section, we trace a       trajectory of impact that commenced with the underpinning research that       comprised project reports, research in peer-reviewed academic journals and       presentations at international conferences.
Subsequent to this, and       crucially, the research was cited by several Governmental sources,       received national awards, and contributed to the securing of secondary       impacts, through the subsequent funding provided by several schemes to       undertake further studies into dance and health, and with similar       non-academic beneficiaries.
Trinity Laban also carried out a wide-ranging       programme of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) using the       underpinning research as a resource guide for dance practitioners and       teachers in community and other settings.
The end result has been that the       underpinning research can claim a key role in a multi-factor process that       has led to an increased participation in many forms of dance and an       enhanced public awareness of its health benefits.
The combination of a       number of factors, including no doubt the increase in popularity of       television dance shows, has made dance more popular than ever.
As some       background to this, a recent survey for the Dance Proms estimated       that 1 in 5 British adults (21%) currently participate in some form of       dance and just over 1 in 8 adults (13%) have taken part in a dance class       in the last five years [1].
Initial Governmental interest in the underpinning research dates back to       2006, and subsequent policy shifts aimed at widening participation in       dance nationally can be traced back to this interest.
The then Minister       for Public Health, Caroline Flint, MP and the Minister for the Arts, David       Lammy, MP gave keynote addresses at the launch event for the NRG Dance and       Health project in 2006, endorsing the relevance of the work to improving       public health and cultural education policy.
Margaret Hillier, MP for       Hackney South and Shoreditch, referenced Trinity Laban's research in the       introduction of a House of Commons debate on teacher qualifications [2].
Further Governmental citations of the underpinning research included Tony       Hall, then Chief Executive of The Royal Opera House, who was commissioned       in 2006 to author The Dance Review: A Report to Government on Dance         Education and Youth Dance in England [3].
In 2007, David       Lammy launched the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) Dance       Forum Group and extended an invitation during that year to Trinity Laban's       performance science researchers to present findings.
The NRG Dance for       Health underpinning research also received a certificate of commendation       through the Royal Society of Public Health Awards in 2010 and was       shortlisted for the Times Higher Award for Excellence and Innovation         in the Arts in 2007.
Subsequent to the initial studies, Emma       Redding and colleagues have been regularly invited to comment in the       media, including for: BBC Radio London; in national newspapers; The       Dancing Times; Dance Dynamic; Dance Australia; Dance UK News [4].
In terms of demonstrable impacts during the REF assessment period, an       important step was the publication in 2008 of the Government Response to       the Tony Hall review.
Hall had recommended the development of a strategy,       in partnership with key agencies, to enable dancers to become teachers,       via CPD at all levels, and the setting-up of nationally agreed       qualifications.
In response, the government again referenced Trinity       Laban's activities and underpinning research as a key factor in the       resulting formation of several national agencies that answered to this       recommendation, such as Youth Dance England.
This is reinforced by       evidence from its Director, Linda Jasper [5].
Secondary impacts on       other researchers working in a community arts context was that public       awareness generated from this first study led directly to the securing of       funding for the two subsequent projects aimed at non-academic       beneficiaries: the VitaliSE Step Change and the Go Dance         Report which was commissioned by a consortium of dance organisations       and providers throughout the Eastern region of England [6].
The       underpinning research was also crucial evidence that led to the award of       an Arts Council England grant to the London Thames Gateway Dance       Partnership Organisations (2008-2010), and including Trinity Laban,       entitled `Healthy Communities', which resulted in three large scale       community arts intervention projects, including with the elderly, that       aimed at the enhancement of health and wellbeing in several London       boroughs, including Hackney, Bexley, Lewisham and Tower Hamlets.
The       underpinning research has also influenced policy for a large private       health provider, via a citation in a BUPA Health Report of 2011 [7].
This research has also led directly to an increased awareness of the       health benefits of dance through a programme of CPD led by Trinity Laban's       Learning and Participation staff, which has included briefings and       presentations aimed at dance artists, teachers and young people at: NESTA       Dance Science Day (2011); NDTA conference (2011), the Youth Dance England       residential U Dance event (2011); Pulse project (Lewisham       Borough Council funded dance training days for teachers 2013).
