     Tourism in Liverpool:       The Beatles Story heritage tourist attraction uses the Bibliography as an       important staff reference       tool for historiographical accuracy concerning exhibitions; several       independent tour guides in       Liverpool use the work as a reference for veracity.
The Education Officer       at The Beatles Story       states: "the bibliography is a material part of our pedagogy and an       important aid to the intended       outputs for The Beatles Story staff to be highly qualified in a subject       specialist area [and is part of]       the development of a varied learning programme which will be of direct       benefit to visitors to The       Beatles Story.
The work is useful because via referencing so many texts it       helps us in the       Education Discovery Zone [for Primary Schools] to link into areas of the       National Curriculum where       the Beatles, the `60s etc is taught.
Our informal methods directly link       into several key stages of the       National Curriculum"     The Beatles Story press release [Sept 2012] states how "in more recent       years [The Beatles Story]       has been extending its reach into the realms of informal education via an       award winning interactive       Discovery Zone.
The creative curriculum at The Beatles Story allows       teachers to choose how they       develop studies around the Beatles, who have been long featured on the       National Curriculum, and       how studying the Beatles can be included in such areas as History, Music,       Art, ICT, and Literacy.
Details of Beneficiaries:       Primary school groups using the Discovery Zone at the The Beatles Story       tourist attraction       (Liverpool) between July 2012 - June 2013 (from the date of the       Bibliography's publication and use       within the attraction) totals approximately 8198 via 186 separate school       group visits.
The total       number of visitors to The Beatles Story (excl.
Discovery Zone) totals       approximately 232,977       between July 2012-June2013.
All visitors to The Beatles Story, since the       adoption of the Annotated       Bibliography as a key informing resource in July 2012, have benefited from       the new information       and knowledge accessible through the tours as a result of Dr Brocken's       research.
Significant changes in professional approaches to tourism provision have       taken place as a       consequence of the bibliography.
For example, a Liverpool-based Blue Badge       guide states:       "before the arrival of the bibliography I was occasionally at a loss as to       which works I could       recommend to visitors.
This is not now the case and I use the bibliography       on a daily basis.
Before       its arrival such provision was completely inadequate.
I can honestly state       that it has changed the       way in which I give my tours."
A Green Badge Guide in Liverpool concurs:       "I was often a bit       dumbfounded by what kind of books to recommend to visitors, but can point       them in the right       direction with the bibliography and can recommend some very specific texts       by author &#8212; it's a boon       and has altered the way in which I give a tour."
Impact and reach:       The senior editor of Libraries Unlimited reviewed the bibliography       in ARBAonline, American         Reference Books Annual 2013, and Recommended Reference Books for         Small and Medium-Sized         Libraries and Media Centers 2013, stating that "this first       publication from a new publisher, The       Beatles Works, focusing on the music, lives, and contributions of the four       members of The Beatles       provides an authoritative bibliography of works published about The       Beatles.
[...] In over 600 pages       the authors have listed nearly 3,000 entries of books, academic journal       papers, special issues, and       newspapers and magazine articles written by music scholars about this       trailblazing band.
[...]       Overall, this guide serves an invaluable tool for navigating through the       vast amount of material       written on The Beatles, from early in their careers to their relevance       today.
[...] It is obvious that the       authors took on this project as a labor of love but also because they       recognized a need in the field       for a comprehensive, scholarly resource that ties all of the literature on       The Beatles together for the       fan as well as serious scholar."
Record Collector magazine reviewed the text: "The problem that       RC's book pages face is that they       could be filled to the brim each month with assessments of publications       about the Fab Four.
They       are endless.
This one is different, however, and does a lot of the work       for the interested reader.
Brocken and Davis' excellent and exhaustive effort tracks down around       3,000 written works about       The Beatles &#8212; everything from academic papers to articles &#8212; and tells you       exactly what they are,       sometimes in considerable detail.
Goldmine magazine (USA &#8212; circulation approx 20,000 plus web)       awarded the Bibliography five       stars in Sept 2013: "[this is] a beyond thorough tome.
The authors are       true Beatles scholars [...] a       must-own."
Quote from www.clickliverpool.com: "[...] For Beatles scholars and fans       who want to decide which       Beatles books to read, and which to avoid, it is an investment that will       pay for itself.
Brocken and       Davis have done the tough research work, so that you don't have to waste       valuable time and       money on books you do not want.
It is an informative and interesting       addition to the ever-expanding       Beatles book industry, and one that will be appreciated by anyone with       more than a       passing interest in The Beatles."
Key popular music blogs and reviewers on Amazon have also warmly welcomed       the work.
Discussions are currently taking place concerning the possibility that       brochure production with       summaries from the bibliography will be handed to visitors in order to       follow up on their tour       experience.
It has also been suggested that a mobile phone app summarising       significant       bibliography annotations could be used to compliment the tours provided.
