     The State of Men's Health in Europe report was launched at the European       Parliament by the European Commissioner, who has referred to the       importance of the report in several speeches1.
There have been       two further meetings at the European Parliament based on the report       stimulating further debate on men's health and its implications for public       health policy.
The findings of the report were widely covered by the press       both in the UK and abroad and included a BMJ podcast2.
This       work has led to two awards for White:     Robert Tiffany International Award 2012, Nursing Standard, Royal College       of Nursing Outstanding Contribution Award 2011, Men's Health World       Congress, ISMH     White's work was also influential in the development of the EU Role of       Men in Gender Equality Report3.
The initial (unpublished) cancer data analysis undertaken by White in       2005 prompted the leading cancer charities and the national cancer       director to hold an expert symposium4, chaired by Mike       Richards, the then National Director of Cancer Services and subsequently       cited in the Cancer Reform Strategy5.
White was a member of the       National Cancer Equalities Initiative Advisory Group; a Member of the       Cancer Reform Strategy &#8212; Awareness working group and a Member of the       National Cancer Equalities Initiative working group, where he has       contributed to the development of the UK Cancer Strategy.
This led to a       report being undertaken with CRUK and NCIN based on new examination of       data relating to the relationship between sex, age and socio-economic       determinants and cancer susceptibility and survivorship6.
This       work was widely reported in the press including a Radio 4 Today interview       with White and Mike Richards7 and was covered by the ITV news.
An up-date expert roundtable jointly run between the Men's Health Forum       and the National Cancer Equality Initiative has recently been held at the       King's Fund with White presenting the latest round of data on men and       cancer8.
Through his research with CRUK/NCIN, his work is now influencing the       development of new cancer data at CRUK9.
The data from the       Excess Burden report has been reported in a recent NCIN report (2013)       Cancer and Equality Groups: key metrics.
White's work has received wide coverage by the popular press including       BBC and ITV News; BBC News 24; BBC World Service; Sky News; a studio       interview for BBC Breakfast; Radio 4 PM programme; and the main       newspapers, both here and abroad (over 100 citations) along with a profile       of his work in the New Scientist10.
He has also had a column in       the Men's Health Magazine and profiles of him and his work in national and       international magazines.
White has presented his research at over 65       conferences since 2008, with over 30 of these international, with key note       addresses at the World Congress on Men's Health and papers and an invited       lecture tour to Australia in October 2013.
White has been invited to key       policy meetings and workshops both in the UK and abroad including the       National Cancer Equalities Initiative Men and Cancer Gender Visioning       Event and a European Commission Health Information Workshop held at the       European Health Forum Gastein in 2010.
Key presentations that have influenced European thinking about men's       health include a key note presentation at the Gender and Health through       Life Conference with support and participation from the Danish EU       Presidency 2012; `Men's Health in Latvia' Young Peoples Conference, 2012,       Latvia; Gender differences: men's health in the EU.
`Health Differences in       the Polish Population'.
Warsaw, Poland 2011; `The State of Men's Health in       Europe'.
Robert Koch Institute symposium at the Annual conference of the       German Society of Social Medicine and Prevention.
Bremen, 2011; and The       state of men's health &#8212; a global perspective.
Congresso Nacional De       Epidemiologia, Lisbon &#8212; Opening Ceremony (as part of Portugal's Presidency       of EU) Portugal 2008.
Part of the impact of White's work has been through his close association       with the Men's Health Forum and the European Men's Health Forum, who are       the leading men's health organisations in the UK and in Europe.
The Men's       Health Forum run the national Men's Health Week and hold the secretariat       for the All Party Parliamentary Group on Men's Health, and are a strategic       partner of the Department of Health.
This media coverage and his work through the Charities in reaching out to       policy makers, practitioners and men on the street has been influential in       changing attitudes about the health risks men face from premature       mortality and the importance of preventative work with men, especially in       their early years.
