     The NIHR `People in Public Health' study provided a foundation to develop       understanding around lay health worker roles and related programme       support.
This was a high profile study that involved extensive public       engagement and the production of outputs for practitioners and policy       makers.
In 2007, the PIPH website was launched.
A register of interest has       over 150 individuals who receive information about the study.
In 2009, an       online searchable database was created on the website with the results of       224 reviewed publications [1].
A research briefing for practice (2010) was       published for commissioners, managers and practitioners.
This carried       endorsements from Local Government Improvement and Development (LGID), the       Marmot Review team and from the Chair of Department of Health's 3rd Sector       and Social Enterprise sounding board [2].
A summary of the PIPH study was reported by the NHS Confederation's       Health Policy Digest reaching over 4,500 senior NHS managers [3].
Volunteering England highlighted the study in their January e-newsletter,       reaching 1200 people and a feature article was published in their on-line       newsletter in March 2011.
The study findings also featured by LGID on       their website and a news item appeared in their Healthy Communities       bulletin in March 2011, reaching over 33,000 interested parties.
The       article `Harnessing people power' was the lead article on cover of Primary       Health Care -the RCN community health nursing journal and the Editor wrote       "it's time to take a look at what the government's talk of a Big Society       means for primary care nursing and public health... this article could not       have been more timely" [4].
The CHPR have submitted evidence on lay health workers and volunteering       to various enquiries and consultations.
For example, in 2010, J.
South       took part in the Natural England and Local Government Information Unit       national inquiry on Walking for Health and findings from PIPH were given       prominence in the subsequent report [5:19].
A number of written       submissions based on the research findings were also made to parliamentary       groups and policy consultations, e.g.
All Party Parliamentary Group on       Primary Care &amp; Public Health inquiry into NHS White Paper [6].
Meetings have been held with the Third Sector Partnership Team in the DH       Policy &amp; Strategy Directorate and with the Head of Patient Voice and       Information, NHS Commissioning Board.
Research on community health champions and health trainers has achieved       good reach into public health practice.
Evidence reviews and thematic       evaluations on community champions have been disseminated nationally       through the champion network.
Some indication of the reach is that the       Community Health Champion Evidence Review has been downloaded 3356 times       from Yorkshire &amp; Humber Health Intelligence [7].
The community health       champions approach was highlighted as a case study in the White Paper `       Healthy lives, healthy People' where it was noted that there was `a sound       practical evidence base for the approach' [p. 43].
J.White has led on the       development of a national web resource for health trainers: `Health       Trainers England' [8].
Oral evidence on health trainers was submitted to       House of Lords Science and Technology Sub-Committee on behaviour change       [9].
In October, 2011 J.White gave expert testimony to the NICE Programme       Development Group on `Obesity: working with local communities'.
