     The applied nature of the research has led to improvement in the quality       of interventions that enhance nutrition, target childhood obesity and       influence practice and policy.
The research has been viewed as relevant       and timely and has generated significant interest.
The following summary       provides evidence of impact of the research undertaken.
The APPLES study was cited in NICE guidance on Obesity (1); WHO report on       Childhood Obesity (2) and included in numerous systematic reviews       including Cochrane (3) and the Centre for Reviews and Databases.
Dissemination and sharing of good practice in child weight management was       led by Professor Sahota through organisation at LeedsMet of 2 national       meetings (June 2006 and May 2009) that brought together leading academics       and practitioners involved in treatment programmes.
This resulted in the       formation of the first ever group dedicated to childhood obesity       interventions, Childhood Obesity Research Group (CORG).
The meetings       established a case for development of standard evaluation approaches for       child weight management programmes.
Professor Sahota was subsequently       invited by the National Obesity Observatory to join a working group for       the development of the Standard Evaluation Framework (4) which is the       recommended evaluation framework across the UK, thereby facilitating       evidence from a wide range of programmes to contribute to the broader       evidence base.
Additionally CORG provided a consultation base for e.g.
establishing the National Child Measurement Programme.
P. Sahota (PI) undertook a costing study of WATCH IT, a community-based       childhood obesity treatment programme which has been used by commissioners       of weight management services (5).
The programme is on the list of 10       approved programmes by the DH and is currently being commissioned in Leeds       and other PCT's e.g.
Birmingham and Coventry with the emerging data making       a major contribution to the understanding effectiveness of community-based       interventions (6.)
In March 2011, the HELP programme, an early intervention aimed at parents       of young children was submitted to the Centre for Excellence and Outcomes       in Children and Young People's Services (C4EO) (www.c4eo.org.uk)       of the National Foundation for Educational Research (NFER).
The Centre       evaluates examples of effective local practice that provide demonstrable       evidence of improving outcomes for children, young people and       their families and aims to inform decision and policy making, and to share       and disseminate effective practice with others working across the       children's sector.
HELP was judged as promising practice and is published       on the C4EO website under this category.
This has resulted in the       programme and the accompanying resource manual being made available       practitioners (7), and thereby influencing practice by improving the       quality of advice and support offered to parents of young children.
The extensive experience in the development of child weight management       programmes and the access to a network of academics and practitioners in       obesity management led to the team being commissioned by NHS Health       Scotland to undertake an evidence-review of effective behavioural       strategies for childhood obesity programmes, (2010, NHS Health Scotland).
The aim of this review was to aid the development of effective weight       management programmes in Scotland.
However there has been wider interest       in these findings and their application to practice and evidence was also       submitted to the House of Lords.
Science and Technology Committee on       Behaviour Change (8).
The research on factors influencing uptake of free school meals in Dec       2010 has resulted in a new policy launched on 15 December 2010 for all       Leeds secondary schools which improves access to healthy food and makes       free school dinners more widely available.
The research suggested many       children who are eligible for free school meals fail to take up their       entitlement and instead snack on unhealthy food during morning break time.
The new policy allows pupils to pre-order 'grab bags' &#8212; consisting of a       sandwich, dessert and drink which can be eaten at break-time when they are       hungry and thereby taking advantage of their entitlement.
In Jan 2012 research undertaken by the team resulted wide media coverage       on the role of family mealtimes in encouraging fruit and vegetable       consumption http://thefamilydinnerproject.org/the-fruit-and-veggie-boosting-effects-of-family-dinner-2/       (9)     As an acknowledgement of Professors Sahota's expertise in the field of       Childhood Obesity she was invited to:- join the International Scientific       Committee for the European Congress on Obesity (May 12-15 2013); join the       DH Expert Working Group in Nov 2012 to develop commissioning guidance for       Child Weight Management Programmes which are now available; in Feb 2013 to       present an Expert Testimony to the Programme Development Board on child       weight management programmes (10); the House of Commons to the launch of       the All Part Parliamentary Group on Obesity 16.4.13.
