     The psycholinguistic framework benefits children with speech, language       and communication needs, by improving outcomes of speech intelligibility       and literacy acquisition.
This is achieved through the impact of the       framework on the practices and policies of the key individuals and groups       who work with and for these children.
There is thus a spectrum of vertical       impact: through university courses, via SLT/ education practitioners and       policy makers to the individual children who have these difficulties.
The       horizontal reach of the impact is considerable, as the framework has been       adopted internationally.
The significance of the framework is that it has       changed teaching methods in SLT higher education, SLT policy and the way       children's speech difficulties are approached.
While the basic assessment       framework was developed and disseminated prior to 2000, subsequent       research on the design and implementation of therapy interventions since       Stackhouse and Wells moved to Sheffield in 2000 has impacted on the       training of SLTs and on the practice of therapists during the REF census       period.
The impact has been achieved through a sustained process of engagement by       the researchers with professional practitioners, including SLTs and       teachers as well as university lecturers.
This has taken the form of       continuing education courses, delivered inside and outside the university;       articles in journals read by practitioners; presentations at practitioner       conferences; and contributions to the policy development of the       professional bodies and charities that can influence practice with       children who have speech and literacy difficulties.
Underpinning these       activities are the books by Stackhouse, Wells and collaborators, which are       presented in a way that is accessible to students and practitioners alike.
Cumulative sales of the four books in the series from 1/1/2008 to 30/7/13       are 2,449, and books 1 and 4 are available as e-books.
The sales of Books       1-3 prior to 2008, 11,244 in total, help to account for the subsequent       impact of the framework [S1].
Impact on speech and language therapy educators       The main pathway to impact on speech and language professionals is through       training and education.
The framework has been adopted on virtually all       undergraduate and postgraduate speech and language therapy (SLT) courses       in the UK, influencing the design and delivery of the curriculum.
There is       strong evidence from UK SLT lecturers that they have integrated the       framework into their own teaching practice.
In a questionnaire survey of       all UK SLT qualification degree programmes (excluding University of       Sheffield) conducted March-July 2013, responses were received from all 22       programmes.
In 2008-2013, c.3,900 SLT students, on 21 of these 22       programmes, received lecture teaching on the psycholinguistic framework.
Of these, c.2,500 SLT students, on 14 of the programmes, were required by       their lecturers to engage more deeply with the framework, for instance in       workshops, in clinical practice or in project assignments.
The large       majority of these students have gone on or will go on to work in SLT or       closely related fields.
The following comments made by lecturers from       different universities when responding to the survey, indicate the       pedagogical value of the framework [S2]:     "We have found that using the psycholinguistic framework in teaching         is a really valuable way to get students thinking in much more detail         and more critically about children's speech impairments."
"It really helps focus the students to make hypothesis driven         differential diagnoses for children with developmental phonological         difficulties.
It also highlights issues of assessment / task demands."
"We introduce it in level 4 as a basic model and then in detail in         level 5 and we expect application of thinking in all of the clinical         placement modules where relevant."
"We have had some excellent Year 3 projects which have looked at some         aspect of management for speech and/or literacy difficulties using the         psycholinguistic framework.
In at least one case, the project was         instrumental in securing the student's first job!"
"Not sure how I would teach without it, or how clinicians manage         without it!"
Impact on speech and language therapy services       The wider impact of the psycholinguistic framework on clinical services is       evidenced by the fact that SLT's have integrated the approach into their       own working practices, including assessment procedures and intervention       programmes.
In a recent survey of the Southern RCSLT Special Interest Group (SIG) on       Speech Difficulties, 22 SLTs responded (18 from the NHS, 4 in independent       practice).
Twenty-one use the framework in their practice from preschool       to secondary age children, each averaging around 25 children per year.
All       use it when assessing a child's difficulties; 80% use it when carrying out       intervention, and over half also for training purposes.
60% ranked the PLF       as 'very' or `extremely' useful.
According to one respondent, "Stackhouse         and Wells have provided speech therapists with an excellent clinical         framework to collect data, analyse data and draw inferences in order to         think of treatment plans for children with speech disorders".
Another specialist commented: "It's a large part of the way I work".
Moving from the individual practitioner to the organisational context,       the Cambridgeshire NHS SLT service is an example of how a local SLT       service has integrated the framework into its assessment and intervention       process: "The approach has become embedded in how we talk about         children's speech" [S3].
The potential for impact is still       greater when therapists publish a programme that draws on the framework.
An example is the Nuffield Dyspraxia Programme (NDP), authored by senior       SLTs at the Nuffield Hearing and Speech Centre at University College       London Hospitals, which is the NHS's national specialist centre for       developmental verbal dyspraxia.
When the programme was revised in 2004, it       was rewritten to incorporate the Stackhouse &amp; Wells framework as its       theoretical basis.
The NDP has been in wide use in UK SLT services and       also overseas during the census period, with 3000 copies sold since 2008 [S4].
The impact of the psycholinguistic framework among qualified       practitioners has been promoted through extensive Continuing Professional       Development (CPD) activities led by the Sheffield research group.
Approximately 300 qualified SLTs have undertaken postgraduate certificate,       diploma or MSc study at Sheffield during the census period; all have       received some training in the psycholinguistic framework and some have       conducted research studies using it.
In addition, since 2008 Stackhouse       has been regularly invited to present updates on the framework to SLT       practitioners at in-service training days or to Special Interest Groups in       speech, language, and cleft palate e.g.
in Leicester, London, Nottingham,       Hertfordshire; as well as keynote presentations to multidisciplinary       audiences, e.g.
Dyslexia and Co-occurring Issues conference run by       the British Dyslexia Association, London (2011).
Impact on professional bodies and charities as policy forming agencies       The impact of the framework in shaping policy for children with speech       difficulties is evident from citations in policy documents, position       papers and information booklets produced by bodies that serve as agents of       change at national level.
These include the Royal College of Speech and       Language Therapists (RCSLT), which publishes policy statements on clinical       conditions, as advice for members of the profession.
The framework is       cited extensively in its Policy Statement on Developmental Verbal       Dyspraxia (2011) [S5], drawing attention to the importance of       assessing speech input skills in children whose difficulties hitherto had       been considered to be purely with speech output (articulation).
ICAN, the       children's communication charity, publishes the ICAN talk series       for speech and language practitioners.
Issue 1 (reprinted 2009) Speech,         Language and Communication Needs and Literacy Difficulties, cites       the framework extensively [S6].
The framework has changed the       information clinicians in the NHS and independent practice collect as a       basis for a child's intervention programme and has demonstrated how the       development of literacy skills can be assessed and integrated into speech       and language therapy procedures.
Impact beyond the UK       The framework is taught on SLT training courses in Europe, Australia,       South Africa, and USA as well as in continuing professional development       (CPD) for SLTs, special needs teachers, and with parents.
It has been       adopted beyond the UK as the result of a range of activities and       processes.
Examples of invitations to Stackhouse to deliver talks and CPD       courses on the framework include: Swedish SLT association: Stockholm,       2011; Danish SLT CPD Programme: Copenhagen, 2012; Germany ISESVII: Leipzig       2012.
In addition, S Fricke has run courses on the framework for       Swiss-German, German and Austrian SLT CPD Programmes 2008-12, as has M       Vance in Greece (2008) and Ireland (2011).
SLT PhD students from Germany,       South Africa, Malaysia and Taiwan have been supervised by Stackhouse,       Wells and colleagues at Sheffield on topics related to the framework,       including a joint supervision with a German university.
On average four       non-UK SLT MSc students each year have undertaken research using the       framework, adapting it to their local language and SLT context (Germany,       Greece, Hong Kong, Jordan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia).
Publications deriving from or extensively citing the framework have       appeared in other languages.
The first comprehensive test battery of       phonological awareness to be devised for the German language is based on       the framework: Fricke, S., &amp; Sch&#228;fer, B.
(2008) Test f&#252;r         Phonologische Bewusstheitsf&#228;higkeiten Idstein: Schulz-Kirchner.
2nd       ed 2011.
There is extensive citation of the framework in the leading       textbook on children's speech difficulties for German-language SLTs: Fox,       A: Kindliche Aussprachest&#246;rungen.
: Phonologischer Erwerb &#8212;         Differenzialdiagnostik &#8212; Therapie (2nded 2005, reprint       2011) [S6].
The framework is highlighted by a chapter in a major       US textbook: Stackhouse, J. and Pascoe, M. (2010) `A psycholinguistic       framework for working with children with speech sound disorders' in       Williams, L., McLeod, S. and McCauley, R. Treatment of Speech Sound         Disorders in Children (Brookes Publishing).
Based in Australia,       Caroline Bowen's website, which is used internationally by SLTs working       with speech difficulties, features the psycholinguistic framework       prominently [S7], as does the USA-based Apraxia Kids website [S8].
Both sites are also used by parents of children with speech and literacy       difficulties.
