     The relationship between research and impact here is best understood as a     process: our writers reflect on and analyse aspects of the practice of     creative writing; this reflection and theorisation is taught and developed     in the classroom; and the findings are disseminated as published research.
The impact of the work in question on the landscape of creative writing is     evident locally and nationally, and through international partnerships.
Finally, and perhaps most strikingly, the students trained in our programmes     are uniquely successful as published authors.
Their award-winning books have     significant economic impact.
Economic impact     a. by contributing to the publishing industry.
The UEA Creative       Writing MA is uniquely successful: whilst the average publication rate for       graduates of MAs and MFAs in the UK and USA is around 1%, 27% of UEA       creative writing graduates publish one or more books.
Since 2008, this       amounts to c.1,000 works produced by writers who have been trained at UEA.
A large proportion of these have won prizes and awards.
(Corroborating       Evidence 2, 3, 4, 6 and 10)     b. by establishing profit-making creative writing workshops across       the world.
Cook established the Guardian masterclasses in       2010 (Corroborating Evidence 1), a series of courses accredited by UEA.
These draw an average of 600 applicants a year.
Cook, working with       Amit Chaudhuri (UEA 2005 - present), launched UEA in India 2013,       an initiative involving in the first instance a number of creative writing       workshops modeled on those at UEA.
(Corroborating Evidence 1)     Cultural impact     a.
In 2004 Cook established The Writers' Centre, Norwich     (WCN).
The underlying intention was to use the UEA brand, reputation and     method to promote creative writing projects locally, regionally, nationally     and internationally (Corroborating Evidence 5).
Since 2005, WCN, directed by     Chris Gribble and with UEA, Norwich City Council, Norfolk County Council and     the Arts Council as stakeholders, has run the annual Worlds Literature     Festival at UEA (200 international delegates), and has helped to establish     creative writing programmes based on the UEA method in China and Africa, as     well as India.
In 2012 WCN and UEA creative writing co-hosted the British     Council Norwich Showcase.
Through Cook WCN established the Escalator     Programme which mentors emerging writers, and Well Versed, a national     project that develops the teaching of poetry in UK schools.
In 2010-11 Cowan     worked with WCN to establish an innovative digital platform called     Newwriting.net (Corroborating Evidence 7).
In 2010, Cowan, Cook     and Foden worked with WCN and other stakeholders to put together the     successful bid to make Norwich England's first UNESCO City of Literature, an     idea proposed by Cook and Gribble in 2009.
In 2012, WCN was granted     &#163;3m from Arts Council England to establish the National Centre for Writing     in Norwich.
In 2012, UEA creative writing established the UNESCO City of     Literature Visiting Chair of Creative Writing, held by Timberlake     Wertenbaker in 2012, Ali Smith in 2013, and in spring 2014, Margaret Atwood.
b. through preserving and disseminating cultural heritage via the       digitalization of rare archive recordings of interviews with international       writers.
Recordings available online of the annual literary festivals       include hour-long interviews with c.100 international writers.
c. through the creation, interpretation and judging of national       and international literature.
The writing of UEA creative writing faculty       members is published in more than 20 different countries and has won       numerous awards.
Since 2008, newspaper and magazines articles by creative       writing faculty members have contributed to debates about the constitution       of creative writing across the world.
Cowan regularly addresses       international fora about creative writing pedagogy.
The success of the UEA       programme continues to be the primary focus for media discussion about the       value of creative writing.
Foden's Body of Work was the       subject of a BBC Radio Four Today programme entitled `Can Creative       Writing Be Taught?'
(01/12/2010) which drew 3 million listeners.
(Corroborating Evidence 2)     d. W.G.
Sebald's work, The Rings of Saturn in particular,       has been singularly influential in British literary culture.
In May 2013       Robert McCrum referred to his `quietly potent legacy... a strange and deep       response to the atrocities of history... a wonderful vindication of       literary culture in all its subtle and entrancing complexity'.
McCrum       attests to the profound influence of Sebald on a whole generation of       British writers.
His work has been the subject of many monographs and       conferences, and was the subject of a major film in 2011, Patience         (After Sebald) dir.
Grant Gee, shown and reviewed internationally.
Sebald's innovative exploration of the relations between the creative and       the critical, and between practice and research, continues to serve as a       touchstone for UEA creative writing.
(Corroborating Evidence 7)
