     In the UK, the National Grid decides which power stations are to be       scheduled within the balancing mechanism, taking into account factors such       as:            Load pattern       Price at which the various capacities of generation can be supplied       Constraints in supplying the said capacities       Amount of power generation capacity offered by the different         generators at each time interval over the scheduling period       Transmission network constraints etc.
These factors are also taken into account in determining the wholesale       price at which electricity is traded in the balancing mechanism.
This       price is dependent on the generation schedules of the various power       generators, compiled by the National Grid, using the Brunel Institute of       Power Systems' scheduling algorithms since 1993.
In 2005-6, as a       consequence of the introduction of BETTA, the scheduling algorithms       developed at Brunel University affects everyone (residential &amp;       commercial establishments in the UK) using electricity, since the       cost-effective dispatching of generation is determined by the scheduling       algorithms.
The algorithms in continuous day-to-day use at the National       Grid control centre has very significant real world impact in terms of       financial volume and in terms of its reach (every transmission scale power       generator in the UK is controlled and by implication every       electricity-user benefits).
The algorithms provide the optimisation engine (SDRS &#8212; Sparse Dual         Revised Simplex) for real-time power allocation of all the       generators controlled by National Grid, with targets being sent to each       generator every 5 minutes.
In this process the real outputs of generators       are adjusted to balance the demand for electricity at minimum cost.
Balancing power generation is currently achieved by power generators that       modify their output in response to varying load demand.
However,       generators must be responsive to control signals, making it difficult for       utilities to accommodate variable power demands while maintaining a       continuous and instantaneous balance.
Balancing power can reduce       inefficiencies in electricity production and cut carbon emissions       (electricity generation is currently a major source of CO2082 emissions in       the UK, responsible for about a third of total CO2082 emissions).
Benefits of the algorithm -            Provides a continuous and instantaneous balance of power generation       Reduces CO2082 emissions       Saves significant energy generation costs each year          Exploitation by the National Grid     Initially the research results in the form of the SDRS software were       exploited and implemented by the National Grid in their national Dispatch       project.
Due to the efficiencies created by its application, the algorithm       has been adopted to operate the "Balancing Mechanism" in the British       Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements (BETTA).
The       arrangements under BETTA are based on bilateral trading between       generators, suppliers, traders and customers across a series of markets       operating on a rolling half-hourly basis.
Under these arrangements       generators self-despatch their plant rather than being centrally       despatched by the National Grid (as the System Operator).
The Balancing       Mechanism operates from Gate Closure (the point in time when market       participants notify the System Operator of their intended final physical       position and is set at one hour ahead of real time and no further contract       notification can be made to the central settlement systems) through to       real time and is managed by National Grid in its role as Great Britain       System Operator (GBSO).
It exists to ensure that supply and demand can be       continuously matched or balanced in real time.
The mechanism is operated       with the National Grid acting as the sole counter party to all       transactions.
Participation involves submitting `offers' (proposed trades       to increase generation or decrease demand) and/or `bids' (proposed trades       to decrease generation or increase demand).
The mechanism operates on a       `pay as bid' basis.
The National Grid purchases offers, bids and other       Balancing Services to match supply and demand, resolve transmission       constraints and thereby balance the system.
By allowing the National Grid       to send control signals that direct responsive loads to move incrementally       up or down or to a total set amount, the method provides a cost-effective       system of power regulation or spinning reserve to the power grid.
