     Dr Kinsley's research into women's manuscript travel writing, through       which she has endeavoured to draw attention to the rich and extensive body       of manuscript travel accounts which are held in various archives and       county record offices across Britain, has been disseminated through her       collaborative work with individual archive and heritage centres.
The aim       of that work has been to increase public awareness and understanding of       local archive collections, and to use the historical narratives of       travellers to engage members of the public with their local literary and       cultural heritage.
Her activities work to broaden public understanding of       travel and tourism by emphasising that it involves more than the history       of leisure, being central to the cultural heritage of local communities,       and to the ways in which individual and communal identities are negotiated       and articulated both in a specific historical moment and by the       generations who inherit the legacy of those cultural formations.
Kinsley participated, by invitation, in the Leigh and Wigan Words       Together Festival, 1-13 April 2013, which has a strong community focus,       and strives to enrich the cultural life of the Wigan area by coupling an       exploration of local literary heritage with a celebration of the work of       current writers (speakers at the festival included Will Self and       Wigan-born Lemn Sissay).
Kinsley participated in the one-day workshop       entitled "Women of Words", held on 12 April, which examined the       significance of women's journals and diaries for our understanding of the       everyday lives of women.
The workshop was attended by 30 people, and       showcased the Edward Hall Diary Collection held by the Wigan Archives       Service; like the rest of the Festival, it was aimed at a public audience,       with tickets costing &#163;5.
The workshop was attended by participants with a       range of interests in the areas of local, women's, and family history;       also present were general book lovers interested in learning more about       the Archive collections.
In addition, the workshop attracted people who       were themselves active diary and journal writers (some participants had       been keeping a daily diary/journal for decades).
Kinsley was one of three       invited academic speakers and gave a talk entitled "Travellers' Tales:       Reading Women's Travel Journals" which was followed by questions and       discussion.
Kinsley discussed manuscripts from the Edward Hall Collection       &#8212; Lucy Wright's `Note Book 1806', an anonymously authored travel journal       dated 1802 narrating a tour in South Wales, and the writings of Ellen       Weeton &#8212; and also used examples from Dorothy Richardson's journals held at       the John Rylands Library, University of Manchester.
The aim of the day was       to introduce members of the public to their local archives, and to       demonstrate the ways in which its holdings can shed light on the history       of women's lives in Britain.
It also had a wider aim of encouraging local       people to reflect on their own diary-writing practices, and to consider       depositing diaries of their own, or of members of their family who have       died, to archive collections in collaboration with the nationwide Great       Diary Project.
Questionnaire feedback confirmed that those attending the       event feel strongly about the need for a better understanding of the       history of women, and demonstrated that the workshop prompted them to       pursue further opportunities for learning and participation: "[this       workshop] will spur me on to visit John Rylands Library to view Dorothy       Richardson[`s] journal"; "it has triggered the idea of looking in `the       gaps' outside of published &amp; public material"; "[I] wanted to       contribute my grandmothers diaries to such a good cause as the Great Diary       Project".
Kinsley has also worked with the Scarborough Maritime Heritage Centre       (SMHC), the aim of which is to "educate the public about Scarborough's       maritime heritage and to make it available to all and for future       generations".
Her collaboration with the Centre uses Dorothy Richardson's       manuscript "Tour in the East Riding of Yorkshire &amp;c 1801", which gives       an extensive and detailed account of Scarborough and the surrounding       coastline, to enrich local understanding of the town's history as a       significant historic fishing centre, and one of the first English seaside       resorts.
Extracts from Richardson's account, transcribed by Kinsley (and       never published in print), have been published on the SMHC website which       is widely used by members of the public researching the local history of       the area, or their family history (the website was voted "Best overall"       for fishing family history research in BBC TV's Who Do You Think You         Are magazine in 2011).
She participated in the 2013 Scarborough       Literature Festival, running two workshops on 14 April entitled       "Scarborough at the Turn of the Nineteenth Century: The Travel Account of       Dorothy Richardson".
These were free events open to the public, but       particularly targeted at local people who had been involved in the local       area's fishing industry.
Participants included retired local fishermen,       and also women of fishing families (wives of fishermen, and one       participant whose father and brothers had all worked fishing boats in       Scarborough).
The aim of the workshops was to enable local residents to       reflect upon the ways in which historical narratives such as Richardson's       inform their understanding of the Scarborough fishing industry (and its       recent decline), and their own position in the story of fishing along the       Yorkshire coastline.
In their feedback questionnaires participants       unanimously agreed that accounts such as Richardson's form an important       part of their local literary and cultural heritage, and can change the way       we think about Scarborough in the twenty-first century.
Several       respondents indicated that they would like to hear more about such       literary and historical material, expressing a desire for greater access       to discussions about local heritage, and for wider dissemination: "found       this really interesting makes me want to know more"; "this talk was       absolutely fascinating, and I am sure would have been found so by a much       larger audience".
In addition to using her research on Dorothy Richardson to engage with       the Scarborough community, Kinsley also participated in events which       enabled those local to the archives in which Richardson's manuscripts are       held to discover her writings.
On 4 and 8 June 2013 she ran sessions on       Richardson's travel journals in Manchester, as part of the John Rylands       Library "One Hour One Object" series, which forms part of their public       events programme.
These one-hour sessions are small, informal,       participatory sessions where members of the public can get very close to       objects from the Rylands archives.
The sessions were entitled "The Travel       Diaries of a Georgian Lady" and focused upon Richardson's descriptions of       the Manchester area, in order to further understanding of local cultural       history.
In particular, Kinsley discussed the role of North West       manufacturing centres in Britain's historic tourist tradition &#8212; for       example, Richardson visited Oldham's first cotton mill, Lees Hall, a year       after it opened &#8212; and by doing so highlighted work and industry as part of       the historical experience of travel and tourism in the North West of       England.
As with the other events, what was striking in the comments       provided by questionnaire respondents was the desire for greater access to       lively and informed discussion about local culture and heritage &#8212; the       "good local basis" was praised by one participant &#8212; and for greater access       to literary and historical material: "Zoe Kinsley has given a very       interesting talk &#8212; she has put all sorts of questions in my mind &#8212; I would       like to hear more"; "infectious enthusiasm of speaker so refreshing"; "I       am sure [Richardson's journals] would be found fascinating if more people       know about them"; "this was informative in history, geography, scientific,       relationship to local areas was astonishing especially her [Richardson's]       trips to industrial areas, also her attitude in those times".
Two       respondents directly expressed the desire for a print edition of       Richardson's writings to be published, demonstrating a clear wish to       engage with her writings beyond the time frame of the workshop, and for       her work to be made available to a public readership.
