     The substantive content of their research products and collaborative       relationships with public and private end users led to DCDC offering a       consultancy contract for assistance in the drafting of a new UK Joint       Intelligence Doctrine.
Davies and Gustafson were members of the principal       intelligence doctrine drafting team and the executive-level Steering       Committee on Intelligence Doctrine, informing the doctrine with their       research on intelligence organizations and practices, and providing       critical and analytical approaches to the doctrine formulation and writing       processes.
Impacts on UK Professional Practices     1.
Improved leadership: Davies' and Gustafson's       research prompted the creation of a new higher-level "capstone" doctrine &#8212;       the JDP 04 Understanding.
JPD 04 Understanding is directed       towards operational commanders and leaders across government and       articulates how intelligence and other sources of information feed into a       leader's understanding of allies, adversaries, neutral partners,       non-governmental organisations and others in an operational environment.
The doctrine defines "understanding" as "the ability to place knowledge in       its wider context to provide us with options for decision-making."
(Key         Findings [KFs] 1, 2, 4; Corroborating Sources [CS] 1, 2, 3, 4, 5)     2.
Enhanced communication: The Intelligence process       was historically articulated through the `intelligence cycle' model that       was often seen by practitioners as a rigid process.
Following       recommendations by Davies and Gustafson the doctrine team reformulated the       intelligence process as a network called `the core functions of       intelligence'.
This approach has brought the schema more closely into line       with real-world intelligence practice and is a fundamental change in how       intelligence is understood, practiced and taught amongst practitioners.
(KF         5; CS 1, 2, 3, 4, 5)     3.
Improved understanding of the human factors         affecting enemy behaviour: Experience in Iraq and Afghanistan showed       HMG the importance of understanding local cultures, politics, economics,       legal structures and the environment, but this was not incorporated into       doctrine in a systematic way.
To reflect these ideas the team mapped core       concepts of sociological theory into doctrinal terms as a scheme called       the `human domain framework' which became the central concept in the       doctrine on `understanding.'
(KF 3, 4, 5, 6; CS 1, 2, 3, 5)     4: The UK MoD defines doctrine as "that which is taught".
Accordingly, Intelligence personnel training and orientation programmes       across government have changed to incorporate both the new intelligence       and understanding doctrines, showing influence on professional standards       and guidelines for training.
The curriculum at the Defence Intelligence       and Security Centre at Chicksands has been revised to employ these       doctrines, and DISC is the principal cross-government as well as MoD       training centre for intelligence practitioners.
(CS 5)     5: The concepts of `understanding' and the `human domain       framework' are doctrinal expressions of core concepts from sociological       theory that have led to professional bodies such as the Defence Geographic       Centre in Feltham incorporating the concepts via new mapping products       detailing "human domain" issues graphically, enhancing their "ability to       present the case for developing human geography, as it demonstrated the       need to consider the interrelationships between dimensions and disciplines       that are all too often worked in isolation."
(KF 3, 4, 5, 6; CS 7).
6: Practitioner internal debate was further informed by       BCISS organisational work through an ESRC Seminar Series on `Intelligence       and Government in the 21st Century' in 2008-9 that included       former heads of the Government Communications Headquarters and over twenty       other intelligence and policy analysts from throughout HMG.
Amongst the       outputs of the ESRC series was a special issue of the journal Public         Policy and Administration on `Intelligence and Public Management' to       which two GCHQ heads as well as Davies (Ref.
3) contributed.
This       series contributed to practitioner awareness of BCISS research and to the       Doctrine consultancy.
International Impacts on Practices and Debates     7.
This research has informed international practitioner       debates as both the "Intelligence" and "Understanding" doctrine have       "exercised significant... influence over our [US/Can/Aus/NZ] partners."
The new UK intelligence doctrine is also to be used as a point of       departure for a new, revised NATO intelligence doctrine.
(CS 5, 7)     8: The use of these two doctrines by British forces engaged       in `mentoring' allied defence communities in countries such as Afghanistan       has changed practice for specific groups (the Afghan MoI), and influenced       professional standards.
To this end Gustafson served as intelligence       advisor and mentor to the Afghan Ministry of Interior between September       2012 and May 2013, where "application of JDP 2-00 concepts specifically on       the intelligence cycle had a marked positive effect on the function of the       Afghan MoI police intelligence apparatus.
"(CS 5)     9: Subsequent impact includes changed professional       practices in the US, as the US Military Intelligence doctrine will adopt       components of the `human domain framework' (see Impact 3) from UK       doctrine.
(CS 5)     10: The work has influenced professional guidance and       training at the European Union External Actions Services Intelligence       Centre where in December 2012 Davies provided a training package, `the       Intelligence Analysis', which partly used as its basis JDP 2-00 and JDP 04       and drew directly on BCISS research and the KFs discussed above.
The       training was "considered compulsory for staff" and included students from       IntCen, EU Military Staff Intelligence Directorate and the EU Satellite       Centre.
(KF 1, 2, 3, 5; CS 6)
