     The results of Burrows's research have been brought to musical performers       and to the wider public through his influence on performances and through       direct contact with a range of audiences.
Impact on musical practice and the programmes of cultural institutions     The principal agent for this has been through published music editions       which, in addition to their scholarly quality based on a thorough       re-examination of the sources, present the scores in a manner that       provides practical texts for modern performers.
Older editions of Handel's       major works either gave all the variant movements in an unsorted manner or       arranged movements in a combination that was only relevant to the       circumstances of a particular modern revival.
Burrows's volumes of two Handel operas, Imeneo (HHA II/40,       2002) and Ariodante (HHA II/32, 2007), in the new collected       music edition (Hallische H&#228;ndel-Ausgabe [HHA], published by       B&#228;renreiter) established a model for presenting the music according       to Handel's successive `performing versions'.
This model has been followed       by editors of subsequent volumes of the HHA, including Ottone       (2008), Alcina (2009), Samson (2011) and Arianna in         Creta (2012).
Editions in the Novello series present authoritative musical texts, with       vocal scores as the first point of contact, in which the Prefaces include       didactic sections directly addressed to performers.
These include five       works, including Te Deum in A major and Let God Arise HWV       256b (Novello, 2011), to which performers had previously had no access       except through the scores of the nineteenth-century collected edition,       which follow outdated conventions (e.g.
in the clefs for the vocal parts).
Burrows's editions of Handel's operas have been taken up by festivals and       opera companies throughout the world; the editions of the oratorios and       church music have a broader dissemination through amateur as well as       professional performing groups.
The 2008 Halle H&#228;ndelfestpiele       programme included three major works in Burrows's editions.
In the Handel       anniversary year 2009, Belshazzar saw two performances in the UK,       one in Denmark, three in the USA, two concert performances in France and       four staged performances, five concert performances in Germany and eight       staged performances (including a production by the Berlin Staatsoper).
Since 2008 Burrows's edition of Imeneo has seen performances by       McGill Baroque (Montreal, 2011) and The Academy of Ancient Music (London,       2013); that for Ariodante has been performed in Vienna (2008),       Helsinki (2009), Beaune (2009), Tokyo (2009), London, Malvern, Exeter,       Snape and Cambridge (English Touring Opera, 2009), Karlsruhe (2010),       Princeton (2010), Ulm (2012) and Basel (2012).
Burrows's editions of Imeneo       and L'Allegro were performed as the major works in the 2013 London       Handel Festival, and since 2010 Burrows has acted as a consultant for the       planning of the Festival programmes and performances.
Impact on public awareness and enjoyment of Handel's music     The main impact has been on audiences who have the opportunity to hear       Handel's music in (to them) new ways.
Impact is also achieved through       media contributions, and public talks associated with concerts and opera       productions.
Since 2004 Burrows has participated in 11 radio programmes       (five of them for BBC Radio 4) and two TV programmes (including an       extended sequence on Handel's Water Music for The One Show,       which has been broadcast at least twice).
He also made a major       contribution to Baroque Star, which was broadcast on principal TV       networks in France and Germany as a one hour programme and subsequently       released in a longer version as a DVD from Arthaus Musik.
Pre-performance talks and similar events have been associated with       high-profile organisations (Royal Opera House, English National Opera, BBC       Proms, English Touring Opera, The Sixteen), and with provincial amateur       societies in (for example) Derby, Portsmouth, York and Wantage.
In       addition to being joint curator of the exhibition `Mr Handel's Friends' at       the Handel House Museum in 2009, Burrows has participated in four other       events there aimed at a non-specialist public.
Publications that have had an impact beyond the scholarly community       include Burrows's biography of Handel in the series `Master       Musicians', and a group of contributions to the Handel anniversary year in       2009: the facsimile editions of Handel's Will (Burrows 2009a) and of Messiah       (Burrows 2009b).
The Japanese edition of The Cambridge Companion to         Handel (Burrows 1997, Japanese edition 2009) was awarded `Book of       the Year' by the 22nd Music Pen Club Awards, Classical Music Division,       Japan.
