     A.
Impact on translator training     The core activity of BCLT's annual Summer School since 2000, overseen by       Henitiuk between 2007 and 2013, has been the training workshops.
These       bring together published and emerging translators from around the world to       study intensively with experienced translators and researchers - Epstein       included - for a programme of study based on the theoretical work of       Henitiuk, Boase-Beier and Scott.
Each of the six language-specific       workshops is run jointly by a translator and a published author, with the       writing of the latter serving as the basis for the respective group's       activities.
Testimony to the transformative effect of the workshops is       extensive (corroborating source i).
The international sources of the over       &#163;30,000 of annual funding for the workshops mean that translators from       many countries can benefit from the UEA training model.
Funders include       the Nippon Foundation, the Goethe Institute and the Royal Norwegian       Embassy.
BCLT has since 2008 developed a widely influential consultancy, running       workshops in, first, China, and now also Egypt, Qatar, Japan and India.
They have also developed a licensing arrangement with Monash University in       Australia, and in Indonesia.
The model here is that of the research-led       workshops of the annual BCLT Summer School.
Recognised as a world leader       in innovative translator training, these BCLT programmes have transformed       literary translation research at UEA into a series of sustainable       international revenue-generating activities (corroborating source ii).
The strong reputation and international networks of BCLT underpin also       the Mentoring Programme established in 2010.
The Programme is run in       collaboration with the Translators' Association and supported by an       ever-increasing number of cultural embassies (corroborating source iii).
As well as offering mentoring at all stages of the process of literary       translation, the mentoring scheme links promising translators directly       with major publishers.
The impact of the Programme is evident in the       number of full-length book commissions secured during mentorship - with       Bloomsbury, Frisch and Co. and Virago for major literary translations from       the Turkish, Italian and Swedish respectively (corroborating sources iii       and iv).
B.
Impact on publishing     The Visible Poets series published by Arc is a direct result of       Boase-Beier's theoretical work on the translated literary text as         translation, and an instance of the impact of her work on the       publishing sector.
The bi-lingual series, established by Boase-Beier in       2000 and edited by her since then, brings to the English-language reader a       diverse range of world literature - currently 39 volumes - and is now one       of the major promoters of poetry-in-translation in the UK and Europe       (corroborating source v).
The status as a translation of each volume is       central to the series' constitution, apparent in the text themselves, in       cover design and in publicity material.
The influence of the series is       enhanced by public readings and workshops focusing specifically on the       work of the translator.
Series organized through BCLT and Arc are       supported by Arts Council and Lottery funding.
These include the Arc       Ventures tour, which held readings and associated workshops in translation       for over 1000 participants in October and November 2012.
According to Arc:       `That poetry in translation from all parts of the world is now taken much       more seriously and is more widely read in the UK is in no small measure       due to Boase-Beier's pivotal role in developing the Visible Poets       series.
Arc's current success in gaining Arts Council and Lottery funding       of over &#163;97,000 is exclusively for translated titles, over half of which       appear in Boase-Beier's series' (corroborating source vi).
Public       recognition of volumes in the Visible Poets series includes the       2010 Scott Moncrieff Prize, shortlisted titles for the Griffin Poetry       Prize in 2010 and 2011, and Poetry Book Society recommendations in 2008,       2010, 2011 and 2012.
The success of Visible Poets has led to a further four bilingual       series published by Arc, of which three are edited by Boase-Beier (Classics,       Anthologies, Arc Translations).
Publications include the only volume of poetry in English translation by       an Armenian poet, the first by a Lithuanian poet, and many significant       works of poetry from minority languages (e.g.
Catalan) and cultures (e.g.
Kurdish).
In terms of an impact on future developments in the publishing market,       Henitiuk's research on the global circulation of world literature resulted       in her working with partners, including the British Council and PEN, to       establish the Literary Translation Centre at the London Book Fair in 2010.
Now an annual event, the Literary Translation Centre brings together UK       and foreign publishers with writers, translators and readers for a range       of programming that has become a nerve centre of this major trade fair       (corroborating source vii).
C. Impact on the public understanding of literature in translation     The International Fiction Reading Group, run by Epstein in her role as       Schools and Libraries Liaison Office for BCLT, is a grass-roots initiative       intended to counter the marginalisation of literature in translation, and       to promote in a public forum the art of translation as understood in the       work of Boase-Beier, Epstein and Scott.
The group is based at the Norwich       Millennium Library (corroborating source viii).
It is, to our knowledge,       the only such initiative in the UK dedicated exclusively to the reading of       translations.
Numbers vary from 10 to 40 per session, with around 100       members online.
Epstein's group has won two Community University       Engagement (CUE) East Awards (2011 and 2012).
Epstein directs an annual series of public Caf&#233; Conversations in Norwich,       funded by CUE (East) and attracting between 10 and 25 Norfolk residents.
These events are hosted by UEA staff and postgraduate students, and       include annually a number of sessions led by researchers working on       literary translation.
Research-based sessions in the series have included       the role of stereotypes in translated children's literature (Epstein) and       the reading of translated Holocaust poetry (Boase-Beier).
Epstein runs a translation blog, Brave New Words (http://brave-new-words.blogspot.co.uk/),       to promote and debate issues that arise in her research, including in       particular the understanding of national stereotypes in translated       literature, and more generally to encourage greater awareness of       literature in translation.
It is consistently named one of the 100 best       language blogs in the world, receiving over 120,000 hits per year       (corroborating source ix).
