     Psynova Neurotech was founded in 2005 by Professors Sabine Bahn and Chris       Lowe to commercialise the diagnostic products developed through Professor       Bahn's research.
In June 2008, Psynova Neurotech announced a partnership with CLIA       approved Rules-Based Medicine, Inc. (RBM), to develop and commercialise a       blood test for the diagnosis of schizophrenia.
In 2009 Psynova Neurotech       entered a collaboration with RBM to provide a route to market for their       first product, VeriPsych (ref10, 14), the first and only blood test to aid       a psychiatrist in the diagnosis of recent-onset schizophrenia.
VeriPsych       was commercially released in autumn 2010 (ref 12) and tested by over 30       institutions in a variety of treatment settings including psychiatric       hospitals and centres trying to distinguish drug induced psychosis from       genuine mental illness.
300 tests were used, confirming that VeriPsych       worked as intended, with samples investigated blind to diagnosis (ref 15).
In addition to aiding clinicians in their diagnoses of schizophrenia,       VeriPsych was in some instances found to help patients with poor insight       (ref 16) and their families (ref 17) accept diagnosis.
Due to market pressures, since the acquisition of Psynova/RBM by Myriad       Genetics Inc. in summer 2011, the offer of VeriPsych has been temporarily       suspended in order to focus on the development of diagnostic tools that       address bi-polar disorder and depression in addition to schizophrenia.
In       July 2009, Psynova Neurotech was one of an eight-member consortium which       received a &#163;2.35 million grant from the European Commission aimed at       developing early-stage diagnostics for mental disorders (ref 11).
In       December 2009 Roche contracted Psynova and RBM to develop companion       diagnostic immunoassays for a schizophrenia drug in development (ref 8,       13).
This collaboration yielded a number of potential biomarkers with       utility in prognosis of disease progression and/or predicting the efficacy       of the drug under development.
One of these, CFHR1, was selected in 2011       for further development by Roche.
This is being developed as an assay as       part of their Phase III clinical trial programme and royalty payments will       be made to RBM on sales of the assay kits (ref 15).
In February 2011 Psynova Neurotech and Sabine Bahn were announced winner       of the ACES best European Life Science spin-out award (ref 9).
In June       2011, Psynova Neurotech, including its portfolio of 35 patents (ref 18),       and Rules Based Medicine were acquired by Myriad Genetics Inc. for &#163;50m       (ref 7).
The Vice President of Myriad commented that `a key driver for the       acquisition was the portfolio of diagnostic opportunities in mental       illness that came from Psynova' (ref 15).
