     The main beneficiaries of the research have been archivists (BFI, BBC,       BBC Birmingham, MACE), industry professionals (Members of Women in Film       and Television), and members of the public, at both local and national       level.
The project's main impacts are:     (1) Informing the ethics and practice of archiving and preservation in         television.
One key focus of the research is archiving and media       practice in relation to the value and preservation of women's television       which has often been dismissed as ephemeral.
The project's research has       directly impacted upon the preservation and availability of archival       holdings of women's television, highlighted the importance of gendered       categories of television in decisions about preservation and raised       awareness of the feminist politics of archiving.
Work in archives by members of the project team has already uncovered key       personnel (Doreen Stephen in particular) and untouched files such as those       in the BBC written archives on Wednesday Magazine (a little known       arts programme produced for women) which Irwin is helping to get       catalogued.Members of the team are working closely with key archivists in       the industry and have conducted a number of interviews with them,       including Steve Bryant and Lisa Kerrigan at the NFTVA, Garry Campbell at       BBC Birmingham, and Richard Shenton McQueen at MACE.
These interviews have       enabled the team to establish the ways in which decisions have been taken       about the preservation of women's television and to enter into a dialogue       with the industry which will inform their practice.
(A report written       specifically for industry and archivists will be produced at the end of       the project).
We have also formed a relationship with the Women in Film and Television       organisation and its Chief Executive.
Wheatley and Wood gave a       presentation on early findings from the project to 25 key female industry       personnel (from SKY, Virgin, BBC and ITV) on 21/9/11 at the Theatre's       Trust, London.
The organisation has since collaborated on a public       engagement event at the BFI in London and contributed to our conference in       May 2013 `Television for Women: International Perspectives' where the team       disseminated findings to reach an international audience.
In June 2012 the team organised an event called `Career Girls on the       Small Screen' at the BFI Southbank, featuring a presentation by Rachel       Moseley and Helen Wheatley, extracts from archive shows featuring working       women such as The Rag Trade, Compact and The Liver         Birds, and a panel discussion with prominent women in television,       including Abi Morgan (writer of The Hour), Hilary Samon (executive       producer of Silk) and Amanda Redman (actress), chaired by Kate       Kinnimont of WFTV.This was an enormously successful event, filling 112 of       a possible 134 seats in National Film Theatre 3 and the postcards filled       in by the audience, and follow-up emails received by the team indicate       that its research encouraged people to think about the representation of       women on television in new ways.
The BFI's TV programmer reported that the       event had provided `a greater understanding of the way women have been       represented historically at work on TV' and that the project offered `new       critical tools of analysis to better understand patterns across television       history'.
The media industry participants also expressed that the event       had made them think differently about the ways in which television       represented working women.
The event was featured in `The Cultural       Highlights you have to see' section of the `i' newspaper (20.6.2012).
Connecting women with their television history and cultural heritage.
The project has had a Facebook page since 2011, a Twitter presence and a       blog.
Through existing networks and the placement of a Facebook ad, the       page now has a growing and lively community and is active every day, with       members discussing and sharing their memories of and thoughts about       women's television past and present.
This use of social media together with a range of press opportunities and       public engagement events, has shared the research with the wider national       public, extending its `reach'.
Adverts for participants to interview were       placed in Women's Weekly, Yours, Saga, TV Times and The         Lady.
Yours ran a small feature with the advert.
Rachel       Moseley was invited to talk about the project on Radio 4's Woman's Hour on       19/8/11 and links to the project webpages and Facebook page appeared on       the website.
Following this a report by Chris Arnot about the project       appeared in the Education Guardian 5/9/11.
The project has also       prompted stories in local press, including the Coventry Evening         Telegraph and the West Briton.
From this publicity women       came forward to take part in the study.
The project's other major and most innovative impact strategy to connect       the project to the wider public's sense of television heritage has been a       `pop-up' exhibition in conjunction with ArtSpace/Coventry City Council.
The `shop' ran for the calendar month of May 2012 and looked at the       relationships between women viewers and television pop music programming.
Featuring documents, artefacts, quotes from the research findings, and a       video feed of archive television, this exhibition enabled members of the       public to share their memories via a visitor's book, postcards and short       `on the spot' interviews, and led to some longer, in-depth interviews       following the event.
Impact was measured via questionnaire postcards and a       visitor's book which logged visitors' reactions to the exhibition.
This       showed not only that people had learned from the exhibition and had a       better understanding of British television history as a result of their       visit, but also that people valued the opportunity to revisit their own       memories of television and that they valued the chance to find out about       academic research.
The `pop-up shop' attracted media coverage locally       being featured in the Coventry Evening Telegraph (27.4.2012; daily       circulation 31,000) and on BBC Coventry and Warwickshire radio (30.4.2012,       average 86,000 weekly listeners, BBC figures).
