     The beneficiaries of Ramsay Burt's research, outside of academia, are       international communities of dancers, choreographers, dance companies,       teachers, dance programmers and administrators, and those involved in       funding and cultural policies, as well as those who have a general       interest in dance and regularly attend dance performances and       dance-related events.
Through enabling a deeper and more informed       historical understanding of the context of progressive contemporary dance       works, this research has benefited these communities within the cultural       industries and helped facilitate the cultural enrichment that they enable.
Furthermore, as a result of invitations to talk about dance history both       for broadcasts and at public lectures during dance and performance       festivals, this research has enabled the promotion of cultural debate.
His       researches into African American dance in the 1920s and 30s (Burt 1998,       2004) led to his being interviewed for an episode about Josephine Baker of       the BBC World Service television series Extraordinary Women (2011-12),       while his research into the reception in London of performances of       Nijinsky's controversial ballet Le Sacre du printemps (Burt 2011)       led to an invitation to participate in the Radio 3 production Twenty         Minutes (Stravinsky and the King's Horse) broadcast during an       interval of the Promenade Concerts 19 July 2011, an extract from which was       subsequent included in Radio 4 Pick of the Week 24 July and the       whole programme broadcast again in 2012.
This research also led to       invitations to talk during a dance festival in Bruges in May 2013 on the       centenary of the ballet.
The BBC have sold the rights to the Extraordinary       Women series to World Media Rights who sell the series on to the public.
Members of the dance profession, particularly those based in continental       Europe, have read Burt's work (2006 in particular), and interest in it has       led to invitations to take part in dance platforms and major international       dance festivals and in training events for professional dancers, generally       to audiences of between 30 and 60 people, but occasionally over 100.
These       audiences have included members of the general public and young dancers.
For the Dance Umbrella 2010 festival, he was invited to contribute       to a panel of choreographers showing work in the festival which led to a       series of events co-curated by Ramsay Burt and choreographer Jonathan       Burrows in 2012 at Siobhan Davies Studios, Sadler's Wells Theatre, and       Chisenhale Dance Space.
These were attended by young and older generations       of dance artists, and podcasts of them are available on the website of the       Siobhan Davies Studios.
A slide show developed from these was installed at       the 2012 Dance Umbrella Festival.
His theoretical discussions of the       relation between aesthetics and ethics in dance (Burt 2006, 2009) led to       an invitation in April 2011 to contribute to a week-long event organised       by Tanzquartier in Vienna, Scores No 3: Uneasy Going, which       focused on the theme of responsibility.
His published research on the       topic of reenactments led to an invitation to present a paper in Ljubljana       during Soking Gala Sov, 21-28th October 2009.
This was a festival       of reenactments and reconstructions curated by the Slovenian artists'       agency Maska.
He talked to Norwegian dance artists during the Oktoberdans       festival organised by the Bit-Teatergarasjen in Bergen, and was twice       invited to present papers during the Baltic Dance Conference as part of       the 2010 and 2012 Gdansk Dance Festival.
He contributed there to a round       table discussion that brought together speakers, dancers, promoters and       members of the Polish Ministry of Culture who wanted to know about the       relation between contemporary dance in Poland and elsewhere in Europe.
This led to an invitation to write an introduction to a forthcoming book       published by the Ministry.
Dance artists and those involved in the dance sector attending these       events have benefited from a more informed knowledge and appreciation of       the histories and genealogies in which their work is situated, and a       better understanding of the breadth and diversity of their practices       because of the way this has informed the context in which dancers are       currently working.
Those who make decisions about cultural policies within       the dance sector have found it useful to have a better understanding of       the breadth and diversity of the practices within contemporary dance, all       of this contributing to greater cultural enrichment.
As part of his       AHRC-funded research project British Dance and the African Diaspora Ramsay       Burt and Christy Adair have been running events aimed at British-based       dancers who are black that have opened up discussions about the problems       in terminology (surrounding the term `Black Dance') and to meetings       initiated by Burt and Adair between dancers, Arts Council representatives,       producers and the chair of ADAD (the national organisation supporting       black dancers) to discuss strategies for developing the sector.
As one of the first scholars to discuss the phenomenon of re-enactments       by contemporary dancers of historical avant-garde works, through these       dialogues and collaborations, Burt has made a significant impact on the       way such work is developing.
With an AHRC (peer reviewed) grant from the       Changing Places scheme, he was attached to the Cholmondeleys dance company       working with choreographer Lea Anderson with whom Burt worked (with AHRC       support) during the research period for her 2005 work Double Take.
The Brussels-based choreographer Fabi&#225;n Barba invited Burt to collaborate       with him on his (October 2011) new solo show A Personal Yet Collective         History.
This included presenting a workshop and talks in 2011       during the Workspace Brussels platform, the Amperdans Festival at Monty       Theatre, Antwerp, and during a residency at Pact Zolverein arts centre in       Essen.
Another dancer who has engaged in extended dialogues with Burt       during research for dance pieces on history and memory, or reenactments is       Karen Lambaek with whom he made a joint presentation during the       Tanzwerkstatt Europa festival in Munich August 2012, and participated in       an artist's residency at WP Zimmer Antwerp in March 2013.
A video       interview with Burt evaluating the social and political significance of Tanz         Aller, Ligna's re-invention of early twentieth century German       movement choirs has been made and put on line by its commissioners,       Tanzfonds.de, a project funded by the German Ministry of Culture as part       of Tanzplan Deutschland.
In summary, Ramsay Burt's work on dance and the avant-garde (1995, 1998,       2006) has impacted on the international community of dance artists,       administrators and policy makers through his talks and participation       during panel discussions at festivals and related events in the UK and       Europe.
His work on issues concerning dance and `race' (1998, 2004) has       had similar impacts on British-based dancers who are black and those in       the UK involved in this sector.
Lastly, through events organised as part       of the British Dance and the African Diaspora project, Burt's work on       history, memory, and re-enactment (2006, 2009) has been important for       dance artists working in this area and has impacted on their creative       processes.
