     Noise of the Past produced two principal artistic outputs: (i) a film Unravelling       (2008, 17mins, DVD); and (ii) a Live musical performance Post-Colonial         War Requiem (22mins, 2008).
Project Investigators: Dr Nirmal Puwar       (Senior Lecturer, Goldsmiths, Univ.
of London); Dr Sanjay Sharma (Senior       Lecturer, Brunel University) &#8212; his role was central to innovating a       call-and-response practice by developing a collaborative methodology.
Noise of the Past project enhanced the public understanding of war       and memory by creating opportunities to imagine an inclusive multicultural       nation.
By engaging with diverse publics through the creative production       of art and transformative multicultural dialogue, the project offered       alternative representations of the nation outside of militaristic and       exclusionary narratives of belonging.
The established norms of national       belonging was challenged by the project.
Moreover, the project facilitated       raising an awareness towards how public understanding and attitudes       towards ethnic minority groups belonging to nation are formed, to able to       question the political grounds upon which minorities are included.
Creative artistic practice was deployed as a primary means to engage       publics.
Noise of the Past has impacted on the public engagements with       race, ethnicity and nationalism.
Building on current debates in this area       concerning inclusive multicultural societies, the project was significant       for rethinking how we engage with complex and contested notions of       belonging, identity, memory and war, by conversing with different groups       through a series of public events and pedagogic engagements.
The challenge of postcolonial representation was investigated with       practitioners through co- production of public art, innovating methods of       collaboration using the dialogic mode of `call-and- response'.
Noise         of the Past publicly conversed with multi-sensory modalities of       poetry, histories, music and visual art through the two key outputs.
Both       cultural productions were premiered at an inaugural event in Coventry       Cathedral on 8th November 2008, as a major public intervention in accepted       codes of national remembrance.
[Source A] This location was selected as a       symbolic site for war and remembrance in the UK, and the Cathedral has an       international reputation for its work in peace and reconciliation.
The       event also offered an example of how the Cathedral can do multicultural       memory work and include minority audiences.
The site offered a public       arena to both experience and discuss how we belong to a multicultural       national.
The project researchers worked with the Cathedral organising committee       and the Coventry Peace Festival, and launched the Noise of the Past       project as part of the Peace Festival's activities during the time of       national remembrance in November 2008.
For the Cathedral, Noise of the         Past was a free public event, opened by Martin Bell (OBE, UNICEF       ambassador).
Over 450 people were in attendance, and new visitors,       including those from minority groups, were brought to the Cathedral.
The       inaugural event was a gathering of ethnically diverse communities from the       Coventry region and beyond, consisting of members of the local community       recruited from Libraries, places of worship, Coventry Council, community       centres, poetry groups, former WWII soldiers and their families and the       local media.
In addition, Arts programmers and Curators from diverse       locations attended the launch event in the Cathedral.
At the Cathedral launch event a Q&amp;A session also enabled audience       members to respond to the event, which demonstrated its public impact.
It       was evident that the film and musical performance brought together and       promoted dialogue between different communities.
For example, an audience       member involved with the Cathedral stated:     ...As a member of the cathedral community here, how moved I felt this         evening was.
I've been here...for over 40 years a member of several         choirs...
This is the first time I've seen this intermingling of the         English...tradition with the Indian traditions from the people who have         come to this City...I thought that's been tremendously moving to see         that intermingling of the history and experience of difference         communities...     Further oral responses were gathered on the evening as part of the       project's research method.
Ten feedback `vox-pop' interviews evidenced how       the multi-sensory experience of the event publicly engaged with the       resident narratives of war and memory, and contributed to an inclusive       multicultural imagination of the of the nation for both minority and       majority groups.
(Source B).
The film Unravelling moved to the Coventry Herbert Art Gallery       and Museum (exhibited 11- 23 Nov 2008, Source C), attracting over 300       people, and bringing in new visitors especially from minority ethnic       groups.
The Gallery has a peace and reconciliation section, which the film       was part of.
One visitor responded :     Congratulations it is absolutely brilliant.
I went to the museum         yesterday, the filming the music... the language, I don't know the words         to describe it was so heart wrenching ... the film was mesmerising...       (Jitey Samra, Black &amp; Minority Ethnic Community Mental Health       Development Worker).
The inaugural launch event received press and news coverage.
For example,       it was featured on the Coventry &amp; Warwickshire BBC Radio (`Remembering       the Blitz' in Urdu, 8/11/10), the Coventry Telegraph Newspaper (17/08/08),       and the national British-Asian Eastern Eye newspaper (19/04/11).
In Nov 2011, Unravelling and the Postcolonial War Requiem       was once again presented during the Coventry Peace Festival and part of       the Coventry Cathedral Blitz events, which attracted over 500 members of       the public.
The impact of the public event at Coventry, led to other invitations both       national and international.
The film Unravelling has been included       in significant conferences involving third sector groups, including       Galleries, Museums and festivals.
The film was part of the Black         Screen Heritage Conference (31 July 2009, Source D) organised by the       Imperial War Museum (in partnership with Yorkshire Film Archive and       Skillset).
The event influenced strategy for creating accessible       collections relating to Black British heritage and knowledge sharing for       wider communities.
It involved black cultural organisations, archivists,       film curators, community arts workers and audience development managers.
Unravelling       screenings with a Q&amp;A were also featured in `third sector' arts-based       conferences including Taking Part (29 - 30 Oct 2010), Southbank,       London (Source E), and Visuality/Materialityi conference, Royal       Institute of British Architects, London (July 2009) (Source F).
These       public events with over 100 audience members stimulated the creation of       new contexts for debates in arts practice, and strengthened links between       third sector organisations, diverse publics and academic institutions.
Unravelling has also circulated in international arts events with       audiences ranging from 50 - 200.
For example, Re-Orient festival,       Stockholm (Oct 2008; audience size 200, Source G) and international film       festivals (e.g.
USA and Germany).
The film's cultural impact is been       acknowledged via winning three `best short film' international awards:       Spinning Wheel Film Festival, USA (2008; audience size 200) and the Sikh         International Film Festival, USA, (2009; audience size 100), and the       London Asian Film Festival (2011; audience size: 80) (Source H).
Additionally, it has won an Amsterdam Film Festival, Van Gough Award       (2011), (Souce I) In addition, a series of workshops screening Unravelling       featured as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science (Nov 2013, Source       J).
Working from four different community based locations, the events       offered a form of public sociology exploring with audiences how forms of       remembrance can genuinely engage with multicultural diversity.
For       example, one workshop involved an elderly South Asian womens' group from       Coventry that included a Q&amp;A with the film director.
