     The research of this group of UEA writers has had demonstrable       international economic and cultural impact in three ways.
Firstly, by       influencing and promoting the public discourse around specific aspects of       scientific thinking.
These aspects include the ethics of science, the       cultural and social forces at play in the interpretation of scientific       data, and the effects of scientific discoveries on individuals and       communities, and, in broad historical terms, on ways of seeing       (Corroborating Evidence 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6).
Secondly, and beyond the       influence on a wide readership of the works in question, in related public       events, discussions and debates, both national and international       (Corroborating Evidence 7, 8 and 9).
Thirdly, through generating       considerable economic impact in terms of book sales, festival and theatre       tickets, and revenue from television and radio programmes.
McNeil's research on the polar ice, including her funded       expeditions, resulted in two publications: a poetry collection, The         Ice Diaries, and a novel, The Ice Lovers.
This work led in       turn to a commission from the National Theatre, London, to co-curate a       series of performances in July 2011, called `Infinite' and centred around       Greenland, a commissioned National Theatre play.
The project sought       specifically to involve young people in the various aspects of the       climate-change debate.
90 young people took part; 250 audience members       attended the performances.
Stott's novel The Coral Thief and her       work of non-fiction Darwin's Ghosts, have brought the long       pre-Darwin history of the idea evolution to a wider public for the first       time, showing in particular how important poets, playwrights and novelists       have been in exploring and disseminating the idea of species change.
In       2007, Stott's research and writing on Darwin's influence on the literary       world led to Sir Patrick Bateson, Professor of Ethology and chair of the       Festival Committee to invite her to programme, co-ordinate and host the Darwin         and the Arts strand of Cambridge University's international Darwin         2009 festival.
The festival took two years to plan and programme,       drew 1,400 international delegates to a week's events and made a turnover       of over a million pounds (Corroborating Evidence 9).
The festival       redefined Darwin's impact on ten key branches of contemporary thought.
Stott's strand sought to redefine the understanding of Darwinian ideas in       the arts and drew extensively on her research in this area.
In 2012 Stott       was co-producer, interviewee and consultant for a film called Questioning         Darwin commissioned for US television that examined in film for the       first time the creationism-versus-evolution debates in America       (Corroborating Evidence 7).
Waters has long been engaged with the possibilities offered by the       theatre as a space for the investigation of scientific ideas, most       influentially in his diptych of plays on climate change, The         Contingency Plan (a film adaptation has been commissioned by Cowboy       Films and Film 4).
His on-going work in this field led him to host an       international festival on climate change in 2012, bringing together       writers and scientists for the first time as part of the launch of the       Writing and Science Project at UEA (Corroborating Evidence 8).
The event       was attended by 60 international delegates, key players in climate change       science.
It was supported by UEA's science fund, and juxtaposed       commissioned short theatre by young playwrights with talks, debates and       polemics to dramatise and investigate key questions at the heart of       climate change science.
Foden's Turbulence has drawn public attention to the       complex ways in which climate affects world history by focussing on the       importance of climate science in the planning of the D-Day landings.
He       has developed these ideas not only in his novel but in a number of talks       and interviews: to the Royal African Society (7.11.2007), the Arts Council       (26.7.2007), interviews for the BBC2 D-Day anniversary coverage       (6.6.2009), R4 Start the Week (25.5.2009) and articles in       newspapers and journals including the Sunday Times (8.7.2007 and       7.6.2009) and the Times (30.5.2009).
Holmes participated       in numerous public debates about the long role that poets and writers have       played in bringing science to a broad and engaged public: most       significantly, at the New York Public Library (2009), the Smithsonian       Institute (2010), the National Theatre, London (with Brian Cox, 2011) and       the British Library (2011).
In Athens in 2009 Stott spoke as a       guest of the British Council to an audience of 800 people.
Her subject was       the numerous ways in which poets and novelists have extended Darwin's       ideas.
Stott gave her lecture `Darwin in the Literary World' in the       Cambridge Darwin Lecture series to an audience of 900 people in January       2009.
The podcast of this lecture has been accessed 16,000 times.
The         Coral Thief, the result of extensive archival research into the       complex political dimensions of early evolutionary speculation, was       serialised as a BBC Book at Bedtime in January 2010, drawing an       audience of 2.5-3 million.
Stott was one of five Darwin scholars to       contribute to a BBC4 documentary, Darwin's Struggle, which       examined on film for the first time the turbulence of Darwin's personal       struggle with his theory (screened 2.2.09; the YouTube version has been       accessed over 15,000 times and the TV programme repeated several times).
Stott appeared in a US documentary Questioning Darwin screened in       2013 (Corroborating Evidence 7) and was interviewed on BBC Radio Four's Woman's         Hour about using science in fiction (2 million listeners).
She       toured Finland for four days in 2011 giving national newspaper, TV and       radio interviews about the historic role of the church in censoring       scientific research, and Spain in 2012 giving newspaper, radio and TV       interviews about the historical and political dimensions of evolution.
In       April 2012 she appeared on BBC Radio Four's Start the Week with       novelist Peter Carey to discuss science, curiosity and literature (2       million listeners).
