     This research aimed to address the problem of improving driver's       experience of the unpleasant       vibration and sound produced by an automotive engine running a commercial       fuel in idle condition.
In recent years vehicle quality and comfort have become more important in       the process of       developing new vehicles.
It was estimated that the total market size of retail petrol and diesel       product (including taxes) was       around &#163;47 billion in 2011.
In order to be the market leader and to compete in the long term, Shell       wanted to increase its       customer reach.
Because the customer feedback on the quality driving       experience was low in the       Shell Customer Survey, Shell Global Solutions UK approached the Brunel       Perception       Enhancement Research Group to develop an industrial test methodology.
The       aim was to change       Shell's process for making new diesel fuels to better respond to and       incorporate the needs and       wants of their customers.
While assessment of fuel products in the fuel       industry had often been       performed, it had always been based on sustainability or product design       requirements.
This       research shifted the approach from a product orientation to one with a       consumer focus.
It was       based on a human-centred approach which evaluated how the automotive fuel       properties affected       the customer's perception of vehicle quality.
It moved away from the       traditional approach of       assessing the vibration of a standard test engine running a target fuel       towards assessing the       vibration perceived by the driver in a vehicle equipped with a target       engine and a target fuel.
With this wider reach, Shell will be able to provide more people with       quality branded fuels they can       trust and at a competitive price.
This research has allowed Shell Global       Solutions UK to develop a       metric which can translate the measurable mechanical (objective)       quantities which define human-       vehicle interaction into perceived (subjective) quantities.
This metric       indicates the likely response of       a driver to questions about the fuel, engine or complete vehicle.
The       project's success was the       implementation of a standard test protocol for rating the idle quality of       diesel fuels as a       benchmarking and product evaluation standard for use by Shell personnel at       Shell test facilities.
From 2009 a new Shell Research &amp; Development Team was formed within       Shell group with new       members of staff recruited focussing on the "driver perception research"       so as to enrich the       understanding of the measures of customer interpretation and perception of       fuel products which       were designed using the test standard produced by this research.
All new       fuels went through the       acceptability criteria of the test standard developed.
Two or three       commercial Shell diesel fuels       were modified by using the industrial test standard developed and "it         proved to be valuable to Shell         to develop new insights and techniques that would not have been possible         using their in-house         research facilities alone."
(Dr David Doyle, Project and Technology       Responsible, Shell Global       Solutions, UK).
Several European motor manufacturers, including Bentley Motors, BMW,       Fiat, Ferrari, Ford,       Jaguar Land Rover, Peugeot-Citroen and Renault have benefited from the       research, and in       particular are using the test standard protocol.
For instance, Ford Motor       Company Ltd has used the       steering wheel vibration metric to assess their automobiles from the point       of view of the customer       experience.
The research was also presented at a meeting of the Universities Internal       Combustion Engine       Group (UnICEG), a leading UK-based focus group of the petroleum and motor       manufacturing       research sector, where it received a lot of interest from leading       automotive experts from TRW,       Millbrook Proving Ground and the Motor Industry Research Association       (MIRA).
Over the years       several invited seminars were provided in the United Kingdom and overseas       including Hand-Arm       Perception Research Performed by the Perception Enhancement Systems Group       at Brunel       University (2006), Effect of Fuel Content on the Human Perception of       Engine Idle Irregularity at       Shell Research Centre in Thornton (2006), Effect of automobile operating       condition on the       subjective equivalence of steering wheel vibration and sound presented at       the International       Conference on Noise and Vibration Engineering ISMA (2006) in Leuven,       Belgium, and Human       Perception of Combined Sound and Vibration Workshop at Millbrook Technical       Centre,       Bedfordshire (2005).
