     Shortly after the publication of Young British Muslim Voices in       September 2008, Mondal was invited by the Office for Security and       Counter-Terrorism (OSCT) in the Home Office for a meeting on 8 October       2008 with the Head and Deputy Head of PREVENT, which is a part of the       CONTEST counter-terrorism strategy, to discuss the research in the book.
On 31 October 2008, Mondal met with staff at the Community Cohesion Unit       (CCU) at the Department for Children, Schools and Families, also to brief       them about the research.
Personal correspondence from the CCU testifies       that the book `informs our policy development on youth engagement', and       Mondal was subsequently invited to advise DCSF research on `PREVENT in       Schools' (27 November 2009).
Following on from this, Mondal was invited as       a keynote speaker at a Wilton Park conference sponsored by the Association       of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) on `Understanding Islamism' (2-4 November       2009), sharing the table with Government ministers and senior Whitehall       officials.
Wilton Park organises UK Government roundtable strategic policy       conferences.
While it is impossible to gauge the extent of influence on government       policy with regard to PREVENT given the number of contributors to this       process, many of whom would have offered similar advice based on their       research, it is likely that at this time Mondal's repeated invitation to       government events that specifically aimed to feed into policy towards       young Muslims demonstrates that UK Government officials and policy       personnel benefitted from the research, and that it did inform their       deliberations and debates.
Several passages of the PREVENT review       undertaken by the Home Office in 2011, for instance, concur with advice       offered by Mondal at these events, and that resonate with the general and       more specific implications of the research (see Home Office 2011,       paragraphs 3.14, 3.25, 3.26 and 3.30).
The research has also been of benefit to educators and third sector       organizations working with the development of Muslim youth, and Muslims       generally.
It has been required reading for students taking the Muslim       Youth Work module in the BA Youth Work at the University of Chester and,       as a vocational programme, this indicates its impact on and benefit for       those working directly with Muslim youth.
Mondal was also an invited       speaker at a conference organised by AHRC/ESRC Religion and Society       programme on `Young, British and Muslim: Academic Research and Real       Lives', held at Manchester Town Hall (22 November 2011).
This brought       academic researchers into direct contact with practitioners in all the       major third sector organizations working with Muslim youth.
Mondal's book       was cited by Professor Linda Woodhead in her keynote address as one of a       handful of works that have successfully enabled academic research to be       brought to bear on the real lives of young Muslims.
Mondal has successfully exploited his research in order to contribute to       and develop the wider public understanding of Muslim discourses and the       reality of young Muslim life in the UK.
He has written articles related to       the research for major national and international media, such as The         Guardian's Comment is Free blog (over 600 responses) and the highly       influential magazine Prospect (monthly circulation 28,000).
The       exchange between Mondal and Ed Husain, author of The Islamist, has       been picked up by policy makers, cultural organisations, think-tanks and a       wide readership.
A report by the think tank Theos cited Mondal's articles       and the exchange with Husain in its influential 2008 report Talking         God.
Mondal's research has thus fed directly into the wider debate       about the importance of religious groups in public life.
He also undertook many interviews in the media to promote and discuss Young         British Muslim Voices.
These included BBC and independent local       radio stations and an interview with British Satellite News that was       transmitted globally.
Mondal read several extracts from the book and       responded to listener questions on the BBC West Midlands show `Midlands       Masala' and the producer wrote later that `there had been lots of positive       emails from people wanting to get hold of the book'.
There was also press       coverage of the book in The Asian News, a major newspaper oriented       towards the British Asian community and the Associated Press of Pakistan.
He has also undertaken many public speaking engagements on matters       concerning Muslims and faith issues to non-academic audiences, including       the Foreign Press Association, Oxford Secular Society, Asia House, and at       an Open Society Institute/British Council event at City Hall, London.
He       also delivered a public lecture &#8212; `Young British Muslims in literature and       life' &#8212; at the Islam-UK Centre, Cardiff University.
