     Impact 1.
Impacts on public policy in the UK: government health policy         decisions have been informed through evidence presented to national       government committees and national government consultation with regard to       the value of EPIOCs in enabling employment and supporting young people's       development.
Evidence source1: The response of the British       Society of Rehabilitation Medicine to the consultation on Improving       Specialist Disability Employment Services cited the Evans et al 2007a       paper, stressed the importance of the independence allowed with EPIOC       provision, without which many teenagers are unable to enter the world of       work.
The proposals outlined in the consultation formed part of the       December 2008 White Paper.
Evidence source2: In January 2010 the       College of Occupational Therapists (COT) gave oral evidence, followed by       written evidence to the Health, Wellbeing and Local Government Committee       Inquiry: Wheelchair Services in Wales.
The consultation sought views on       proposed changes to the current legislation.
The COT evidence drew on       Evans et al's 2007a paper on children which found that on-going training       in EPIOC use was important to support young peoples' development to       adulthood.
COT's evidence to the Inquiry recommended that training in the       use of EPIOCs should be routinely made available to all child EPIOC users       and their carers.
Impact 2.
Impacts on practitioners and services internationally:         professional standards, guidelines and evidence-based sources have been         shaped by the research.
The evidence has broadened assessment to       include provision based on social development needs of the user, not just       their mobility needs, as well as the needs of the carer.
Understanding has       been shifted to recognise the importance of EPIOC use in terms of overall       development and successful transition to independence in adulthood, both       socially and occupationally.
Internationally, practitioners have been       enabled to enhance the quality of their professional practice and service       provision.
Evidence source3: The 2010 NHS Scotland       Wheelchair and Seating Services Modernization Project- Clinical Healthcare       Quality Standards for Wheelchair and Seating Services, Standard 1.5 &#8212;       Assessment of mobility and mobility needs - states that "Disabled people       may have carers who have different needs, capabilities and level of       involvement.
Assessments should cover the needs of carers with regular or       substantial caring responsibility."
This recommendation was based upon the       Frank paper 2010.
Evidence source4: In North America, the       Evidence for Practice Series: "Power mobility for school-aged children and       adolescents" (Health Centre for Children, Canada, 2011) cites Evans's       2007a; this provides best practice evidence for clinicians concerning       enhancement of participation.
It draws on the findings, stating that power       mobility facilitates increased independence and participation by children       in outdoor and social activity as well as the importance of training in       EPIOC use for outdoor and more complex environments to facilitate the       development of the child through proficient use and also for safety.
Evidence source5: The 2007 Annual Report to the       Director of Public Health about the health of the people within the       Lanarkshire NHS Board Area, where there are between 600 and 800 children       dependent on a wheelchair, uses the 2007 Evans et al paper in Section 12.4       &#8212; CHILDREN'S WHEELCHAIRS.
The section underlines the importance of the       provision of an appropriate wheelchair to enable children to gain       independence and develop real social independence, thus improving their       quality of life as outlined in the 2003 Davies et al paper.
The       Lanarkshire report highlighted that some children who would benefit from       EPIOC were being excluded in the present process and recommended that ways       of making EPIOCs more widely available should be explored and that users'       views should be represented in service developments.
The Evans et al 2007       paper on older adult EPIOC users drew attention to the need to provide       extra support to older users so that they gain the most benefit from       EPIOCs and was critical of lengthy wait times for chair modifications to       address changing needs.
Standard 4.11 of the Lanarkshire Clinical       Healthcare Quality Standards incorporated this finding stating: "the       provision and updating of instructions and if necessary training ..is       crucial to safe and efficient use..".
The same paper informed Standard 5.2       : "Quality Management and Service Provision" incorporating the Evans et al       research process for "Satisfaction with the Chair" and "Satisfaction with       the Service", which calls for an independent survey on these matters once       every two years.
Impact 3: Impacts on health and welfare: groups of service users and         their carers have been empowered by the research evidence to lobby for         improvements in services.
Evidence source6: In June 2010, the Muscular       Dystrophy Campaign produced a report `Get Moving &#8212; the case for effective       Wheelchair Services', calling on the UK Government to act on the       recommendations within it.
The report, endorsed by the All Party       Parliamentary Group for Muscular Dystrophy referred to the findings in the       Davies et al paper on the improved quality of life afforded by the       appropriate use of EPIOCs, "Evidence shows that access to the correct       powered wheelchair not only significantly improves mobility but also       prevents deformity and reduces pain and discomfort.
There is also a       substantial body of research illustrating the benefits of good equipment       on quality of life."
The report also referenced the Evans et al 2007b       paper when stressing the benefits of EPIOC provision for young people &#8212;       "By reducing social isolation in this way, wheelchairs can decrease the       likelihood of depression."
Evidence source3: In responses to the       consultation, on the 2010 `NHS Scotland Wheelchair and Seating Services       Modernization Project- Clinical Healthcare Quality Standards for       Wheelchair and Seating Services', disability groups welcomed the       recognition given the needs of primary carers resulting from the findings       of Evans (2007b).
They called for an explicit recognition of carers' legal       right to a carer's assessment from their local authority.
A typical       comment was: "We welcome the criteria that assessments should consider         the needs of primary carers as well as the individual with support         needs."
&#8212; Disability organisation (anon).
