     Impact 1      A freely available, open access, decision-training web technology, for       occupational therapists in community mental health services, has been       developed and adopted in clinical training and practice.
The web     technology is highly effective therefore it has had impressive significance     as a decision training aid for novice occupational therapists.
Reach has     been extensive in the UK and is a growing in terms of international impact.
Clinicians regularly request to access the training website to support     Continuing Practice Development NHS programmes e.g.
Practice Development     Lead for Occupational therapy in Glasgow and Clyde Hospitals.
Pre-registration occupational therapists have used the training website     across 95% of clinical training organisations in the UK.
In terms of     international use, over 100 novices in Australia and New Zealand have used     the website.
New Zealand have now commenced a replication study of the     expert prioritisation policies capturing project, in collaboration with     Harries, in order to identify expert practice in order that an equivalent     tool for New Zealand's novice occupational therapists can be developed.
The     College of Occupational Therapists have hosted a link to the web based     training tool on their website and approved and advocated the web based     training tool for use.
Evidence is demonstrated through the following:     Large data usage statistics held by Imperial College IT on use of       clinical decision aid Screenshot of website.
Emails from NHS Trusts, clinicians: "I have just used your training tool.
It is very useful especially to highlight the basis of decisions made and       goes to the heart of the generic/profession specific debate that has taxed       us all in recent years" from experienced clinician; "Thanks for letting me       use your web tool.
It's a brilliant idea and I am very glad to have the       chance to use it.
I have learnt a lot and it has given me so much to think       about" from novice clinician."
Users from 27 pre-registration NHS funded occupational therapy training       organisations.
Emails from NZ proposing replicated study and from Australia stating       requests to use the web based training with pre-registration occupational       therapists College of Occupational Therapists (COT) website advocating use       of site.
Impact 2     NHS and professional policies have been enhanced by the research.
The identification of differences in generic and profession specific ways       of case working, as identified through the referral prioritisation study       of experienced occupational therapists, was used to develop the College of       Occupational Therapists mental health strategy entitled `Recovering       Ordinary Lives: The Strategy for Occupational Therapy in Mental Health       Services 2007-2017: Literature Review'.
This review was subsequently used       to underpin the professional strategic vision entitled `Recovering       Ordinary Lives: The Strategy for Occupational Therapy in Mental Health       Services 2007-2017: A vision for the next ten years', which has become a       key practice driver for clinicians.
Findings that demonstrated the optimal approach to occupational therapy       referral prioiritisation, have been used to develop several NHS Trust       referral prioritisation policies e.g.
Occupational Therapy Priorities for       Community Treatment Teams, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS Trust, (2012)       and Referral Prioritisation Policy Dublin/Mid-Leinster (2010).
The workforce has continued to support the resource eg 18 experts and two       NHS occupational therapy managers contributed to the further development       and updating of the expert consensus.
Their were involvement was supported       by the College of Occupational Therapists -Specialist Section- Mental       Health.
Evidence is demonstrated through the following:     COT document &#8212; College of Occupational Therapists `Recovering Ordinary       Lives'; Literature review.
NHS Trusts requesting permission and advice on how to use the research       findings in policy developments- e.g.
Dublin, Gateshead.
COT Specialist Section recruitment email to request participants for the       updating of the expert consensus policy capturing exercise.
Impact 3     Improved workforce capacity has been demonstrated.
The quality of       a professional service has improved through enhanced decision-making       workforce capacity within the health professions.
The randomised       controlled trial demonstrated a large positive effect on referral       prioritisation with average correlation with the average experts'       prioritisation judgements moving from 0.23 to 0.58 (mean difference 0.35).
Cohen's d (r) was 1.91 (0.69).
Evidence is demonstrated through the following:       Four of the research papers (2, 4, 5 &amp; 6), as listed in references       section, all of which demonstrated a large effect of the decision training       on referral prioritisation capacity.
Impact 4      The quality and efficiency of the profession's services have been improved,       which will facilitate services being targeted at the most needy and     support staff retention.
This impact is proposed as a future impact, which     based on the impacts 2 &amp; 3 above.
"I wanted to let you know that I used the knowledge gained from [your       website training] to answer several hard questions [at interview] about       prioritising caseloads.
I got the job and I am convinced I wouldn't have       been able to answer those questions without [your website].
Out of all the       candidates, senior and junior, they had interviewed that day they said I       was the best candidate!
Again I am sure I wouldn't have been able to       answer many of the questions without your [decision training] task."
There are over 34,000 practising occupational therapists in the UK.
Occupational therapists in community mental health teams, which constitute       approximately a fifth of the professional workforce (n6800), are receiving       approximately 500 referrals a year, therefore 17,000,000 referrals would       have been received in total over the years 2008 and 2012.
The evidence       based training improves occupational therapists' capacity to prioritise       referrals by approximately 35% therefore potentially ensuring that the       needs of 5,950,000 UK patients can be more successfully prioritised.
The       potential benefit to patients is apparent.
In addition to enhancing the referral prioritisation service for       patients, well managed workloads and the effective use of services also       enhances work satisfaction, which is necessary to promote staff retention       and optimise the health of the NHS workforce.
As training is funded by the       NHS it is important that staff are retained in the workforce and sustained       in working effectively by being satisfied that they are delivering an       efficient and effective service.
Evidence is demonstrated through the following:       Continued use of the website.
Web users and experts in the field supporting value of training.
