     Aided by investment from Cambridge Enterprise, Enval Ltd was founded in       2006 by Professor Chase along with Dr. Carlos Ludlow-Palafox and Dr. Alex       Domin (another Cambridge PhD Student from the Department) to commercialise       the group's research into microwave pyrolysis.
In 2010, the company       received a grant from the East of England Development Agency for       `Development of a Recycling Process for Laminated Packaging' to develop       the capabilities needed to optimize the use and maximize the value of the       products generated during the Enval process (ref 7).
Further investment in       the company has been secured from a syndicate of investors including       Cambridge Enterprise and business angels from both Cambridge Capital Group       and Cambridge Angels.
The company has raised a total of &#163;2.2 M from a       variety of sources during the period 1 January 2008 to 31 July 2013.
The       company now employs 7 people and has premises on 3 sites (ref 6).
Enval's patented technology offers a genuine novel commercial recycling       route for plastic/aluminium laminate packaging that has, to date, been       unrecyclable.
The process is very attractive to waste handlers as it       removes the need to send waste laminates to land-fill and enables       increasingly-used aluminium laminate packaging to be described as       "recyclable" and these are both important objectives for the packaging       industry and its customers.
The clean aluminium produced by the process is       ready for introduction into the secondary aluminium supply chain.
Recycled       aluminium is valued as being environmentally friendly as it takes       approximately 95% less energy to produce secondary aluminium via recycling       operations than is otherwise consumed when producing primary aluminium       from bauxite.
The Enval process is a net producer of electrical energy as       the electricity generated on site from the hydrocarbon components of the       waste packing is more than sufficient to generate the microwaves needed to       drive the process.
In 2008, Enval commenced construction of a one-third commercial scale       pilot-plant at its R&amp;D centre in Luton and this unit has been operated       since 2011 to demonstrate the benefits of the process to potential       customers, treating a variety of materials to demonstrate the       effectiveness of the patented technology.
Despite generating considerable       interest it became clear that given the conservative nature of the waste       handling sector, a full commercial scale demonstration unit would be       required before orders could be secured.
In 2011 Enval turned to the opposite side of the supply chain of       laminated packaging and partnered with both Nestl&#233; and Kraft Foods (now       known as Mondelez International outside of the USA) to create a commercial       consortium to support the construction of the first commercial scale plant       for Enval's patented material recovery technology (ref 10,11).
The first       commercial-scale unit has been constructed at Alconbury Weald Enterprise       Zone, Huntingdon.
Commissioning commenced in April 2013, and the unit       pyrolyses laminate waste to produce elemental aluminium and hydrocarbon       fuels.
Enval have used this unit to showcase the commercial scale       technology to prospective customers, in line with the company's aim to       develop engineering solutions and produce equipment to be sold, to       companies that offer waste handling services.
The company is now in       advanced negotiations for the sale of similar units with several of the       large waste handlers and paper mills engaged in the recycling of drink       cartons in Europe and the UK.
Enval's Microwave Induced Pyrolysis Units       are designed to process 2,000 tonnes of waste per year.
In parallel to the technical development and commercialisation of its       proprietary processes, Enval provides environmental life cycle analysis       and technology consultancy (based on departmental experience of LCA), with       particular emphasis on the pyrolytic recycling of complex flexible       packaging materials, establishing the ability of the Enval process to       recycle the clients' packaging products.
Clients of Enval's consultancy       services since 2009 include Alb&#233;a, Huhtamaki, Montebello, Kraft Foods,       WRAP and Unilever.
Enval has won the "Best New Technology" prize at the National Recycling       Awards 2011.
Enval's founders, Dr Carlos Ludlow and Professor Howard Chase, were       awarded the prize in the Materials/Chemistry category of the ACES 2011       competition in recognition of the Enval process.
Enval has been selected as a finalist in the "Innovation Award for       Environmental Technology" category at the Environment and Energy Awards       2011.
Enval has been ranked Highly Commended in the Sustainable Technology       category of the Institution of Chemical Engineers' (IChemE) annual awards       (ref 8), held on November 4th 2010, and was a finalist in the "Engineering       Project of the Year" award in the same year.
In May 2013 Enval was awarded the prize in the Inspiring New Idea       category at the Finance for the Future Awards, in recognition of Enval's       creation of a non-competitive Consortium, including Kraft Foods Group,       Mondelez International and Nestle, to provide funding for Enval's first       commercial unit and to help drive wider deployment of the technology (ref       9).
