     The impact relates to the use of goal programming models developed by       LORG members to aid in investment companies' strategic financial decision       making.
Members of LORG were approached by an advisor to the Kuwait       Investment Authority (who are responsible for the Kuwaiti Sovereign Wealth       Fund) in 2008 as she had read the group's underpinning work on portfolio       selection and wished to see a set of models developed that pertained to       the type of multi-objective quantitative decisions she faced in the Kuwait       Sovereign Wealth Fund, as well as aiding her work as a freelance       investment advisor.
The Kuwait Sovereign Wealth fund is the world's oldest       and most well established wealth fund, although the actual amount of its       investments is not made public.
A set of goal programmes for multi-objective portfolio optimisation was       thus developed by LORG members, applying the techniques developed in the       underpinning research (R1-R5) in accordance with the specifications of the       advisor (Dr Azmi).
These models were capable of producing balanced finance       portfolios for deciding the level of investment in mutual funds that       included a range of goals specified by the decision including desired       levels of risk, return, and maturity of the funds being invested in.
They       also took into account the GDP, inflation rate, and regional priorities of       the country when deciding on the investments to be made.
The models were       trialled against a set of Egyptian mutual funds as a demonstration of       their potential.
The advisor worked with LORG in the period 2008-2010 in       order to assist in ensuring that the models built upon the research of       LORG staff accurately reflected the objectives, priorities, goals, and       constraints that a real-world portfolio investment company is faced with.
The impact has occurred on two levels.
The first level is through direct       collaboration between University of Portsmouth staff and professionals       with responsibility for portfolio management in financial companies to       apply the underpinning research to their specific problem domains.
Prof       Tamiz has had direct contact with portfolio managers in investment       companies and institutions, having previously worked for the Nomura       investment bank in London in the 1990's.
Dr Azmi has been working as an       economic advisor to the sovereign wealth fund of Kuwait (source 1) in the       period 2008-2013.
She also has a range of business contacts due to her       supplemental position as a freelance trainer and consultant.
In these       capacities she has advised and had various formal and informal meetings       with fund managers who acknowledged the use of a quantitative model in       their investment decision making, in a similar vein to the goal       programming models developed by LORG members in R1-R5 (Due to the nature       of the investment banking industry, fund managers are not prepared to       publicly state the nature of quantitative models they use or the results       that these models yield).
LORG members have also been active in presenting       seminars and promoting the results of the models in a range of forums       frequented by investment fund managers in order to enhance the use of the       goal programming models developed by LORG members in the financial       investment sector (Source 1).
In addition, our results have guided       financial decision making and investment advice given to the Kuwait       Sovereign Wealth Fund and other investment funds by the knowledge of the       quantitative skills and dynamics of the working of the goal programming       models gained during the liaison with LORG members (Source 1).
Dr Azmi has       also been instrumental in promoting the concepts of achieving fairness by       the use of goal programming, as detailed in references R1 and R2, to the       issue of developmental planning at the United Nations, proposing goal       programming models be used to achieve better levels of gender equality       worldwide (Source 1).
The second source of impact is through dissemination of the results of       applying the research to specific domains in scientific conferences,       academic journals, and industry related publications.
The work has been       placed in sources S2-S3; the specialised Arab Journal of Academic Sciences       (Source 2); and the Banking and Financial Systems eJournal (source 3) in       order to achieve good dissemination amongst the academic and practitioner       communities in the field.
The results of the research have been presented       at the Multi-Attribute Portfolio Selection (Montreal, 2007 - containing       around 80% investment bankers and 20% academics) and MOPGP08 (Portsmouth,       2008), and MOPGP10 (Tunisia, 2010) conferences.
The research has been cited in case studies relating to the Iranian stock       market (source S4) and the Chinese stock market (source S5), the Kuwait       stock exchange (source S6) and in Spain relating to socially responsible       investment (source S7).
