     By guiding professionals to proven sustainable technology &#8212; cool roofs &#8212;       Prof Kolokotroni's research contributed to establishing an organisation       which has been continuing to advocate for and lobby cool roof products       based on her research findings.
In 2009, the European Cool Roofs Council (http://www.coolroofcouncil.eu/)       was launched at Brunel University, committing to advocating cool roof       products for their impacts on mitigating climate change, reducing the       Urban Heat Island effect and thereby contributing to creating a       sustainable urban landscape.
Prof Kolokotroni's research on identifying       the Urban Heat Island effect in London and verifying the environmental       benefits of cool roof technologies has been essential to the establishment       of the Council.
The European Cool Roofs Council, a not-for-profit European       association, is now proactively lobbying national and European legislative       organisations for the inclusion of cool roofs as a mitigating strategy for       cities; for example, in Greece, the national building regulations specify       the inclusion of cool paints for all new public buildings.
In the UK, cool       roofs are considered for inclusion in BREEAM.
The Council has also       standardised cool roof materials by developing a strict Product Rated       Programme which informs users &#8212; code bodies, architects, building owners       and specifiers &#8212; of radiative property values under the Programme.
The       Council members include multi-national industry members such as Monier       Group (roof construction materials), Daikin (air-conditioning equipment)       and Dow (construction chemicals), government agencies, educational       institutions, energy service companies, etc.
across Europe and it has       direct links to its US equivalent, the US Cool Roof Council (http://www.coolroofs.org).
Prof Kolokotroni is a board member of the technical committee and the       Rating Scheme Certification Committee.
In 2010, GLA first published the `Climate Change Adaptation Strategy for       London' which was updated in 2011.
The strategy commits in Action 5.10       that `the Mayor will work with partners to assess and promote "cool roof       technology" in London to reduce demand for mechanical cooling' (p67).
The       European Cool Roofs Council was specifically stated as the partner for       this action (p113).
(http://www.london.gov.uk/sites/default/files/Adaptation-oct11.pdf)     These demonstrate how Prof Kolokotroni's research on the Urban Heat       Effect in London and how to mitigate it has reached beyond the academic       community, contributing to creating more sustainable urban communities by       working with government and industrial partners.
Prior to this project, her long-term research on the Urban Heat Effects       in London and how to mitigate the phenomenon has alerted GLA and building       professionals:     Her development of several methods and models for calculating the local       temperature in urban areas has informed building professionals and policy       makers that the heat received, generated and trapped in the urban areas       increases the local temperature (i.e.
the Urban Heat Island Effect).
Consequently, this increases the energy demand necessary for reducing the       high temperature, hence increasing carbon emissions and contribution to       global warming; it is also known to affect health.
The research on the       Urban Heat Island Effect was received with keen interest from policy       makers, raising their awareness: in 2008, GLA acknowledged the Urban Heat       Island Effect in The London Plan (4.31-4.32).
The London Plan (2008) was soon replaced by a newer version of the London       Plan in 2011, which more extensively and concretely lays out its       strategies to deal with the Urban Heat Island Effect: it states that it       aims to `address issues of environmental quality raised by the urban heat       island effect' as one of its `strategic priorities' (p50) and that `The       Mayor seeks to reduce the impact of the urban heat island effect in       London' (p144) and endeavours to avoid `internal overheating and       contributing to the urban heat island effect' in its future design and       construction plans (p136).
Prof Kolokotroni's research also had impacts on building practice,       through widening awareness amongst building professionals of the Urban       Heat Island Effect.
Her research results from 1999 to 2000, which measured       Urban Heat Island intensities, were directly incorporated by the Chartered       Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) into their latest       publication of the CIBSE Guide A: Environmental Design (Section 2.10)       (2006).
The Guide serves as the primary source of information for building       professionals to introduce the latest research and best practice in       environmentally sustainable design, and it is still current.
Using this       information, designers can take the higher temperatures in the city into       account in their designs, thus reducing carbon emissions from their       building while maintaining comfortable conditions for people.
In addition to its industrial and political applications, in 2013, the       research helped Energy-BITS (http://www.energybits.eu),       in collaboration with media production companies, develop games,       competitions and documentaries in order to raise awareness of energy use       for youth (aged 14-18) The website can be viewed in 9 languages.
Similarly, in 2012, the research contributed to establishing the       Universities and Students for Energy Efficiency Association (http://www.useefficiency.eu)       which aims to improve energy efficiency in university buildings and       provide training programmes for students by bringing together universities       and companies across Europe.
The Association has organised two summer       schools &#8212; one of these in London during the Olympics.
