     Some of the impact sources cited pre-date 2008, however the impact has       continued past the 2008       threshold, for example the NICE Guidelines (2004) are still the guidelines       which relate to current       clinical practice.
Impact 1.
Impacts on therapists, people with multiple sclerosis and         their carers and         governments through the evidence based guidance and policies         disseminated by         international multiple sclerosis organisations.
Our research has been used to directly inform national and international       best practice guidelines       for the care and support of people with multiple sclerosis and other       long-term conditions.
Both the       Delphi study [3.1] and the qualitative evidence [3.3] produced by our       research extensively informed       the development of an international consensus paper, developed by the       Multiple Sclerosis       International Federation (MSIF) on the `principles to promote quality of       life of people living with       multiple sclerosis' [5.1].
Our research informed the sections relating to       empowered decision       making [3.3], access to health services and the range of services that       should be available [3.1], the       provision of quality information to sufferers [3.1, 3.3], nutrition and       physical fitness [3.1], the       provision of family and relationship counselling, parenting support,       employment support and post       retirement support [3.3].
Similarly our research on therapeutic standing       [3.5] has informed practice       documents for health professionals relating to exercise and multiple       sclerosis internationally; for       example guidelines for therapeutic activity have published by the Multiple       Sclerosis Society of       Canada [5.2], underpinning the recommendation to consider therapeutic       standing as a potential       exercise choice.
Our findings related to the value of therapeutic standing       for wheelchair users with       severe disability has also impacted on therapeutic interventions for       people with other clinical       conditions for example R82, a Danish private company, used our evidence       [3.5] to support use of       therapeutic standing to prevent contractures in children with disability       [5.3].
Multiple Sclerosis Australia produced 2 reports for the Australian       governments Senate Community       Affairs Committee and Senate Finance &amp; Public Administration       Committees regarding the national       pharmaceutical benefits scheme policy [5.4] and the Commonwealth State       disability agreement       [5.5].
Both reports were produced to guide and inform government policy       with regards healthcare       provision for multiple sclerosis.
In these reports our research [3.3] was       used to illustrate the       profound biographical disruption caused by multiple sclerosis and the       challenge to patient's lives       presented by the unpredictability of the condition.
Clinical Psychologist       Dr Gary Fulcher has       advocated the importance of our findings related to the burden of caring       on spouses [3.4]; he has       published this in an article in a prominent multiple sclerosis patient's       magazine in Australia [5.6].
Our RCT [3.2] was cited by The Multiple Sclerosis Trust and the group       Therapists in multiple       sclerosis in a publication [5.7] that offered a set of proposals for the       future of service       commissioning for this condition.
Specifically it was used to establish a       role for the therapist in       facilitating self-management, and allowing patients to remain at home or       in community care       settings and to define the role of the therapist in multiple sclerosis.
Impact 2.
Impacts on practitioners and services internationally: key         guidelines and         evidence-based sources have been shaped by the research.
Our RCT [3.2] has been used to develop best practice guidelines for this       condition.
It was the sole       RCT used to inform the National Collaborating Centre for Chronic       Conditions' guidelines for       multiple sclerosis (affiliated with NICE) guidelines [5.8]; the research       trial findings directly       underpins the recommendation related to encouraging self-management and       autonomy.
The       funded research which developed the Multiple Sclerosis Network supported       the national       implementation of these NICE guidelines: impacts on practice were achieved       through the creation of a bespoke website www.mssociety.org.uk/join-the-professional-network       which has brought       together 3000 practitioners to support effective services for people with       multiple sclerosis.
Workshops were undertaken across national locations to develop and adopt       evidence based       toolkits to implement best practice.
A practitioner has provided a       detailed statement demonstrating       the impact of these workshops which concludes saying     `Without the involvement and active engagement of the patient groups and       Brunel University at the       critical first development stages of this journey, none of the listed       outcomes and lasting impacts       would have been possible to achieve just by service providers or       commissioners alone.'
In addition the research trial was used to inform the self care section       of the evidence-based       markers of good practice produced by the Department of Health's National       Service Framework for       Long-term Conditions [5.9].
Finally our research trial findings were used       in a consensus paper on       how to deliver high-quality, patient-centred, cost-effective care [5.10],       which was produced by the       Kings Fund together with 10 leading health and social care organisations       to support their       recommendations for self care.
The recommendations provided through these       influential       guidelines, evidence-based markers of good practice and consensus papers       present clear       evidence of how primary research conducted at Brunel has been used to on       evidence based       practice.
Practitioners, commissioners and service providers use these       documents to enhance       practice and with the goal of improving the lives of service users.
