     Crash tests are important part of the design lifecycle of new vehicles.
Knowledge gained from       analysis of crash tests data are vital for correlating design features       with injury impacts to car users       and pedestrians as well as for demonstrating compliance with standards and       legal requirements.
They involve huge amount of data, typically collected from about 200       channels, in a variety of       formats including photographs and films from high speed cameras; numerical       data from       transducers such as accelerometers and load cells monitoring points of       interests in vehicles and       dummies.
They are expensive to conduct and, hence, the need for accuracy       and efficiency in the       processes used to gather, analyse and disseminate the information.
Prior to this innovative technology, a manually intensive paper and       celluloid film based system was       the norm in the crash test industry.
This had several severe drawbacks,       notably, authenticity of       data, accuracy of correlations of images and relevant real-time events,       speed of the analysis, ease       of use and ability to disseminate.
The underpinning research has provided the enabling technologies for       developing several       multimedia systems that have revolutionised the professional practice in       the global vehicle crash       testing industry.
The innovative technology was initially developed,       between 1996 and 1999,       through a TSB funded technology transfer programme with the Motor Industry       Research       Association (MIRA), the leading UK crash test company.
The project was       spectacularly successful       and earned the Best TCS Programme Awarded among around 400 contestant       programmes in       December 1999 [T1].
The project resulted in MIRA's launch of two       technologically advanced       products: DataBuilder, for structuring and storing crash test       data, and DataViewer for multimedia       visualisation and analysis of the data.
The systems became instantly       market leading, had a       transformational impact on the professional practices in       the industry and were widely adopted by       major national crash test facilities, such as MIRA and Millbrook [S1,S5],       and international ones,       such as General Motors and Ford.
The deployment of the multimedia systems enabled reduction in the       analysis from weeks to a few       hours.
For the first time automotive engineers were able to analyse all of       the results from a vehicle       crash test on one platform in an integrated, highly intelligible system.
The productivity of test       engineers was dramatically improved empowering them to more effectively       and speedily analyse       and assimilate the data from each test, and draw conclusions for future       design iterations [S1, S3,       S5].
The research has directly contributed to a new international           standard (ISO/DTR 13499).
The       format of data captured from crash tests were largely adopted from the       research carried out in the       group and published in [R3].
The contribution is still valid in the       recently revised version of the ISO       standard [S2].
Significant economic benefits to all the stakeholders can       be claimed as a result of the dramatic       improvement in the productivity of test engineers, speed of feedback to       safety designers, and the       optimisation of the processes underlying the whole lifecycle.
In addition,       the research has also       resulted in a start-up company, Pixoft, led by Jimmy Robinson who was a       Research Associate on       the award winning TCS Technology Transfer project with MIRA.
Robinson       continues his       cooperation with Athwal's group to refine the system further, by       supplementing it with additional       functionalities and enhancing its analysis capabilities, into the new       market-leading product called       Vicasso launched in 2006 [S4].
Since 2008, this product is       currently used by international car       manufacturing companies such Jaguar Land Rover [S5], General Motors and       Ford for crash test       analysis as a well as by a variety of companies in contrasting domains       such as Duracell, Unilever,       NAC Image Technology, US Army and Dorel for wider scientific analysis of       high speed       phenomenon [S4].
Within this REF period, MIRA have used the systems for the analysis of       rail safety, in particular       studying the security of interior fittings such as seats in crash tests       and for testing of aircraft seats.
The systems have also been deployed to gather research-informed knowledge       to support the       design of "secure" built environment.
Results from crash tests       with roadside furniture and       roadside restraints have influenced the design of large built environment       national projects such as       air terminals and government buildings [S1, S3].
Most pertinently knowledge gained through the routine use of these       systems (and derivative       systems from other suppliers) by the worldwide automotive industry has       supported faster vehicle       design iterations and has ultimately influenced the design of safer       vehicles, indirectly benefiting the       health of wider society.
The design of safer cars has resulted in fewer       fatalities and in less severe       injuries to both car users and pedestrians [S3, S5].
