     As a leading international company with a high reputation for excellence       in engineering, Rolls-Royce has a keen interest in the development of       design methods that support creativity and innovation while maintaining       high assurance, reducing development time and minimising cost.
The       collaboration with Rolls-Royce started in 2009 with a TSB funded Knowledge       Based Partnership focused on demonstrating the benefits of applying KBE       methods to modelling Rolls-Royce's KEY systems, vital control parts of jet       engines.
The project resulted in several positive outcomes.
It contributed       to clearer understanding of the complex relationships between components       in these systems, allowed larger space for exploring potential designs,       enabled efficient integration, and facilitated deployment.
The collaboration with Rolls-Royce was substantially strengthened when       the University was selected to enter into a commercial, research activity       built around the &#163;90m, Technology Strategy Board funded Strategic       Investment in Low Carbon Engine Technology (SILOET) Project.
This built on       the achievements of the initial project by refining the models of KEY       systems and developing service-based architectures to enhance relevant       design automation processes.
The new architectures integrate various KEY       control systems through more efficient workflows of processes that embody       specialised KBE concepts.
Economic impact: The project's Research Associate, Maria       Nicastri, moved to Rolls-Royce to join a growing group of researchers who       have passed through the KBE lab to become permanent members of Rolls-Royce       staff.They have joined specialist teams within Rolls-Royce's Design System       Engineering division to enable development of KBE solutions to design and       engineering problems.
By adopting processes based on KBE concepts,       Rolls-Royce has gained significant economic benefits through the       optimisation of design and manufacturing processes [S1, S2].
As an       example, using KBE techniques in the design and development of one aspect       of a jet engine has resulted in a reported &#163;0.5M saving through a 40%       reduction in overall engineering lead time and a 50% reduction in design       staff requirement.
Another example focusing on the design of a 3D Aero       model from a new specification reduced the time required to accomplish       this task from 10 days to one day.
Impact on Professional Practices: Based on the proven       benefits demonstrated through the use of KBE at Rolls-Royce, bespoke       training in KBE was provided for Rolls-Royce's technical engineering       teams.
Educational Impact: Aspects of several case studies       resulting from research collaborations with Rolls-Royce have been       incorporated into the teaching of specialised postgraduate modules offered       by BCU as well as in the delivery of bespoke industrial training courses.
This typically exemplifies how research feeds back into teaching and       education.
It should be noted that, in the spirit of true collaboration,       BCU students have been allowed to visit the Rolls-Royce aerospace plant,       to see directly how KBE is being used to enhance the design of jet       engines.
Benefits resulting from KBE partnership with Rolls-Royce were       demonstrated [E1] at a number of outreach events, such as Birmingham Made       Me 2013, showcasing innovations as results of successful       academic-industrial collaborations.
Significant interest has arisen from       regional businesses in adopting KBE technologies after these events.
Environmental impact: KBE research has directly made       substantial contributions to two funded projects addressing environmental       issues.
These projects aim to make significant contributions to the       environment by substantially reducing carbon emission in aviation through       the design of greener jet engines.
The development of the Rolls-Royce KEY       control systems explained in this impact case directly contributed to the       deliverables of the &#163;90M TSB funded "Strategic Investment in Low Carbon       Engine Technology (SILOET)" project (2010-2013) and to its recently       launched follow up programme SILOET2 (2013-2015).
Because of its generic nature, the research underpinning this case study       has been adapted to provide innovative solutions in the environmental       domain to support the exploitation of sustainable greener energy.
In       collaboration with Dr Lynsey Melville, head of BCU bioenergy research, a       number of sophisticated decision support systems based on the KBE approach       have been developed to support two multi-million pound EU funded projects       on sustainable energy: EnAlgae [L2] and BioenNW [L3].
The central aim of       these projects is to reduce emissions and dependency on unsustainable       energy sources in Europe.
KBE lab designed intelligent systems that       capture domain based knowledge and developed decision-support tools to       effectively assist stakeholders in deploying and managing bioenergy       projects.
The KBE lab is developing a clear reputation as a leader in the highly       specialist field of Knowledge Based Engineering through successful       exploitation of its research activities with Rolls-Royce.
