     Our research is of significant value to policy makers in influencing       government policies and support programmes, for a number of reasons.
Firstly, findings into the characteristics of market orientation in SMEs,       and the barriers to market orientation, allow for the identification of       the critical areas for support in order to lead to increased market       orientation and competitiveness.
Secondly, the findings highlight how the       support should be tailored to meet the requirements of various SME types       in the retail supply chain (that is, retail SMEs and SME producers in       supply relationships with larger retailers).
Thirdly, the findings provide       insights into the practice of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and       the utilisation of customer intelligence in the SME retail supply chain.
A       summary of the evidence of impacts and indicators is provided in Table 1.
In Table 1, and in the text that follows numbers in bold refer to evidence       in Section 5.
Table 1: Enhancing SME Market Orientation - Research Impacts                             Key Research Areas           Impacts and Dates           Evidence            Impact Indicators                                        Market orientation             of SME retailers in rural locations                      European SME retail business expansion             (2009-12)                      Testimonials from regional and national trade bodies             (1-3)            There are a range of indicators of impact             from this research across the 3 key research areas:             &#8226; Development of new products/ services and supply networks (1-4,7)             &#8226; Industry             workshops, project websites and company reports (4,7) 			&#8226; Reports and             Presentations to Committee of Enterprise, Trade             and Employment (House of the             Oireachtas) (6),             Agricultural             Minister, ARD Committee (8),             Agri-food             Strategy Board             (9)             &#8226; Dissemination to industry (10)                                        Market orientation             of SME retailers in town centres                      Policy recommendations on the need for re-orientation of urban             places towards changing customer buying behaviour             (2012)                      Testimonials from trade bodies (1,2)             Letters of commendation from both committees in NI Assembly and             House of the Oireachtas (the National Parliament of Republic of             Ireland) (5,6)             Report of Joint Committees (House of the Oireachtas and Northern             Ireland Assembly) (6)                                        Customer relationship management and market orientation                      Business development (2008-11)             Change to DARD support measures (2008-13)             Policy recommendations             and implementation (2012-13)             Dissemination of effective CRM practice for SME retailers (2013)                      Testimonials from trade bodies (1,2)             Testimonial from DARD             (4)             Policy reports to ARD Committee and Agri-Food Strategy Board, and             key policy role (8,9)             Award winning article for CMI and Subject Panel Expert role (10)                                     The impact of our research was to develop tailored support and       recommendations that would enable various types of SMEs in the retail       supply chain within Northern Ireland, across the UK and Europe to enhance       their market orientation and competitiveness.
The reach of the impacts is evident through the key intervention       role played by our research.
The research has directly impacted upon SME       market orientation in the retail supply chain and competitiveness at a       regional level and also more widely across European regions.
A number of       beneficiaries have been affected, including SME businesses, business       support agencies and policy makers.
Issues around enhanced SME market       orientation and competitiveness are of significant interest to policy       makers and support agencies, and our research has contributed to policy       debate and the policy influencing efforts of trade bodies, as evidenced by       testimonials from a range of industry and Government bodies at regional,       national and international levels (1-5).
In short, these       testimonials illustrate that the research has helped to place issues       around SME market orientation in the retail supply chain on the UK and       Irish Government policy agendas.
The significance of the impacts, or how much difference it has       made to stakeholders and beneficiaries, is now outlined.
By identifying the barriers to market orientation and competitiveness       within rural markets, these findings provided the basis for the       development of tailored training and support programmes provided to       approximately 100 SME retailers, leading to these SME retail businesses       across Europe improving their market orientation, and their business       performance, through the expansion of customer led product lines and       services, including e-commerce and new tourism activities.
The provision       of enhanced product lines and services that addressed customer needs in       turn led to benefits for the SME retailers' local communities, in terms of       increased choice and product availability.
The research enabled the SME       retailers to exchange experiences and learn from each other, which in a       number of cases led to new business transactions and the development of       new networks, including new purchasing/supply relationships (1,2,3).
The research identified the government support measures that would enable       SME retailers to compete more effectively in town centre locations, and       the need for reorientation of town centres to take account of changing       customer needs (1,2,5,6).
The research provided `critical         insight' (5) and underpinned a trans-Governmental report and       set of recommendations for town centre development in Northern Ireland and       Republic of Ireland (5,6).
In addition, it received national media       coverage through an article in the Sunday Times.
The findings on CRM led to the delivery of targeted support to SME firms,       through 18 industry workshops, a project website and 250 individual       company reports, on how to utilise market intelligence data within the       retail supply chain.
This has had a direct impact on the market       orientation and competitiveness of 250 SMEs, leading to new customer-led       product and market opportunities in the form of new product listings with       major multiple grocery retailers, a stronger focus on competitors,       enhanced internal processes for collecting and utilising customer data,       and greater proactiveness to market opportunities (1,2,4,7).
Policy recommendations have been made to UK Government bodies and       Committees (including Department of Agriculture and Rural Development,       DARD, and the Agri-food and Rural Development, ARD, Northern Ireland       Assembly) on the need to recognise the importance of free access and       analytical support to SMEs regarding loyalty card data and other forms of       formalised market intelligence (4) and on the need for a market       focus for SMEs to ensure sustainability (8,9).
As a result, there       has been a clear impact on Government (DARD) support to SMEs; as shown by       the inclusion of a food chain Co-operation Scheme in the draft       consultation document for the 2014-20 Rural Development Programme (4).
Furthermore, our research expertise has been utilised to assist in the       implementation of these policy recommendations (9).
The findings       on CRM have been disseminated widely to industry practitioners, through       the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and have been cited as having       strong industry relevance for its 138,000 member network (10).
Our       research expertise has been formally recognised by CMI as playing a key       role in influencing how marketing knowledge is communicated to their       broader management audience (10).
