     The `Standards We Expect' project evidenced the value of a particular       model of social care reform, which addressed both bottom-up and top-down       processes.
This twin track approach to achieving change has been reflected       in a range of impacts.
Impacts took place after the publication of the       interim findings (2008); during the main project phase (2008-2010) and       during the dissemination/influencing phase (2010-2013).
1.
Impacts on society.
1.1 Political debate and social care reform was advanced through       the provision of high profile evidence to policymakers, politicians; and       leaders; it challenged established norms of social care delivery and       shifted existing understandings of the way in which person-centred support       should be optimally implemented.
Evidence from the first stage findings       were fed into the Health Select Committee Inquiry into Social Care as       invited oral evidence and numerous regional, national, international       research, policy and professional forums.
The `final summary' research       findings were showcased at an invited parliamentary launch.
Formal oral       evidence was subsequently invited and presented to key government bodies,       through consultations and inquiries including the Ministerial Reference       Group for Social Care; Social Work Reform Board; Dilnot Commission       Reference Group; Transforming Adult Social Care Programme Board; and the       Adult Social Care WorkForce Strategy Board.
Findings were also drawn upon       by the National Commission on Personalisation established and conducted by       Hampshire County Council.
The Minister for Social Care and his lead civil       servant held two Ministerial roundtables for social care leaders;       Beresford presented formal evidence at both.
The Minister reported reading       the research publications, and as a result had formally noted that the       forthcoming white paper on social care reform needed to include service       user involvement.
1.2 Public debate was influenced through significant media       coverage including two Radio 4 You and Yours Specials on Social Care       Reform, Radio 5 Wake Up To Money, a Guardian and Community Care       (professional journal) article, blog and podcast, plus interviews for       Housing and Public Finance, radio and wide coverage in user led and       disabled people's media including blogs, social networking sites etc.
This       reflected both top and bottom interest; resulting in additional major       conference invitations.
1.3 Economic impacts were achieved through better access to       financial opportunities for services users and carers through the enhanced       use of direct payments and personal budgets.
For example, a group of       people with learning difficulties were supported to produce an easy       read/illustrated version of the project's findings, which subsequently       supported other people with learning difficulties to access and make use       of person-centred care.
1.4 Equality and diversity was advanced through ensuring that age,       ethnicity, nature of impairment, gender, sexuality, class, culture and       belief were fairly attended to through the policy reforms.
This was       achieved through the project design and dissemination e.g.
invited oral       evidence was delivered to the Joint (Parliamentary) Committee on Human       Rights, Disabled People and Independent Living (June 2011).
Improved       social inclusion was achieved through involving service users as       researchers in the development phase of the project, in its formulation,       governance, and in shaping its dissemination strategy.
This equalised       research relations and supported the empowerment of service users/disabled       people in bringing about broader change.
2.
Impacts on health and welfare: impact on practitioners and       professional services were achieved through the development of accessible       evidence based information, training, and support for service users,       practitioners, carers and their organisations.
These have facilitated       optimal implementation of person-centred support in the UK.
2.1 The first evidence based practical guides were produced for       service users, practitioners and carers.
These included the consensus       definition of what person centred support means to people who use, work in       and manage UK services; identifying what the barriers are to providing it       and how those barriers can be overcome: the guides included one written by       and for people with learning disabilities, an exemplar of a local case       study, a guide on choices for the end of life, a guide for practitioners,       a guide for service users, and a guide to personalisation training       approaches.
These gave both detailed local research findings (as models       for others wishing to take forward similar work locally) and provided       practical research-based guidance for practitioners, service users and       carers wanting to take forward person-centred support.
Forewords by key       people in each field positioned them influentially.
For example, four of       the six:            Croft, S. Bewley, C. Beresford, P. Branfield, F. Fleming, J. Glynn, M.         Postle, K. (2011) Person-Centred Support: A Guide to person-centred         working for practitioners (foreword by Moira Gibb, Chair, Social           Work Reform Board)       Bewley, C. Branfield, F. Glynn, M. Beresford, P. Croft, S. Fleming, J.         Postle, K. (2011) Person-Centred Support &#8212; A Service Users' Guide         (foreword by, Ossie Stuart, Disability Consultant)       Fleming, J. Glynn, M. Griffin, R. Beresford, P. Bewley, C. Branfield,         F. Croft, S. Postle, K. (2011) Person-Centred Support: Choices for end         of life care (foreword by, Eve Richardson, Chief Executive, National           Council for Palliative Care) (research report)       Barrett, G. Brennan, M. Brown, D. Burton, N. Gordons, W. and Watkins,         C. from People First Lambeth,with support from Saihkay, H. and Bewley,         C. (2011) Supporting People: Towards a person-centred approach, Summary         with easy words and pictures (forewords by, Mark Brookes, Consultant           with learning difficulties and Peter Hay, President, ADASS)          2.2 Training materials and web resources have been produced: two       short films were developed to train the Directors of Adults and Children       Services about the evidence based approach to implementation of       person-centred support; they were shown at the annual national social       services conference organised by the Associations of the Directors.
Shaping Our Lives (SOLNET), a national networking website for 400+ service       user organisations, was used to actively support the implementation of the       person centred care.
Practitioners, their organisations, carers and       service users and their organisations, both in local sites and more       generally have reported the gains from the project's learning and       highlighted the value of adopting them.
For practitioners, the impacts       have included enhanced capacity to practice in a more       person-centred/personalised way and, for service users and carers,       enhanced ability to access and press for such support.
Service users and       carers have been empowered through information, support and partnership       working, to access person-centred support and influence the provision of       policy.
2.3 Improved social care services: through its development phase,       the project directly impacted on eight service sites and a wider network       of 12 service settings, supporting them to work in more person-centred       ways, as well as supporting service users and carers associated with       sites.
Over 350 people have directly benefitted through being involved in       the implementation sites; they have benefitted from more effective person       centred support, knowledge exchange, training opportunities and practical       support.
Three information exchange and developmental national       `get-together' events have facilitated national implementation and       enhanced social care services.
