     Three principal impacts arise from Ainsworth's original research:     Commercial impact: creation of an SME     Scriptura Ltd was launched by the photographic work carried out at       Besan&#231;on for the Leverhulme project.
(S1) The outstanding quality of these       facsimiles quickly led to consequential assignments, putting Scriptura       onto a permanent footing as an SME, with one permanent employee.
Post-project assignments have included work for Trinity College Dublin's       Long Room, the Bodleian Library in Oxford, and (most recently) the Duke of       Devonshire's Library, Chatsworth House.
Cultural impact: International exhibitions     Royal Armouries, Leeds (2007-08).
The idea for this exhibition emerged during a workshop held by the       EPSRC-funded White Rose Universities "Affective Communication" network on       the Shogun exhibition at the Royal Armouries.
Discussions between       Peter Ainsworth and Senior Curator Karen Watts launched the idea of an       exhibition on France and England during the Hundred Years' War.
Narrative       and historical content from the Online Froissart, complemented by       miniatures from the Besan&#231;on and Stonyhurst manuscripts, would be       `twinned' with relevant items from the national collection of arms and       armour.
Innovative technologies would provide visitors with exciting       pathways through the facsimiles.
The event, curated in English and French, brought the blood and thunder       of the Hundred Years' War to life for visitors of all ages through careful       matching of manuscript illustrations depicting 14th-century warfare to       items of arms and armour from the national collection.
The digitised       surrogates were complemented by Stonyhurst College ms. 1, kindly lent by       the College Library.
Cambridge's Fitzwilliam Museum lent material on       making manuscripts, while calligrapher Sara Mack gave master classes on       copying a manuscript page.
Visitors Book comments demonstrate the level of       enhancement to public understanding: `The best history lessons for all';       `Brilliant, the book's really interesting and the art work is fabulous';       `I wish this display were here permanently, it's fascinating'; `I         really enjoyed the Kiosque interactive screens.
The Stonyhurst         Chronicles book was amazing.
Very good'; `Excellent piece of         work!
It's good to see high-quality digital images used so the small         details can be examined'; `One of the best temporary exhibitions         I have seen at this museum'; `Excellent to see something from our         school, Stonyhurst College'; `A fascinating insight into medieval         Europe; a well-presented exhibition'; `Superb in every aspect.
A         real eye opener to medieval life'; `Fantastic exhibition!
Many         congratulations from a small visitor'; `Merci pour cet excellent         rappel de notre histoire commune'; `Very interesting, shows our         past very well'; `The most beautiful exhibition of manuscripts.
The explanation of how they were made ... very clear and explicit';         `Very interesting and informative exhibition, the manuscripts are truly         amazing'; `Liked the Kiosque Interactive and would         recommend it to anyone else'.
(S2)     Further commercial impact arose from a Knowledge Transfer Partnership,       part-funded by the UK government and part by commercial partner Tribal       PLC, which funded development of the interactive exhibition display       software (Kiosque), subsequently adopted for the Paris exhibition.
Sheffield University HEIF funding supported development by student SME       epiGenesys (aided by gaming company ZOOtech PLC) of an interactive       children's game for the Armouries exhibition, using images from the       facsimiles.
Kiosque allowed Royal Armouries visitors to compare and leaf       through whole manuscripts, hear stories, and follow customised pathways       through related material.
The Capturing the Castle game proved       hugely popular with visitors of all ages.
Medieval music performed by Paul       Bracken (University of Nottingham) provided the soundtrack.
This       multi-modal approach made the exhibition accessible to the widest possible       audience and enhanced understanding of a range of aspects of the       historical period.
Mus&#233;e national de l'Arm&#233;e, Paris (2010).
The success of the Royal       Armouries exhibition prompted France's sister museum to commission a       similar event.
At the Invalides, the two Besan&#231;on volumes performed the       `real manuscript' role played at Leeds by Stonyhurst ms. 1, complemented       by two `sister' volumes lent by France's Biblioth&#232;que Nationale.
The       manuscripts' illustrations were matched, this time, to arms and armour       from the French national collection.
The footprint design ensured that all       80,000 visitors to the Mus&#233;e passed through our exhibition; some spent 2-3       hours exploring the cases and engaging with Kiosque.
A colourful       display of painters' pigments and of gilders' and parchmenters' tools was       lent by Le Scriptorial (Avranches, Normandy).
(S4) A special issue       of Art de l'enluminure magazine provided a colourful catalogue.
This popular publication enjoys consistently high circulation amongst       devotees of medieval manuscript culture and art history.
The       exhibition-based issue included a commissioned piece by Ainsworth, `Jean       Froissart et la Guerre de Cent Ans' (pp.
2-13).
(S3).
Evaluation of Impact.
The Invalides exhibition was formally       evaluated by an AHRC graduate research assistant.
Comments returned ranged       from: `I now understand the Hundred Years' War much better than I did',       to: `Wonderfully entertaining, a great introduction to manuscript         culture and to the political and military history of the later Middle         Ages'.
The Invalides exhibition impacted in turn on the design of a third       international exhibition, on Froissart's contemporary Gaston F&#233;bus, count       of B&#233;arn (Mus&#233;e du Moyen Age, H&#244;tel de Cluny, Paris; Mus&#233;e national du       Ch&#226;teau de Pau, 2011-2012) which attracted some 100,000 international       visitors; the catalogue included an essay commissioned from Peter       Ainsworth, the only one from an international contributor (S4).
Heritage preservation and enhanced public access     Ainsworth's Leverhulme Fellowship also generated heritage conservation       impacts.
Pigments used for decorating vellum manuscripts are damaged by       prolonged exposure to UV/natural light, reducing time available for       display during exhibitions, even under subdued lighting.
Digital       surrogates can be used without restriction.
Access to cultural heritage, and public engagement with it, were       significantly enhanced.
French provincial libraries rarely have space to       showcase treasures.
Kiosque allowed visitors to large exhibitions       (Leeds and Paris) and local libraries (Aix-en-Provence, Marseilles,       Avignon and Stonyhurst College) to view high-resolution surrogates from       multiple perspectives; to compare them with other digitised manuscripts;       and to do so in high definition with strong lighting.
Furthermore, whereas       wealthier institutions (e.g.
the British Library) display manuscripts       fixed, showing single spreads of verso and following recto pages (but       little else), Kiosque allowed our exhibition and library partners       to make the content of entire manuscripts visible.
