     Two principal impacts arise from Watt's original research.
The first is       influencing government policy through lobbying work to put pressure on       international governments; the second is more directly public-facing work       which informs public understanding and raises awareness of human rights       issues.
Changes to legislation through media pressure and influence on UK         policymakers     Since 2009 Watt has worked with PBI, following an invitation to       collaborate on Mexican human rights issues.
PBI coordinates the efforts of       academics (such as Watt), journalists, and international lawyers in order       to raise the profile of their projects in Mexico.
Almost all the HRDs with       whom Watt has worked (via collaboration with PBI) live under the shadow of       numerous death threats.
International attention exposing these concerns is       of key importance to these individuals simply because it exposes those who       commit human rights abuses, in turn pressuring the Mexican government to       address repeated violations of the UN Declaration.
PBI's work with Mexican       HRDs in bringing legal cases before the Inter-American Court of Human       Rights (IACHR) has led to several landmark and unprecedented rulings, in       which the Mexican government was sentenced by the Court to pay reparations       to victims of human rights abuses and to investigate proven human rights       abuses by the Mexican military.
Watt's contribution to this campaign led       directly to the international tide of condemnation and political pressure       about the grave human rights situation in Mexico.
For example, Watt put direct pressure on the Mexican government via an       open letter to the then Mexican president Felipe Calder&#243;n in November       2010, published in the Mexican daily national newspaper La Jornada,       and taken up more widely through republication online in English       translation.
The open letter admonished the Mexican government for failing       to follow the ruling of the IACHR to investigate the case of Rosendo       Radilla, who disappeared after being detained in a military road block in       Atoyac de Alvarez, Guerrero, in August 1974.
Similarly, as part of a coordinated effort by academics, journalists and       international lawyers to put pressure on the Mexican government to improve       its human rights practices, in early 2011 Watt interviewed Valentina       Cant&#250;, a Mexican indigenous woman who was raped by soldiers, and who       successfully took her fight for justice all the way to the IACHR.
However,       the Mexican government did not comply with the IACHR judgement, which led       to PBI asking Watt to contribute to the tide of international media and       political pressure to raise awareness of the case.
Watt's interview with       Valentina not only fed into his research publications but also into other       key strands of activity which raised the international profile of the       case: (1) Valentina's plight was foregrounded on BBC Radio 4 on 10/02/11,       when the actress Julie Christie led a national radio appeal which raised       &#163;6k for Valentina's cause; (2) Alongside representatives from PBI and       Amnesty International, Watt accompanied Valentina to the House of Commons       in June 2011 to meet the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Mexico,       the APPG on Latin America, a number of MPs and junior ministers in order       to raise official awareness about the human rights situation in Mexico.
Valentina was afforded the opportunity to tell her personal story, and       Watt then briefed ministers on the Mexican context.
As a direct result of       this briefing, questions about Mexico's obligation to abide by       international human rights treaties (and the UK's official relationship       with the country) were subsequently raised in parliament by Jeremy Corbyn,       MP (Chair of the APPG on Mexico) [S4].
Watt also accompanied Valentina to       meet the Shadow Minister for Borders and Immigration Chris Bryant to ask       him to write to the Mexican Ambassador in the UK to put further pressure       on the Mexican government (Bryant agreed).
Later in 2011, Watt briefed the Foreign and Commonwealth Minister, Jeremy       Browne, at the House of Commons ahead of his official visit to Mexico,       highlighting the situation of human rights abuses.
This combined, concerted effort &#8212; coordinating academic pressure (Watt),       media pressure (BBC Radio 4, La Jornada), and political pressure       (MPs and ambassadors) &#8212; had a direct impact on cases brought by Mexican       HRDs, such as that of Valentina, Rosendo Radilla and Tita Radilla, because       these cases were instrumental in forcing the Mexican President Calder&#243;n to       subsequently raise the issue of impunity for human rights abuses allegedly       committed by the military in the Mexican Senate in 2012.
This significant       change in public opinion regarding human rights issues subsequently led to       the Mexican Supreme Court ordering the military in August 2012 to abandon       the uniform impunity guaranteed to military personnel who commit human       rights abuses.
Military personnel allegedly involved in perpetrating human       rights abuses are now to be tried in a civilian, rather than military,       court.
Influencing public perceptions through talks and media interviews     Linked to his behind-the-scenes work which resulted in IACHR judgements       and change in Mexican government policies, Watt has also undertaken direct       public-facing activities.
For example, related to his lobbying work, in       May 2010 La Jornada published a front-page interview with Watt       about the troubling relationship between human rights abuses and the war       on drugs.
This interview saw Watt beginning to reveal how the pretext of       the war on drugs was leading to use of sexual violence within a climate of       (military) impunity.
Related to this, in June 2011 Watt spoke at the       publicly-attended `Mexico and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights'       Conference at the University of London.
Watt spoke on a panel with the       Mexico director of Amnesty International, a member of the Central America       and Mexico Team at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and three Mexican       HRDs (including Valentina Cant&#249;).
This public conference took place the       day before Watt went to the House of Commons to lobby MPs.
What emerged       from this public forum was how the violent contexts experienced by       Valentina and others were directly related to issues with Mexican       government policy.
Watt made the connection between this eruption of       violence and human rights abuses and the more wide-reaching war on drugs       in Mexico.
Following the publication of his 2012 book on the war on drugs, which has       generated considerable media interest across the globe, Watt participated       in a high-profile public event at the Frontline Club in central London to       discuss the book with a panel of specialists on Mexico.
The event was       chaired by BBC Correspondent Katya Adler and panellists included Watt;       journalist Ed Vulliamy of The Guardian / Observer; the Mexico       Director of Amnesty International; The Director of the Mexican         Commission for the Defense of Human Rights; and a prominent Mexican       HRD and lawyer.
The event was filmed and live streamed on Frontline TV.
La         Jornada also covered the event, and it was publicised by the Mexican       Commission for the Defence of Human Rights based in Mexico City.
This       media coverage served to enhance the international profile of HRDs at       risk, ultimately contributing to changing perspectives about the grave       human rights context in Mexico both domestically and in the UK and the US.
Personal emails to Watt confirm this, such as messages from the leader of       an online campaign which sought to prevent the former Mexican president       Calder&#243;n being instated to a post at Harvard in 2012, who recognised the       importance of Watt's contribution in terms of changing public opinion.
Watt was also interviewed on his research for the BBC World Service       programme, The World Today, KBOO radio in Portland Oregon and Sounds         of Dissent in Boston in July 2012.
The BBC's The World Today       programme is broadcast to 43 million listeners worldwide, 10 million of       whom listen to the programme in the United States on National Public       Radio.
In July 2012 Watt was also interviewed about the book for the Latin         America Bureau and the text was subsequently published in the       organisation's newsletter.
In November 2012, Watt was again interviewed       for a series by the National Geographic History Channel on the subject of       the book.
This six-part series, entitled The '80s: The Decade that         Made Us is the channel's largest documentary series to date.
The       series was broadcast on April 14-16, 2013, reached a global audience of       430 million in 171 countries and was translated into 38 languages.
In       December 2012, Watt was interviewed for Al Jazeera's Inside Story       programme about his research.
Whilst precise viewing figures for this       cannot be obtained, Al Jazeera broadcasts to 220 million homes in 100       different countries,.
Also in December 2012, Watt published a two-part       interview (about 6000 words) about his book in the Huffington Post.
The Post's website receives on average 50 million views every       month and is the third largest news source on the internet after Yahoo and       CNN.
In February and May 2013 Watt conducted two filmed interviews (which       were aired the following day) for The Real News Network, based in       Baltimore, on the topic of the book, Drug War Mexico.
Other media work includes an article authored by Watt in a German       political magazine, Welt-Sichten in December 2012, and a filmed       interview based around the book on the history of the Mexican drug war for       the launching in May 2013 of a new political website based in London, The         Narcotic Lollipop.
It is because HRDs in Mexico repeatedly reiterate       the central role of the international media in bringing their concerns to       the attention of a global audience that Watt views this media work as       central in bringing the unfolding crisis in Mexico to an international       audience.
