     Impacting healthcare policy, education, practice     Sque's bereaved family work has impacted a number of healthcare policies       which have implications for education and practice across the healthcare       work force.
The Donor Family Care Policy (DFCP)1 of NHS Blood and       Transplant (NHSBT), underpinned by Sque's earlier work was reviewed in       2007 and 2011 in light of new research.
NHSBT is a Special Health       Authority of the NHS with responsibility for optimising the supply of       blood, organs, plasma and tissues and raising the quality, effectiveness       and efficiency of blood and transplant services.
This document outlines       the minimum standard of care that healthcare professionals working within       NHSBT are expected, as part of their professional role, to offer family       members during and post organ or tissue donation.
The DFCP is cited within the General Medical Council end of life guidance       to doctors, `Treatment and care towards the end of life: good practice         in decision making'2 [2010].
"This       guidance is addressed to doctors.
However, it may also help patients and       the public to understand what to expect of their doctors, in circumstances       in which patients and those close to them may be particularly vulnerable       and in need of support.
Other members of the healthcare team may also       benefit from it, given their crucial role in delivering end of life care"       [p06].
The DFCP is referenced in NICE3 clinical guideline 135 &#8212; `Organ         donation for transplantation: Improving donor identification and consent         rates for deceased organ donation' [2011].
NHS National end of life care programme improving end of life care4       `Guidance for staff responsible for care after death (last offices),'       [2011] was developed by the National Nurse Consultant Group       (Palliative Care).
Sque was a key member of the working group involved in       the development of this guidance.
It is currently under review [2013]       and Sque has again subscribed to this consultation in light of new       insights from the DH bereaved family study.
Some of these insights concern       for instance, circulatory death of an organ donor.
"The Institute of Healthcare Management5 carried out a review       of the implementation across England of, `Guidance for staff         responsible for care after death (last offices)' and evaluation of       its impact on the ability and confidence of staff to care for the person       who had died and their family."
"The guidance was found to be useful in       providing staff with the confidence and competence to perform care after       death duties and to speak to the bereaved as well as supporting the       teaching of care after death to students."
Film Lifelines &#8212; A reflection on organ donation6[2011]       directed by Barbara Myers and Paul Loman of Homegrown Films, Brighton.
The       script is comprised of extracts from an interview Sque carried out with a       donor father.
The film won the award for Best Foreign Documentary       at the Los Angeles 2011 Action/Cut Short Film Competition and was a       featured at the 2011 Brighton Film Festival.
The film was adopted by NHS       Blood and Transplant and 1,000 copies (DVDs) were distributed to Organ       Donation Teams in all UK Hospital Trusts to be used for educational       purposes.
Impacting public debate and information The reach and significance       of Sque's work is further demonstrated by her Invited International         Chair [July 2008-July 2013], and membership of ELPAT's Deceased       Donation Working Group.
ELPAT is a European organisation based in Erasmus       MC, Rotterdam.
ELPAT is a European platform that brings continuity and       progress in European research and dialogue on "Ethical, Legal       and Psychosocial Aspects of organ Transplantation".
It aims to integrate and structure this field of science by bringing       together European professionals.
These experts range from (bio)ethicists,       philosophers, lawyers and psychologists to clinicians, physicians,       sociologists, anthropologists, policy makers and criminologists.
ELPAT       currently consists of over 160 experts from more than 25 European       countries, who convene in seven working groups.
http://www.esot.org/elpat/content.aspx?item=10     Invited panel member House of Lords parliamentary seminar (by       Baroness Finlay of Llandaff), on, `Increasing consent rates for organ         donation,' [22nd May 2012] hosted       by Transplant 2013 on behalf of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for       Transplantation.
The purpose of the seminar was to facilitate discussion       and debate on increasing consent rates with MPs, Peers, and members of the       transplant community including patients and clinicians.
The seminar led to       the development of a set of recommendations on how an increase in donation       could best be achieved.
An information booklet7 was developed from, `The         life on the list,' study to provide information for individuals       awaiting kidney transplants and their families.
The booklet was posted on       the British Kidney Patients' Association (BKPA) website [2012] and an       article about the research is in their Review 20128       magazine.
Information from Suzan Yianni re BKPA's website shows that       between May 2009-October 2013 there were overall 338,455 visitors       (Unique 249, 402) and the Patient Information section/Additional resources       for the same period, 24,010 visitors (unique 11,197); 752 visitors (unique       488) respectively.
These data give some indication of the exposure of the       booklet and article.
