     Research findings in respect of police interview training and the use of       the CI have provided police forces world-wide with the evidence base to       both improve the training of police officers throughout their careers and       has allowed implementation of new, innovative techniques valuable in       working with vulnerable individuals.
Improved, reliable, interviewing       plays an important part in the justice process, and appropriate handling       of vulnerable individuals improves their access to justice.
The Clarke and Milne report, widely published following the research       project, made a number of recommendations for police interviewing.
Many of       the recommendations have been implemented.
Amongst the most apparent       changes is the adoption of the recommended Tiered approach to developing       an interviewers skills across their career, which was fully adopted by the       UK police as a result of the report and has formed part of the UK       government's "Professionalising the Investigative Process" (PIP) agenda       and associated National Occupation Standards.
The Tiered approach has also       been adopted by the New Zealand Police Force, Australian Federal Police       and two Australian Territories.
The uptake in these locations stemmed from       dissemination work by Dr Milne who met with Police representatives and       gave presentations on the team's research.
The group's research into the CI (Fisher, Milne &amp; Bull, 2011) has       encouraged the adoption of the CI by police organisations across the world       (in North America, Europe, Australasia, Asia and Africa).
The research has       been used by Milne to develop teaching materials and training packages for       Police Investigators, training investigators from across the world,       including from the UK, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Canada, Cyprus,       Germany, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Sweden.
The training has continued       to be enriched by ongoing research and Milne has been able to incorporate       her most recent work on interviewing vulnerable groups, interviewing       suspects and critical failure points (which can lead to miscarriages of       justice) into the training.
As a result of her research, Milne has been asked to advise several       national policing bodies on the use of interview techniques appropriate to       vulnerable groups and has drawn upon the team's research findings to       provide appropriate advice.
The research study on sexual offences was       cited within the Stern Review in which Baroness Stern examined the       investigation of rape within the UK and led directly to changes in police       interviewing behaviour at the `coal-face' by developing actual interview       techniques that officers can utilise in the field, by advancing training       programmes, and at a strategic level by influencing police policy.
The research findings with respect to the innate skills require for       successful training as an investigative interviewer have forced       organisations to examine their training policies and to adapt selection       processes, both in terms of selecting officers for advanced interview       training and for roles in the force.
The research findings have informed Milne's work as an invited member of       a specialist database of experts for the UK police service (National Crime       Agency; since 2002).
She has acted as an expert witness in court       proceedings and as a subject matter expert in real investigations using       her expertise and research results to advise on the best ways to interview       various individuals in an enquiry (e.g.
current case: Savile inquiry).
As       an elected member of the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO)       Investigative Interviewing Strategic Steering Group (a group whose role is       to direct national strategy, policy and practice in the UK) Milne has been       able to inform discussions at the highest level in UK policing with the       latest research outcomes from the team's research work.
As a result of her       work for the UK police she was the first (and only) academic awarded by       ACPO, the Tom Williamson Award for outstanding achievement in the field of       investigative interviewing (2009).
Among the documents produced by ACPO       which have been influenced by Milne's research are;     (i) Interviewing vulnerable groups for legal purposes &#8212; Welsh Assembly       package (2005);     (ii) Interviewing vulnerable groups; A guide for legal practitioners;       Scottish Office (2005);     (iii) Achieving Best Evidence; A guide for interviewing children and       vulnerable groups for legal purposes (Home Office, 2007;2010);     (iv) National Investigative Interviewing Manual (New Zealand Police,       2008,2012) &#8212; now also used in Australia (2012).
The study of police interview techniques is of great public importance       and interest, and the general public has both the desire and right to know       that the best available techniques are employed in the pursuit of justice.
Recently Milne helped design and presented a BBC/OU television series       (three programmes) called Eyewitness that examined the use of the       CI in the real world of investigating serious crime.
There was an average       of 630,000 viewers per episode on the first showing, the programmes       reached a wide audience and raised the public profile of interviewing as a       highly important police skill.
