     Global carbon budgets: The School's work on the world's       carbon budget is published annually in the autumn prior to the annual       meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and is also widely       disseminated via the media and social media.
This effort has achieved       impact in three ways:            it has informed the wider public of the recent high growth in CO2         emissions and the sensitivity of the carbon sinks,       it has played a key role in strengthening the UK emissions target from         60 to 80% by 2050,       it has provided incentive and information to support international         climate negotiations.
The public has been informed widely of the recent trends in CO2       emissions and sinks from the widespread diffusion of our carbon updates.
For example, 1459 media stories were recorded worldwide between 2007 and       2012 [7] and since 2011 the news coverage is also diffused through new       social media (Facebook and Twitter), e.g.
The Guardian news item       on this was re-tweeted 264 times in 2012.
The true coverage will       substantially exceed these numbers because of the difficulty of recording       foreign-language news articles.
The carbon budget is also re-disseminated       through the independent organisations CO2now.org       and www.rtcc.org.
Highlights of our       work were presented widely by other influential opinion formers, including       Al Gore, HRH Prince of Wales and even Hollywood [8].
The UK emissions reductions target for 2050 was strengthened from 60 to       80% in 2008 a target that is now part of the UK Climate Change Act and at       the core of the 5-year UK carbon budgets.
Our work is cited in the report       of the Committee on Climate change which underpinned this emissions target       [9a].
Our work was also cited for two of the six reasons to strengthen the       target in a letter written by Lord Turner, Chair of the Committee on         Climate Change to the UK Secretary of State [9b].
The first       reason explained that:     `we know more about how rising temperatures will reduce the       effectiveness of carbon sinks'     and the second reason stated that:     `latest global emission trends are higher than those anticipated in         most IPCC scenarios, largely because of higher economic growth and a         shift towards more carbon intensive sources of energy'.
Lord Turner's letter was published in advance of its planned publication       date 11 days after (and possibly in response to) the publication of our       2008 carbon budget.
Our work has also been cited in the Third Report of       the Select Committee on Environmental Audit [9c].
In support of the International Negotiations, our carbon budget data have       been requested by the European Commission, the Minister of the Environment       in Germany, congressional advisers in the US, policy advisers in Sweden       and the UK, and the Department of Climate Change in Australia [10].
We       presented our work in briefings to the Leader of HM Government's       Opposition (David Cameron, 2007), to the Prince of Wales's corporate       leaders group on climate change (2008), to the Department of Energy and       Climate Change (2010, 2012), to the Canadian Ambassador for Climate Change       (2011), and to the UNFCCC Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological       Advice on research and systematic observations (2011).
Australian MP and       Parliamentary Secretary for Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Mark       Dreyfus testified in a radio interview on 3 December 2012 that our carbon       budget released that day was being discussed at the UNFCCC Conference of       the Party in Doha [11].
Further policy impact of this work will be       delivered through the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental       Panel on Climate Change (IPCC 2013), co-authored by Le Qu&#233;r&#233;,       where the climate impact on carbon sinks was adopted as one of the main       key findings.
Ocean carbon sink and ocean acidification: In addition to       its impact through the global carbon budget, the School's work in this       area has helped efforts at international, European and national levels to       construct an observing system for land and ocean carbon (e.g.
[12]).
Liss       (since 1969) and Watson, A. were co-authors on the Royal Society       report on ocean acidification [13], which is widely cited in connection       with responses to this topic by the European Commission, NERC and other       countries.
Iron fertilisation: The Royal Society's 2009 report on       geoengineering [14] leaned heavily on the School's research which       quantified geoengineering methods in general [5] and iron fertilisation in       particular.
Watson led the chapter on carbon removal methods.
The       House of Commons Science and Technology Committee in 2009 conducted a       study on the regulation of geoengineering (Liss was Scientific       Advisor).
The US Congressional Science and Technology Committee were also       simultaneously investigating this matter and drew upon our work.
In recent       years a few companies have developed plans to perform artificial iron       fertilisation triggering reactions from national and international       policymakers.
UN bodies became involved in 2008 when the Scientific Group       of the London Dumping Convention appointed an advisory group (including Watson,         A.)
and issued interim guidelines, and the 2010 Conference on       Biological Diversity (CBD) issued a statement restricting iron       fertilisation research [15].
IPCC 2013 highlighted the side effects of       geoengineering methods citing [5], [6], and [14].
