     The development of the SF-6D contributes to public policy and         services around the world and has       commercial benefits in the UK.
The health system efficiency       improvement arises from the use of       SF-6D data in the assessment of the cost-effectiveness of health care       interventions by health       services and regulatory agencies around the world.
Commercial benefits       come from the licensing       of the measure to pharmaceutical companies and others who need to       demonstrate the cost       effectiveness of their products to these agencies.
Achieving impact     Dissemination of the SF-6D was initially targeted at the funders       (GlaxoWelcome) and to key       decision makers (e.g.
Department of Health).
The work was presented at       conferences attended by       potential end users including: pharmaceutical companies (International       Society for       Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes research), HTA agencies (International       Society of Technology       Assessment in Health Care, 1999), Australian policy makers (the Australian       Health Outcomes       Collaboration in 1999), and US policy advisors (Institute of Medicine, USA       in 2004).
Information       about the SF-6D and other measures developed in ScHARR is advertised at       user conferences       (e.g.
ISPOR, ISOQOL).
The team has continued to promote the SD-6D through       publishing       research showing how well it performs compared to other instruments in       terms of psychometric       properties and across different conditions (R3).
To maximise access, the SF-6D is supplied in easy to use software       including excel, SPSS and       SAS programs accessible to a wide a range of users.
These programs can be       run on SF-36       (version 1 or 2) and SF-12 datasets to estimate the SF-6D index on the       zero to one scale for       calculating QALYs.
Guidance and instructions on how to use the programs       are provided at the sf-       6d website (see http://www.sheffield.ac.uk/scharr/sections/heds/mvh/sf-6d).
Access to the SF-6D is       through either a license for commercial applications from the University's       commercialisation       partner in the UK, Fusion IP, or from Quality Metric in the US who supply       the software for a charge.
Non-commercial applications covering all public sector and charitable       applications are free of       charge and copies of the software can be obtained through ScHARR; 521       non-commercial       licenses have been distributed since 2008.     International public policy and services (HTA regulatory authorities)     An important impact of the SF-6D has been its use by HTA regulatory       bodies around the world for       assessing the cost-effectiveness of health technologies.
The SF-6D is       recommended for use by       Health Technology Assessment (HTA) agencies in Ireland (S1) and       China (S2); it is explicitly       named as an accepted measure in Australia (S3), Belgium, Canada (S4),       Norway (S5), South       Korea and Thailand; it also meets the specific guideline requirements of       HTA agencies in 21 other       countries whose guidelines are available via the ISPOR       website(www.ispor.org/PEguidelines/index.asp)       and thus can be used for health care decision       making in those countries.
It is also featured in the European Network for       Health Technology       Assessment (eunethat) Guideline on health-related quality of life and       utility measures (S6).
The SF-6D has been used in decision making in the UK by NICE, SMC and       AWMSG.
It has been       used as the main health utility measure in important assessments such as       pharmacological       treatments for Alzheimer's (NICETA217), gout (NICESTA118301), low platelet       count       (NICESTA088101) and peripheral arterial disease (NICETA223), and has been       used alongside       other measures in many other appraisals.
Commercial benefits     The main commercial users of the SF-6D have been pharmaceutical companies       and consultancy       companies working on their behalf who wish to examine the       cost-effectiveness of new drugs and       make submissions to regulatory authorities.
It is available through Fusion       IP, a company       specialising in marketing IP owned by the University.
The selling of the       SF-6D has also been       subcontracted to Quality Metric (www.qualitymetric.com)       a US based company specialising in       measuring health outcomes who also distribute other SF products including       SF-36 and SF-12.
Since 2008 they have together sold over 460 licenses to pharmaceutical and       consultancy       companies including Novartis, Roche, Pfizer, Novo Nordisk, Astellas,       Merck, Sanofi and BMS.
Other important commercial users have been health care insurers and       providers in the USA.
The companies benefit because an accepted generic health measure       administered in their clinical       trial (the SF-36 or SF-12) can be directly, and easily, translated into a       preference based measure       that can be used in economic evaluation.
The SF-6D enables them to       estimate the health related       quality of life benefits of their technology in terms of QALYs, which is a       requirement for a       submission to regulatory bodies around the world.
