     The impact of this research is on national policy and public services     Pathway to impact       A report was produced in April 2011 [R1] and this was presented to the DoH       Hospital Mortality committee chaired by Sir Bruce Keogh (Medical Director       of the NHS) in May 2011.The key insights were that a relatively simple       combination of age, sex, diagnosis on admission, method of admission       (emergency or elective) and comorbidity score produced a useful and stable       model which could be used to calculate how many deaths would have been       expected in a hospital, given its particular case-mix.
Using random       effects model and funnel plots to identify unexplained variation, limits       were drawn for the ratio of the observed to expected number of deaths, and       above or below these limits a hospital was deemed to be an `outlier'.
A       number of hospitals were thus identified.
We recommended that mortality indicators should not be used on their own       at one point in time, but rather over a period of time, and with due       consideration of the changes to both the observed mortality and the       expected mortality.
We also advised that the index should be used in       conjunction with other indicators, and that avoidable mortality was only a       small proportion of the total deaths in a hospital.
The hospital morbidity indicator developed by Sheffield has been rolled       out across the NHS.
Our SHMI enables robust and transparent monitoring of       hospital performance and enables early identification of possibly failing       hospitals so that investigations and remedial action can be taken.
In the       long run patients will benefit from better hospital care.
ScHARR's contribution is highlighted by the following statement on the       NHS Information Centre website:     "The Department of Health are committed to implementing the SHMI as         the single hospital-level indicator for the NHS in England and have         commissioned the Health and Social Care Information Centre to produce         it.
This decision was based on the recommendations from the national         review of the Hospital Standardised Mortality Ratios (HSMR) with         independent statistical modelling work commissioned by the Department of         Health and carried out by the School of Health and Related Research         (ScHARR) at the University of Sheffield."
(http://www.hscic.gov.uk/SHMI       .)
Dissemination       The SHMI was disseminated via a major conference in London in May 2012:       http://www.healthcareconferencesuk.co.uk/reducing-measuring-avoidable-mortality       attended by managers and clinicians from Hospital Trusts across England       and by the Department of Health.
Beneficiaries:       DoH &#8212; accurate and independent monitoring       The Francis Report on the Mid-Staffordshire Hospital Trust in Feb 2013       showed that excess mortality for the Trust was associated with poor care.
Subsequently 14 hospitals (many of which were also identified in our       report of 2011) have been identified by the Department of Health as having       unacceptably high mortality, over two years using the Sheffield SHMI,       amongst other measures.
The consequence of this is that the Care Quality       Commission has sent teams in to investigate the care of patients at these       hospitals and this has been reported in the Keogh report (2013) which will       ultimately impact on staff, patients and hospital systems with the aim of       improving patient outcomes.
NHS Trusts &#8212; can verify their results from published weightings       Previous hospital mortality indicators have been strongly criticised       because of a lack of transparency as to how different case-mix variables       were weighted.
This has been solved because the weights for the SHMI are       published on the NHS Information Centre's website and can be downloaded       and used by individual Trusts to verify their SHMI.
International beneficiaries &#8212; learning from our research       As authors of the SHMI we were in a unique position of being able to       advise on its use.
In 2012 we gave a presentation on the use of the SHMI       to the Catalonian Department of Health in Barcelona.
In April 2013 five       representatives from The Netherlands National Statistics Group came see us       to discuss comparisons with Dutch methods and we have also had a visitor       from Milan to discuss Italian methods.
This may lead to attempts to       standardise these measure in parts of Europe.
