     The research study was used to inform a policy decision to implement a       national bowel cancer screening programme which in turn has led to       improvements in the prognosis of patients with diagnosed bowel cancer       (S6,S7).
Whilst there is not yet direct evidence of patient benefit from       the programme itself, other evidence suggests that earlier diagnosis is       associated with improved survival (S7) and improved health-related quality       of life (S8).
Analyses from RCTs and the English bowel cancer screening       programme indicate that screening results in earlier diagnosis, thus       patient benefit is fully expected.
This research study provided the key evidence which was reviewed by the       English Bowel Cancer Advisory Group in 2004 in formulating recommendations       to the Secretary of State for Health for colorectal cancer screening in       England (this can be corroborated by Professor Sir Mike Richards &#8212; See       coversheet).The commissioning of this options appraisal was cited in       Parliament in 2004 (S1) and its relationship to the policy decision is       cited in advice to the NHS on bowel cancer screening (S2).
The work was presented by Dr Tappenden to the English Bowel Cancer       Advisory Group in 2004.
In 2005, the Secretary of State for Health       announced that a national screening programme involving FOBT for       individuals aged 60-69 would be launched in England.
The NHS Bowel Cancer       Screening Programme launched an FOBT-based programme in 2006 and this is       now fully rolled out across England.
This policy decision resulted in a substantial service change for the NHS       requiring the establishment of whole new system infrastructures (screening       hubs, laboratory testing etc.)
and their integration with existing       services for endoscopy.
The screening programme is available to all men       and women in England from the date of their 60th or 61st,       birthday.
An extension has recently been rolled out to include individuals       up to the age of 74 years of age.
The government is also planning to       include an additional screening FSIG for individuals aged 55 years of age       (S3).
This policy option was re-evaluated retrospectively in a Department       of Health funded project using the original ScHARR options appraisal       model.
The introduction of a national screening programme has also changed the       agenda for health intervention in this area, with a new focus on       increasing participation in screening and promoting the earlier diagnosis       of the disease.
At this time, it is difficult to assess the direct health impact of       introducing bowel cancer screening in England as cancer incidence and       mortality fluctuate year on year and other changes to the health system       may account for some additional benefits.
There is also a time lag in the       availability of national mortality data from the Office for National       Statistics.
There is, however, an evident trend towards increased incidence (~13% in       the UK between 2006 and 2008) since the rollout of the programme; this       reflects additional cases of preclinical cancer that would otherwise have       been likely to have been diagnosed later, potentially at a more advanced       stage.
Research evidence from randomised controlled trials has shown that       FOBT can reduce colorectal cancer mortality (approximately 16%) and that       FSIG can reduce both incidence and mortality (23% and 31% respectively).
Statistics from Cancer Research UK indicate that the mortality rate for       bowel cancer in the period 2008-2010 was 14% lower than the rate in the       period 1991-1999.
It is likely that a proportion of this benefit is       attributable to the introduction of the screening programme (http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/cancer-info/cancerstats/types/bowel/incidence/uk-bowel-cancer-incidence-statistics).
The available evidence (see Section 5) indicates that the screening       programme has had a positive impact upon the prognosis of patients with       screen-detected colorectal cancer and a mortality reduction of       approximately 16% is estimated on the basis of this evidence; this       suggests around 2,500 colorectal cancer deaths are expected to be avoided       each year (S5).
