     The research has had an impact on health and welfare, by informing NICE       guidance on treatment to prevent fractures due to osteoporosis in       post-menopausal women and thereby influencing treatment for this patient       group.
Process to impact:     The model, developed by the University of Sheffield researchers, was used       to draw up the NICE guidance TA87, released in 2005.
Prior to this,       prescribing patterns and the use of bone mineral density tests were not       standardised across the country and had not been subjected to       cost-effectiveness analyses.
In 2008, NICE released new guidance, TA160       and TA161 [S1 and S2], which used the same cost-effectiveness model       developed in Sheffield, updated by the Sheffield team to include the new       treatment, strontium ranelate.
In 2009, the guidance was taken to judicial review following complaints       by a number of stakeholders, and NICE was asked to review the model on       which their decisions had been based.
NICE concluded that the model was       sound and so it remains the basis for their current guidance, updated in       2011.
Impact on health and welfare:     The research has had impact on health and welfare by informing the       decisions made by a regulatory authority, namely NICE.
The NICE guidance (TA160 and TA161) says: `The Committee concluded that       the Assessment Group [named as ScHARR in para 1.4.1 p14] had provided an       executable economic model ...
The Committee confirmed that the model       provided a suitable framework to allow it to make recommendations on the       cost-effective use of treatment for women at risk of fracture...
Therefore       the Committee concluded that the recommendations based on the Assessment       Group's model were appropriate, and that the recommendations should remain       unchanged.'
(TA160, para 4.3.65 pp78-9; TA161, para 4.3.66 pp83-4) [S1,       S2].
NICE estimate that there are more than 2 million women with osteoporosis       in England and Wales (TA161 amended, p9).
As NICE guidance is mandatory,       the research &#8212; through TA160 and TA161 &#8212; has influenced the treatment of       all post-menopausal women with osteoporosis in England and Wales since the       initial guidance was released in October 2008.
NICE guidance identifies which women should be offered a bone mineral       density scan, and based on the result of the scan, which women should be       offered treatment with alendronate.
Where women are unable to take       alendronate, the guidance specifies whether alternative treatments can be       prescribed based on age, clinical risk factor and bone mineral density       characteristics (T-Score).
Without the algorithm developed through the       Sheffield research, it would not be possible for NICE to issue guidance to       this level of granularity in terms of age, T-Score and clinical risk       factor combinations.
