     UK adaptation policy and regulatory development has been influenced       through the codified       knowledge of possible future climate impacts and adaptation options       developed in the School.
Hansard cites links to our work in three White Papers between 2001 and       2005 and three policy       briefings from the Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology, one of       which was authored by       a School secondee to Parliament, have relied heavily upon this work [7].
These findings have been       presented through personal briefings to successive Secretaries of State       for the Environment       (Beckett, 2001-05; Miliband, 2005-07; Benn, 2007-10); to parliamentary       select committee inquiries       (International Development; Science and Technology; Energy and Climate       Change; Environment       Audit [e.g.8]); and to devolved administrations in Belfast, Cardiff and       Edinburgh.
Liss (since 1971)       served on the UK's Royal Commission on Environment and Pollution for their       2010 report on       Adapting Institutions to Climate Change.
Warren led       Workstream 1 of the AVOID programme       funded by the Department of Energy &amp; Climate Change during 2009-2013       to inform UK's mitigation       and adaptation strategies.
Watkinson was seconded to lead Living         With Environmental Change       from 2008-2013.
The School provided a team (led by Hulme) which designed and       delivered the UKCIP02 climate       scenarios for Defra [9].
The UKCIP02 scenarios have been cited over 1,100       times (half of which       are in the period 2008-2013) in academic, policy and applied studies and       used by large numbers of       public and private sector organisations in their strategic planning and       decision-making in the period       from 2002-2010.
One specific example of their impact concerns the UK       Government's 2004       Foresight report on future flood risk [10].
Watkinson was one of       the six lead authors of this peer-reviewed       study, and Jordan (since 1992) a contributing author, which drew       specifically on the       UKCIP02 climate scenarios.
The report was commissioned by the DTI and       received by Defra and       constituted the primary evidence base for the subsequent policy document Making         Space for         Water; in turn it directly informed a multi-million pound uplift in       the flood risk management budget       announced by Defra in 2006.
The national benefits of this work and policy       advice, through       improved flood defence, continue to be realised throughout the period to       2013 &#8212; and beyond.
The       innovative methodology developed for this purpose [10] has also informed       flood risk management       in other parts of the world (China and the USA).
The UKCIP02 scenarios       also guided the       development of the new 2009 national building design data for the Chartered         Institute of Building         Service Engineers and improved the resilience of new buildings to       future weather extremes [11].
The School's underpinning research also made substantial contributions to       the most recent update       of these scenarios: the 2009 UK Climate Projections (UKCP09).
Their       development was led by the       Hadley Centre who refined the UKCIP02 scenarios through adding detailed       probabilistic       assessments of uncertainty and extreme weather outcomes.
Goodess'       work [3] provided       justification for this approach and she also served as a member of the       UKCP09 science steering       committee and as an international reviewer for Defra.
Jones,       together with the University of       Newcastle, developed the UKCP09 weather generator (WGen) which allows       public and private       sector users to generate scenarios of local extreme weather events.
The       UKCP09 scenarios       formed the basis of the 2012 National Climate Change Risk Assessment       [12] and have been used       by over 100 public and private sector organisations for developing their       adaptation strategies, e.g.
Network Rail; the Lighthouse Authority; Severn Trent Water; Anglian Water       [12].
Some of the       development work of WGen was undertaken for the Environment Agency which       now uses the       derived `EarWig' tool on an operational basis [13].
Further applications       of WGen are focused on       urban planning and adaptation decision-making by regional policymakers       such as the Greater       London Authority and third sector bodies such as the Commission for       Architecture and the Built       Environment and the Town and Country Planning Association.
Through a       series of EU FP6 and 7       funded projects, the School's work on climate scenarios, impacts and       adaptation assessments has       informed the EU's 2009 White Paper on Adapting to Climate Change:         Towards a European         Framework for Action [14].
The School's work on adaptation has influenced the large-scale       disbursement of funds to       developing countries to adapt to the impacts of climate change.
It has       informed the 2010 World       Development Report of the World Bank (Adger scientific advisor,       2008-2010) and contributed to       UNDP's Adaptation Policy Frameworks and FAO's 2009 assessment of       adaptation for fisheries as       part of World Food Summit [15].
On the basis of research in the School on       climate change and       migration funded by the MacArthur Foundation, Adger served as a       member of the Lead Expert       Group for Government Office Science Foresight 2011 report on migration and       global environmental       change [16], for which Goodess (extreme events) and Jordan       (adaptation policy coordination)       produced expert review papers and Watkinson was on steering group.
The expertise of the       Tyndall Centre on sustainable adaptation and the impacts of climate change       are being adopted in       China through the establishment of a Tyndall Centre in Fudan University,       funded by the Chinese       government with a 15-year commitment and &#163;2 million budget for phase I       (2013-2014).
