     Frontier Economics (for a study commissioned by the ESRC and published in       2009) interviewed senior English civil servants who reported that SKOPE's       research [R1, R2] provided "the leading British critique of       approaches to skills policy" and "an important oversight and challenge       role by advocating alternative positions" [Section 5: C1].
Their       report went on to state that "English policy makers valued the work of       SKOPE as a type of `unofficial' opposition and their research is widely       acknowledged to have provided material to fill important gaps in the       skills evidence base."
The interviewees stated that SKOPE's research [R1]       provided an important part of the evidence used to justify extra funding       for management and leadership training under the Labour Government's       flagship Train to Gain programme.
The interviewees also mentioned the       influence of SKOPE's research on official thinking about the utilisation       of skills and about the quality of qualifications [C1].
As       testimony to this continuing influence, SKOPE staff had several meetings       with the team from the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit and the Department       for Business Innovation and Skills (DBIS) preparing the 2009 Skills White       Paper, and held an Oxford seminar for them.
James and Keep were two of       only three academics acknowledged as advising the National Audit Office       (NAO) in its preparation of its 2012 report on adult apprenticeships,       whilst Mayhew was the sole external reviewer of the final report [C3].
SKOPE's research [R1, R4 and R5] informed the NAO's thinking about       the quality of apprenticeships, about their usefulness for the labour       market prospects of the apprentices and about whether the government was       getting value for money for the extensive subsidies provided to employers.
In an attempt to extend their influence beyond central government       officials SKOPE established two Forums in 2003 &#8212; the Employers' Forum and       the Policy Makers' Forum.
Each forum has a membership of about 60 and       meets twice a year.
Typically about 25 members come to any given forum.
Because they involve slowly evolving groups, members feel some ownership       and the Centre has been enabled to develop long-term relationships with       people in both the public and private sectors.
The members have not simply       been the recipients of finished pieces of work but have been involved in       the initiation and progress of research.
In particular these forums have       allowed SKOPE to impact on the thinking of the sector skills councils,       whose staff have been prominent in their membership &#8212; their numbers       averaging 12 in any given year.
SKOPE's research on skill utilisation and       on the content of qualifications [R1, R2, R5] has had particular       resonance with this group [C7, C8].
They have also been interested       in the implications of the research findings for recruitment and selection       strategies and particularly in the research [R6] of James and       Professor Chris Warhurst (one of SKOPE's associates at Strathclyde       University) on the "graduatisation" of estate agency work &#8212; that is the       trend for greater and greater proportions of employees in this sector to       be graduates &#8212; and its ramifications.
The relevant sector skills council       (Asset Skills) helped James and Warhurst in the conduct of their research       and have published an initial report about the findings (Susan James,       Chris Warhurst, Johanna Commander and Gerbrand Tholen, Graduates on         the Property Ladder; Skills, Work and Employment in the Real Estate         Industry, 2012, SKOPE and the Scottish Centre for Employment       Research).
The forums also led to work for UK Skills and World Skills,       directly used to help improve the UK's performance in skills competitions       [C9].
SKOPE's long existence as an ESRC centre has facilitated the development       of long-term relationships with policy makers at home and abroad and in       international organisations like the OECD and the European Commission.
For       example, Mayhew has been on the International Advisory Committee of the       OECD Local Economic and Employment Development (LEED) Skills for       Competitiveness Project.
Its 2010 report contains demonstrable evidence of       SKOPE's influence [R1, R5] on the OECD's thinking, for example in       the high proportion of references which relate to SKOPE's work.
A       particular angle which SKOPE's research influenced was the OECD's       insistence that human capital policies needed to be embedded in broader       economic development strategies if their contribution to growth was to be       maximised [C2].
Further examples of SKOPE's cumulative impact include the following:     a) In New Zealand the research [R2] had a major impact on the       development of thinking in the National Tertiary Education Commission       which funds further and higher education training.
This impact related to       the appropriate locations and levels for post-compulsory education and       training [C5].
b) The Keep, Mayhew and Payne article [R1], together with lecture       visits by SKOPE staff to Australia, had a significant influence on the       establishment and subsequent development of the Queensland and NSW       government's skill ecosystems projects.
SKOPE research findings on the       need for clear links between skills development and broader industrial       strategies were particularly relevant here [C4].
c) SKOPE's research [R1, R5] on skills policy and economic       development has played a role in shaping the underlying direction taken by       Scottish skills strategies, not least in encouraging the authorities there       to undertake various pilot schemes to improve skills utilisation.
The       Centre's message that traditional supply led models might not translate       into improved economic performance has found particular resonance, as       testified by the Frontier Economics report based on interviews with       Scottish officials [C1].
d) The review of 14-19 education and training [R3], funded       separately by the Nuffield Foundation, has had a significant impact on       thinking in policy circles and amongst other things has led to Pring's       involvement with Royal Society and Edge Foundation initiatives on the       alleged shortage of STEM skills [C8].
e) Holmes' and Mayhew's research on low pay and labour market       segmentation evolved from the project on the future of low end work and       helped to shape the IPPR's Working out of Poverty project and informed the       Resolution Foundation report on the changing shape of the UK job market.
The IPPR's influential 2012 report on how to improve the UK's training       performance was also heavily influenced by SKOPE's research [R1, R4,         R5], [C6].
