     Physics at Work is a 3 day event centred on ~25 exhibits with capacity       for 2300 students and the aims of stimulating interest, widening       participation and raising aspirations of students aged 14-16 from all over       the UK.
The exhibition is specifically designed to promote interactions       between cutting-edge researchers, school students and teachers &#8212; helping       to spread the excitement of modern physics to students who will soon be       making important examination and career choices.
During the period of 1       January 2008 to 31 July 2013 exhibitions directly reached over 10,000       students and their teachers, with each exhibitor interacting with ~650       visitors.
The 2012 event continued to attract new schools but also       retained a high return rate, clear evidence of its sustainability, demand       and quality: Of the 48 attending schools, 4 were new while 6 had visited       more than 5 times before.
2009 saw the first exhibition from SMF: Surface Physics Group while in       2012 the Biological and Soft Systems sector secured, for the second time,       the event's "Schools' Exhibitor of the Year" trophy for their       particularly interactive and cutting-edge, research specific presentation.
From 2009 the BSS presentation was coordinated and delivered by       Dr Erika Eiser (previously in 2008 by postdoctoral researcher Deborah       Waller).
Through the employment of biopolymers such as DNA and proteins       they discussed their underpinning research on polymeric structures and how       this novel work leads to mimicking biological systems and building new       materials.
The presentation included many demonstrations and experiments describing       their published work.
Students watched the formation of a physical biogel       with weakly cross-linked chains by adding borax to a solution of PVA (poly       vinyl alcohol dissolved in water), demonstrating the binding of &gt;90%       water using very little polymer typical of gels that we would find in the       body as lubricants     This work contained a deliberate emphasis on the link between the use of       proteins in the underpinning research and the human body as there are many       medical examples of the importance of understanding the aggregation of       proteins and peptides that would resonate with the students, for example,       cataracts and Alzheimer's disease.
In Dr Eiser's underpinning work the preparation of samples and the       ability to extract long chains of DNA was an important part of the       experimental procedure and students were able to watch, live, the       extraction of DNA from strawberries.
From here students learned about the       significance of being able to create specifically designed biological       structures as described in the PNAS paper, citing natural world examples       of where these structures exists, for example, in butterfly wings and       opals, and the possible technological applications as biosensors and       electrical batteries.
The members of Cavendish Staff coordinating the Surface Physics Group       presentation were Dr Andrew Jardine and Dr William Allison.
The specific       graphite system published in (iii) was chosen as both topical and       accessible to presentation through the ability to demonstrate the surface       structurelive.
Live STM images enabled students to visualise and       appreciate the breadth of processes on the atomic scale that featured in       this research that they would otherwise find unimaginable.
The chosen surface was polycrystalline, highly oriented pyrolytic       graphite (HOPG) &#8212; one of the only materials that can be resolved at atomic       resolution in air and the surface on which the underpinning research was       conducted.
The live STM demonstration included the preparation of the       scanning tip and sample, identical to that required for the sample       preparation in the published experiment.
Having enabled the students to observe live, a technique for viewing the       atomic surface of graphite, the presenters moved on to discuss the role of       surface structure and the motion of atoms and molecules on surfaces in a       variety of processes, such as chemical reactions.
Particular emphasis was       given as to how the frictional regime between adsorbed atoms or molecules       and the graphite surface contribute to processes such as catalytic       reactivity, once again linking directly to the focus of the underpinning       research.
Teachers attending the 2012 exhibit quoted a variety of impacts on their       students that they had noted as a consequence of their visit to Physics at       Work.
"Their [students'] interest in science and physics in particular has         increased," Lealands High School, Luton.
"Pupils now see physics as a vocational choice as well as an academic         one," Oaks Park High School, Ilford.
"Yes, more students study A-level physics" Harlington Upper School,         Luton.
"Even the students with no interest in Physics come away with a         positive image of the subject."
Norwich High School for Girls.
The exhibition provided additional impact through staff and graduate       student development both within the department and industry.
Rolls-Royce       Plc.
has exhibited at every Physics at Work event throughout the impact       period and has consequently raised its profile in schools and the       community, in the meantime providing its own-funded graduate students with       training in public engagement and communication.
Similarly since 2009 the       Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE) has been a regular exhibitor &#8212; raising       their own profile to schools and teachers.
AWE and the SMF: Surface       Physics Group are just two examples of the how the fluidity of the       programme is maintained and demonstrate its success in continuing to       evolve mechanisms through which to best present current research and       develop further impacts and collaborations.
Links with industry are an       integral part of the exhibition structure and include both local (e.g.
the       Technology Partnership and ThermoFisher Scientific) and worldwide (e.g.
the Mathworks) companies.
Physics at Work has also achieved secondary impact through media coverage       of the event, particularly over the last 4 years.
2009 marked the event's       25th anniversary and the exhibition was supported       enthusiastically by comedian and physicist Dara O'Briain, thus gaining       invaluable local TV and print media coverage.
In 2012, Physics at Work       featured in Athene Donald's Guardian blog with many hits on social media       sites subsequently.
