     Human mobility and development     IMI research on the reciprocal links between migration and development       has significantly affected the ways in which migration is conceptualised       and viewed by academics, international organisations, and governments       involved in developing migration and development policies.
As a result of       this work, IMI researchers were asked to join the advisory board and       provide two crucial background papers [R8, R9] for the UNDP's Human         Development Report 2009.
Overcoming Barriers: Human Mobility and         Development.
IMI's research played a major role in influencing the       conceptualisation of human mobility in the report (see acknowledgement p.       vii), which called for extensive policy reforms to maximise the potential       development benefits of migration.
Its critique of the concept of       South-South migration was important in UNDP's decision to revise the       categories it used for the Human Development Index [see Section 5: C1,         p 204].
IMI's input contributed to the view in the report [C2]       that migration should be conceptualised as a human freedom or capability       (Section 1.3 in particular reflects the views expressed in [R8]),       that migration is an intrinsic part of broader processes of human       development, and that such development processes generally lead to higher       levels of migration and mobility, rather than the conventional wisdom that       development will lead to less migration (for instance p 24, including       footnotes 9 and 10).
On the basis of this research on migration and development [R2, R9],       Oliver Bakewell was invited to attend and prepare a background paper for       the European Commission roundtable on `The Role of Migration in       Development Strategies' held in Brussels on 30 January 2013, as part of       the EU's preparations for the UN High-level Dialogue on Migration and       Development.
He emphasised two particular issues that need to be       addressed: (i) improving the understanding of the relationship between       urbanisation and migration; and, (ii) reworking the conception of       development to take account of mobility.
These points were both picked up       in the subsequent European Commission Communication [C3, pp 3, 9, and         14] that set out the common position of the EU and member states at       the High-level Dialogue and proposed future directions for the EU's work       on migration and development [C4].
Migration and global environmental change     In 2012, IMI's new research insights, put forward during a project       workshop and through a commissioned background paper [C6], had a       significant influence on the UK government's Foresight report on         Migration and Environmental Change [C5].
The Foresight       report is widely recognised as an agenda-setting publication in its field       that has changed the terms of the debate.
This Foresight report was       ground-breaking in challenging conventional views on its topic, and       mitigating ideas that global warming will lead to massive international       migration.
The IMI background study on the environmental and       non-environmental drivers of migration had a major influence on the main       report that led to new assessments of the effects of climate change and       environmental migration.
IMI research contributed to the development of this vision with its new       conceptualisation of migration and insight into how capabilities (as       defined above) impact climate-induced migration [C5, p 32, 62].IMI       countered the common view that environmental degradation will lead to       large- scale migration [C5, pp 9, 102] and stressed that the key       factors explaining the relationship between environmental stress and       migration are the vulnerability of people and their capability to adapt to       environmental change [C5, pp 2, 13].
A representative of the UK       government's Office for Science [C6] wrote in an email to Hein de       Haas: `Your views on climate change and migration have, as I hope you       know, already deeply influenced the Foresight report - for example, your       points on how those most affected by environmental change are often likely       to be those least likely to be able to cross international borders, and so       on.'
Global Migration Futures: Drivers, processes and scenarios of         migration futures     The new insights generated by IMI research into the links between       migration and broader development processes [R1, R8, R9] were       channelled towards larger audiences of practitioners and migration       policy-makers through the GMF project.
The project's scenario-building       workshops in The Hague and Cairo involved more than 40 migration experts       and stakeholders from businesses, governments, and civil society across 17       countries in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Oceania and America.
Representatives were present from prominent international organisations       such as the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), UNHCR, WHO,       the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and the Global       Climate Adaptation Partnership as well as government officials.
Participants stated that the workshops and IMI's research insights helped       them to develop a more realistic and longer-term vision on migration       futures.
This resulted in demand from governments and NGOs to apply the       IMI Migration Scenarios Methodology in other regions.
In 2012, the Regional Mixed Migration Secretariat (RMMS), a Nairobi-based       independent agency committed to promoting forward thinking and policy       development within the migration sector in the Horn of Africa and Yemen,       contracted IMI to apply the scenario approach to the Horn of Africa.
It       recognised that future migration within the region was likely to be       affected by many factors that remained very uncertain and felt that a       scenarios workshop could introduce valuable new insights to those       designing policy [C7].
Also in 2012, a report on Pacific migration       prepared for New Zealand's Department of Labour and Australia's Department       of Immigration and Citizenship recommended working with IMI in its       conclusions: `Our understanding of the changing Pacific migration trends       can be enhanced through further research especially the use of futures       scenario based modelling developed by the Oxford University-based       International Migration Institute' [C8 p ix; see also pp 5, 84-6].
As a result, the Australian and New Zealand governments, with support from       UNESCO, sponsored a scenarios exercise run by IMI.
Both workshops included a broad range of experts and stakeholders,       including senior government officials, business people and representatives       from international organisations and civil society from across the       regions.
This commitment of funds and time from senior staff is evidence       of the value placed on IMI's scenario approach.
One participant at the       Pacific workshop held in Auckland in October 2012 commented, `I learnt so       much from the Scenarios planning, and have certainly applied some of the       techniques ... in some of my practical problem-solving with Pacific       counterparts and New Zealand employers over the last few months here in       the RSE [Recognised Seasonal Employer scheme]'.
[C9]     The project has also generated many requests for the researchers to talk       to civil servants and policy-makers about the innovative scenario       methodology (particularly because of its unconventional methodological       focus on the systematic exploration of uncertain factors affecting current       and future migration) and its use in examining and planning for future       migration.
Simona Vezzoli has been invited for the past three years to       teach scenario-building at an annual International Labour Organisation       (ILO) workshop in Turin, attended by civil servants; she has also been       asked by IOM to review their Migration and Development teaching modules       for practitioners, which will be reported back to the High-level Dialogue       on Migration and Development, General Assembly 2013.
In May 2013, the EU       presidency invited Hein de Haas to present insights from the GMF project       at the European Migration Network (EMN) Annual Conference 2013.
