     Advising the Monetary Policy Committee on food prices and inflation         dynamics     Rising inflation and the challenge of implementing an effective monetary       policy in the face of       increased volatility in world food and fuel prices have recently emerged       as major concerns for       policy-makers in Tanzania and for the Bank of Tanzania in particular.
The team's work on food price dynamics and the transmission of monetary       policy [R5, R6], was       initially discussed at internal and public seminars hosted by the Bank of       Tanzania in 2011 [see         Section 5: C1].
As a result of the exposure of his research, Christopher Adam was       subsequently invited to present       his research findings to a High-level Policy Dialogue meeting of East       African central bank       governors and advisors hosted by the African Development Bank in Nairobi       in February 2012 and       to edit a special issue of the African Development Bank's Research       Bulletin on Inflation in East         Africa.
Based on this research, Christopher Adam was then invited to make a       presentation on inflation       dynamics to the August 2011 meeting of the Bank of Tanzania Monetary       Policy Committee (MPC),       the first time an external speaker has been asked to address the       committee.
In response to       specific follow-on requests from the governor of the bank, he made further       presentations in       February 2012 and May 2013 to assist the committee in analysing the       inflationary consequences       of, and the monetary policy response to, changes in domestic and       international energy prices [C2].
Based on these presentations, Christopher Adam (for the IGC) has       subsequently been working       with Bank of Tanzania research department staff to produce the bi-monthly       Inflation Report for the       MPC [C3].
Reports of this kind were pioneered by the Bank of       England and other leading central       banks and are core components of the new framework for the conduct of       monetary policy being       developed by the Bank of Tanzania.
It is anticipated that as the Bank of       Tanzania's own capacity       strengthens, it will take over full responsibility for the Inflation         Report [C1].
Exchange rate policy and the transition to monetary union     At their summit in 2007, the heads of state of the EAC (Kenya, Uganda,       Tanzania, Rwanda and       Burundi) committed themselves to move with all deliberate speed towards       monetary union.
Charged with the role of advising the heads of state on the economic       implications of monetary       union in the region, the Monetary Affairs Committee of the EAC, comprising       the central bank       governors of the five partner states, invited the IGC-Tanzania led by       Christopher Adam to act as       one of their five lead advisers.
The other invited advisers were the IMF,       the African Development       Bank, the Bank of England and the Riksbank of Sweden.
IGC-Tanzania was       asked to be the lead       advisor on `Exchange Rate Arrangements in the Transition to East African       Monetary Union'.
The       research report outlining its recommendations is listed above [R7].
Five options for exchange rate policy during the transition towards       monetary union were examined       by the researchers.
As recent developments in Europe have highlighted, the       challenges of       monetary union with incomplete fiscal union are significant and these are       compounded in East       Africa by the limited integration of goods and factor markets and by       emerging structural tensions       being exposed by large-scale oil and gas discoveries in some EAC       countries.
The researchers       therefore advised (contrary to earlier advice from the European Central       Bank) that EAC countries       should maintain their current inflation-anchors (ie moderately managed       floats) during the possibly       attenuated convergence phase towards monetary union.
Only when a viable       level of (political and       fiscal) convergence is achieved should the authorities move to an exchange       rate grid as a prelude       to establishing irrevocable conversion rates to the new currency.
The       researchers recommended       that during this transition, partner states should develop strategies that       exploit the benefits of       greater integration and coordination in the monetary sphere but should not       prematurely commit the       countries to difficult-to-reverse steps to full monetary union.
Drafts of the research paper and policy recommendations [R7, C4]       were discussed by Partner       State central bank governors at meetings of the MAC between December 2010       and April 2012.
These recommendations were endorsed in full by governors and formally       submitted to the High-level Task Force of the East African Community       Secretariat in May 2012 [C5].
The task force is       responsible for liaison with heads of state and for the eventual       preparation of the protocol for       negotiating monetary union in the region.
The protocol is effectively East       Africa's Maastricht Treaty.
The recommendations were incorporated into the draft protocol in November       2012 and approved       by EAC heads of state in Kigali on 23 February 2013 [C6].
The       final protocol is expected to be       published for ratification by partner states in late 2013 or early 2014.
Thanks to his research and       existing impact, Christopher Adam continues to advise Bank of Tanzania       representatives on the       High-level Task Force.
