     During the period 2008-2013 the world's governments have adopted an       agreed climate change mitigation policy goal of limiting global warming to       no more than 2 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial average       temperature.
This was first agreed at the 15th Conference of       the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP15) in       Copenhagen in December 2009 [7] and was confirmed at COP18 in Doha in       December 2012 [8].
(This goal had originally been adopted by the EU in       1996 and re-confirmed in 2007, and was also adopted by the G8 Summit in       July 2009).
In agreeing this goal it was necessary to note that the       global-mean warming observed thus far had been 0.8&#176;C &#8212; thus setting the       level of policy ambition necessary to limit further warming to no more       than 1.2&#176;C. This `2 degree' policy goal is now guiding national (e.g.
UK &#8212;       see [9]), European [10] and international efforts to negotiate and       implement a range of policy measures which will be effective and       sustainable.
In reaching this global agreement at COP15, after 15 years of       international negotiations, the world's governments relied upon (see [7],       [8]) the four successive assessment reports of the UN's IPCC, published in       1990, 1996, 2001 and 2007 (and the Fifth Assessment Report agreed in       September 2013).
The global temperature datasets produced by the School       were and continue to be central to these IPCC Reports; in particular, the       HadCRUT3 dataset was used for the 2007 Report which guided the COP15       negotiations [11].
The importance of these data for the international       negotiations is shown by the fact that the UN World Meteorological       Organisation (WMO) brought forward its press release for the annual update       of these data to November/December, to coincide with the UNFCCC talks       being held at that time of year (e.g.
WMO Press Release for the COP18 Doha       meeting [12]).
This demonstrates that these data are vital for informing       decision-makers each year about the current state of world climate.
The       work of the School &#8212; jointly with the Met Office Hadley Centre &#8212; in making       it possible to quantify and monitor the world's average surface       temperature has therefore directly contributed to this       internationally-agreed climate policy goal.
Without these IPCC reports       being able to draw upon the School's work, very specifically upon       successive versions of the global temperature dataset, the importance of       addressing the dangers of anthropogenic climate change would be much less       well recognised and acknowledged by politicians and policy-makers around       the world.
The impact of this work extends well beyond the IPCC and the       UNFCCC.
The first diagram in many reports on climate change policy and       adaptation is the HadCRUT4 global temperature series (most recently by the       European Environment Agency [13]), and the update each year is headline       news in many media outlets.
Indeed it is one of the most famous diagrams       in science.
The importance and significant impact of this work on national and       international climate policy and public engagement was vividly       demonstrated, but in a very different way, in November and December 2009.
Professional email correspondence between scientists in the School and       colleagues around the world was obtained illegally and made publicly       available via the internet.
The subsequent controversy became known as `Climategate'       and revolved around a number of issues, but most critically whether the       School's temperature data (including reconstructed temperature data over       the last millennium) had been improperly manipulated.
The importance of       this question, and hence the impact of the School's work in this area,       demanded a series of subsequent independent inquiries: by the House of       Commons Select Committee on Science &amp; Technology; the Muir-Russell       Independent Climate Change Email Review; and the Oxburgh Scientific       Assessment Panel.
All of these Inquiries unambiguously affirmed the       quality and reliability of the School's work &#8212; [e.g.
14].
The School's unique work on global temperature data has also had impact       on public awareness, political negotiations and policy development on       climate change through its widespread use in Detection and Attribution       (D&amp;A) of climate change due to human activities.
The scientific       community's efforts to reconstruct up to 2,000 years of past Northern       Hemisphere temperatures, in which the School has played a key role, helps       address a range of policy-relevant questions.
Instrumental warming during       the 20th century is `clear and unequivocal' [11] and study of these longer       periods helps determine the unusualness of this warming in much longer       time sequences.
The School's datasets (HadCRUT4 and its precursor global temperatures,       Northern Hemisphere temperature proxies, and instrumental precipitation       data) have been used in almost all studies that have considered the       D&amp;A problem.
The Special Report on Extremes (SREX) of the IPCC       extended D&amp;A to also consider the extremes of the climate as manifest       in temperature, precipitation and storm datasets [15] and again relied       upon the School's datasets.
The School's datasets are widely used by many       less-developed governments around the world.
Access is through the World       Bank [16], who have taken our `national' products for all UN countries and       recognized territories (developed in Ref [3] above) and extended the work       to additionally include all major river basins of the world.
