     Oxcal's reach is broad thanks to the fact that it is free to download,       and to use online, and thus attracts a large number of users, including       professional organisations, research bodies, and archaeological       enthusiasts.
In the last year (up to the end of the census period) there       were 5,343 active external users of OxCal who used the programme more than       once.
The programme is accessed from outside the RLAHA about 35,000 times       a year, or about once every 15 minutes.
Of these external users almost       half (2,416) are using the programme very regularly (on average just over       once per month, accounting for 86% of the total external usage).
At the       time of writing there are 12,800 sites linking to OxCal with 4,600 direct       links to the programme.
Through the Oxford-East Kilbride Partnership,       OxCal is also used as part of the dating services offered to both the       academic community and non-academic users.
It also features in the       curricula of a number of UK and overseas HEI scientific archaeology       courses, which has significantly contributed to the training of both       academic and non-academic users in the use of this software and dating       techniques, and features on a number of HEI courses beyond the UK, for       example Harvard's Anthropology course [Section 5: C7].
OxCal's impact on archaeological dating beyond academia is particularly       significant for two major groups of users:     1.
Professional organisations:       Of the wide array of professional users, three examples are given here to       show the breadth and depth of the impact of OxCal on the commercial       sector, both in the UK and abroad.
a) English Heritage (EH) uses OxCal for calibrating all dates       produced in their date lists [C1, C2]; they recommend the use of       OxCal to commercial archaeological units; and have funded numerous       projects in which OxCal has been used.
One such recent project, `Gathering       Time', published in 2011, was a major radiocarbon dating programme jointly       funded by EH and the AHRC, comprising the largest application of the       Bayesian approach to modelling archaeological chronologies ever       undertaken.
The use of the Bayesian chronological model to interpret the       radiocarbon dates was pivotal to the success of the project, providing       more precise timescales for monument construction than had previously been       possible [C3].
All the chronological modelling was undertaken using       the programme OxCal version 3.10; as noted in the publication, `Without       this type of user-friendly software and modular model construction, an       application on this scale would simply not have been possible' [C3,       reference 3, p.58].
The results revised our picture of Early       Neolithic Britain and Ireland, establishing that the main period of       construction of causewayed enclosures was much briefer than previously       assumed, and revealing concentrated episodes of construction.
In 2006, the       format of OxCal was changed so that it could be accessed online and thus       be compatible with all computer systems (version 4.0); these developments       were funded by a grant of &#163;20k from English Heritage as part of their       Historic Environment Enabling programme.
b) The United States Geological Survey, a scientific agency of       the US government, uses OxCal as a tool for constructing chronologies [C4;         C5].
Specifically, OxCal is used to analyse recurrence rates of       environmental hazards such as earthquakes from the geological record,       which provide a critical constraint in estimating the seismic hazards       posed by active faults.
These data are then used to calculate the risks of       further events [C5].
This is made possible by the model's       incorporation of all chronological constraints (including stratigraphic       order, the timing of the most recent event, and historical constraints),       which is freely available to paleoseismologists as part of the current       OxCal version.
c) The Oxford Dendrochronology Laboratory (ODL) is a commercial       tree-ring laboratory set up by Ramsey's former doctoral student and OxCal       specialist, Dr Daniel Miles.
Using OxCal as part of their methods, Miles       and his colleague Martin Bridge (as the Senior Partners) provide dating       services for private projects, as well as for EH, the Historic Royal       Palaces Agency and various professional archaeology units.
Between 2008       and 2013, 20 timber buildings (including churches, domestic structures and       one hospital) across England have had the felling date ranges made much       more precise through the application of the OxCal tool, in some instances       having a significant effect on the interpretation of the buildings being       studied.
The Brethren's Hall at St Cross Hospital, Winchester, for       example, had its felling date range reduced from 28 years to 14, allowing       the builder to be identified as Cardinal Henry Beaufort [C6].
2.
The general public:       By making OxCal free, Ramsey has made the software available to all those       who wish to use it.
Individuals with a particular interest are supported       by a dedicated OxCal e-mail list, and by an online discussion group used       by academics and non-academics across the globe [C8].
OxCal has also had an impact on the wider public by underpinning various       research projects of significant public interest which have received broad       media coverage.
Three examples are given here, in which the extra       precision that OxCal has made possible has led to significant improvements       in dating, sufficient to have captured the public's imagination:     a) The bones excavated under Greyfriars Church in Leicester, in       2012, and subsequently identified as belonging to Richard III have       attracted a great deal of public interest; the radiocarbon dating of the       bones, which used the OxCal programme, was critical to this analysis and       identification, as reported in the BBC news and a Channel 4 documentary [C9].
b) The radiocarbon dating of David Attenborough's Madagascan         `elephant bird' egg, carried out by the Oxford Radiocarbon       Accelerator Unit, also used the OxCal tool; the result was broadcast in a       BBC documentary in 2011 [C10], where the egg was shown to belong       towards the end of a series of dates for this avian species previously       gathered by the ORAU, and it was shown that the bird had co-existed with       human occupants of Madagascar for some time before its extinction by the       end of the 1st millennium AD.
c) The findings of the Egyptian Chronology Project, discussed       above, also received significant press attention within the UK in 2010, in       national press (e.g.
the BBC and Daily Mail), on popular archaeology sites       (e.g.
AboutArchaeology.com), and in popular science publications (e.g.
Nature       and Science) [C11].
