     In 2010, the Office of Health Economics (OHE) established a Commission on       Competition in the       NHS to investigate for which health care services, and in which       circumstances, competition       between providers of health care might be both feasible and expected to       yield benefits, and where       not.
Professor Malcomson was invited to chair this OHE Commission as       consequence of his "high       reputation and impressive research record in relevant fields of       microeconomics, including the       economics of contracts"...[Malcomson's] chairmanship was instrumental in       structuring and steering       the work of the Commission, ensuring the active participation of all of       its members, and moulding       the work of the Commission into a coherent and cogent whole"[C1].
The report identifies the characteristics of health care services that       determine whether competition       is likely to be beneficial; the role of price and non-price competition;       and the processes by which       competition, where beneficial, might be enabled, promoted and regulated,       drawing on the research       findings.
In doing this, it draws on the findings of the research       described above [R1-R4].
To support health policy makers and local NHS commissioners in deciding       where and when to       promote and enable competition, the OHE Commission for Competition devised       a toolkit (set out in       full in Appendix II of its report) [C2].
The toolkit lists, in       everyday language for non-economists, the       economic characteristics affecting the feasibility and effectiveness of       competition.
The economic       characteristics were derived from the economics literature, making       extensive use of the research       findings, particularly those concerning the ease of defining and       monitoring output and quality [R1,         R4]; and the scope for supplier discretion [R4].
To provide       guidance to NHS commissioners, it       illustrates the relevance of these characteristics by mapping them to       specific medical procedures.
Specifically, it contains a matrix with rows corresponding to the economic       characteristics, columns       corresponding to the specific medical procedures, and colour-coded cells       indicating the importance       of the economic characteristics for the specific medical procedures.
The       mapping to the medical       procedures was carried out by interactive discussion between those with       economic and those with       medical expertise.
The report received extensive coverage in the national, professional and       commercial media       following its launch in January 2012, involving citation by journalists       and broadcasters in the       general and specialist media (e.g.
[C4, C5]).
Its informed and       balanced approach was supported       by the NHS Confederation and NHS partners Network [C3].
A       spokesperson from the Department       of Health described the toolkit as the most important thing in the report,       adding: "It will be for       commissioners to decide when to use competition, so this set of criteria       will be very useful.
In 10       years' time we'll look back and say that made a big contribution."[C6].
The toolkit was also a       specific focus of an interview of Malcomson by Eddie Mair (BBC Radio 4 PM       programme, 8       February 2012) [C7].
The Director of Commissioning Support Services Strategy &amp; Market       Development NHS England,       responsible for developing the NHS framework for Choice and Competition,       confirms that the       report and its recommendations has been "influential in shaping NHS       England's thinking on the       policy and still remains the main repository of the national and       international evidence."[C8].
Following delays, the implementation of the Framework for Choice and       Competition is to be rolled       out over the coming months, accompanied by guidance and toolkits for local       NHS Commissioners       developed from the OHE toolkit     In terms of impact on regulators, Monitor (the Independent Regulator of       NHS Foundation Trusts)       welcomed the report as a helpful contribution to the evidence base and has       used of the findings       of the Report of the Commission in setting out the scope of its subsequent       invitations to tender for       research [C9, p.20].
Monitor and NHS England are also       currently developing together a `Choice       and Competition' website for NHS commissioners of health care services and       providers of those       services.
As the Deputy Director of OHE stated, "we expect that the       website will build directly on       the framework set out by the OHE commission" and therefore, by       implication, will rely on the toolkit       and the work of Malcomson [C1].
