     Addis (Professor of Philosophy: Fellow) and Boyd (Professor of       Construction: Co-investigator) conducted pioneering collaborative       interdisciplinary research in philosophy and construction which extended       traditional disciplinary boundaries in an AHRC Knowledge Transfer       Fellowship project Philosopher in Residence in Construction Companies.
The work demonstrated the benefit that the humanities can bring to       businesses by using the philosophy of expertise to assist three major       construction companies, Mouchel, Rider Levett Bucknall and Thomas Vale       Construction, in challenging their existing practices.
Mouchel is a civil       engineering and public infrastructure management organisation employing       nearly 11,000 people.
Involvement was through the Highways Division       Business Improvement Director.
Rider Levett Bucknall is a       multi-disciplinary consultancy offering cost- and project-management       services, with 2000 people worldwide.
Involvement was through their       Chairman.
Thomas Vale Construction is a medium-sized building contractor       operating in the Midlands employing about 830 people, with a strong record       of public and private sector partnership working.
Involvement was through       a Director.
The research explored the nature of practice from a       practitioner perspective by working in critical dialogue with groups of       staff, ranging from tradespeople to construction professionals and       managers.
It encouraged theoretical reflection on expertise in the       companies, including encouraging a critical attitude towards objectivist       knowledge management approaches in construction, and promoted a better       appreciation of the complexity of the industry, including the range of       skills and intelligences required for effective performance.
A conceptual       dictionary of key construction management practice ideas was created to       help find the right kind of language to talk about knowledge management       and skilled performance.
This dictionary also helped to communicate the       results, which included understanding the limitations of logical       analytical rationality and the importance of analogical thinking in the       construction environment when there is incomplete information.
Despite the fact that the period since the Knowledge Transfer Fellowship       has seen the construction industry affected badly by the recession, there       continue to be major impacts resulting from the work.
These impacts have       been insights into achieving improved practice, especially in terms of       individual skill development and project organisation for individuals,       company groups (2008-9) and the industry (2010-2012), facilitated by       presentations to three leading national construction representative       organisations (2010-2011): Constructing Excellence, Construction Industry       Research &amp; Information Association, and the Chartered Institute of       Building.
Impact occurred through the critical dialogue with groups of       staff, which took the form of individual interviews and team discussions       about the nature of their expertise, as participation in this discourse       resulted in greater understanding of the character of better practice.
Addis' contribution to the impact was in terms of theoretical analysis of       expertise and of the data from the companies, along with being involved in       the critical dialogue sessions.
At Mouchel Highways, structure engineers       dealing with design, feasibility studies and quality assurance gained       greater understanding of the importance of acquiring expertise in       integration skills for finding effective solutions to design problems.
There was increased appreciation of the difficulties created by engaging       external subcontractors on a short- term basis and why this method of cost       control carries risks.
The Business Improvement Director at Mouchel       commented that     The project enabled Mouchel Highways to re-appreciate the skills of its       employees as being broader and less tangible than previously understood.
[...] at an individual level, those involved in the project gained a       confidence in their application to their tasks and are now more able to       address the uncertain and ambiguous world of construction.
[1]     At Rider Levett Bucknall (RLB), project managers used ideas from the new       conceptual category of expertise management to reflect on the types of       knowledge that are particularly important for effective project delivery.
There was better appreciation of the importance of maximising individual       skills and sharing such abilities within the company along with learning       from projects.
The RLB representative remarked the work by Addis and Boyd       "has given the company new insights into what better practice means and       how it can be achieved" [2].
At Thomas Vale Construction, expertise       management ideas were employed to identify the multiple skills (including       interpersonal ones) which staff require for efficient work completion and       turn-around times in social housing refurbishment.
Their Director       commented that the project "enabled us to revise our perspective on       expertise and how we go about bringing together our knowledge" [3].
Research impact was extended into the wider construction industry through       publications, presentations and other networking activities.
In 2010,       Addis was invited to write an article for Construction Manager,       the official magazine of the Chartered Institute of Building with a       circulation of around 42,000 [4].
He was also invited to contribute an       article on philosophy in the workplace to a special issue of Philosophy         Now, the world's highest circulation philosophy periodical [5].
In       addition to numerous research presentations to academics in construction,       education and philosophy [6], Addis has given invited talks at several       industry events hosted by Constructing Excellence and attended by       representatives from major construction companies and consultants to the       industry [7].
Along with Boyd, he contributed a Briefing Note [8] to the       Construction Industry Research &amp; Information Association (CIRIA) and       gave a presentation to CIRIA's Construction Productivity Network in 2010       [9].
These dissemination activities resulted in consultation by the National       Federation of Builders (2010) about ways to enhance membership services,       including appreciating the limits of online delivery, and the Association       of Project Managers (2011) about how expertise management could inform       conceptualisation of accreditation procedures.
The dissemination       activities also led to work with a further construction company, Willmott       Dixon, in 2011.
The Project Manager at the company called the       collaboration with Addis and Boyd "significant in shaping our practice"       and explained how the experience of working with the academics challenged       us to think differently about how we go about construction projects - not       simply using automated systems in our work, but empowering the skilled       tradesmen to take decisions `on the ground' based on their expertise in       this area.
This research was extremely valuable to us as we sought to       implement a step change in the working culture of the organisation.
These       findings helped to challenge conventional wisdom that existed in the       construction industry and stimulate debate amongst stakeholders [...],       showing the need for a more nuanced approach to complex project       management.
[10]
