     Undy's research significantly and positively impacted on four unions'       merger strategies via a       number of mechanisms, including engagement with trade union delegates       attending practitioner       conferences and seminars (primarily focussed on the book [R2]) and       three commissioned papers       (which are closely derived from research in Undy's book (1996) [R1]):     - IPMS' (later PROSPECT's) "Independence Study" (1998) [Commissioned       Study: CS1];     - UNIFI's "Future Strategic Development: Including Merger Options" (2001)       [CS2];     - PTC's (later PCS') "Planning Report" (1997) [CS3].
In preparing this impact case study, Undy also interviewed three union       leaders previously involved       in developing and applying the commissioned studies, while also asking the       consultant responsible       for bringing the Swedish Unionen to Oxford to report on the impact of the       book [R2] and       associated seminar on Unionen`s post-merger organization.
Firstly, as regards the IPMS' "Independence Study" [CS1]: this       had an immediate impact on the       IPMS and later, in combination with the book [R2] and the TUC       fringe meeting (2008), a lasting       impact on its successor union's (PROSPECT's) merger strategy to 2012.
IPMS       also circulated this       study to leaders of other merging unions, including MSF (Manufacturing       Science and Finance       Union), UNIFI and PTC.
The IPMS' study was initially commissioned by the General Secretary, Bill       Brett.
He was pressing       for IPMS (a "niche", civil service union) to merge with the MSF (a much       larger white collar union),       organizing predominantly in the private sector.
But his highly       factionalised National Conference       rejected his terms of reference for the study and instead demanded that       the research focus on how       the IPMS could remain a niche union until "2010 and beyond, with       particular regard to the financial       aspects (of the IPMS)".
Following the revised "Independence Study" which showed how IPMS could       survive without       merging with the MSF, Bill Brett retired and the proposed merger with the       MSF was aborted.
The       incoming General Secretary, Paul Noon, favoured retaining the character of       IPMS as a niche       union, and implemented the main elements of the "Independence Study",       including: reforming its       democratic structure; changing subscriptions; and making economies in       administration (the latter       changes continued after the move to new premises in 2007).
He also took a       strong line on       maintaining IPMS' existing political rationality, including its Party       Political neutrality.
Crucially he       also initiated a new merger strategy which focussed on mergers with       similarly organized niche       unions, and, in 2001, he negotiated an amalgamation between IPMS and the       Engineers and       Managers Association (EMA) to form PROSPECT [a].
Later in 2008 at the TUC's fringe meeting (book [R2] launch),       Noon and Askew (leader of a similar       niche union "CONNECT") discussed the book's argument that contrary to       accepted wisdom, a       transfer agreed between two unions of similar status could be more       beneficial for both unions than       merging by amalgamation.
Noon further commented, in interview, that the       book's analysis of such       mergers "was important in determining" CONNECT's subsequent transfer to       PROSPECT in 2010.
PROSPECT also agreed the transfer of three other smaller niche unions, one       in 2008 and two       more in 2009.
By 2012 PROSPECT, under Paul Noon's leadership, had grown in       a hostile       environment from 103,000 in 2001 to 127,000 largely by merging, while       retaining its niche status       and original political rationality.
As Noon concluded in the 2012       interview, the research provided       him with "an analysis of how to maintain PROSPECT as an independent union"       [a].
Secondly, UNIFI's 2001 study "Future Strategic Development: Including       Merger Options" [CS2]       was commissioned by Ed Sweeney, UNIFI's General Secretary, and circulated       to at least four       other unions with an interest in UNIFI's merger, ie, MSF, AEEU       (Engineering and Electrical Union),       USDAW (Shop and Distributive Workers) and GPMU (Graphical and Media       Union).
It evaluated       three merger options and concluded by recommending UNIFI's transfer to the       MSF, which was       itself due to amalgamate with the AEEU to form AMICUS in 2002; a merger       which resolved the       MSF's severe financial difficulties.
But crucially for UNIFI, a transfer       to MSF, or as it became the       finance section of AMICUS, was the only option that could effectively       reduce the damaging inter-union       conflict which existed in the banking and finance sectors.
It achieved       this important objective       by guaranteeing UNIFI control of AMICUS' combined banking and finance       membership.
In       promoting this solution within UNIFI the research [R1] again drew       on the rationalities model [R1,         R2] to provide a scheme of analysis which was widely used by Sweeney       to help UNIFI's officials       and lay activists evaluate the different merger options [CS2].
Sweeney subsequently resigned from       Amicus in 2007 and became Chair of ACAS.
Later, in 2010, Sweeney joined       Undy at the Unionen       seminar.
Sweeney's explanation of how, as a practitioner, he used the       research models developed       in [R1] and [R2], and rehearsed in [CS2], to       assist his merger strategy and post-merger re-organization,       was an important factor contributing to the success of Unionen's seminar [b].
Thirdly, as regards the research impact on the PTC, and its successor       civil service union, the PCS       early impact of this research, founded in the 1997 "Planning Report" [CS3]       was first discussed in       an Oxford Workshop organized by Undy in 1995.
It focussed on the       post-merger management of       the newly merged PTC and was subsequently to influence the PCS       amalgamation of 1998.
This       also represented a venture into one of the most politically divided       mergers, as reflected in the PCS       soubriquet "the Beirut of the trade union movement".
In 2012, in interview with Hugh Lanning, PCS' Deputy General Secretary       (previously a contributor       to the 1997 Planning Report), the continued use of the research framework       [R1, as used in CS3]       was discussed.
It was noted that in addition to helping draft the new       union's mission statement, it       had contributed to the development of the union's robust democratic       structures and systems, and       hence helped it to emerge relatively unscathed from the political       in-fighting of the period.
Further,       Lanning reported that he had used the same framework in assessing possible       further transfers into       the PCS, and that he was again, in 2012, using the same framework to       structure an "aide       memoire" for the PCS as it examined a new possible mega merger (much       talked of in the press)       with UNITE.
In particular he saw the rationalities model [R1, R2]       as "Providing a logical process or       scheme of analysis which (served) to stop them just haggling over the       merger", and made them       "focus on possible synergies" [c].
Fourthly, in 2010, an Oxford seminar led by Roger Undy and Ed Sweeney       (the Chair of ACAS       Council) was organized specifically for UNIONEN, Sweden's largest union.
The instigator was       Lennart Nordfors, a Swedish consultant who was advising UNIONEN on its       post-merger       organization, following its formation by merger in January 2008 [d].
The merger combined unions       organizing "employees in trade &amp; commerce and white-collar staff in       the industrial sector."
The       comments below are extracts from Nordfors' 2012 report [e].
"I organised a study tour to the UK (in 2010) for two top officials from       Unionen &#8212; Nils-&#197;ke Karlsson       (head of staff) and Per-Erik Dj&#228;rf (director of regions).
They received       Roger Undy&#180;s book "Trade       Union Merger Strategies" and attended a tailor-made seminar.
I accompanied       the delegation."
"Unionen, when we met Undy (and Sweeney), was (looking) to combine       two, rather different,       organisational cultures in such a way that core tasks (including       bargaining for wages), could be       performed while realising planned synergies; the delegates found it easy       to relate (these issues) to       (Undy's) framework".
"Of special interest were Undy's findings concering the necessity to find       common political       objectives and attitudes.
Firstly, the leadership of Unionen had a       need to understand how they       could best show their members (and particularly the activists) what it was       the new union could       deliver in terms of improvements in services, benefits and bargaining       power."
"In short (and) to this end, organisational reforms were implemented and       new strategies were       devised".Unionen is now (2012), in contrast to previous negotiation       rounds, perceived as more       cohesive and clear in its actions &#8212; the result being more effective       wage-bargaining strategy in       comparison to what would otherwise have occurred".
Conclusion: the above summary of the impact of the research and       the practitioners'conferences,       seminars and workshop on three British and one Swedish union clearly       demonstrates: 1) the       progressive and cumulative effects of the merger research between the       1990s and 2012; 2) the       national and international reach of the research; and 3) the importance in       democratic organizations       of providing a scheme of analysis which was legitimated by both its       practical use and its rigour.
However, what the above discussion does not, and cannot, provide is a       detailed description of the       indirect impact of this research on the other nine unions known to have       received copies of the       commissioned papers [CS1, CS2 and CS3], the larger number sending       delegates to the various       conferences, or on other union leaders that bought the book [R2].
Hence, it can reasonably be       concluded that the above claims made for research impact probably       understate, by some margin,       both the progressive and cumulative impact of this research, and its       reach.
