     Herring and Foster's work was relied on by the Court of Appeal in Re G       (Children) [2012] EWCA Civ 1233 (Re G) to broaden the legal definition of       `children's welfare' to include relational values, the pursuit of       worthwhile goals, and even the cultivation of certain virtues.
The       research influenced the outcome of this case, but not only that.
It also       provided the basis for a judicial widening of the applicable definition of       `children's welfare' in relevantly similar cases.
The decision therefore       also exerts force in cognate areas of law.
The influence of Herring's       research also extended beyond its impact on legal authority.
In the       professional media and in a variety of blogs, the decision and the new       idea of children's welfare were debated by lawyers and others, leading to       a better informed discussion of a difficult and sometimes controversial       area of social policy.
In Re G, involving the upbringing of five children, Lord Justice Munby in       the Court of Appeal gave reasons with which Sir Stephen Sedley and Lord       Justice Kay agreed.
The children's families had for generations been part       of the Hassidic or Chareidi Jewish community.
The marriage broke down; as       a result, the father wanted the children to attend an ultra-orthodox       school, whilst the mother wanted the children to attend a non-orthodox       school from which they would be able to pursue higher education and have       greater opportunities.
Both mother and father accepted that the mother's       decision would lead to a significant change of lifestyle.
A Child and Family Court Advisory and Support Service (CAFCASS) report       was produced, which concluded it was in the best interests of the children       to live with the mother, and to attend the schools of her choice.
Judge       Copley, at Willesden County Court, accepted the CAFCASS report.
In the       Court of Appeal the father argued that the Judge had attached too much       weight to educational opportunity, and failed to take account of the       Chareidi lifestyle.
Munby LJ, quoted from Herring and Foster's work,       upheld the judge's decision, and dismissed the father's appeal.
Citing [R2]       he held:     `The well-being of a child cannot be assessed in isolation.
Human beings       live within a network of relationships.
Men and women are sociable beings.
(...) As Herring and Foster comment, relationships are central to our       sense and understanding of ourselves.
Our characters and understandings of       ourselves from the earliest days are charted by reference to our       relationships with others.
It is only by considering the child's network       of relationships that their well-being can be properly considered.
So a       child's relationships, both within and without the family, are always       relevant to the child's interests; often they will be determinative.'
[C1,para       30]     The Court also notices and uses the other strand of argument developed in       the research and set out in [R2].
At [C1 para 28]       Munby LJ wrote:     `Herring and Foster have argued persuasively (`Welfare means rationality,       virtue and altruism', (2012) 32 Legal Studies 480), that behind a judicial       determinations of welfare there lies an essentially Aristotelian notion of       the `good life'.
What then constitutes a `good life'?
There is no need to       pursue here that age-old question.
I merely emphasise that happiness, in       the sense in which I have used the word, is not pure hedonism.
It can       include such things as the cultivation of virtues and the achievement of       worthwhile goals, and all the other aims which parents routinely seek to       inculcate in their children [C1 para 28].
This represents a very significant modification of a central concept in       family (and medical) law.
It is rare enough for English judges to make       such explicit reliance on academic writing and research, but rarer still       for them to make use of research that is very recent and that draws       extensively on interdisciplinary materials.
The court's use of Herring's       research received comment in journals directed primarily at a practitioner       audience (see [C2], [C3]), and the significance of the       ruling itself, obvious on its face, was also widely acknowledged by       lawyers and commentators online and in the social media (see [C4],       [C5], and [C6]).
Throughout England and Wales, courts must       now take account of the whole network of relationships when they consider       what would be in the `best interests' or the `welfare' of children.
