     The York Mystery plays were revived during the Festival of Britain in       1951 and witnessed by over 26,000 people.
In recent years they have been       regularly performed with a mainly amateur cast drawn from the local       community, playing an important role in the life of York, culturally,       socially and economically.
In 2012, coinciding with the 800th       anniversary of York's City Charter and the London Cultural Olympiad, the       thirty performances involved over 1,000 local volunteers working alongside       theatre professionals.
Beadle's research has proved vital in conserving and interpreting         cultural heritage.
His work has been influential on the York       Festival Trust and the York Guilds and Companions since 1998, when they       began their modern day association with the Mystery Plays, and it had       specific impact on the production of 2010, which drew directly on Beadle's       findings about original performance conditions and sought to reproduce       them.
Their Chairman attests that `from the start the work of Richard       Beadle has been the strongest influence on our reinventions of the       medieval texts'.
He writes that `These translations offer us as       organisers, and the various directors and groups who perform the Plays,       accessibility to the language, mind-set and world of the medieval citizens       of York.
They help us to recreate these Plays for modern localities and       audiences.'
[1] The 2010 production reached wider audiences through       YouTube and a professionally produced DVD [2], and the 2012 production was       streamed live across the internet.
It is not only the York performances to       which Beadle's work has added an extra dimension: for the 2011 production       at Shakespeare's Globe he wrote the programme explaining `the mystery play       tradition'.
[3]     Beadle's research has inspired specific new forms of artistic         expression and informed performance practice, most markedly in the       2010 York production, when &#8212; drawing directly on Beadle's research       findings &#8212; twelve plays were performed outdoors on wagons in the       traditional manner, by casts from schools, colleges, amateur dramatic       groups, churches, and from the modern descendants of the craft and       mercantile guilds who had brought forth the pageants in medieval times       [4].
These included The Creation (York Gild of Building), The         Massacre of the Innocents (St Peter's School), The Crucifixion         and Death of Christ (Company of Butchers and St Chad's Church), The         Last Judgement (Company of Merchant Adventurers and Pocklington       School).
Several hundred performers, musicians, singers, stage-hands,       stewards, wagon-, costume- and prop-makers were involved, many becoming       very enthusiastic about this experience and the new perspective they had       gained on the city's history and medieval life in general.
Parts of the       city centre were closed off to enable the wagons on which the plays were       being staged to be drawn through the streets in something like the       authentic medieval manner, as described in the edition from which the       texts were drawn.
Each play was performed four times to different       audiences gathered at a series of previously advertised locations across       the city.
The Head of Drama at Pocklington School, affirms that Beadle's       editions in original and modern spellings have `provided access on       pronunciation, meaning, intention, practical possibilities, original       staging elements, character, location and social conditions which has       enabled me to use [them] with non- specialists in a practically meaningful       way.
...
I use both editions regularly for inspiration, practical       examinations and general educational purposes.'
[5]     In so far as Beadle's research inspired and specifically informed the       York production of 2010, it helped to contribute to economic         prosperity and the quality of the tourist experience.
On 11 May 2010       the City of York Council received a report that the 2010 production had       `levered in over &#163;1 million to the city's economy ... An increased level       of benefit would be expected from the 2012 production'.
And further, that       `The staging of the 2012 York Mystery Plays would contribute to a number       of corporate objectives including strengthening local communities,       developing opportunities for residents to experience York as a vibrant and       eventful city, supporting a thriving economy and improving opportunities       for a healthy, active lifestyle.'
[6]     Beadle's research has also had an impact on education, as witness       the testimony of the Head of Drama, Pocklington School, and a conference       sponsored by the Guilds in July 2011 to reflect on their experience of       producing the pageants [7].
Beadle was a key figure amongst the academic       researchers in the field of early drama, responding to representatives       from local groups involved in the 2010 production, such as The Builders,       Butchers, and Scriveners, Heslington Church, and Pocklington School, and       taking part in question and answer sessions and informal networking with       the local mystery play community.
Further afield, Beadle's research has       had wide impact on teaching in institutions of higher education other than       his own.
Not only the editions of the York plays, but also the Cambridge         Companion to Medieval English Theatre (2008) is frequently       prescribed on reading lists round the world, as for example, at the       Universities of Exeter and London (King's College London) in the UK, and       the Universities of Rochester and Virginia in the US [8-11] The importance       of his recent article on Richard Duke of Gloucester and the York Plays       (3[4] above) has recently been singled out for emphasis in a review in Speculum,       where the arguments are said to be `seductive .
.
.
and will no doubt       provoke lively debate' [12] .
