     The UK has residual legal responsibilities for some Overseas Territories       in which the royal prerogative authorises Her Majesty to legislate by       Order in Council.
The scope of this authority, including the objects for       which it may properly be exercised, is of fundamental constitutional       importance, as is the related question of on what grounds, if at all, the       courts may review the exercise of this authority.
John Finnis`s research       on the boundaries of political communities and the nature of the `common       good' was found helpful by the House of Lords in deciding these questions.
His arguments are expressly reflected in a critical ruling, and then       relied upon again in other judgements.
Finnis` work helped reshape an       aspect of constitutional law affecting everyone in the UK and its Overseas       Territories.
In the Bancoult (No 2) litigation [C1], English courts       were invited to quash an exercise (or purported exercise) of the       prerogative power to legislate, reinstating restrictions on entry and       residence in the British Indian Ocean Territory; these restrictions, made       by Order in Council, had been struck down four years earlier in separate       litigation.
The restrictions, which excluded the Chagos Islanders from       returning to the territory, had been introduced to facilitate the building       and maintaining of a US military base at Diego Garcia, with the agreement       of the UK Government.
The Court of Appeal upheld the Divisional Court`s decision to grant the       application and to quash the Order in Council: R (Bancoult) v.         Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (No.
2)       [2007] EWCA Civ 498, [2008] QB 365.
The Court of Appeal reasoned first       that the CLVA did not block the application, and second that the Order had       improperly been made in the interests of the UK itself rather than the       territory in question, for whose good the power should instead have been       exercised.
In the important and controversial final decision in Bancoult [C1]       the House of Lords reversed the Court of Appeal`s judgment, narrowly       upholding the legality of the Order.
Counsel for the appellant relied on       Finnis`s paper, `Common Law Constraints: Whose Common Good Counts?'
[R5]       and counsel for the respondent sought to answer that paper in argument       before the court.
The paper is quoted with approval a number of times in       the leading judgment of Lord Hoffmann [paras.37-39] and also in the       concurring judgment of Lord Rodger in paragraphs approved also by Lord       Carswell.
In paragraph 39, Lord Hoffmann relies on Finnis`s refutation of the Court       of Appeal`s interpretation of the CLVA.
In paragraph 47, Lord Hoffmann       rejects the argument that Her Majesty must exercise her powers of       prerogative legislation solely in the interests of the territory in       question.
Rather, he says, this power is to be exercised upon the advice       of her ministers in the United Kingdom who properly act in the interests       of the undivided realm which includes the UK and the territory.
Hoffman`s       authority for this proposition is paragraph 716 of Halsbury's [R4],       written by Finnis, which he quotes at length (in his paragraph 31, he also       quotes paragraph 823 of Halsbury's).
Immediately thereafter, in       paragraph 48, he says that having read Professor Finnis`s paper he is now       inclined to think his earlier reasoning in the Quark case was not       sound.
(R (Quark Fishing Ltd) v Secretary of State for Foreign and         Commonwealth Affairs [2005] UKHL 57, [2006] 1 AC 529) Thus, writing       for the majority, Lord Hoffmann adopted Finnis`s account of the       constitutional relationship between the UK and its overseas territories       (and its rationale, namely, that they have one common good) and       followed Finnis, thus reversing his own position in Quark, to       affirm the constitutional principle that prerogative legislation may       properly be made in the interests of the undivided realm.
Hence, the       challenge to the Order failed.
Lord Rodger in paragraph 98 also notes and adopts Finnis`s answer to the       Court of Appeal`s argument that unless the CLVA is narrowly interpreted       the courts will not be able to correct some injustices.
Lord Rodger       expressly agrees with Finnis`s explanation of the point and legal effect       of the CLVA, and so overturns the Court of Appeal`s judgment on point.
(Lord Carswell follows Lord Rodger`s analysis at paragraph 126).
Finnis`s       authoritative refutation of the main lines of argument in the Court of       Appeal judgment proved decisive, persuading a narrow majority to reject       the confused proposition that in legislating for the UK`s dependencies Her       Majesty, acting on advice of her responsible ministers in the UK, may not       act for the good of the UK and its dependencies, which form one realm.
In       all, Lords Hoffman, Roger, and Carswell make heavy reliance on the       critical arguments of Professor Finnis [C5].
The holding in Quark was not strictly overruled in Bancoult         (No 2), it being common ground in the latter case that the Order in       Council was made by Her Majesty in right of the United Kingdom.
However,       it is clear from the Barclay litigation [C2, C3] that       Finnis`s paper has persuaded the superior courts that the holding is       untenable.
(Barclay) v Secretary of State for Justice [2008] EWCA       Civ 1319, [2009] 2 WLR 1205 at paragraph 21 noted that Lord Hoffmann`s       remarks in Bancoult undercut Quark.
At paragraph 106, Phil       LJ noted Lord Hoffmann`s reliance on Finnis`s paper, and then quoted from       that paper, tacitly affirming his proposition, contra Quark, that       in giving instructions Her Majesty acted in right not only of her       dependent territory but also and indeed primarily in right of the UK,       which forms one undivided realm.
When Barclay reached the Supreme       Court on appeal [C3], the leading judgment of Lord Collins (with       whom all their Lordships concurred) says, also at paragraph 106, that the       authority of the majority in Quark was weakened by Lord Hoffmann`s       statement in Bancoult, and that in light of Finnis`s paper       criticising the decision of the Lords in Quark and the Court of       Appeal in Bancoult, he thought Lord Nicholls right.
So while the       Supreme Court did not strictly overrule Quark in Barclay,       as the question did not need to be decided and had not been properly       argued, the Barclay judgment makes clear that Quark is now       of dubious authority, and is very likely to be formally overruled in due       course.
Finally, in the Kenya colonial torture litigation [C4]       proceedings in the High Court in London in 2011, the paper [R5]       was cited to the court by the claimants and referred to with approval in       several paragraphs of the court`s judgment: Mutua v Foreign and         Commonwealth Office [2011] EWHC 1913 (QB) at paragraphs 63, 64.
The       paper was also attached to the United Kingdom`s case in Chagos         Islanders v United Kingdom in the European Court of Human Rights, in       which the court, by a majority, ruled that as the Chagossians had accepted       compensation from the UK, they had effectively renounced their `right to       return' and as such their case was inadmissible [C6].
Thus, John Finnis`s work was decisive in persuading a majority of the       House of Lords in Bancoult to restore the central constitutional       principle governing the relationship between the UK and its dependencies,       which bears on the scope of Her Majesty`s prerogative power to legislate.
The paper persuaded Lord Hoffmann to abandon his earlier position in Quark,       concerning the capacity in which Her Majesty acts in her dependencies&#8212;this       change of mind will very likely culminate, as subsequent cases suggest and       confirm, in the Supreme Court expressly overruling Quark when a       suitable case presents itself.
Channelling many years` work on the       fundamental principles that govern the constitutional and lawful rule of a       complex political community, Finnis`s argument constitutes a very powerful       intervention in legal discourse, helping rescue the courts from the       confusion that Professor Finnis identified in Quark and in the       minority and Court of Appeal judgments in Bancoult.
