     Research on the death penalty carried out over the past two decades by       Professor Hood, and,       latterly, also by Professor Hoyle, has generated debates on reform and       influenced the thinking and       practices of criminal justice professionals and policy makers worldwide,       including in Taiwan,       Malaysia, Japan, India, Ghana, Uganda, and Trinidad and Tobago.
Their most       recent, and perhaps       most important, influence has been in China.
As one Chinese reformer puts       it, `their research has       had a significant impact on the debate on the death penalty in China and       ... is one of the       contributing factors to changing policy;' and `We use [their research] to       help us to present our       views when lobbying policy makers or working with other pressure groups to       influence policy       makers in China.'
[C1]     China is cautiously becoming more receptive to research and international       influence, but it remains       a fairly closed and secretive jurisdiction.
Among various drivers for       reform, research has proved       influential where it is able to reach academics enjoying close       relationships with the Party.
Several       Western academics joined in articulating the international human rights       message, but Hood and       Hoyle's research is the only international academic work to be widely       disseminated among       Chinese academics, policy makers and practitioners in both closed and open       fora.
The Death         Penalty [R1] has been translated into Chinese (by Liu Renwen       and Zhou Renjie) and published by       the China People's Policy Study University Press (3rd ed.
2005,       4th ed.
2010).
In a society where       the press is closely regulated, this is indicative of official endorsement       by the Chinese Government.
Another Chinese academic and party member writes,     `Due to the imperfections of the criminal justice statistics and judicial       transparency in China,       Chinese academic circles are mainly making the theoretical or normative       analyses regarding       the death penalty, and there are few empirical researches on the death       penalty.
To a certain       extent, the researches [sic] conducted by Professors Hood and Hoyle can       make up that gap       in the study of death penalty.
Given the excellent research and the       international/comparative       perspective, many Chinese scholars or institutions, including me and my       organization ...have       found it useful to cite this research in order to better understand or       further illuminate some       problems.'
[C2].
Likewise, many international reform groups have come to rely on Hood and       Hoyle, especially when       working in the Asian context.
The Director of the charity Reprieve,       reports `I am certainly familiar       with the research conducted by Professors Hood and Hoyle at Oxford       University.
(...) we use this       to help us develop our approach to various cases.
For example we have had       two capital cases in       China in the last four years...and it has been useful to us in assessing       how to proceed in a very       tricky legal environment.'
[C3].
The UK All Party Parliamentary       Group on Abolition of the Death       Penalty likewise notes "Their work has informed [our] visits to these       countries and facilitated a       dialogue within those governments on adherence to UN treaties, the issues       of deterrence and       public opinion, and a focus on death row cases."
[C4].
The       directors of the Death Penalty Project       similarly attest to its value and influence on the ground in the making of       the case to Chinese policy       makers [C5].
Hood's work has been reaching China for some time.
He was responsible for       the UN Secretary       General's reports on the 5th, 6th and 7th       Quinquennial Surveys of Capital Punishment from 1995 to       2005; a member of the Foreign Secretary's Death Penalty Advisory Panel in       2000; an active       participant in the highly successful UK/China Human Rights Dialogues and       the EU/China Human       Rights Seminars; a consultant to the Great Britain &#8212; China Centre (GBCC)       on various projects,       including `Strengthening the Defence in Death Penalty Cases' and `Moving       the Debate Forward' on       the death penalty in China.
The research basis of these works drew on       various editions of The         Death Penalty; his engagement with Chinese policy makers later fed       into subsequent research,       solely, and with Hoyle [C2].
Building on that engagement with       Chinese policy makers, Hood was       one of just three external experts invited by the Chinese Ministry of       Foreign Affairs to take part in       the first ground breaking seminar on the death penalty to be held with the       Office of the UN High       Commissioner for Human Rights, in 2011.
This work involved visiting China       regularly and       presenting his research and engaging in dialogue, arguing for reform, with       Supreme Court and       high court judges, prosecutors, defence lawyers, government advisors, and       leading academics       across China.
Most recently, he prepared a Report for the European Union,       drawing on The Death         Penalty [R1], examining how further reforms to the death       penalty in Asia might be encouraged.
The Report was published by the Directorate-General of the European       Parliament [C6], was       circulated among European policy makers, and commented on in Asia.
[C7]     From 2006 to 2009, Hood and Hoyle's research also reached senior members       of the Chinese       judiciary, including judges of the Supreme People's Court in Beijing.
[C5] Hoyle was consulted as       an expert for the GBCC and as the expert consultant to the 2012-15 EU       Initiative for Democracy       and Human Rights programme ``Use Less' &#8212; Judicial Restraints on the Use of       the Death Penalty in       China'.
There she participated in seminars with senior criminal justice       practitioners, academics and       policy makers, drawing on the scholarship in The Death Penalty [R1]       to inform her audiences and       promote its human rights message, including, for example, influence on       judicial education in China       in seminars organised by the Great Britain China Centre.
In 2010, Hoyle       was invited to lecture to       hundreds of judges in training from across China.
The lecture was       reproduced within the course       materials and used regularly in the training of further cohorts of judges,       enhancing judicial       awareness of the case for reform and progressive restriction of the death       penalty.
At a 2009 EU workshop held in Guangdong and Beijing, many delegates       accepted that the human       rights movement for worldwide abolition amounts to an `irreversible       trend'.
At the meeting, Chinese       lawyers, who are not only academics but also members of the Communist       Party, including       Professor Zhao Bingzhi, from Beijing Normal University, and Professor Mo       Hongxian of Wuhan       University endorsed Hood and Hoyle's claim (in The Death Penalty)       that the international tide and       trend towards abolition was `exciting', inevitable and signalled the       broad-mindedness of civilised       countries.
They argued that abolition had become an international       obligation and echoed Hood and       Hoyle's calls for restriction, reform and greater openness.
These players       and others have made       clear that their own proposals are greatly influenced by Hood and Hoyle's       research [R1, R5] that is       now available throughout China [C1, C2].
Reform, aimed at limiting the scope and practice of capital punishment in       China, eventually       resulted in dramatic changes.
The Chinese delegate at the United Nations       Human Rights Council       declared, in 2007, that `The death penalty's scope of application was to       be reviewed shortly ... with       the final aim of abolishment'.
Soon after, in 2007, the Supreme People's       Court (SPC) of China       assumed the power to review every capital sentence handed down by an       inferior court.
These       early declarations gave rise to more dramatic moves in recent years.
SPC       members confirmed that       the number of executions per year has more than halved since this reform;       that the SPC had       overturned about 10-15% of all death sentences since then, and provisional       high courts overturned       more death sentences at appeal (also widely reported in China Daily,       gaining further popular       attention).
At a 2012 conference a representative of the SPC's Research       Department said that the       Oxford research had been important in leading to these changes and that       the SPC wanted       continued academic support for their efforts to further restrict the use       of the death penalty.
Delegates at the conference, including members of the Chinese judiciary,       legal profession, and       policy makers, acknowledged the role of the Foreign and Commonwealth       Office and the European       Union (particularly Hood's research) in promoting these reforms.
Further       restriction of the use of       capital punishment came in February 2011 when China abolished the death       penalty for 13 non-violent       crimes, thereby reducing the number of crimes punishable by death from 68       to 55.
The       revised Criminal Law also banned capital punishment for offenders over the       age of 75.
Important in       themselves, these are also emblematic of China's emerging commitment to       reform.
According to the Executive Directors of The Death Penalty Project, the       research of Roger Hood       and Carolyn Hoyle has proved to be `an essential resource' for the work of       organisations       attempting to reform the use of capital punishment in China and elsewhere       [C5].
Through the       translation and dissemination of their careful studies, their direct       engagement with policy makers,       and their involvement in judicial education, it has proved an important       factor contributing to the       reform of the death penalty throughout China [C1, C2].
