     Beneficiaries of impact from Collini's research include higher education       policymakers, both in the UK and abroad and those who work in       universities.
The wider public have also engaged significantly in the       debates and issues which Collini's research has raised.
Collini's study       has also had economic impact through book sales &#8212; for example, What         Are Universities For?
sold 8,000 copies in its first year [1].
Impact on Public Discourse     Collini's research has had widespread impact on public discourse about       higher education in general and the humanities in particular.
One reviewer       wrote that, `Stefan Collini has undoubtedly done a great service to the       university community in channelling criticisms of the current state of       higher education in the UK into popular public discourse' [2].
This has       occurred through a wide variety of channels, including a considerable       number of articles and talks in the mainstream media, articles in more       specialist media, public appearances and contributions to public events.
Examples include: (i) Collini's article in the Guardian       (`University "Market" is a Con': 19 August 2011 [3]), which attracted over       191 responses; (ii) His articles in the London Review of Books       (`Browne's Gamble': 4 November 2010 [4] and `From Robbins to McKinsey': 25       August 2011 [5]); (iii) His book What are Universities For?, which       received numerous reviews in the national and international press (from       the Financial Times to the Economist to the Australian         Book Review); (iv) A Youtube video of Collini speaking at the RSA on       5 March 2012 about What are Universities For?, has received well       over 11,000 viewers [6]; (v) His invitation to be a member of the       Presidential Panel on 'The Humanities and the Future of the University' at       Harvard University, 30 April 2013, a public debate which the Harvard         Gazette reported as drawing `a capacity crowd', [7]; (vi) His       invitation also to be a major contributor (along with David Willetts and       others) to the public debate about what it means to be a modern university       in a globalised era, which formed part of Zamyn's inaugural cultural forum       on Global Citizenship.
This was a series of major events held at Tate       Modern, 3 June 2013, ahead of the G8 summit which was held later that       month [8].
Impact on Policy Making     Collini's arguments have been publicly acknowledged and discussed by       David Willetts, presently Minister for Higher Education, most notably in a       major speech defending government policy (1 March 2011) [9] and in an       article in the THE (1 March 2012) [10] This is turn led to       further responses to Collini's work from the public and fostered       additional debate.
As a direct result of his research findings, Collini       was invited on two occasions (18 January 2011 and 22 February 2012) to       address the All-Party Parliamentary Universities Group (composed of MPs,       Peers, and Vice- Chancellors) at discussion-meetings at Westminster.
When       a major public debate was held on 'The Future of Higher Education in       Scotland', Collini was again invited to be a speaker; both his talk, 'The       English Problem and "the Scottish Solution"', and his LRB piece       `From Robbins to McKinsey' were cited in the subsequent report of the       Review of Higher Education Governance in Scotland (2012) [11].
Impact on Public Services (Universities)     Collini's research has been used in the management and planning in a       number of HEIs internationally.
For example, his work has been drawn upon       by the University of Toronto in a university-wide planning exercise and by       the Board of Governors of the University College Plymouth St Mark and St       John.
The Vice President and Provost, University of Toronto, attests that       Collini's work `has informed my own strategic planning', including the       strategic review of her University that she led in 2011-12, Towards         2030: the View from 2012, in which she spoke to `the view so nicely       articulated by Professor Collini -- how higher education enriches both       individuals and societies and the importance of this rich education in a       rapidly-changing economic and political landscape'.
She describes What         are Universities for?
and his LRB articles as `exemplars of       today's best thinking about the role of universities' and their author as       `a passionate defender of plain and meaningful expression', concluding:       `For this alone we all owe him an enormous debt.'
[12] The Chair of the       Board of Governors at the University College Plymouth St Mark and St John       circulated a copy of [5] to each member of the Board of Governors (25       members).
[13]     Collini's research has also impacted on employees of universities and the       unions who represent them.
Lecturers from Czech universities used       Collini's work as a basis from which to campaign against high education       reform, including extracts in a brochure and reporting (15 August 2012)       that `the protests were partially successful since they led to resignation       of the ministry of education' [14].
UNISON, the largest education union in       the UK with over 300,000 members, cited his research in its evidence to       Government on the reform of Higher Education.
They declared their       agreement with `much of the analysis by Stefan Collini ... in his article       for the London Review of Books in November 2010.
This dissected the       ideology and exposed the weaknesses within the Browne report'.
[15]
