     Tax avoidance causes loss of revenue and can reduce public confidence in       the tax system.
Detailed legislative provisions attempting to curb       avoidance often fail.
Though struggling with such problems, professionals       and administrators in the British tax community were sceptical about the       value of an anti-avoidance rule, and rejected that approach in       1998.
Freedman's research, published in leading academic outlets and       widely disseminated in practitioner journals and presentations to       professionals, showed that an anti-avoidance norm need not be rule-based [R1,         R5].
Her principle-based alternative kept anti-avoidance on the       public agenda even when such rules had lost favour, and demonstrated that       there is an effective and coherent alternative.
Freedman showed the possibility and feasibility of a substantive,       overriding legislative principle which was based not on a motive       test but on listed objective characteristics, and was accompanied by       administrative arrangements encouraging debate between the tax community       and the revenue authorities.
Freedman's research and role in these debates       led to an invitation to serve on the Aaronson study group appointed to       advise the Exchequer Secretary.
She disseminated her research and the work       of the group through a major conference she organised under the auspices       of the Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation (OUCBT) in February       2012, in London.
The 270 attendees included academics, tax professionals       and key officials.
The proposals of the Aaronson study group informed       legislation in the Finance Act 2013 which now reflects ideas set out in       Freedman's work.
Engagement with policy-makers and tax practitioners has been central to       Freedman's research.
A prominent financial journalist has said of       Freedman, `Your willingness to engage with journalists, policy makers and       others, including NGOs &#8212; is very important in shaping the debate.
You'd       definitely be one of the most influential commentators in the field and I       do quite often draw on articles you have written.'
[C9] Working       with professionals, as with the Aaronson study group, enabled a timely       exchange of knowledge in tax law and policy.
The key findings, here, were       Freedman's explanation of why rule-based regulation is likely to       fail, and how a principle-based alternative could be constructed.
She went on to address concerns among policy makers and lawyers about the       potential for uncertainty in tax law and explained how that could be       managed by relying on objective characteristics of transactions and       through an appropriate administrative framework to control revenue       discretion.
The specific influence of Freedman's work on this process has       been acknowledged even by those who had been critical of the OUCBT,       including a noted tax campaigner in a `Tax Research UK' blog-post, who       wrote, `It took a long time, a lot of lobbying and some luck to       get a general anti-avoidance rule (or General Anti-Abuse Rule as it now       is) onto any government's agenda in the UK.
Judith Freedman at the Oxford       Centre for Business Taxation worked on that call.'
[C4]     In 2010, the Coalition Government agreed to reflect the Liberal       Democrats' views by considering an anti-avoidance measure.
HMRC and HMT       held a series of workshops, one of which Freedman was invited to address       (written up in The Tax Journal, 27th Sept. 2010).
The Exchequer       Secretary appointed Graham Aaronson QC to set up a study group to advise       the Government on the introduction of a GAAR, and at Aaronson's request,       Freedman was appointed as one of only two academic members of that group,       to contribute her knowledge and analysis of GAARs in overseas       jurisdictions.
The 2011 Aaronson Report, though his alone, reflected the       research and views of the Group [C5, C8].
Aaronson has said of       Freedman, `You were one of the keyest of key members of the study group,       and you had a great influence on my thinking.'
[C8]     The Report advocated a moderate and targeted anti-abuse principle.
Though       referring to it as a GAAR (since that is the acronym familiar in other       jurisdictions) the new proposal is in substance a principle: `an       overriding statutory principle to which other tax legislation is subject'       [C5, para 5.4], echoing Freedman's proposal in [R4,       at 75] and in [R1 at 356]: `This is not to say that       the specific statute is to be ignored; rather that it will be modified by       the GAAR explicitly subjecting it to an overriding principle or       principles.'
Similarly, Aaronson's proposal for a statutory advisory panel       adopts the idea set out in [R1 at 457] for an overarching       administrative framework.
Following the publication of draft anti-avoidance legislation in the       Finance Bill, Freedman gave evidence to the House of Lords Select       Committee on Economic Affairs which scrutinised the Finance Bill (HL Paper       139).
An anti-avoidance measure, largely as proposed by Aaronson and       influenced by Freedman's work, was consequently enacted in the Finance Act       2013, sections 206- 215 and Schedule 43 and is now in force [C6].
It has a broad overarching effect on all tax law and, thus, liabilities in       the UK, and is attracting notice as a potential solution to similar       problems elsewhere, including taxes within the jurisdiction of the       Scottish Parliament.
A Scottish official wrote, "Your 2007 article       `Interpreting Tax Statutes: Tax Avoidance and the Intention of Parliament'       was very thought provoking and I think I would benefit if I were able to       discuss your ideas further.
We do not see the GAAR as the only part of the       answer to tax avoidance.
That is why we are looking at a range of options,       including the principles-based drafting.'
[C7]     Judith Freedman's research on tax avoidance influenced debate among tax       professionals, the public, and government officials; its leading ideas       shaped anti-avoidance provisions of the Finance Act 2013.
These provisions       affect tax liabilities and tax policy throughout the UK.
