     The initial impetus for the project, and a requirement governed by the       funding criteria of HEIF, was to utilize an existing knowledge-base by       interacting with the wider world to result in economic and social benefit       to the UK.
Identifying the Conservatoire Historical Instrument Collection       and Music Technology Department as such knowledge-bases and assets had       three major advantages: (i) following on from the AHRC cataloguing       project, the Collection was still relatively unknown, and it was       considered to be of great benefit to the Collection and to the organology       community to use it as the focus of the HEIF project; (ii) during the       initial research phase of the HEIF application, a significant need was       identified for a collection of sampled historical musical instruments.
Until recently, musical instrument sample libraries were restricted to       modern classical instruments (e.g.
Vienna         Symphonic Library, established 2005,).
The growth of the market has       been primarily led by end-users in the music production, home music-making       and media industries demanding higher- quality and more realistic samples       of acoustic musical instruments.
Demand from this sector has also led to       less usual instruments being sampled and produced for commercial markets       (e.g.
Soniccouture's Rare         and Experimental collections, including libraries of Glass       Harmonica, Extended Piano and Extended Guitar; (iii) sampled historical       instruments occupy a different position from that of modern classical       samples and less usual samples, in that they appeal not only to those       wanting to explore music using `new' sounds, but also to those engaged in       the study of historical instruments, period instrument performance and       organology.
During the initial phase of the HEIF project, extensive       research was undertaken into the potential users of a commercial sample       library of this kind.
Questionnaires answered by UK-based composers and       music technologists indicated that 50% used sample libraries in their       work, and 81% were interested in sample libraries containing baroque and       renaissance instruments.
Among the first sample libraries dedicated to       historical instruments were those produced by Organ         Art, a German company that samples historic organs in continental       Europe.
In recent years a number of sample libraries dedicated to historical       keyboard instruments have been produced, giving a greater choice to the       market.
However, The Conservatoire Collection remains the only       product to contain samples of other historical instruments: Theorbo,       English Theorbo, Baroque Guitar, Psaltery, Renaissance Side Drums, Nakers       and Hurdy Gurdy.
The sample-rate used in the recordings - 96kHz/24bit,       compared to standard CD 44.1kHz/16bit - represents a significant       improvement over many of the competing sample libraries (e.g.
Spitfire         Audio, or Precision         Sound).
A noteworthy feature of The Conservatoire Collection       is its use of multiple `round robin'.
During the recording process,       multiple recordings are made of the same note using the same parameters       (velocity, timbre, etc.
), which are then selected at random by the sample       player so that the playback does not sound computer-generated.
Since commercial release, The Conservatoire Collection has gained       significant traction within the music industry, achieving a direct       artistic impact, notably with producers of commercial and media- driven       music.
It is recognized as the best example of these particular       instruments available at present.
The library, now in general use with       many music producers, has been extremely favourably reviewed (4.5/5) in       trade journal Sound on Sound (December 2011), the writer (himself       a composer) stating that the 17th- and 18th-century harpsichords are `both       beautifully deeply sampled and sounding handsome, well-balanced and       tonally satisfying.
It would be worth buying the collection for these fine       instruments alone ...
I also loved the exquisitely pure, delicate plucked       twang of the Psaltery, an old English zither played with quills.'
A       high-profile Australian film score composer, whose credits include Strictly         Ballroom (1992), Sliding Doors (1998), Elizabeth       (1998), Peaches (2004), Australia (2008), and Sanctum       (2011), has stated (21 November 2011): `I like the fact that Soniccouture       products provide alternative, off beat, non-standard instruments and       brilliant reconstructions of classic rare instruments, like ... the       Conservatoire library, which is worth having just for the stunning       Harpsichords alone, as well as the Baroque Guitar and the Hurdy Gurdy, an       instrument I have wanted to have on tap in a sample library, but couldn't       find one until now.'
A music producer whose credits include Madonna,       Bj&#246;rk, Britney Spears and Imogen Heap featured the French Harpsichord       library from the Collection on the track `Apple Kisses' from Alison       Moyet's album The Minutes (2013), and has commented (17 May 2013):       `I studied the harpsichord before I became a pop producer.
I've purchased       other harpsichord libraries ... [but] The thing is, I really respect James       and Dan's work [at Soniccouture].
So I knew this would be a great       library....
It's really good.
I have [other] sample sets ...
The only       problem is, they're all presented at their original pitch standard and       temperament.
This causes a lot of problems.'
Again, an American music       producer, composer and sound designer at Red Noise, La Grange, Illinois       has used the Conservatoire Collection in his music for large-scale outdoor       spectacles.
He has commented: `I just wanted to write to let you know that       the Conservatoire Collection has brought significant benefit for me in my       work as a music producer/composer and sound designer.
My favourite thing       about this collection is quite simply the range of instruments, and the       fact that the sample banks were obviously put together by people who knew       the instruments well, and could anticipate how they would be used in a       composition.
I also appreciate the fact that the sound quality is perfect       for an intimate arrangement, which these instruments lend themselves to.
Layering virtual instruments from the Conservatoire Collection with real       instruments makes it possible for me to change the arrangements and       compositions very quickly when the Director decides to change a scene,       without having to re-record an entire ensemble.
This means we are able to       deliver a high-quality theatrical production without becoming trapped into       simply repeating the same show every time; we can easily make changes the       afternoon before a performance without compromising quality.
I've used the       Conservatoire Collection quite extensively in large-scale spectacles       requiring period music ...
Earlier this year [March 2013] I used the       Conservatoire Collection alongside traditional Maori instruments for a       work commissioned by the Auckland International Festival (which drew about       50,000 people for 3 nights), and the neutral quality of the recordings in       the Conservatoire Collection enabled me to mix the results together very       easily and convincingly.
That project drew record crowds to the Festival,       from all demographics.
Thanks for delivering such a powerful, versatile,       and high quality creation!'
A film composer and sound designer working at Kwarszi Music, Copenhagen       has emphasized that the Collection has functioned not only directly as a       software library, but also as an imaginative source of inspiration: `The       Conservatoire Collection stands out for its range of specific instruments,       new available sounds, quality of sample and the usability/implementation       in Kontact.
I have used the Conservatoire Collection instruments for       expanding the possibilities for soundtracks with time specific references       (documentaries and museum installations) and creating new combinations in       electronic works and contemporary compositions.
Using the sample library       as a direct sound source, and as a compositional tool when imaging new       scoring possibilities for instrumental compositions.'
Feedback from a Soniccouture user survey of September 2013, reflecting       usage and impact over the period from commercial release in 2012,       indicates that the Collection has also been used in the gaming industry by       the Music Production Manager, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, for the       music of the Sony PlayStation 3 game `Wonderbook: Book of Potions' (survey       user #21).
Revenue directly generated from sales of The Conservatoire Collection       to April 2013 totalled &#163;42,830.16 with the 5-year projection being in       excess of &#163;150,000.
