     Professor Cooper's research on Shakespeare and Chaucer, and the links       that she has demonstrated between them, has fed directly into the continuing         professional development (CPD) she undertakes with secondary school         teachers, with the aim of using this research to raise their       interest and to assist in changing their practice.
Teachers have reported       improved attainment as a result.
Lectures and workshops based on this work have been delivered by       Professor Cooper since 2007 through The Prince's Teaching Institute (PTI),       an independent charity created by the Prince of Wales.
The PTI aims to       help 'teachers to rediscover their love of their subject' and improve       their teaching of it.
[1] Professor Cooper presents her research to       audiences of between 30 and 60 teachers and students.
These have included       lectures on Hamlet, 2008, 2010; Chaucer, 2009; Shakespeare's       theory of drama, 2010; Othello and The Merchant of Venice,       2011; King Lear and As You Like It, 2011; Shakespeare on       Comedy and Tragedy, 2013.
Sections from Shakespeare and the Medieval         World on the development of the language and of metrics from Middle       English forwards (ch.
1, pp.
34-41), generic inclusiveness (ch.
2,       especially pp.
42-54), stagecraft (ch.
3), the tragedy of fortune (ch.
5,       especially Hamlet and Lear), comedy and romance (ch.
6),       and Shakespeare's Chaucer (ch.
7), have also been used in preparation of       PTI material for her lectures on both Shakespeare and Chaucer.
Through the repackaging of Cooper's research for classroom application,       teachers are offered alternative ways of thinking about:            z;       the freeing up of drama from the limitations of character and style,         from high tragedy or middle/low comedy to a drama based on all of         humankind       new ways of thinking etymologically about Shakespeare's language, and         how he deploys its various historical layers with their different kinds         of connotations;       how to integrate Elizabethan, and by extension modern, ideas of stage         practice and performance with contemporary theoretical frameworks.
The programme is evaluated regularly by the PTI who have provided data to       demonstrate impact on teachers' professional and personal development, and       on student outcomes.
(Data were gathered from the 2011 and 2012 cohorts.)
The immediate beneficiaries of Professor Cooper's research are those       teachers who have been on the programme.
Whilst it has not always been       possible to isolate the specific response to Professor Cooper's input, it       is clear that her work is well received by teachers.
Typical comments are       as follows: `Helen Cooper's lecture was informative, challenging and       engaging.
The course itself has re-ignited my enthusiasm for the subject';       [2] and `Helen Cooper was genuinely inspirational &#8212; a legend!'
[3]     A number of teachers have also reported that the materials provided by       Professor Cooper are useful to classroom teaching: `Helen Cooper's lecture       was a delight, really clear and stimulating.
Very strong too in       terms of practical application of ideas in the classroom' [2].
Another       writes: `One of the projects that I've undertaken as part of PTI involves       a Shakespeare club, and this is the area where I plan to expand for the       next three years &#8212; so a lot of the things you said about "playing" at       Shakespeare really struck a chord with that side of things.
...
It's       really energised me ... to hear your ideas yesterday and apply them back       to teaching'.
[4] And another: `I really found that I came away from the       course having learnt a lot about Chaucer.
This will enable me to deliver       this knowledge to my students; they will be the ones who benefit.'
[5]     It is these students and school pupils who are the ultimate beneficiaries       of the research.
PTI evaluation data shows that for years 2009 to 2011,       between 91 and 98 per cent of teachers who participated in the programmes       agreed with the statement `I believe that within six months this         approach will be having an impact on my pupils.'
[6] There is       evidence that the lectures enabled teachers to raise the pupils'       attainment.
In a substantial report on the impact of the PTI's CPD on       classroom practice, one long-serving teacher (former Head of English, now       Lead Teacher for Gifted and Talented Students at his Community College)       described the experience in his school as follows:     The AQA Spec.
B orders for Literature A level require a coursework       response comprising of two essays, one on modern tragedy and one on       Shakespearean tragedy.
Both pieces must explore how the plays adhere to or       differ from tragic convention ...
Professor Cooper's lecture directly       informed many of their responses and was frequently named in their       reference lists.
Although the lecture was about Hamlet, many of       its ideas were also useful to students studying other plays....     ALPS is an external analysis system that seeks to compare the       effectiveness of teaching by comparing the `value added' to students from       like schools.... As can be seen, the students achieved very highly...     As with GCSE results, it is impossible to prove a causal link, but as can       be seen there is a clear jump from 2009 (before the use of the Cambridge       materials on tragedy) to 2010, and this jump was maintained in 2011.
[5]     Another PTI Evaluation reports that in 2011-12 1,075 teachers attended a       PTI professional development event (880 in 2010-11), and some 2,560       teachers and their students attended a special series of lectures at the       Royal Institution in June/July 2012 to mark 10 Years since the first       Summer School.
As a result, approximately 145,000 pupils benefitted from       the PTI's activities in the period under review.
[7]
