     The project has had impact on the work of museum curators at Museums       Sheffield, especially on changes in the emphasis of new gallery space, and       the provision of digital resources to the general public.
The project was       devised to address the limited reference in the Ruskin Gallery's displays       to the Collection's origins in the St George's Museum, Walkley.
The       installation of the project website on a computer terminal as part of a       gallery refurbishment, funded by the Wolfson Foundation, is one mark of       its success in achieving this aim.
Through ongoing correspondence with the       Museums Sheffield curator, the project has improved our knowledge of gaps       in the Collection (e.g.
the rediscovery of William Small's The         Shipwreck).
The project has facilitated the digital display of the       Museum's experimental furniture, thereby restoring a key element of       Ruskin's holistic approach to Museum design.
The furniture can no longer       be displayed physically, due to modern museum preservation rules, and       dispersal.
Its use of virtual methods has helped curators communicate the       idea of a past museum in a way that would not be possible in the limited       physical space of the Ruskin Collection.
The Curator at Museums Sheffield testifies that the website's launch was       `exceedingly well timed' in the influence it had on re-development of the       gallery space `with accessibility to an eclectic but general audience       remaining of the foremost importance'.
She declares that the project       `helped direct and validate the path of my own priorities, particularly in       key areas of Collections' Management (provenance, collection losses,       conservation priorities etc.)'
The provision of a permanent computer       terminal for the website was of `huge importance' in its implementation of       `an interpretative strategy that targets diverse audiences'.
She       emphasises the impact of the web-site both locally &#8212; the visitor's books       with its many Sheffield signatories bear witness to its `raising awareness       of the City's history' &#8212; and more extensively, in so far as it is `raising       awareness of the museum at an international level and providing a fertile       topic for greater debate and research in the future' [1].
The originality of the concept has been recognized by institutions,       educators and charities wishing to employ digital images in material       contexts.
The website was used for a public teaching session at the       V&amp;A, 26 May 2010, for example, and was held up as a model by a speaker       at the `Lost Museums Study Day' at the Hunterian Museum, Royal College of       Surgeons, 21 May 2011 [2].
Inspired by a talk given by Waithe at the       Ruskin Seminar at Lancaster University, a colleague at Manchester       Metropolitan University used the site in her introductory lecture to a       group of second year students [3].
`Ruskin at Walkley' is featured on the       web-site for Ruskin's Praeterita supporting a second-year option       module at the University of Sheffield on Victorian Life-Writing [4].
And       an independent Ruskin scholar writes that `you've given us a new sort of       access to Ruskin's museum and brought us closer than we have ever been to       experiencing the museum as he envisioned it' [5].
The project has influenced the methods of charity professionals working       in the area of public engagement, including 42nd Street (a       Manchester-based Charity working with young people, They used the project       as a model for their successful application to the Heritage Lottery Fund       `to create a contemporary iteration of the Ancoats Museum in Ancoats'.
Waithe has agreed to provide consultancy work as part of this venture [6].
The Guild of St George, now an educational charity, formally acknowledged       its appreciation of the project's work in encouraging knowledge and       awareness of the Ruskin Collection.
They commissioned Waithe to write a       pamphlet, for sale in the Museums Sheffield Millennium Gallery shop, with       a link on the Guild's website: Ruskin at Walkley: An Illustrated Guide         to the Online Museum (Bembridge, Isle of Wight: Guild of St George,       2011; a second edition is in preparation) [7].
There is also evidence of the website's indirect impact on book sales in       that an academic publisher, writing in praise of the website as a 'very       intriguing as a way of reconstructing a vanished environment', has sought       permission to advertise on it a series of reprints that includes the       standard edition of Ruskin's Works [8].
Finally, the project has connected local people with local history, and       raised awareness of Sheffield's Ruskin-related heritage among a national       and international audience.
The presence of the website terminal on the       public gallery floor of the Ruskin Collection allows non-paying visitors       who pass through this city-centre museum to connect the objects on display       with their earlier museum context, raising awareness of the Collection's       origins in a suburban and semi-domestic museum.
Local people may not have       imagined that an institution holding such valuable objects ever existed in       Walkley.
The site's comparison of modern architectural views with       Victorian views fosters an awareness of how this apparently `local       history' is embedded in debates about class and the preservation of       culture.
An `electronic visitors' book' has been incorporated into the       online museum, together with a set of survey questions addressed to       signatories.
In the twelve months between August 2012 and July 2013 the       site received over 42,000 visits and over 237,000 hits [9].
