     Dr Wright presents research findings to the public through fortnightly       twenty-minute radio programmes on BBC London 94.9 on the topic of the       history of London English.
The term 'London English' covers grammar,       pronunciation, vocabulary, place-names, personal names, names of products,       shops and buildings, pragmatics, sociolinguistics, and because Londoners       colonised much of the globe, speech from remote English speaking areas       retain features of London English which are now lost in the city.
Dr       Wright prepares a talk which she presents as a conversation with BBC       London programme presenter, Robert Elms.
She began broadcasting in 1999       and has done so continuously since then, apart from six months when she       was on maternity leave.
Dr Wright has now outlasted five producers and       three station re-brands.
Each broadcast stimulates emails and calls to the       BBC.
The nature of this impact involves: (i) preserving, conserving, and       interpreting cultural heritage for audiences external to the academy; (ii)       contributing to continuing personal and professional development.
The programme is well-received by the public, who listen both locally       (London-wide) at the time of broadcast on the radio, and internationally       for about a week subsequently on the BBC Iplayer.
The audience measurement       system in the UK showed that BBC London 94.9 audience reach for the first       quarter in 2013 was 504,000.
[1] Dr Wright receives emails from listeners       around the world.
A BBC Radio London spokesman reported: `Laura is one of       our most popular contributors and we probably get more calls and emails       responding to her time on-air than we do of any other contributors,       because of her subject and how she presents it.'
[2] In January 2012 Dr       Wright asked listeners for their comments on her broadcasts and received       over 100 replies (the norm for such requests is 20-30), including:     `I'm a 45 year old stay at home Mum.
The radio is my companion &amp; my       educator &amp; I split my listening mostly between Radio London, Radio 4       &amp; ...
I'm not well educated in the usual sense &#8212; a CSE in English       &amp; a certificate for a width of the local baths are all I possess, but       I have a quest for knowledge so have educated myself.
Your programme is       part of that.
Your slot feeds my passion for language; of how words work,       the history of our language &amp; all the quirkiness that comes with it.'
[3]     `If you need any evidence that you are value for money I am someone who       is now 52 and at school was probably a nightmare, I am sure the trouble I       used to get in made me my teachers live time hobby [sic].
It was only a       few years ago I found Robert's show and being a London boy rekindled my       interest in London and found a want to learn.
Your piece is the one I wait       for most.'
[4]     `I've always found your talks on the show fascinating &amp; I think a lot       of people who normally would have avoided anything marked 'linguistics'       due to fears of the dry academic nature of the subject will have been       drawn in by the interesting &amp; relevant way that you present the       subject.
...
I am wondering if there are any books that you would       recommend for a beginner like me to do some home study.'
[5]     `Your piece on stagecoaches and all aspects of their history in London       and elsewhere &#8212; including their idiosyncratic names &#8212; in May 2010, was       particularly brilliant.
I know it was May 2010 because I laboriously       transcribed it for future reference, word for word, from the iPlayer at       that time!'
[6]     The listenership is extremely varied: replies were received from, amongst       others, midwives, chartered accountants, cameramen, NHS workers, drivers,       baggage-handler, photographers, banker, poets, students, advertising       workers, animation designer &amp; illustrator, pensioners.
Listeners       reported repeating information from Dr Wright's broadcasts to customers       (particularly taxi-drivers), patients and clients (counsellor,       youth-worker), family and friends, tourists (blue-badge tour-guide) and       buying linguistics books as a result of listening.
There is no precedent for broadcasting historical linguistics, let alone       on a stigmatised urban dialect.
The popularity of the radio broadcasts       indicates the appetite among listeners for a sense of living history, of       where their own language comes from and the way it resonates across space       and time.
The detailed audience feedback reveals a live, ongoing,       committed interest in the history of the voice which cuts across class,       age, gender, education level, and region.
Many respondents reported       listening from abroad, and over a long duration &#8212; ten years or more.
