     Chirico's research has had direct impact on the conservation and         presentation of culture       through the leading role he has taken in the preparation of biographical       and thematic texts used in       the John Clare Cottage; it has also had indirect effects on education       materials for schools through       his role in the Trust since 2008.
His research has had further impact       indirectly through his support       of the John Clare Trust, support that was crucial to the Trust's purchase       of Clare's Cottage for a       museum.
This has benefited visitors with an interest in Clare and local       history.
Chirico has also       used his research on John Clare to develop, with local collaborators,       cultural, education and social       projects around themes of interest to Clare.
Such themes include mental       health and education.
This work is also being used to develop arts programmes to link immigrant       communities in an area       of high migration.
In summarising the aspects of Clare's life and work revealed through his       own research (and that of       other scholars) Chirico set the agenda for the educational materials at       the cottage, with their inter-       related themes [1].
Visitors have appreciated the extensive       presentation of the complex realities of       Clare's life and work, undistorted by over-simplification and emerging       from first-hand academic       research.
The research was disseminated to the beneficiaries through the       preparation of material for display       in Clare's Cottage, public lectures in and around Helpston (e.g.
5       December 2008, the public       lecture: `John Clare, the man', Helpston Village Hall, and 2 November       2010, Annual Bill Packer       Lecture to Friends of Stamford Hospital).
Chirico took part in a walk in       Clare's footsteps leaving       Epping Forest towards Helpston on 9 July 2009, leading up to the formal       opening of the Cottage on       13 July.
During this period he was interviewed about Clare live on the       Today programme (9.7.09),       Radio Cambridgeshire (9.7.09) and Look East (13.7.09).
Chirico has also       collaborated in the       development of education materials for visiting school groups, and       contributed to many newspaper       and magazine articles, for example being interviewed by Adam Foulds for a       feature in the Autumn       2009 edition of Countryside Voice [2].
Chirico's research has had an impact on visitors to Clare's cottage, the       main part of which is a       museum relating to the life and work of John Clare.
Chirico contributed       substantially to the       biographical and thematic text and audioguides to the cottage and village       in 2009 on the basis of       his research (`Thank you for your input into the panels and audio       tour &#8212; your comments were       (are) vital for us!'
[3]).
Chirico wrote and revised substantial       biographical, geographical, historical       notes, corrected factual errors, and selected and edited the extracts from       Clare's poetry and prose       which feature heavily in these materials [4].
The cottage is open       daily for general visitors and has       received over 11,000 visitors since its opening.
The information materials       have been well-       reviewed, satisfying Clare scholars and meeting the enthusiastic approval       of diverse visitors       (`superb displays and recordings', `An interesting and thorough, in-depth       look into Clare's life').
Recent comments in the visitors' book include, `Although I didn't know       much about John Clare       before we visited here.
It has left us feeling very informed of his life -       a very interesting time here.
Thank-you.'
(27/8/12) And the presenter of BBC Countryfile, Bristol       (18/4/13) wrote `Learnt a lot I       didn't know about John Clare.
Wonderful place.
Should make a great film' [5].
The materials at the museum have also impacted on schools, mainly as a     result of visits to the     cottage (111 such visits since the start of 2011).
Again, feedback has been     positive.
One local     primary school teacher wrote to comment on her school's experience: `It was     a really informative     and interesting day, we enjoyed the object handwriting and writing with a     quill pen as well as the     opportunity to go to the field and collect samples of plants and animals' [6].
The teacher's     comments reflect the wider role of Clare Cottage, and the research of     Chirico, in the preservation     and presentation of the social and cultural history as well as poetry.
Through his establishment of the John Clare Trust and work since 2008,       Chirico's research on       Clare has underpinned a significant expansion of cultural activities in       the locality and beyond.
For       example, based on his experience, as former Chair of the John Clare       Society, of hosting a smaller       competition aimed at schoolchildren, he helped to establish an Annual John       Clare Poetry       Competition in 2009 organised by the John Clare Trust [7].
To date       the competition has attracted       723 submissions from new and established poets, with winners travelling       from as far afield as       Rome.
Chirico presented prizes for the competition in 2011.
Chirico has       also helped to establish       the annual John Clare Literary Festival, giving an inaugural talk on John       Clare and Autumn [7].
From the 40-50 who attended that event on 8 October 2011, the Festival has       grown into a major       fixture in the cultural calendar in Peterborough.
In 2011 the Trust was awarded &#163;64,680 by the Esmee Fairbairn Foundation       to carry out a two-year       community project, `Bridging Cultures in Clare Country', linking immigrant       communities in the       Peterborough area through poetry and the arts.
The impetus for this       project originated in Chirico's       identification of the `compelling paradox' &#8212; central to his research &#8212; of       the `urgent and successful       appeal of this most rooted of writers to the timeless, placeless reader',       and of an opportunity, born       from his own familiarity with immigrant communities in Peterborough, to       connect Clare's       experience of alienation resulting from radical and destabilising changes       in land use to the       experience of 21st century residents who had left rural homes       overseas to travel to the city (`I was a       being created in the race / Of men disdaining bounds of place and time').
The intention of the       programme has been to break down barriers to engagement and learning       within an ethnically       diverse area of Peterborough, and activities have included writing,       sculpture, vocal battles and       graffiti art.
Renewed funding for a third year is currently under       consideration by the Caterpillar       Foundation [8], [9].
