     This underpinning research, mostly published since 2004, has rapidly and       profoundly affected how patients with TIA are viewed, investigated, and       treated, both in the UK and internationally.
More urgent assessment and investigation of TIAs     Prior to Rothwell's research, most guidelines suggested that patients       should be assessed and treated within four weeks of a TIA.
After       publication of his research showing that the early risk of stroke after a       TIA had been substantially underestimated, guidelines rapidly changed,       markedly increasing the urgency with which investigation and treatment was       recommended.
This was first highlighted in the 2007 Department of Health       National Stroke Strategy, which endorsed the "medical emergency" status of       TIA and minor stroke (Section 5, Source 1).
It was then adopted in the       2008 NICE guidelines for stroke, which remain in force, and also in the       latest guideline from the Royal College of Physicians (2012).
All now       recommend assessment of high-risk patients as an emergency, with       completion of initial investigations within 24 hours (Sources 2-5).
More effective identification of high-risk patients     Use of the ABCD system, developed and validated by Rothwell and       colleagues to triage and identify patients at highest risk of major stroke       after a TIA or minor stroke, is now recommended in all UK guidelines       (Sources 2-5).
Indeed, the ABCD score is used to define the risk: `People         who have had a suspected TIA who are at high risk of stroke (that is,         with an ABCD score of 4 or above)...'.
(NICE stroke guideline CG68,       p8; Source 2).
More urgent surgical treatment of TIAs     Rothwell's related work, notably from the EXPRESS study, showing benefits       of early intervention in prevention of stroke also rapidly changed       clinical guidelines, being included in the National Stroke Strategy and       the 2008 NICE guidelines (Sources 1 and 2).
The guidelines also stipulate       that carotid endarterectomy should be performed within 48 hours or 14 days       of the presenting TIA or stroke (depending on its severity).
To see       whether these recommendations are being met, Rothwell and colleagues set       up the UK National Carotid Endarterectomy Audit &#8212; an ongoing national       audit in collaboration with the Royal College of Physicians and the       Vascular Surgical Society.
Repeated audits have shown that delays to       endarterectomy have been substantially reduced across the UK; for example,       in the early 2000s the average delay was over 3 months; by 2009-10 it was       21 days; by 2010-11 it had fallen to 15 days (Royal College of Physicians,       2012 [Source 5]; Mayor, 2012 [Source 6]).
International impacts     The UK impacts affecting clinical guidelines for triage, investigation       and treatment are mirrored by similar recommendations from major       international guidelines, including the US National Stroke Association       (2006, 2011) and the European Stroke Association (2008), both of which       remain in force.
Both cite Rothwell's work as evidence leading to their       guidance (Sources 7-9).
Overall, implementation of the guidelines that have resulted from the       work of Rothwell and his team has benefitted groups along the entire       healthcare supply chain, resulting in changes to GPs' practice and       hospital services through adoption of the NICE guidelines, reducing burden       on the NHS for acute care of major recurrent stroke.
The findings have       also had a similar impact on clinical guidelines in Europe, USA and many       other countries.
