     Our work has had impact in this area through three principal activities:             Public engagement &#8212; using our skills as public historians, and         through collaborative work with regional and national organisations, to         deploy archives, archive-based research and archive-based multimedia         products to increase public engagement and understanding of media and         cultural history;        Media production &#8212; using our skills as media and cultural         historians and as media producers to produce exemplar multimedia         products built upon archive material, as well as new forms of         crowd-sourced archives;        Advisory roles &#8212; using our expertise as users and exploiters of         archive material and contributing to public advisory and policy bodies         to extend the digitisation and cataloguing of archives, widen access to         archives, and promote the use of archives in new multimedia products.
These activities have expanded during the survey period, as emergent       researchers have joined the Heritage, History and Archives team, and as       the number and variety of the organisations with which we work has       increased.
The resultant expansion in the significance and reach of our       work can be seen in a number of specific examples.
Collectively this work       represents a commitment to collaboration and co-curation with a variety of       institutions and communities of interest, and it has contributed to the       enhancement of cultural life, public debate and policy, and professional       practice.
This increase in scale of impact can be seen clearly in our public       engagement work.
Long, for instance, has been engaged in a long-term       partnership with the Library of Birmingham (LofB), which holds archives of       Charles Parker and Philip Donnellan material associated with their radio       and film documentary productions, and BBC Midlands, which has extensive       holdings of hitherto unused broadcast and production materials.
As the       Metadata Service Delivery Manager of BBC Information and Archives and the       Collection Curator at the Library of Birmingham, testify, Long has been       central to realising key institutional initiatives to increase public       awareness of local-held archives and the region's cultural heritage.
Long       has been a keynote speaker at the annual Charles Parker Day.
inaugurated       in 2004 in collaboration with the Charles Parker Trust, and he organised       the 2005 and 2007 events when they took place in Birmingham.
As the       aforementioned make clear in their testimonials, both the knowledge and       skills Long developed in his work on Parker and Donnellan, and regional       BBC production in general, have had a significant impact on the way       important holdings in the Library of Birmingham and the BBC are organised       and deployed.
This included work as part of projects funded by Screen West       Midlands (SWM).
Long's leadership of the Home, Identity and         Citizenship &#8212; The Films of Philip Donnellan project led to the       employment of a specialist media archivist to secure and organise the       collection, developing professional skills amongst LofB staff, and a range       of events, media coverage and social media interaction.
This approach was       manifest also in the establishment of an SWM-funded website (from 2006)       dedicated to Donnellan research and dissemination.
This research       underwrote a further project funded under the UK Film Council `Digital       Film Archive Fund' (DFAF).
In turn, a further aim was to use the project       as a lever to reach the kinds of audiences that Donnellan's work       incorporated &#8212; particularly those in migrant and marginalised communities.
Long introduced screenings of films that reached a total audience of more       than 500, and featured in the BBC early evening magazine programme `Inside       Out'.
Audience figures for this feature are conservatively estimated at       350,000.
Research and retrieval work on Parker and Donnellan's practice       and productions directly informed the creative work of artist Denis       Buckley and the articulation of migrant experiences for contemporary       audiences in the form of `The Bohola Men' (http://www.denisbuckley.com).
In 2010-11, this production appeared at the Tulca Season of Visual Art,       Galway, Ireland; Live Words, Whitechapel Gallery, London; Sprint         Festival, Camden People's Theatre, London; and at Rich Mix, London.
The team have also been centrally involved in the organisation of a       number of similar public engagement events.
These include: It Came         From Pebble Mill (2010), organised in partnership with the BBC and 7       Inch Cinema, and featuring screenings and talks based upon research from       BCU about BBC regional productions; Film Heritage, Digital Future:         Practice and Sustainability for the Film Archive Sector (2011),       which brought film and television archivists together; Jazz and the         Media (2010 &amp; 2011), focusing on the production of media       histories of jazz and including contributions from the production team of       the BBC's Jazz Britannia; and The Tube (2012), which drew       on archival broadcast material and contributions from members of the       production team to examine the significance of the 1980s Channel 4 popular       music show.
We have also drawn on our skills as media producers and worked in       collaboration with other production companies to create and distribute       radio productions, films and websites which present the findings of       earlier research.
These productions are also examples of practice-based       research, and often emerge from other initiatives, or collaborations with       individuals or institutions in our iterative process of research and KT.
This is manifest in Collins' co-production with swish of Made         in Birmingham (2010).
This DFAF-funded film is built upon research       within the centre and dedicated to retrieving and celebrating cultures       centred on reggae, punk and bhangra and the migrant and marginalized       communities who produced this music and participated in associated scenes.
The film repurposed archival footage and music and has been screened       locally, nationally and internationally.
Locally, the film featured as       part of the reopening in 2010 of the Midland Art Centre, which attracted       35,000 visitors (www.macarts.co.uk/about-mac/).
Across 21 festivals from 2010 onwards, it has been seen by audiences of       around 55,000 people.
Our theoretical positions on historical narratives       and archiving practice have also had an impact through The Birmingham         Music Archive, which has cultivated a broad community of amateur       archivists involved in the co-curation of memories of popular music       practices.
Users have generated 1395 uploads across 588 posts and there is       a subscriber list of 285 contributors.
The site attracts on average 1000       visitors per week.
Likewise, the Pebble Mill film and website,       funded by DFAF and developed by Jackson, makes available original oral       history material in the form of interviews and artefacts.
This curatorial       activity is echoed in her management of social media, through which she       has gathered together a community of interest of former BBC employees.
In       all, she has engaged over 1000 participants, who together have built a       digital archive in the absence of any formal material testimony to what       was once a major hub of cultural production.
Long's archival research led to his engagement as Chair of the British       Library Sound Archive User Panel (2008-9) and, along with Wall, ongoing       membership of the UK Radio Archive Advisory Committee (UKRAAC, est.
2011,       see: http://ukradioarchives.com), also hosted by the British Library.
The       User Panel promoted access to sound resources amongst researchers and for       wider educational use with Long aiding in the organisation of a public       event at BL and a national competition for BL users.
UKRAAC includes       representatives from academia and the radio production sector, and has set       itself the ambitious aim of establishing a British Radio Archive as well       as establishing processes to archive an ongoing sample of all British       radio broadcasts.
UKRAAC has also been influential in policy terms.
The       committee has most recently lobbied key DCMS officials on the issue of       radio archives, the results of which we hope will be apparent in the next       communication bill to go through Parliament.
Collins has taken on a role as a board member of the Community Archives       &amp; Heritage Group a National Advisory Board for the archives sector and       also sits on the Heritage Committee of Birmingham Civic Society, and his       work on music heritage informed a consultation by Birmingham City Council       on the value of popular music industries and culture for the local       economy.
Research into broadcasting and music history has also informed       the practices of Vivid Projects as a result of the Participation       project, which reached 471 local visitors and was disseminated to partners       in Germany, Bulgaria and the Netherlands (http://www.vividprojects.org.uk/programme/participation/).
Long sits on the board of Vivid and, along with Collins, has contributed       to a further three archiving, media and music events which draw upon       research and expertise and which have engaged over 200 visitors in person       and 62, 530 people through online sites such as Facebook, Vivid Projects       and the O2 Academy.
Collins and Long have employed music heritage research and insights into       online practices of curation and file sharing to inform their leadership       of a &#8364;25,000 European Commission-funded project under the Leonardo da       Vinci programme, involving partners from across the EU in educational,       private and public sectors.
`Innovative Media and Music Heritage Impacting       Vocational Education' maintains an online resource that captures insights       from research visits and contributions to industry and policy-oriented       events, such as Berlin Music Week and Eurosonic at Groningen (http://www.immhive.org).
The cumulative impact of these projects is to aid in the retrieval of       neglected cultural histories, the engagement of substantial new audiences       in exploiting the possibilities of digital communities and, above all, an       insistence upon the value of such stories and the meaning of popular       culture.
