     Impact in this area has been achieved through three principal activities:             dissemination, through 44 reports and other publications, a         variety of online social media activity including well-respected         industry blogs (for example, Dubber's contributions at         newmusicstrategies.org), and nearly 100 presentations at industry events         and symposia;        knowledge exchange and transfer activities, directly with 102         music and radio organisations, often as part of externally-funded         projects listed in section 2, and through our delivery of the         university's strategy for business engagement;        taking roles in significant organisations in the field,         including Wall's role on a British Council digital R&amp;D delegation to         China in 2013, Dubber's appointment in 2013 as expert advisor to the         European Commission's 'ICT &amp; Art' Horizon 2020 Initiative at the NEM         Summit (http://nem-summit.eu/about/),         and Dubber and Collins' position as board members for Un-convention from         2009.
This impact has continued throughout the survey period, during which time       it has shown growth in both significance and reach.
This growth, and the       scale and depth of the most recent impact of our research, can be seen in       specific examples.
Growing significance     The increase in significance of our impact can be demonstrated with       reference to a contrast of our work with two indicative organisations in       2008-9 and two in 2012-13.
Here we have worked with small independent       labels, especially in niche markets where it has been traditionally       difficult to make a living, and with innovative companies taking a new       approach to retailing music online.
Fat Northerner, a Manchester-based social enterprise record       company with a global reach and Brownswood Recordings, a       London-based record company run by a BBC radio DJ, were typical of the 29       partners Wall, Dubber, Long and Coley worked with on the AHRC-funded       Knowledge Transfer Fellowship in New Strategies for Radio and Music       Organisations.
We helped Fat Northerner build online communities       around their catalogue of locally-produced experimental and alternative       music.
The label staff indicate that they learnt a lot about the       possibilities of online culture and the cultural value of music to their       audience, but there was only a small impact on the company's finances.
Following our iterative process, we refined our approach, and towards the       end of this 2-year project, we made a much more significant impact on Brownswood         Recordings.
Here we used key ideas about tastemakers and collective       online activities to help the company mobilise its consumer base to engage       consumers online.
As the co-owner of Brownswood, remarked in a       testimonial letter, `The work you undertook in this project was invaluable       to us in analysing and developing our audience interaction... these things       have played a major part in the growth of our business and the increase in       our audience, which has seen the numbers double since the start of the       project'.
Thus the significance, in terms of the explicit outcomes linked to our       work and, ultimately, the direct result of our research, has grown in       substantial terms through 2012-13.
This can be seen clearly in our most       recent work with Edition Records, a jazz record company with a       Europe-wide consumer base, where we supported the label owner in shifting       his business model to one of online sales, and in developing new ways to       engage jazz fans as customers.
This three-month AHRC-funded project,       delivered by Barber under Wall's guidance, produced substantial impact.
Since the project began in February 2013, there have been 20,000 new       streams of Edition recordings and 2,200 new followers on       Soundcloud, as well as 2,500 new followers on Twitter and 400 new likes on       Facebook.
Drawing on our collective research into online culture, we       helped Stapleton focus on opportunities to sell music to a younger, more       digitally engaged audience by digitising and uploading the entire Edition       catalogue to the Bandcamp music service.
This resulted in 15,000 new       streams, over &#163;1,500 in digital sales and over &#163;1,200 in physical sales,       at least doubling the label's business.
We also collaborated with Edition       to create a weekly podcast that is published through iTunes.
There have       been over 2,000 downloads of the podcast via iTunes, plus over 1,700       streams of episodes via Soundcloud.
The show has already been featured       several times by Apple in the iTunes store and is receiving positive       reviews from the fan community.
We helped the label to enhance its       presence on YouTube, developing `behind the scenes` content for their       channel to further engage listeners.
We have observed over 20,000 new       plays on this channel, and over 200 new subscribers.
Finally, we developed       plans for a new Edition website set within the principles for online       engagement we developed through research, aiming to articulate the label's       philosophy online and more effectively integrate social media services.
The site was completed and launched on 15 October 2013, attracting over       10,000 new visitors to the editionrecords.com website.
Barber and Wall's       work with Edition is paralleled by Dubber's involvement with Bandcamp;       a successful online platform for independent music, featuring over a       million albums, and representing hundreds of thousands of artists.
The       core architecture and strategy of the site was based on Dubber's popular       ebook 'The 20 Things You Must Know About Music Online', itself born from       Wall and Dubber's research into the digital music ecosystem.
Today, Bandcamp       makes over $2m for independent musicians every month.
Increasing Reach     As well as working directly with SMEs we have had an equally significant       cultural impact through contributions to organisations engaged with an       increasingly international focus.
Firstly, we have developed expertise       around specialist music markets and communities, especially those involved       in public broadcasting and live music and, secondly, we have worked with       communities around the world to develop support for public radio, the       independent music sector, and organisations involved in music for social       change.
At the start of the survey period, Wall and Dubber were already in       involved in a knowledge exchange project with the BBC, which       allowed us to study production practices within their specialist music       programming and interactive media departments, and to draw upon our       earlier research on online fan communities to make recommendations to       programme makers and managers.
Our widely circulated BBC report       and presentation initially received a varied response across departments       but it is notable that the research-informed principles we espouse -       modularisation, tastemakers, communities - have since become prominent in       the BBC's approach to specialist music.
Equally, our notion of       community lies at the heart of our work with the Scarborough Jazz         Festival in September 2009, where Barber, Collins, Dubber and Wall       worked with key festival staff and musicians to producer user-generated       content and multi-narrative texts, in order to extend the experience of       the festival to an international audience through the Just Like Jazz       website (justlikejazz.org) we established.
These approaches also lay at       the heart of our work with the international online project Aftershock,       allowing audiences to engage with a community of musicians through       individualised documentary content as they used workshops to prepare for a       live event.
The most significant extension of the reach of our research impact can be       found in our work with the international independent music network       Un-convention from 2009 onwards, through the Music Basti project       in 2010, and most recently with Fora do Eixo in Brazil.
The role       that Collins and Dubber have on the advisory board of Un-convention       addresses these notions of engagement with music, and the impact of our       research-based ideas around music as a tool for social change and music as       culture are articulated in that organisation's work.
This is evidenced in       the initiation of cultural archiving projects in Venezuela with Proyecto       de Caracas Memorabilia       (http://proyectocaracasmemorabilia.wordpress.com),       and Uganda with The UG - Hiphop - Archivist/Celebrate your History       (https://www.facebook.com/TheUgHiphopArchivistCelebrateYourHistory       - also referenced in our       other case study) and the short film In the Streets of Medellin       (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_uMDonRucMk).
Our insights into how people engage online       have also been instrumental in Un-Convention's recent 33RPM: Voices of         the Revolution       (http://33rpmvoices.wordpress.com),       a free digital-download album created, produced and       disseminated by Un-Convention's global network of tastemakers and their       respective communities       through multiple social media platforms.
In the first week of its release       it attracted an audience of       6,110 people, who downloaded and streamed the album on Bandcamp       (http://33rpmvoices.bandcamp.com/).
Monkey on the Roof was a project based on the research Dubber undertook       into digital media as vernacular forms and his collaborative,       practice-based work on music as a tool for social change.
We recorded an       album of songs by children affected by extreme poverty in Delhi, and used       Flip video cameras to document the process and promote the album.
This was       then put on sale online to raise money for the Music Basti       charity, which facilitated the workshops.
The project raised awareness for       the charity, along with several hundred pounds in donations, and shared a       whole set of new approaches and thinking amongst the organisation's       members.
Dubber's work with Music Basti continues through the 360 Deal       book project (http://the360deal.com).
Likewise, his recent research into the alternative economics of the global       independent music industries has centred on the Fora do Eixo       collectives in Brazil and he is currently making a documentary, 'Occupy       Music', with the film production company Blue Hippo.
This is currently       being edited for broadcast and general release.
