     In 2006 the University was approached by Flight Data Services Ltd (FDS       Ltd), a UK SME involved in analysing data captured by airline FDR with a       view to further enhancing airline safety.
At the time FDS Ltd had       contracts with 8 airline companies covering more than 300,000 flights       annually, and was required to review daily around 10 gigabytes of data       provided by its clients.
Concerned at the `time consuming and costly         manual methods of analysing' this data, the company approached the       University of Portsmouth to request support in more effectively exploiting       this data (Collaborating Person 1 &#8212; CP1).
This collaboration was formalised in February 2006 when a KTP agreement       was signed between the company and the University (led by David Brown)       with the brief to "Create an Intelligent Search Engine to Extract Flight       Safety Information".
Successful completion of the project in early 2009       brought immediate commercial benefits to the company as it took on board       the recommendations of the Portsmouth team and automated its analytical       systems in Summer 2009, allowing:            a saving of `as much as 4,000 man-hours per year', and;       the freeing up of skilled staff who were then re-assigned to help the         company enter the new (for the company) FDR readout market.
The company estimated that this one collaboration alone enabled it to       save over &#163;50,000 p.a.
(CP1).
As the advantage of artificial intelligence (AI) over manual techniques       in examining large flight data-sets had become evident early on in KTP1,       the partners successfully bid for an EPSRC award to develop and use       advanced AI algorithms in detecting and ranking abnormalities in aircraft       flight data.
This research also highlighted a number of abnormalities       which could potentially cause aircraft failure, but which were not       captured by analytic procedures within the sector.
As a consequence, the       company responded following completion of the project in April 2013 by       developing a series of informative case-studies for potential customers,       allowing them to take action to improve their airline's safety record (http://www.flightdataservices.com/fdm-foqa-products-services/casestudies/).
These insights, allied to the `technology base and the published papers have         given FDS Ltd a reputation for innovation which has helped us to win         significant new contracts including the SAS (140 aircraft) and another         major European operator.
These have an approximate value of &#163;750,000         p.a.'
(CP1).
Moreover, this research enabled FDS Ltd to secure two prestigious       contracts with the North American Space Agency (NASA) in the United       States.
The first contract was based on the development of artificially       intelligent algorithms using data gathered by Hewlett Packard and the       techniques developed by the Portsmouth team.
The second NASA contract saw       FDS Ltd use the findings from this first KTP project to provide an       informed view on the development of Next Generation air traffic control       systems for the North American market.
These contracts generated &#163;100,000       profit for FDS Ltd, and, more critically, enabled a small company to       establish a presence within the highly competitive and lucrative US       market.
Building on these collaborative successes, a new KTP (KTP2) was signed       which focused on validating the sensing system within the flight       recorder(s) and with the plane sensors.
Preliminary results derived from       this project enabled FDS Ltd to offer a complete service to their clients       in early 2013, from checking their planes' sensing and recording systems       through to an evaluation of pilot performance, giving it first-mover       advantage in the global market.
Realising the commercial potential of this       service, the company swiftly responded by:            expanding its operations at their HQ in Fareham, increasing their         staff from 6 to 36;       setting up an American subsidiary in Phoenix, Arizona; and       seeking to protect its intellectual property rights by investing         &#163;250,000 to take out a series of patents in the UK and the US in 2012/13         (Flight Data Monitoring Method and System US Application No: 2013205845//         Flight Data Validation Apparatus and Method, UK Patent: GB2494487A//         Flight Data Monitoring Method and System, UK Patent: GB2494553A //         Flight Data Validation Apparatus and Method, UK Patent: GB2494569A //         Flight Data Monitoring and Validation, US Patent: P044407US [Applied         for])          The Portsmouth team's development of abnormality detection methods within       the aerospace industry were subsequently applied by Brown and Smart to the       food and packaging process in 2011.
Stork (part of Unilever) is one of the       largest dairy machine manufacturers in the world, and provides 75% of the       dairy machines used within the EU.
Machine failure costs Stork       approximately &#163;50,000 per day as supermarkets (such as Tesco) impose       penalty clauses for lost production.
Brown and Smart used their OR       expertise to predict faults occurring within Stork's dairy machines that       could lead to failure (KTP 3).
This &#163;250,000 KTP applied similar       techniques to those employed in the FDS Ltd KTP, generating savings to the       order of &#163;100,000 for the company (CP2).
This success in turn led to a new       &#163;1.2m Technology Strategy Board award to a consortium headed by Brown and       Smart (PI) to integrate the company's operational management systems with       the data analysis system developed from the KTP (September 2013).
This Impact case study demonstrates how applied OR research can be       employed to help a company grow its income stream and establish an       international presence.
It further illustrates how intellectual advances       in one production domain (flight data analysis) can be modified to produce       commercial benefits in a related production domain (dairy machines).
