     The research outlined in Section 2 has enabled the construction of       several bioinformatics resources which have been widely used by       healthcare, pharmaceutical, life sciences, bioinformatics and technology       companies and research institutes worldwide:     (1) The combined CATH/Gene3D resource has very significant worldwide use       (details are given in the CathDB Usage Data Analysis Report, July 2013 &#8212;       see Section 5).
Taking 2012 as an example, 66162 unique visitors visited       the CATH/Gene3D website hosted at UCL, with the 6 major sources of       visitors being the UK, USA, Ukraine, India, Denmark and Japan.
Analysis of       the visitors shows significant use by commercial companies during this       period:            Use by companies in the pharmaceutical and life science sectors         includes a global healthcare company which manufactures and markets         pharmaceutical products and services (1212955 hits), an Indian         conglomerate with a group member developing biopharmaceuticals (34214),         a company that provides software testing and simulation DNA techniques         (22380), a bioinformatics software company that develops software for         DNA, RNA and protein sequence analysis (4913), and a company         specialising in the commercialization of emerging technologies in the         life sciences (731).
Additional commercial users in the engineering and technology sectors         include a petrochemical company (2695 hits), a global technology company         (1775), and an information and communications technology support         services company working with bioinformatics centres (672).
Use from major research institutes include Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean       Sciences (53535 hits), the EBI (12655), Institute National de la Recherche       Agronomique (7309) and Forschungszentrum Julich (5358).
Many visitor hits access the tools supported by the resource.
These       include search tools, for example to enable search of the CATH       classification of protein structures, and analysis tools, for example to       enable a protein structure to be submitted to identify the closest       structure within the CATH classification.
During 2012, the 10 most       widely-used search and analysis tools supported by the resource were       accessed on 4311 occasions by commercial companies and on 1764 occasions       by research institutes.
(2) CATH/Gene3D is now itself integrated with other major bioinformatics       databases as a partner of InterPro (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/),       the primary protein family and function annotation server.
InterPro is a       significant international resource for structural and functional       classification of proteins.
It is used directly by major sequence       databases and genomics projects for large-scale genome analysis, as well       as for the classification of individual protein sequences via its web       interface.
The InterProScan service, which enables a protein sequence to       be submitted for analysis of its structure and function against the       InterPro member databases, averaged more than two million sequence       searches per month in 2011.
(3) Links to CATH/Gene3D are provided by many other international       bioinformatics resources, e.g.
Protein Databank (PDB), Protein Structure       Initiative (PSI), Pfam, KEGG.
Since 2008 Professors Orengo and Thornton       have given talks and have participated in workshops publicising CATH       across Europe and in the USA, Japan, South Korea and India, including the       EBI industry programme and several EMBO workshops at the EBI, which have       been attended by participants from industry.
They have given talks on CATH       to computational biologists at several pharmaceutical companies.
Prof.       Orengo was a speaker at the Gordon Conference on Computer Aided Drug       Design in 2009, and gave a talk in 2011 on CATH at MedImmune, the Research       and Development arm of the global biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca;       these two talks publicising CATH were attended by a significant number of       researchers from the pharmaceutical industry.
Letters of support from the       CEO of Acpharis and the former Director of the Computational Biology and       Chemistry Department of the Merck Research Laboratories in Italy attest to       the widespread use of the CATH resource in the pharmaceutical sector.
