     The above underpinning research helped to provide the foundation for, and       in turn was based       upon, a considerable amount of contract research and evaluation undertaken       by the PRI for public       sector bodies at national, regional and local levels which, over the       years, has influenced policy and       practice in the area of employment and skills     An example at the local/regional level is provided by a contract secured       by the PRI from the       Regional Development Agency, Yorkshire Forward, to provide labour market       intelligence and       support to inform regional policy development.
Thus, in 2007-08 the PRI       was commissioned to       undertake research to investigate employer training activity in the       region, based on the analysis of       survey findings and qualitative interviews.
The approach to this research       was informed by previous       underpinning research on employer training (Devins et.
al.
2004).
The       report (authored by Devins       and Johnson, with Walton and Fidler, two other researchers in the PRI)       identified the need for a       more flexible support infrastructure focused more on employers' needs and       circumstances.
It was       published by Yorkshire Forward's Chief Economist Unit (Yorkshire Forward,       2008)1 and a series of       workshops was organised to disseminate the findings and encourage       providers of skills-related       training to engage with an employer-led skills and employment agenda.
At national level, significant impact has been achieved on employment and       skills policy through       applied research undertaken for the UK Commission for Employment and       Skills (UKCES).
The       Director of the PRI, Professor Campbell, left the PRI in 2002 to become       Director of Policy and       Research at the newly-established Sector Skills Development Agency (SSDA)       &#8212; the research and       consultancy undertaken with colleagues at the PRI over the previous decade       provided the       foundation for this move as he had become established as one of the       country's leading experts on       labour market and skills policy, reflected in the underpinning research       (Campbell, 2000, 2002).
At       the SSDA (which was reformed in 2008 to become the UK Commission for       Employment and Skills       - UKCES).
Campbell was an advisor in 2006-7 to the hugely influential       Leitch Review of Skills, and       was involved in the production in 2009 of Ambition 2020: World Class         Skills and Jobs for the UK,       the UKCES's assessment of progress in the UK on the skills agenda (UKCES,       2009)2.
This       contribution was informed by the previous underpinning research at the PRI       Campbell (2002).
Ambition 2020 drew on a report on training and workforce       development produced by two PRI       researchers for the SSDA (Johnson and Devins, 2008)3.
Ambition         2020 was a key source of       evidence for the 2009 Skills for Growth White Paper (DBIS, 2010)4.
The impact of the underpinning research on the role of employers (Devins,       et.
al., 2004, 2005) can       also be traced through work led by Devins, founded on knowledge and       expertise gained through       research in this area.
Research for UKCES on Employer Collective Measures       investigated the       potential for policy levers to encourage employers to undertake skills       development and training on       a collective basis.
In 2008-09 a major project involving a rigorous review       of the theoretical and       empirical evidence base was undertaken by a research consortium of which       the PRI was a       member.
A study on Policy Prioritisation, based on a series of       national-level workshops, was       undertaken by a research team comprising two researchers from the PRI       (Devins and Nunn) and a       professor in Leeds Business School (Stewart) in collaboration with IPSOS       Mori.
The findings,       contained in a report produced for UKCES (Devins, et.
al., 2009)5,       were used to influence policy       development and contributed to the UKCES overview report on the Review of       Employer Collective       Measures (UKCES, 2009)6.
The latter report in turn was used as       part of the evidence base for the       2009 Skills for Growth White Paper (BIS, 2010)4.
A research report for UKCES in 2011, based on collaborative work with       York and Napier       Universities, investigated the role of skills in the transition from       unemployment and inactivity to       employment and argued for a longer-term perspective on the concept of       career as a framework for       progression and the need to focus on the role of job design, line       management and progression       pathways in the workplace in facilitating workplace learning.
This report       contributed to the further       development of UKCES's research agenda on this policy issue.7     A final example of impact through work with UKCES derives from recent       research by Devins (in       collaboration with researchers at the University of Derby) in 2011-12 to       explore the role that       employers play in providing career advice to unemployed people and the       role that their progression       practices play in supporting the development of people in entry level, low       skilled jobs (Hutchinson       and Devins, et.
al., 2012)8.
A further report, of which Devins       was a co-author, was aimed at       employers, emphasising the potential for career guidance to connect       employers with job seekers       and for employers to be able to realise business benefits by addressing       the career development       needs of their staff.
The report argues that career guidance brings an       important perspective and       can play a market-shaping role by bringing together employers and job       seekers to support the       effective operation of the labour market (Hooley and Devins, et.
al.,       2012)9.
A third report       investigated employers' practices in progressing low-paid staff and the       benefits in terms of       retention, productivity and satisfaction (PRI and ICGS, 2012)10.
These reports have been made       available by UKCES on their website in order to provide advice to       employers.
