     The research has influenced the development of university-business       knowledge exchange, as recommended in the recent Witty Report, through our       work with professional bodies such as the Institute of Directors (IoD) and       the Northern Leadership Academy.
For example, we have worked with the IoD       to support the development of programmes to support leadership and       corporate governance impacting on over 10,000 directors, many of whom lead       SMEs.
It has also supported the work of the Alternative Board        (http://www.thealternativeboard.co.uk/explore-board-membership) as a means       of enhancing SME performance.
In particular, the social constructionist       approach was accepted as the approach to working with SME leaders and       managers.
The notion of the world of entrepreneurs and SME managers was       invoked to counter the devotion to packaged resources that reflected large       company requirements but failed to meet the needs of SMEs.
It was claimed       that there was a need to `join entrepreneurs in their own world', a world       which reflected a valued local ontology.
To do this, it was necessary to       start with `a clean sheet of paper' (CEML 2002).
Through work for the Council for Excellence in Management and Leadership       (CEML) the research has helped to stimulate demand within professional       bodies through the process of building leadership and management       accreditation within Continuing Professional Development (CPD) schemes.
This was most notably adopted by the Royal Institute of Chartered       Surveyors.
Working with CEML, our research helped to focus attention on       SMEs and Entrepreneurship.
For engagement to stimulate management       development, CEML suggested the establishment of a network of       intermediaries and development partners.
This tended to be translated by       Government as a need for local agencies with formal and numerical targets.
The research has informed the work of the Northern Leadership Academy       (NLA), which has advocated a more varied approach and their principles of       good practice for leadership development with SMEs include the need to       understand and build from context so that development could take into       account the lived experience of managers, including day to day issues and       problems (NLA 2008).
The NLA has provided a range of interventions, often       working with intermediaries such as sectors skills councils and private       sector agents who were incentivised to engage with SMEs (Thorpe et al,       2008).
Since 2008, the lessons on engagement and preferred activities have       become more embedded.
Working with regional centres throughout Yorkshire       and supported with funding from the Regional Development Agency, the NLA       established regional centres for delivery, providing a combination of       Action Learning Sets, peer mentoring and coaching schemes, and       `masterclasses' offering businesses special advice (NLA 2010).
These       activities gave prominence to the social aspects of learning and the need       for trust between provider and manager or between managers as peers.
There       was growing recognition of the importance of engagement with centres       making use of networks that included local consultants, chambers of       commerce, external facilitators and recent graduates of MBA/BA programmes.
Drawing on the evidence of NLA activities, a growth programme was       developed with partners and delivered in West Yorkshire in collaboration       with SEMTA and Proskills.
An engagement strategy was developed with local       consultants resulting in the recruitment of 28 participants, organised       into four action learning sets.
Evidence was submitted on behalf of the       NLA to the recent House of Lords Committee enquiry into exporting by SMEs       (HOL, 2013).
The research has influenced national policy development and discourse in       a number of other ways.
For example, researchers were invited to       contribute to the Catalyst Series produced by the Sector Skills       Development Agency (Johnson and Devins, 2008) which sought to shape policy       development in the UK.
Work undertaken on employers `collective measures'       for training and development (Devins et al 2009) had an influence on the Skills         for Growth White Paper (BIS 2009) with the government subsequently       committing to the development of Coaching for Growth as a significant       policy intervention (BIS 2012).
The analysis undertaken in Gold and Devins       (2002) continued to inform policy discourse related to the social and       situated elements of SME leadership learning (UKCES 2010).
This research       points to the value of employer networks as a way of engaging leaders in       peer to peer learning that focuses on relevant business issues.
Such       networks, some of which have been operating for more than 10 years, allow       the sharing of ideas and information, including offers of funding for       support.
More recently, Leeds Metropolitan University has sought to apply the       research by using Higher Education Investment Funds to establish an SME       hub, where the aim is to set up networks of 15 owner-managers.
One such       network is being co-ordinated with Business Alliance (http://www.businessalliance.co.uk/),       the owner-manager network that featured strongly in UKCES (2010), which       has been sustained since 1997.
Leeds Met has recently augmented Business       Alliance with an action learning process to support the development of the       business network.
