     A key example of the impact of this research has been the complex case of       governance in the Rugby Football League (RFL), a federal organisation       which had to sustain the sport, improving the regulation of its own       governance and governance practice in the individual clubs, including       Super League and the lower divisions.
The vehicle for this was a Knowledge       Transfer Partnership (KTP) between Leeds Business School and the Rugby       Football League (RFL) from 2010 to 2013, the aim of which was to develop       and implement a corporate governance framework for the RFL and its       associated professional clubs.
The context for the KTP was the difficult financial state of the sport       caused by poor governance of the RFL and the clubs.
The key tension in       developing effective governance has been between financial sustainability       and cultural sustainability, with clubs contributing to the identity and       sense of value of Northern towns which have experienced major social and       economic challenge and change.
The RFL faced a difficult challenge of       governance in a complex environment including other league organisations,       clubs, charitable foundations and links to the wider community.
The KTP aimed to develop an effective governance framework to deal with       this complexity, focusing on the development of an online diagnostic tool       for use by the clubs.
The construction of this tool was informed by the       research of Sun, Letza and Kirkbride, emphasising the processual nature of       governance, and the importance of ongoing dialogic engagement in a complex       social environment to balance competing interests and tensions.
To enable this, the diagnostic tool was designed to develop a sense of       individual and collective responsibility for sustaining and developing the       sport by focusing attention of boards and members on:             the meaning and practice of leadership and governance in the context         of the sport;        the roles, responsibilities and practice of the board and members;        the ongoing process of dialogic engagement with key stakeholders,         ensuring the both widest possible awareness of the social environment         and of the mutual impacts of stakeholders, and increased accountability;        processes of effective communication of the value of good governance         with all stakeholders.
The diagnostic tool was initially used by RFL member clubs and all the       clubs will have used it by the end of 2013.
Due to the success of the       project and the benefits to the clubs, the scope of the project was       widened to include 20 charitable foundations associated with the clubs       (established for closer community links).
Use of the tool has helped clubs       improve governance and financial performance.
The completion of the       diagnostic tool is now mandatory for the receipt of central funding for       clubs in the Championship and Championship 1 divisions of RFL competitions       and must be completed by all clubs seeking to apply for a Super League       Licence in 2014.
The RFL has acknowledged that prior to the KTP there was a lack of       awareness of the importance of governance in both the RFL and clubs and,       indeed, a degree of cynicism.
The benefits and impact of the KTP are       described by the RFL in the KTP Final Report1.
The KTP has       helped to increase knowledge and understanding about governance and the       need to analyse risk and implement appropriate systems and processes.
There has been a major shift in the culture of the RFL through this       improved understanding, which has been disseminated across the sport with       clubs increasingly realising that more effective governance should deliver       improved financial performance.
The RFL has subsequently undertaken its       own governance review, which drew heavily on the improved knowledge       acquired through the KTP.
The use of the diagnostic tool has been an important element in a       collaborative approach to governance and its development.
It ties directly       in to RFL's wider strategy for improved governance, including the       licensing of clubs, based on explicit criteria (developed from the       framework), and on-going dialogue between clubs, and between clubs and the       RFL, about the meaning and practice of governance.
This has improved       responsibility for governance and leadership and accountability and       improved RFL's awareness of on-going issues in the clubs, enabling early       and more proactive support and avoidance of problems.
There is already       evidence of improved financial performance (see KTP Final Report), and an       expectation that this will improve further in the future (for example with       TV and sponsorship funding increasing by 10-15%), thus improving club       sustainability.
The process of developing good governance through the RFL has also helped       with cultural sustainability, not least through clubs' increased       involvement with the charitable foundations, with in turn a focus on good       governance in those foundations.
