     Through the insights gained from their research, WCETT, has pioneered       improvements within the       Learning and Skills Sector by improving pedagogic processes, producing       teaching and learning       materials and fostering a research informed evidence based approach to       teaching by brokering       opportunity for practitioner debate on best practice.
The FE enterprise education project1 was externally evaluated       and the initial report7 found that       senior-level participants generally expressed very positive views about       the likely medium and long       term impact of the programme.
However, among middle managers and lecturing       staff there was a       view that there are significant barriers to wider uptake; mainly related       to college culture and       colleagues' resistance to change.
This underlined the importance of       working intensively with senior       leaders to assist them to understand the role that enterprise and       creativity can play within the       college environment.
The report recommended that the policy of focusing on       senior leaders should       be maintained and more work should be done to influence senior leaders to       participate in the       programme and introduce enterprise strategies within their colleges.
The       Enterprise programme       reached its conclusion in 2011; the training materials were not only       adopted by the Learning and       Skills Improvement Service (LSIS) and used in their leadership training,       but also seen as part of       the requirement for Enterprise Champion status as awarded to a number of       FE colleges.
Furthermore, as a result of this and subsequent research at Amersham       College, Browne worked       with the Peter Jones Foundation in the design of a BTEC programme on       Enterprise Education,       currently offered in 36 colleges in England and praised by OfSTED8       in a good practice report.
`The Dangerous Rise of Therapeutic Education', Ecclestone       (co-authored with Hayes)1, is       considered to be a vital read for professionals working in the field of       pastoral care; it presents a       robust critique of the world of personalised learning and the legacy of       initiatives established by the       last government focused on emotional well-being.
The book challenges       conventional thinking,       stimulating debate amongst practitioners, with one reviewer commenting;       "This remains an       important read and one which will continue to serve as an important       counterpoint for us to consider       in developing pastoral care"9; another reviewer stated; "This       book suggests that we do not include:       to become fulfilled, to have high self-esteem, or to be happy.
This much I       agree: these are complex       and beyond the legitimate scope of education institutions, though I expect       educational institutions       not to inhibit a sense of fulfilment.
I hope that the strident and       negative tone of this book does not       discourage such professional discussions, because it has raised some       important issues."10.
Recently Ecclestone (now employed at the University of Sheffield), using       research insights gained       whilst at Oxford Brookes University, some of which are published in `The         Dangerous rise of         Therapeutic Education' has contributed to the debate through forums       such as The Institute of Ideas       Social Policy forum11 advocating "challenging a social project       that hopes to engineer the emotional       well-being, character, health and social behaviours of citizens seen as       vulnerable whilst avoiding       civic engagement in the political and educational questions this raises".
Hayes, as the co-author of       the texts, is a visiting Professor at Oxford Brookes University.
Eliahoo, based on her research insights developed through Westminster       Centre for Excellence in       Teacher published in (2009)3, was invited to give evidence to       the Skills Commission Inquiry into       Teacher Training in Vocational Education12.
The Skills       Commission report references Eliahoo's       work, citing her directly in support of its 19th and 20th       recommendations advocating that mentoring       should be ring-fenced in the long-term for funding, and, rigorously       inspected as part of the agreed       framework for College inspections.
Haight presented findings from her research at the inaugural research       conference of the Education       and Employment Taskforce in October 2010,6 and at The Edge       Foundation's first research       conference in November 2012 13.
The Edge Foundation, as a       charity that champions practical and       vocational education and training, is actively contributing to the policy       debate14 surrounding       Government reform of 14-19 education, with particular regard to the       training of engineers, through       its advocacy and sponsorship of University Technical Colleges (UTCs) in       association with the       Baker-Dearing Trust.
Oxford Brookes University is sponsoring one of the       first UTCs to be       established in Swindon.
This range of impacts, although in their relatively early stages,       demonstrate WCETTs on-going       commitment to engaging with external organisations, contributing to debate       and informing policy       through insights based on excellent research.
