     POWERbreathe&#174; is an exercise product, patented by McConnell, which trains       the breathing muscles.
Prior to its commercial launch in 1997, no consumer       breathing training products existed.
Wide-ranging benefits include,       ubiquitous improvements in exercise tolerance and breathlessness.
The       ground breaking status of POWERbreathe&#174; has necessitated education of the       market, relying heavily upon the group's body of research.
This scientific       heritage also allows marketing claims to comply with UK and international       advertising standards.
POWERbreathe&#174; is the global market-leading brand of       breathing training products, and sales have grown steeply since it was       acquired by POWERbreathe International Ltd (PBI) in 2000 (data available       directly from PBI); UK channels include household names such as Amazon,       Boots and John Lewis.
POWERbreathe&#174; has received extensive media coverage       and positive product reviews.
The global reach of POWERbreathe&#174; is       demonstrated by sales through PBI's overseas subsidiaries and distributors       in 43 countries.
It's also noteworthy that POWERbreathe&#174;'s success has       spawned a number of copycat products, brought to market by new companies,       which also cite the group's research in their marketing.
Whilst the       group's research has become part of a larger body of knowledge, it has       contributed key papers, providing the mainstay of marketing support for       the breathing training product category.
In May 2011, McConnell published       a monograph on the IMT for sportspeople.
The medical market is also       supported by the group's outputs, especially its elucidation of underlying       mechanisms.
The significance of this body of literature to clinical       practice is illustrated by a watershed event in 2006, when the       POWERbreathe&#174; Medic became the first exercise training equipment       approved by the Prescription Pricing Authority for NHS prescription.
Clinical collaborations have also resulted in outputs supporting novel       clinical applications such as postural control (REF2) and low back pain       (REF2), as well as more traditional applications such as asthma (REF2).
In       May 2013, McConnell published a monograph supporting the implementation of       IMT in healthcare settings.
Insights provided by the group's research (section 3, #6) were exploited       through two KTPs to extend the POWERbreathe&#174; product range, and in 2010       the world's first electronic inspiratory muscle trainer was launched.
The       development resulted in a new patent (McConnell is an inventor) and a       royalty bearing licence agreement.
The product won the Plastic's Industry       2010 "Consumer Product Design of the Year" award, and was featured on the       European Respiratory Society annual meeting Buyers' guide 2011.
In July       2013, McConnell also began providing consultancy services to a global,       market-leading respiratory medical company.
The company wishes to develop       a novel product, specifically for patients undergoing mechanical       ventilation.
Reach     The reach of the impact created by the group's research has been       maximised via: 1. peer-reviewed journal papers; 2. conference       presentations; 3. articles in consumer publications; 4. presentations to       opinion formers and the general public; 5. a book on "breathing training"       for sports people (&gt;6k sales in 24 mo); 6. a book on respiratory muscle       training for clinicians; 7. a sports website [breathestrong.com] and a       clinical website [physiobreathe.com]; 8. social media [Twitter, Facebook,       Blog]; 9. iPhone Apps (&gt;1k sales in 18 mo).
The reach of breathing       training, and its underpinning by the group's research is evidenced by       metrics such as:            1.2 million hits from a Google search using "Powerbreathe"       115k hits from a Google search using "POWERbreathe Romer"       38k hits from a Google search using "POWERbreathe McConnell"       68k hits from a Google search using "IMT McConnell COPD"       53k hits from a Google search using McConnell's book title, "Breathe         Strong, Perform Better"       1,500 new monthly visitors to McConnell's breathestrong.com website       Google keyword search of the phrase "breathing training" yields over         51k hits, the top 3 rankings of which are occupied by breathestrong.com         (1 and 2) and POWERbreathe.com (3)          Beneficiaries     POWERbreathe&#174; has two principal markets: 1. sport, fitness and wellbeing;       and 2. medical.
Beneficiaries in the former group range from elite       sportspeople, to older people.
Recreationally active people use       POWERbreathe&#174; because it makes exercise feel easier.
Athletes typically       experience improvements in time trial performance of 2-5% within 6 weeks,       making IMT an integral part of elite competition preparation.
Publically-known Olympic and World Champions include the gold medal       winning men's eight from the Athens Olympics and England's 2003 Rugby       World Cup winners, as well as the current Rabobank cycling team.
Dr Steve       Ingham, Head of Technical Development at English Institute of Sport,       included IMT as one of his "Top 10 applications of sports physiology" in       his pre-Olympic Blog.
In 2012, McConnell's work on breathing training was       featured in The Wellcome Trust's "In the Zone" project.
POWERbreathe&#174; is       also part of the curriculum of OCR Advanced Subsidiary GCE in Physical       Education.
Beneficiaries in a clinical setting include people with       breathlessness and exercise intolerance (e.g., respiratory and cardiac       patients).
In 2012, the POWERbreathe&#174; K-Series product (developed through       KTP) was selected for use in a six nation (Belgium, Holland, Germany,       Austria, Switzerland, Canada) multi-centre randomised, controlled trial of       IMT in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Economic       benefits accrue from sales by manufacturers of all breathing training       products and their supply chains.
