     Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd., a spin-out company created from       the research of Professor David Russell [corroborating source A], has       developed a unique in vitro diagnostic technology platform that       non-invasively screens for metabolites present in fingerprint sweat while       simultaneously enabling determination of personal identity.
Using a       hand-held device, the test can determine recent drug history within 10       minutes.
This technology has substantial potential in rapid point-of-care       in vitro diagnostic testing.
The Intelligent Fingerprinting       test offers a direct link between individual (biometrics) and result       (diagnostics), by clearly identifying drug metabolites found in the sweat       deposited in the unique patterns on the ridges of each fingerprint.
The       test is therefore unequivocally linked to an individual.
Results can be       rapidly rechecked to confirm any diagnosis.
The core competency of the       company is the antibody-functionalised nanoparticles and fluorescence       imaging detection.
A person places a fingerprint on the hand-held device,       the device then dispenses the reagents.
Following incubation and removal       of excess particles, the device images the fingerprint to determine the       presence of drug metabolites.
The key industry sectors for the company are       Criminal Justice &#8212; drug rehabilitation and roadside screening for drug       driving; Institutional testing &#8212; prisons, military and commercial       companies; and Healthcare &#8212; patient testing, hospital admissions and drug       compliance.
Current screening methods using urine, blood or saliva have       restricted usefulness linked to invasive collection of hazardous samples,       donor dignity, transport and disposal of bio-hazardous waste and, most       importantly, problems associated with the ability of tested individuals to       cheat the system.
The Intelligent Fingerprinting test overcomes       all of these limitations.
Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. was founded in 2007.
A Proof of       Concept award from the East of England Development Agency (EEDA)       [corroborating source B], with a supporting contribution from UEA,       (totalling &#163;48K) was used to pay for market research, performed by two       independent companies.
Having established considerable market potential in       several sectors, the ICENI Seedcorn University Challenge Fund invested       &#163;221K in 2009 for a share of equity in Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd.       based on milestones around the further development of the reagent       chemistry and business plans.
All milestones were achieved ahead of       schedule.
In December 2010, Porton Capital Inc., a venture capital       investor company, together with their UK company Synergis Technologies       Ltd. made a &#163;250K investment in Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd.       [corroborating source C].
At the same time, a further &#163;50K was invested by       ICENI Seedcorn University Challenge Fund.
This second round funding was       used to hire a small team of staff and to develop a prototype hand- held       instrument that could dispense the reagents onto the fingerprint and then       image the resultant prints to establish drug use.
In February 2012, a       consortium of US-based individuals invested &#163;2M in Intelligent         Fingerprinting Ltd. for a share of equity [corroborating source D].
The third round funding provided for expansion of the company's staff and       research and development activities.
Key products are the       antibody-particle reagents and the self-contained, hand-held device that       applies the reagents to a fingerprint through microfluidics and then       fluorescently images the fingerprint.
In 2013, US investors provided a       fourth funding round of &#163;750K for the manufacture of demonstrator       products.
To date, total investment in the company has been in excess of       &#163;3.2M.
Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. has signed a North American       distribution agreement with Texas-based SmarTox Inc. with ambitious sales       targets of both the hand-held device and antibody-particle based reagent       cartridges [corroborating source E].
Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd.       received its first purchase order for services from the UK Home Office in       2012 [corroborating source F].
In 2012, as part of on-going product development in conjunction with key       end-users, Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. applied for, and won,       two research grants totalling &#163;425K from the MRC/TSB `Biomedical Catalyst'       scheme for pilot studies with the Accident and Emergency Department at the       Leicester Royal Infirmary and H. M. Coroner's Office in Sheffield       respectively.
The first project assessed the feasibility of the technology       for fast, non-invasive drug screening of hospital A&amp;E patients on       admission.
The second project, working with the Sheffield coroner, has       been trialling Intelligent Fingerprinting's non-invasive drug       testing device to establish cause of death without the need for full,       invasive toxicological screens.
Additionally, in 2013, Intelligent         Fingerprinting Ltd. won a &#8364;982K EU Eurostars grant with the       University of Eastern Finland and Finnish SME Addoz Oy to develop a remote       diagnostic monitor for opiate-substitution treatment [corroborating source       G].
The fingerprint methods developed by Russell are included in the new Fingermark         Visualisation Manual (publication and distribution in January 2014)       [corroborating source H].
This manual, produced by the Home Office Centre       for Applied Science and Technology (CAST), is distributed to all UK police       forces.
It is the definitive source of fingerprinting methods and       their application for police and forensic use in the UK.
Importantly, as       the key fingerprint information source, the Manual is also used by Police       Forces across Europe, USA, Australasia and Asia.
Based in dedicated offices and laboratories at the Norwich Research Park       Innovation Centre, Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. now employs 11       staff: Dr Jerry Walker (Chief Executive), Dr Paul Yates (Business       Development Manager), Dr Mark Hudson (Development Director), Su Mace       (Finance Officer), 6 technical/scientific staff (4 Ph.D.s and 2 graduates)       and a PA.
In addition, the company has bought out Professor Russell from       his University duties (2011-2013 inclusive) for 40% FTE, to enable him to       work as the Chief Technical Officer.
Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. has already received considerable       recognition for its activities, including [corroborating source I]:            In four consecutive years, 2010-2013 inclusive, Intelligent           Fingerprinting Ltd. was highlighted as one of 50 companies with         future potential in the East of England through the Eastern Daily Press         (EDP) `Future50' competition.
In 2012, Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. won the `One to         watch' category at the EDP Business Awards.
Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd. was shortlisted in the 2010         Times Higher Education Awards in the `Outstanding Contribution to         Innovation and Technology' category.
The original science behind the company has also been recognised by       EPSRC, with the science of the fingerprinting research developed as part       of the original grant (grant (i) above) highlighted in the EPSRC `Pioneers'       magazine 2009 and within the EPSRC `Impact Case Studies' (Case study 08)       in 2010 [corroborating source J].
