     The FDAC Evaluation Report (3.5) found that the FDAC model pilot had       proven positive: parents received improved and swifter access to expert       assessment and services, provided directly by the unique       multi-disciplinary team attached to the court (run by Coram and the       Tavistock NHS Foundation Trust), which is not available in ordinary       proceedings.
As a result of the FDAC team coordinating and linking parents       with community programmes, FDAC parents received more substance misuse       community services, more access to parenting programmes and help with       finances and housing.
More FDAC parents stayed in treatment to final order       and were able to consolidate good progress under the supervision of the       court to enhance prospects of safe reunification.
Health and welfare       outcomes for parents and children were better in FDAC than in comparison       cases.
Of the 41 FDAC mothers tracked to final order, 48% (19) were no       longer misusing substances by that time, higher than the 39% (7 of 19       mothers) in the comparison group.
In relation to fathers, 36% of FDAC       fathers (8 of 23) were no longer misusing substances, but no comparison       father stopped misusing; FDAC reunification rates were 18% higher (39% v       21%) and child harm was mitigated in FDAC cases by swifter placement in a       permanent alternative family when reunification was not possible.
All but       two parents would recommend FDAC to families in similar circumstances and       they considered that FDAC empowered them, enhanced their motivation and       participation.
A key vehicle was the fortnightly non-lawyer review       hearings, the therapeutic component of FDAC, in which parents talked       directly to the judges who also helped motivate, remind parents of their       responsibilities and address problems.
Parents with previous experience of       ordinary care experiences considered FDAC protected their interests better       by providing a `fair trial for change', unlike ordinary care proceedings.
All parents thought FDAC enhanced their rights to demonstrate their       capacity to change behaviours to safeguard their child's well-being.
Satisfaction with the process led to fewer contested proceedings than in       comparison cases and a lower rate of dropout from proceedings.
Impacts on practitioners and professional services were achieved for       social workers, lawyers and judges through development of new       understandings, enhanced inter-professional working and the delivery of       more integrated practice with clear cost savings for local authorities       from more children staying within their family, shorter care placements       (&#163;4000 per child less) and less need for legal representatives in legal       hearings (saving local authorities &#163;682 per family) and savings on the       cost of commissioning one-off experts.
These costs helped offset the cost       of the FDAC team (&#163;8740 per family).
There were also potential savings for       courts and legal services.
The research changed practice for all       professionals involved in FDAC care proceedings.
Lawyers for parents and       for the local authority and child, social workers, guardians and judges       have all worked collaboratively to enhance children's well-being,       resulting in fewer contested proceedings, thereby also reducing delay and       extra legal costs.
Four pilot judges have demonstrated it is possible to       adjudicate and play a non-traditional role and developed new knowledge and       expertise in carrying out this role.
One of the pilot judges, District       Judge Nicholas Crichton (CBE) of the Inner London Family Proceedings       Court, noted that Harwin's research has been crucial to taking FDAC       forward, which `seeks to harness the authority of the court in trying to       achieve change'.
[A]     Judicial continuity, a central feature of FDAC but rare in ordinary       proceedings, was achieved through promoting organisational efficiency.
Social workers have become more skilled in presenting evidence to judges,       an important objective of the Children and Families Bill 2013.
The       co-ordinating role of the FDAC specialist multi-disciplinary team produced       a more efficient and supportive process.
Its dual role as expert,       treatment provider and monitor of progress is attractive to the Family       Justice Review because it helps achieve the goal of reducing the number of       one-off costly expert assessments, increasing efficiency and enhancing       child and parent outcomes.
In recognition of its contribution to       innovation, FDAC has received 7 national awards.
The `evaluation' findings have been used by professional bodies and have       led to impacts on organisations, changing their service delivery, planning       and management.
The London Boroughs of Southwark and Hammersmith and       Fulham who were both comparison sites in the research have now implemented       the new model and they are contributing to its funding.
The three pilot       authorities are continuing to fund and utilise the FDAC process.
Gloucestershire has started an FDAC this year.
[B] A new DfE funded FDAC       Development Programme (2013-2015) aims to promote the development of FDAC       in different parts of the county.
In this way more families will be able       to access FDAC extending its reach nationally.
Internationally, a new FDAC will open in January 2014 in Victoria State,       Australia.
Its co-founders, Judge Greg Levine and Professor Barbara       Kamler consulted with Harwin and colleagues in 2012 on their plans to set       up and trial the FDAC model in Victoria State.
[C] They drew on the       research findings in their Churchill Fellowship Report to help obtain       funding from the Victoria government.
[D]     The research findings have helped strengthen the development of evidence       based practice and have advanced child protection practice.
The Centre for       Excellence and Outcomes in Children and Young People's Services has listed       FDAC as an example of validated local practice relating to safeguarding,       families, parents and carers and general resources.
[E]     Impacts on public policy, law and services were achieved through raising       public and political awareness and legal and policy debate on family       justice reform.
The early promise of the FDAC evaluation contributed to       the decision of the Family Justice Review in 2011 to recommend further       roll-out of FDAC.
[F, 3.186 Final Recommendations] The Munro Child       Protection Final Report (2011) includes a case study of the research and       used it as an example of how multi-disciplinary teams can provide       effective interventions for vulnerable children [G]     Drawing on the research findings, the DfE decided to extend funding of       FDAC for a further year (2011-2012); it commissioned Ernst and Young with       RyanTunnardBrown (final report Feb 2012) to investigate the business case       for FDAC (&#163;50,000).
Their report drew on the costing data carried out in       the FDAC evaluation report.
The research findings also contributed to the       decision of the DfE to commission a two-year &#163;300,000 development project       (2013-2015) to help set up FDAC in different regions, and consider       extending its remit (H and A).
Harwin was invited in 2012 to join a new       DfE expert working party on `Returning Home from Care' to help develop       policy and evidence based practice around family reunification.
Policy debate has been stimulated by FDAC from the outset and continues       in relation to the Children and Families Bill 2013, which seeks to       significantly reduce the length of care proceedings in all but exceptional       cases.
FDAC was cited by Mr Justice Ryder, Judge in Charge of the       Modernisation of Family Justice Programme, as an exemplar of an       exceptional case `whose success has been clearly established' as a       `validated and research based option' in the 4th family newsletter update       of March 2012.
The recent House of Lords recent debate: Adoption:       Post-Legislative Scrutiny (HL Paper 127) also draws on the research       findings (para 63).
[I] It has contributed to a debate about the role of       care proceedings, family reunification and adoption.
At international level, the findings of the FDAC evaluation have been       included in the US National Association of Drug Courts May 2012 update,       with special mention of the cost findings.
[J]     Following publication of the Final FDAC First Stage Evaluation Report,       Harwin was interviewed on the "Today Programme" (23.05.11), "Women's Hour       "(26.05.11) and BBC Radio London and for the journal Children and Young       People Now ("Mothers back family drug court" (01.06.2011).
The report was       covered in Guardian Online (26.05.11); Family Law (19.05.11); Community       Care (19.05.11) and BBC News Online (19 May).
Harwin was interviewed by       John Humphreys on the Today Programme on 8 January 2008 when FDAC was       launched and contributed to Law in Action (April 2012).
Harwin was       interviewed by Radio Gloucester in connection with the launch of a second       FDAC project.
