     Derek Alsop has become a British media authority on Handel's work.
BBC       Radio 3 has over       2,000,000 listeners per week.
The channel states that its service remit:       `is to offer a mix of music and cultural programming in order to engage       and entertain its       audience.
Around its core proposition of classical music, its speech-based       programming       should inform and educate the audience about music and culture [...].
The       service should       appeal to listeners of any age seeking to expand their cultural horizons       through       engagement with the world of music and the arts.'
As a commercial organisation, and under increasing pressure to deliver       value for money, the BBC       has continued to commission Alsop to research and deliver programmes on       literature and music,       over thirty in all, including the work on Handel (see Section 2).
The       programme on `Handel and       Literature' (item 3 in section 3 above) was part of a prestigious series       to commemorate the 250th       anniversary of Handel's death.
The other four contributors were world       leaders in Handel studies:       Jonathan Keates, distinguished writer, winner of the James Tait Black       Memorial Prize and the       Hawthornden Prize, and acclaimed biographer of Handel; Professor Donald       Burrows (of the Open       University), director of the Handel Documents project, and winner of the       Handel Music Prize;       Professor Ellen T. Harris, MIT Professor of Music, winner of the Otto       Kindeldey Award from the       American Musicological Society and the Louis Gottschalk Prize from the       Society for Eighteenth-Century       Studies; and Dr Suzanne Aspden, Faculty of Music, University of Oxford.
The series was       successful enough to merit a complete re-run in the same year of       production.
`Derek Alsop's Handel Archive', made possible by the financial support of       the University of       Chester, enables the online community to have access to all of his work on       Handel, published and       unpublished.
Since it was established in January 2013, the archive       attracted 3,207 pageviews, and       a worldwide audience (732 views in the USA; 303 views in Germany; 173 in       Latvia; 160 in Poland;       134 in Russia; 97 in France; 76 in the Ukraine; 64 in Canada; 58 in       Spain).
The archive has started       to attract comments: Francisco Hern&#225;ndez Diaz writes: `I just came across       your Blog Archive [...]       I'm so happy I found it!
Congratulations for your brilliant blog' (8th       May, 2013).
The work for the Literary Encyclopedia Online was first       commissioned in June, 2011, the editors       writing to Alsop as someone able to bring a literary perspective to       entries on Handel (`We are keen       to include a profile of Handel in The Literary Encyclopedia and       thought you would be an excellent       person to approach', email received 7/6/11).
The success of the first       article on `George Frideric       Handel' led to a further commission of five articles on selected Handel       operas (see Section 5), with       a further invitation to submit articles on other oratorios and operas,       including Radamisto, Flavio,       Ottone, Messiah, Jephtha, Solomon and Saul.
This resource, available to public subscribers, will       allow the author to publish commentaries on at least twenty important       works by Handel.
