     The research summarised above has had several impacts:     Formation and success of P1Vital Ltd       As described in Section 2, the ETB was an integral part of the rationale       for, and the initial success of, P1Vital, being the most popular of the       various experimental models included in the company's portfolio (Section       5, Sources 1-3).
Since 2008, P1Vital has grown, and the ETB has become the       primary instrument used in 6 commercial studies to screen and characterise       novel compounds in development for depression.
The income from the various       commercial grants between companies and P1Vital for work using the ETB       since 2008 is over &#163;9.5M, or about 60-70% of the company's total       income.
The work is carried out in Oxford and in other UK academic       centres.
Interest in the ETB continues to grow, and P1Vital income for       these services in 2013 is likely to exceed &#163;4.8M.
P1Vital has created 15       jobs since 2004, with 10 people currently working on projects which       largely or exclusively use the ETB.
Use of the ETB to drive more rapid and cost-effective development of         new antidepressants       Together with this direct spend on experimental studies, there has been a       direct impact on drug development decisions within the companies concerned       (Section 5, Sources 4 and 5).
Our positive study with an AstraZeneca drug,       AZD6765, led the company to approve a development programme for the drug,       with a budget of ~&#163;10M.
Conversely, another AstraZeneca drug had only weak       ETB effects, leading to termination of its development programme, with       resulting cost savings of a similar magnitude.
Revealing clinically and commercially meaningful differences between         antidepressants       The finding (Section 2, ref.
6) that agomelatine, unlike existing       antidepressants, did not produce emotional blunting &#8212; led directly to a       major change in how Servier has marketed the drug since authorisation in       2009 (Section 5, Source 6).
It will have had a direct effect on sales, and       on patient benefit, by focussing prescribing on patients intolerant of       emotional blunting.
The ability of the ETB to differentiate between       antidepressants has also contributed directly to Servier's development       programme to seek a successor to agomelatine.
Broader impacts of the ETB and its applications       The ETB and P1Vital have been highlighted by the Medical Research Council       (MRC) as an example of successful translational research in psychiatry, in       a field with few such achievements (Section 5, Source 7).
The ETB has also       been reported on BBC News, and other media, helping explain the importance       and nature of the research field, and linking pharmacological with       psychological aspects of depression and its treatment (Section 5, Source       8).
