     This case study demonstrates impact on civil society, cultural life,       education and policy making.
Policy Making and Education     The most important impact in this area has been on policy making on a       variety of levels.
The work of       O'Kane and Buckley (supported by Badsey and Kassimeris) with the Conflict       Resolution and Peace       Implementation programme brought together a range of participant       individuals, groups, institutions       and bodies who develop and implement policy.
Participants in the Falstad       workshops included       British government and armed forces policy groups (e.g.
RAF Cranwell,       Joint Services Command       and Staff College, Shrivenham) and NGOs (e.g.
Peace Direct) and       military/security professionals to       analyse contemporary and historical models, theories and practices       relating to conflict resolution and       peace implementation in the modern world.
This interaction between and       dissemination of O'Kane's,       Buckley's, Badsey's and Kassimeris' research has caused a re-evaluation of       NGO and armed forces       educational establishments' policies and training methods (see Sources 4       and 5, Section 5).
O'Kane's work in Serbia shaped the development of peace implementation       policies in the Subotica       region as part of an on-going process of democracy building.
He employed       his research into the       history of peace building and conflict resolution in Northern Ireland to       inform and shape the       development of policies in Subotica.
This has resulted in impact on the       policies and training methods       employed in Subotica in underpinning democratisation and peace building       initiatives (see Source 10,       Section 5).
Kassimeris's research on the history of preventing terrorism and       understanding how and why       terrorists move away from violence impacted upon the West Midlands       Probation Service Trust and       the West Midlands Counter-Terrorism unit's policy and practice development       and implementation.
This has resulted in refinement to counter-terrorism intelligence policies       in the West Midlands       Counter-Terrorism Unit and recasting of understanding of prevention       polities and training in the       Preventing Violent Extremism Programme.
As Paul Marriot, the programme       manager of Preventing         Violent Extremism, has noted: "From the perspective of a CTU officer       I was extremely interested to       hear about the Spanish police structure, based upon the       national/regional/local levels, and how that       must be really difficult with regards to co-ordination and       information/intelligence sharing" (see       Sources 6, 7, 8 and 9, Section 5).
Badsey's research has impacted upon policies devised for and implemented       in the field of public       diplomacy.
His research and work for the Royal United Services Institute       has promoted discussion       and debate on policies of managing the relationship between the military,       government and the media       in the contemporary world.
As Michael Codner, Senior Research Fellow in       Military Sciences and       Editorial Director of RUSI Defence Systems, has noted, the research       "raised some specific       challenges for the Ministry of Defence which were discussed by key       officials".
Badsey's work for the       Australian and American armed forces has shaped their policies on       information operations and       media relations and informed their educational and training methods (see       Sources 1, 2 and 3,       Section 5).
Civil Society and Cultural Life     This research has impacted upon clearly defined areas of civil society in       terms of promoting       democracy, stabilisation and peace implementation in two ways.
Firstly,       the work of O'Kane in       Subotica was founded upon his work on the Northern Ireland peace process       and how such models       and theories could be employed in the Balkans.
His research input shaped       the development of local       government through the Local Democracy Agency programme and particularly       in the intercultural       governance area.
His work brought his research together with local       government perspectives,       including Wolverhampton City Council and local institutions in Subotica,       Serbia (see Source 10,       Section 5).
Kassimeris's research has impacted upon the understanding of terrorism,       the issues behind its       development and how it can be prevented.
His work through publications and       workshops, funded by       the EU and Leverhulme, has guided the interaction between different groups       focused on cultural       understanding and exchange in order to limit the development of terrorism.
The exchange of best       practice, underpinned by Kassimeris' specific research findings,       disseminated through the Barcelona       workshop and other media, has helped to define cultural understanding       between the participant       groups (see Sources 6, 7, 8 and 9, Section 5).
Badsey's work has shaped the interaction between groups involved in the       process of managing       relationships between the military, media and government, thus promoting       enhanced       communications and understanding between participant groups.
His work has       formed debate       (RUSI), driven discussion (US Army) and generated a richer environment in       which this process can       develop (Australian defence forces) (see Sources 1, 2 and 3, Section 5).
