     This research has had a major impact on the diagnosis, testing, and       treatment of CMS.
Although CMS is a rare condition (approximately 70       extended families with DOK7 mutations in the UK, with many more       overseas), the ability to provide a clear diagnosis, leading to the       appropriate treatment, has had, and will continue to have, a profound       effect on the relevant population (the patients and families concerned).
Diagnostic testing     Diagnostic testing for DOK7 mutations is now a routine part of       clinical practice for patients with suspected CMS.
The Genetics Laboratory       at the Churchill Hospital and research laboratory at the Weatherall       Institute of Molecular Medicine (Oxford University) offers a diagnostic       service for samples from the UK and overseas.
Similar genetic screening is       offered at a number of sites overseas including Munich, Paris, Milan, and       the Mayo Clinic and UCLA-Davis in the USA.
In the UK approximately 100       samples a year are sent for DOK7 screening of which about 10 will       be positive.
In addition, prenatal testing is available if requested.
Clinical services     Based upon the research findings by Beeson and others in Oxford, the       Department of Health National Specialist Commissioning Advisory Group       commissioned a National Diagnostic and Advisory Service for CMS (as part       of `Rare inherited neuromuscular disease') located at the John Radcliffe       and Churchill Hospitals in Oxford.
The service has since been integrated       into the NHS, and is now part of the NHS Nationally Commissioned `Rare       Neuromuscular Disorders' service, linked with Great Ormond Street       Hospital, London.
A national outpatient service is provided in addition to       the national diagnostic genetics laboratory mentioned above.
This clinical       service is closely linked to the Neurosciences Group research laboratory       at the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine allowing the rapid       translation of findings to the national patient cohort.
Patients referred       to this service are offered clinic appointments at which they are advised       about the molecular basis for their condition and offered appropriate       therapy.
Patients are subject to regular follow up and their response to       treatment assessed.
Patient and family satisfaction was assessed in 2012,       and 82% were `completely satisfied' with the service.
Treatment     Resulting from Beeson's work and the papers from others, which confirmed       the Oxford group's observations (mentioned in Section 3), 03b22 adrenergic       receptor agonist treatment is now routinely offered to patients with DOK7       mutations (in contrast to the treatments recommended for other forms of       CMS); it is also endorsed by experts internationally.
(NB: The disorder is       too rare for there to have been randomised controlled trials, and neither       are evidence-based guidelines [e.g.
from NICE] available at present.)
Patient involvement     Educational pamphlets and DVDs giving advice on the condition, as well as       advice about DOK7, reflecting the work of Beeson and colleagues,       have been distributed by the Myasthenia Gravis Association and the       Muscular Dystrophy Campaign.
