     As the centenary of the First World War approaches, the remembrance of       the conflict has taken on       a new poignancy.
Equally important, though, is the type of remembering       that is undertaken.
As       Hew Strachan recently argued, the challenge of commemoration today is to       ensure that the public       looks beyond `the mud of the Western Front' to remember the contribution       of Commonwealth       countries and other minority groups (Daily Telegraph, 11.01.2013).
Grady's work goes to the heart       of this agenda.
He has utilised his impressive range of academic research       to make the wider public       aware of the role of other combatants, while at the same time helping       ensure the Jewish       contribution to the war is not forgotten.
Grady first brought the history of minority participation in the First       World War to a wider audience       through a number of popular publications.
Most significantly, in 2011 he       authored a feature for the       magazine History Today on West Germany and its Jewish soldiers.
He       also contributed a shorter       piece to the popular French magazine, Books.
To reach an even       larger section of the public, Grady       followed up these publications with a podcast on Jews in the Great War on       the History Today       website.
Together these different forms of media helped to foster a debate       over how the German-       Jewish soldiers should be commemorated which played out in History         Today's letters page.
Alongside this published work, Grady has also sought to reach a       non-academic audience through       an extensive programme of public lectures across the North West of       England.
Over the last four       years, he has spoken about wartime minorities to audiences as diverse as       the Rotary Club and the       Grosvenor Museum in Chester.
As a representative of the Grosvenor Museum       commented, these       talks made a `distinctive and important contribution [...] to the museum's       public programmes'.
The second strand of his impact activity has seen Grady working with       military history and veterans'       organisations.
As these groups are now the primary holders of the war's       memory, it is crucial that       they place greater emphasis on the role of minorities in the conflict.
To       this end, Grady has       organised a series of lectures with the Western Front Association - a       non-academic organisation       dedicated to understanding the war.
To date, he has spoken to several of       the group's branches on       German Jews and the Great War: North Wales, 03.09.2011 (audience 30);       Merseyside,       06.09.2012 (audience 25); Lancashire and Chester, 14.12.2012 (audience       45).
At the same time,       Grady has also been heavily involved in a series of remembrance workshops       at the National       Memorial Arboretum which brought together academics with members of the       British Legion and the       British armed forces.
In May 2011, he spoke to these collected groups       about Jews in the First       World War (25 participants).
Taken together, this activity has helped to       embed narratives of the       wartime experience of minorities into a wider memory culture.
A third strand of Grady's efforts has led him to engage with Jewish       community groups.
This       process began when he launched his monograph at the Wiener Library in       London on 16.02.2012       (audience 30).
The Library is not only an internationally recognised       centre for Holocaust research,       but is also an important hub for first and second generation Jewish       survivors of the Nazi genocide.
By choosing this forum, Grady was able to reach individuals who had a       direct connection to the       Great War and to help many of those in the audience piece together aspects       of their own personal       histories.
For example, local media coverage of the event led a daughter       of a German-Jewish war       veteran to recount her own memories of the war in a lengthy letter.
She       even gifted Grady a copy       of her father's own 1920 memorial book for the Jewish war dead of       Nuremberg.
By giving the       Jewish soldiers of the Great War public recognition, therefore, Grady has       provided surviving family       members with a means to remember their own loved ones.
A series of letters       in the Association of       Jewish Refugees' newsletter, written in response to Grady's work confirmed       this analysis, as a       number of respondents recalled their own family's role in the First World       War.
Over the next year, with plans for the war's centenary already in motion,       the influence of Grady's       work will continue.
Indeed, in November 2011 he advised museum       professionals in the Association       of European Jewish Museums as to how they could best exhibit the Jewish       war experience in 2014       (audience 20).
This event highlighted the crucial significance of his       research for furthering popular       understanding, as well as its direct impact on the wider heritage sector.
