     Gaunt's tenure as chair of the Cromwell Association (1990-2009) and as       president of the organisation (2009 to date) has facilitated his efforts       to embed knowledge of Cromwell and the civil war in the locale.
As the       Cromwell Association's mission is to promote the understanding of Cromwell       and the civil war period, his leadership has provided the vehicle for many       of his activities.
Indeed, he has consistently combined his academic       research and publications with the Association's key projects and       programmes, whether working individually or in collaboration.
Through Gaunt's leadership, the Association has worked to preserve and       enhance the interpretation of local civil war and Cromwellian sites.
In       many cases, this has involved working with local heritage groups,       including &#8212; since 2008 &#8212; Naseby battlefield (site visit April 2009) and       Marston Moor battlefield, where work is on-going to improve the site and       counter vandalism &#8212; site visit April 2013.
He has also been instrumental       in the erection of plaques and monuments at several sites, including       Gainsborough, St Fagans and Montgomery, and most recently at the so-called       `Cromwell House' in Old Marston.
Through Gaunt's work, the Cromwell       Association funded a blue plaque to record the site where the surrender of       Oxford was negotiated at the end of the civil war.
In June 2013, Gaunt       unveiled the plaque and addressed a local audience during its       inauguration.
Gaunt's efforts to preserve these local sites have produced tremendous       results.
Not only have these new sites of memory helped to increase       understanding of local histories, but many of the memorials and       interpretative boards themselves have become a part of each region's       heritage, some featuring in local tourist information guides and       brochures, thereby ensuring that visitors are able to understand more       fully how the civil war battles shaped these local landscapes.
Gaunt has also addressed diverse audiences about the local importance of       Cromwell and the civil war.
He has frequently organised and spoken at       day-schools across the country embracing such local aspects.
In 2008, for       example, he organised a day-school on `The Civil War in the North West' at       Manchester's John Rylands Library (audience 55).
The same year, he ran a       day-school at Hampton Court (audience 60) to mark the 350th       anniversary of the death of Oliver Cromwell, which included a reassessment       of Cromwell's local impact and legacy.
He has also spoken on the civil war       in Denbighshire as part of the `Denbigh Heritage Regeneration Project'       (audience 120) in 2009 and in 2011 he reassessed Cromwell's role in the       battle of Worcester for a Worcester audience (audience 110).
Most       recently, he has explored with the Chester Society for Landscape History       the relationship between the civil war in Cheshire and the local       environment (audience 70).
Enhancing the impact and spread of these public talks, Gaunt has arranged       for many to be published by local interest groups such as Denbigh Town       Council and The Battle of Worcester Society.
Gaunt has also had the       opportunity to lead walking tours for specialist and general audiences       around key civil war sites.
Between 2000 and 2013, he has taken groups       around Chester, Edinburgh, Worcester, Sherborne Castle and Beeston Castle.
All these were pitched at wide audiences, extending wide and public       knowledge, understanding and appreciation of the civil war and of Cromwell       in a local context.
School audiences have provided another means for Gaunt to increase public       awareness of the civil war's local dimensions.
Discussing the locale with       school pupils helps them to conceptualise more fully the scope of this       period of history.
During spring 2013 he addressed sixth-form groups at       Withington Girls' School, Manchester, the Queen's School, Chester and St       Mary's High School in Chesterfield.
In spring 2012 he spoke at a study-day       for sixth-form teachers held in Huntingdon organised by the Prince's       Teaching Institute (audience 60).
In spring 2013 he recorded two podcasts,       on aspects of Cromwell, for the Historical Association, to be made       available as part of the Association's scheme to help students and       teachers.
Gaunt has also helped to produce the tools enabling the general public to       locate Cromwell in their own ancestry and localities.
He has been       responsible for compiling and writing much of the material which appears       on The Cromwell Association web-site (www.olivercromwell.org),       including `Cromwellian Britain' entries for Barthomley, Evesham, Ilston,       Lindsey House in London, Montgomery, Moray House in Edinburgh and       Widecombe.
Perhaps most notably and with the broadest appeal, he also       researched and wrote a very detailed Cromwell genealogy.
In collaboration       with the East of England Museums and the Libraries and Archives Council,       this fully searchable genealogy can also be accessed via the Association's       web-site.
As a measure of its wider impact, the website has averaged       320,000 `hits' per year.
