     Plant Integrity Limited is the commercial arm of The Welding Institute       and has been selling its trademarked Teletest Systems (I, II and III)       since 1998.
Prof Balachandran's research identified that significant       improvement could be made to the then-current version Teletest System Mark       III.
Teletest Mark III used an old communication protocol and the data       rate was limited to 5 Mbps.
It had 24 transmitting but only 8 receiving       channels, which meant that the system had to be activated 3 times in order       to receive signals from all 24 channels.
The ultrasonic transducers were       not properly matched, reducing its accuracy, and hence it often produced       unwanted mode conversions.
Also, it was bulky and difficult to handle       during field tests.
Professor Balachandran and his team's research addressed these       limitations by advancing research in the field of ultrasonic       non-destructive testing.
The Welding Institute commercially exploited his       research advancement so that it can be incorporated into their Teletest       System.
The improvement was so significant that Plant Integrity decided to       manufacture a new version of Teletest System Mark IV.
The unit is sold at       &#163;80,000.
Since its introduction to the market in late 2010, 20 units per       year have been sold, doubling the market share of Teletest System Mark IV       from &#163;1 million in 2010 to more than &#163;2 million in 2013.
Plant Integrity       no longer markets Teletest Mark III.
Teletest&#174; FOCUS+ System Mark IV          The improvements incorporated in Teletest Mark IV are listed below:            The design of the ultrasonic transducers for transmitting and         receiving has been improved to achieve better focusing and to eliminate         unwanted dispersive modes       The new system has 24 transmitting and receiving channels and they can         be activated simultaneously       The gain of each channel can be independently controlled and         calibrated       The use of FPGA has significantly reduced the requirements for         external components, ADC interpolation etc.
Incorporates Ethernet protocol (100 Mbps) as opposed to 5 Mbps in         Teletest Mark III       Operational speed is 7 times faster (2 minutes)       The power electronics used is a hybrid of a number of custom made SMPS         topologies with overall efficiency in excess of 86%       The size and weight of the battery has been reduced from 2.5 kg to 0.5         kg without compromising the system performance       Teletest Mark IV is 45% lighter       It can handle full matrix capture       It incorporates WiFi and GPS       It has better Electromagnetic Compatibility protection       Significant reduction in physical size (33cm x 33 cm x14 cm)       Four units can be interlinked and synchronised to the master clock and         the transmission distance is 100m       Data link can be increased to 120 channels thereby extending         application to tanks          The Electronic system incorporated in Teletest Mark IV has the capability       to be used with high temperature ultrasonic transducers that have been       developed by Professor Balachandran and his research student for NDT in       nuclear and food manufacturing industries.
Furthermore, it can also be       configured and used for NDT using Electromagnetic Acoustic Transducers       (EMAT), which has the advantage of being non-contact transducer and hence       not requiring air pressure for coupling to the target surface.
Teletest Mark IV has 10% domestic and 90% export market and has even       distribution globally (Europe, North America and Asia).
Typical clients in       oil and gas industries are ConocoPhillips, Petrobras, Chevron, Shell etc.
Plant Integrity is intending to market the system to rail and aircraft       industries in the near future.
