     The GROUPSIM Network began work that has led to major innovations in High       Performance Simulation for industrial discrete-event simulation users and       is facilitating the investigation and development of larger scale systems      faster and cheaper and now allows a wider variety       of cost-saving options to be explored with more precision.
It also       has made it possible for industrial simulation providers to offer new       high-performance simulation (HPS) products and services.
As shown       in Figure 1, these innovations have two major complementary themes: (1)       techniques to reduce the cost and time of simulation development (Model       Reuse and Interoperability) and (2) techniques to reduce the time of       simulation experimentation (Grid Computing).
The impact of each theme is       detailed below.
The standardisation efforts involved in (1) began in 2004 with the       formation of the standards development group (CSPI PDG) at SISO and       produced the first standard in 2010.
The standard is now being gradually       adopted by the international practitioner community and is being used to       guide the development of large-scale manufacturing simulations.
Saker       Solutions was involved in the development of the standard and is now using       the standard to create a large-scale simulation of nuclear waste       reprocessing at Sellafield PLC which has led to "major cost savings" (see       corroborating source S1).
This is the first time that Sellafield has been       able to comprehensively study the major elements of waste management as a       whole system and is a direct output of both the standard and the       standardisation process.
Examples of practitioners adopting the standard       internationally are: AEGIS Technologies (a USA SME specialising in defence       simulation), PITCH (an SME based in Sweden that develops large scale       simulations), Simul8 (a UK SME that sells one of the most well-known       simulation software) and D-SIMLAB (a Singapore SME specialising in       aircraft maintenance logistics).
(Corroborating source S2 from Mark Elder,       Chairman of Simul8, is representative of this adoption, "Without this       we and the whole simulation industry would still be operating in an       isolated way").
The Grid Computing development work in (2) has been adopted by several       simulation users.
At the Ford Motor Company's Dunton Engineering Centre       (Brentwood, Essex) simulation is used to design engine manufacturing       facilities worldwide and for process improvement in day-to-day operations       by studying different machine configurations, buffer capacities,       changeover Schemes, etc.
Brunel and Ford developed various High       Performance Simulation solutions for implementation in Ford's Power Train       Manufacturing simulation team.
Ford has adopted and built new high       performance simulation systems in conjunction with Lanner Group (a       simulation consultancy SME).
Ford now uses significantly more simulation       in this area and has saved an estimated &#163;150,000 in consultancy cost       during the REF period and, according to Ford's Technical specialist, a       significant undisclosable sum due to process improvements as a result of       that extra experimentation (see corroborating source S3).
Dunton leads       simulation activities in this area worldwide and this work has therefore       affected production teams at Ford's engine manufacturing facilities across       the world (UK, USA, Mexico, Spain, South Africa and Brazil) (see       corroborating source S3).
Experiences from this enabled Taylor to lead the development of SAKERGRID       (in 2010) with Saker Solutions (one of around 10 UK SMEs specialising in       simulation), Grid Computing software supporting high speed experimentation       and test/build development.
Saker Solutions employs 12 people (annual       turnover &#163;1 to &#163;2 million) in the UK and works with many UK companies       using simulation to study a wide range of manufacturing, production and       logistic problems.
SAKERGRID has been used to significantly improve the       quality of Saker's simulation projects and is saving around &#163;20,000 per       annum in terms of project time saved at Saker (&#163;80,000 over 4 years) (see       corroborating source S1).
Saker Solutions has now implemented SAKERGRID       (in 2011) within the Sellafield Ltd Operational Research Group (around 25       members) where the tool has been used since to support over 10 major       projects in the last year.
The expected direct savings in this financial       year at Sellafield Ltd are approximately &#163;200,000 with substantial       additional savings expected in subsequent years.
Of course, in addition       there are unquantified savings arising from the reduced turnaround time of       experimentation enabled by the use of SAKERGRID which both reduces project       lead time and increases the number of scenarios which can be examined (see       corroborating source S4).
In terms of products and services, Saker Solutions is now able to offer       new high-speed products and services based on this work.
Saker Solutions       is the first to offer these in a comprehensive manner.
This has had a       `ripple effect' in the community and has led to at least one further       innovation due to the impact of these advanced in simulation technology       state of the art.
This took the form of a Knowledge Transfer Partnership       (KTP) between Whole Systems Partnership and Brunel University (Taylor).
Whole Systems Partnership is a small consultancy with a &#163;300,000 per year       turnover that develops healthcare decision support solutions.
The results       of the KTP are a (from 2013 onward) &#163;200,000 per year revenue stream using       reusable Systems Dynamics models for decision support in manpower       capability planning in the NHS (see corroborating source S5).
