     Ubisense was founded in 2002, with Professor Hopper as Chairman, to       commercialise the location solutions applications of the research.
Within       two years it had merged with TenSails LLP, who had been collaborating with       Ubisense since its foundation.
The company's first profitable quarter was in 2008, with annual revenue       of &#163;9.7million in that year.
By the end of 2011, the company had floated       on AIM with a valuation of &#163;38.6million.
Annual revenue in 2012 was &#163;24.3M       and the company had 184 employees.
[6]     The Ubisense Real Time Location System (RTLS) is used inside       manufacturing plants to track components, tools and people, identifying       inconsistencies and enabling customized production.
Customers include BMW,       Airbus, Aston Martin, Daimler, Atlas Copco and the US Army.
The design and       implementation of the RTLS is based on and develops the techniques,       systems, and methods investigated and built during the University research       described above:     "Professor Hopper's group investigated a range of technologies which         could be used for indoor fine-grained positioning and studied the         performance of each technique in detail.
The group also developed         scalable distributed computing systems which could process (in         real-time) the large volumes of data generated by fine-grain positioning         systems, and convert a `firehose' of raw position data into a more         manageable stream of application-relevant spatial events.
Even though         Ubisense has undertaken a considerable amount of research and         development of its own in the commercial arena since 2002, it is still         possible to trace the lineage of systems back to this original work."
CTO and VP Engineering, Ubisense [11].
In 2009, Ubisense and Atlas Copco signed a collaboration agreement for       the research and development of the Atlas Copco-branded Tool Location       System (TLS) software.
As of February 2012, this software had been       deployed by BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Audi, BM, Hyundai and PACCAR, among       others [7].
TLS uses sensors inside manufacturing plants to monitor the       position of tools and assets to an accuracy of 15cm.
One example of use is       that a human-operated tool can be set to tighten a given bolt to the       correct torque, the human having only to position the tool correctly       rather than worry about the tool's settings.
This ensures that tightening       is performed at the correct tool setting and the correct workstation,       increasing productivity, accuracy and quality while reducing costs.
This       work is a natural extension and successor of the above research in       proximity-based applications (the tool must be near the asset) and also       develops on the above research that experimented with active bats as       user-interface devices (the position and orientation of the tool being       part of the user-interface).
TLS is incorporated into the Ubisense Smart Factory System [9], which       automates the recognition of tool and vehicle interactions on the       production line, continuously tracking and ID-matching each vehicle as it       moves along the production line.
Again, this can trace its origins back to       the University research that investigated how one can build systems that       handle imprecise spatial relationships and dynamically changing databases       of object location.
An example of the productivity increase is Ubisense's       recent equipping of a major European car manufacturer's factory with over       400 sensors and 1000 tags.
This enabled the manufacturer to eliminate a       barcode scan operation, saving approximately 6 seconds per tool operation.
This represented an efficiency gain of up to 10% for the company.
[ 11]     In 2009, Aston Martin adopted the Ubisense Process Tracker to track its       sports cars through the finishing process at its headquarters in Gaydon,       Warwickshire.
This provides Aston Martin with analysis and optimisation of       each step in the process, as well as raising an alert if a car deviates       from the process.
[13]     In 2011, Ubisense signed a ten-year global licensing agreement with       Airbus, which now has Ubisense tracking technology installed at 10 sites.
In the same year Ubisense won contracts with PACCAR and Hyundai.
[7]     In 2012, a major European automotive group entered a deal worth over       &#163;800,000 to deploy TLS in combination with Ubisense Assembly Control       Solution.
[14]     Ubisense has also developed a 3D viewing package to aid in training for       Military Operations in Urban Terrain, which is used by the US and French       Armies.
Installing a sensor network throughout the training facility       allows precision tracking in 3D, improving the safety and efficiency of       training exercises.
This application can trace its roots to the University       research in the use of bats as 3D location devices, including the work       that investigated how to improve precision and bound inaccuracies.
It has       been installed at Fort Bliss in Texas [8] as well as the National Training       Centre at Fort Irwin, California, providing improved quality at reduced       costs.
Many other applications can be obtained from the Ubisense website [12].
In 2012, the company received two Queen's Awards to Industry: one for       International Trade and one for Innovation.
