     Robson's research on mathematics education in ancient Iraq (e.g., Robson       2009) has been used extensively to help train modern mathematics teachers       and to develop mathematics enrichment activities for high-achieving school       children.
From 2005 to 2008 Robson ran annual video- conferences on       Babylonian mathematics for primary schools in the UK and Pakistan for the       Motivate: Maths Enrichment for Schools scheme.
In 2008 there were four       video conferences for students aged between 8 and 13 involving eight UK       schools and two in Karachi.
A multimedia resource pack [5.1] for KS2/3 School Mathematics was       produced in 2010 and made freely available online with funding from the       university's HEIF 4 Knowledge Transfer Projects allocation.
The pack       includes nine short videos in which Robson discusses Babylonian       mathematics, mathematical education for trainee scribes and life in       ancient Iraq.
There are accompanying classroom activities and worksheets       with teacher guidance notes and support materials.
The pack has attracted       over 14,500 page views/downloads since 2010 and positive feedback from       mathematics teachers worldwide.
One Australian teacher commented on its       influence on teaching practice: `After looking at your work, I was       encouraged to bring it into my mathematics classroom &#8212; much to the       interest of my colleagues in the history and art faculties... My students       were fascinated by the stories and the mathematics, and we ended the       lesson in an art room, rolling out clay to make our own tables and working       out how to make the indentations with the ends of chopsticks' [5.2].
In the USA, the Professor of Mathematics Education at Florida State       University [has used Robson's work to develop teacher training programmes       using cuneiform tablets from the collection of Florida State University [5.3.
5.4].
In 2008, a classroom instructional unit was created for use       with 46 students (aged 9 to 11) two classroom mathematics teachers at       Eustis Elementary School and two district mathematics supervisors as a       pilot project in Eustis, Florida.
The classroom teachers stated that the       historical perspective and context contributed to increased pupil       engagement irrespective of their level of ability.
One teacher commented:       `I was amazed at my lower performing students' ability to communicate       their processing skills ...
Almost every student was eager to share their       ideas regarding the use of the cuneiform tablets.
I witnessed my ESE       [exceptional and special education] students to be more actively involved       in this lesson than most others.
I also observed my higher ability       students to be more engaged also.'
(Evaluation, 11 October 2008: see [5.4]).
As a result of her research, Robson has received numerous invitations to       contribute to radio and television programmes about the history of       mathematics and/or the history of the Middle East.
She gave a mathematical       tour of the British Museum exhibition Babylon for the BBC Radio 4       programme More or Less (2009) and used mathematical tablets from the       British Museum to explain the Babylonian mathematics of time to a modern       astronomer for another Radio 4 programme (2009).
She also contributed to       the British Museum's outstandingly popular exhibition, museum events,       radio series and book, A History of the World in 100 Objects (2010), being       interviewed for episode/chapter 17 on the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus, and       giving a gallery talk on 18 February 2010, 'Mathematical goddesses in       Sumerian culture', as part of the History of the World in 100 Objects:       Poetry, Mathematics, and Myth event.
The average reach of the radio series       was four million; the gallery talk audience was 40, which was       full-capacity for the venue.
In New York, the Institute for the Study of       the Ancient World staged an exhibition of mathematical cuneiform tablets       based largely on Robson's work (2010), citing Robson (2007d; 2008) as two       of the four core books on the subject and also listing four of her earlier       works in the suggested reading.
The exhibition was extended due to popular       demand, running over eight weeks, attracting a high number of visitors       including 22 school groups, and receiving substantial positive feedback       both in the guest book and in the form of student letters [5.5].
Patricia Fara's recent overview of history of science for a general       readership, Science: A four thousand year history, opens with a       chapter on Babylonian mathematics, credited almost exclusively to Robson's       research ([5.6]: pp.
8-16).
The book, which sold 10,125 copies       internationally [5.7] and has been translated into nine languages,       won the 2011 British Society for the History of Science Dingle Prize.
