     The team built close working relationships with the UK regulatory bodies       to ensure that the       research insights fed directly back into the work of these bodies, helping       them to achieve greater       institutional credibility [C1].
Research findings and draft papers       were often shared with regulatory       bodies.
The Director of the Institute for Government, a senior participant       in the process,       commented that the team's work "is a model of the interaction and       influence of political scientists       with practitioners, in making an impact on important public policy issues"       [C2].
The research       directly contributed to better definitions of the seven principles in       public life, it helped to identify       best practice in regulation, shaped the Independent Parliamentary       Standards Authority's approach       to regulation, and contributed to the wider public debate.
a) Contributing to Better Definitions of the Seven           Principles of Public Life       Philp has worked closely with the Committee on Standards in Public Life       (CSPL) since 2001.
On       the basis of his research, he was appointed to the newly established       Research Advisory Board of       the CSPL in 2002 to direct the Committee's research and has chaired the       Board since 2008       (running its biennial survey of public attitudes from 2008 to 2012).
The CSPL is a governmental body       that is tasked with examining concerns about standards of       conduct among public         office holders, including financial and commercial activities, and       to       recommend changes to ensure the highest standards of propriety.
In 2002,       based on his research       [R2], Philp wrote a conceptual paper for the Committee, The         Seven Principles: What they say and         what they mean [C3], which identified tensions in the principles and       argued that the CSPL should       conduct research on the understanding of the principles by the public and       office holders.
Philp was       closely involved in the research, which was conducted in 2005-6.
He       provided detailed advice,       helped design the topic guide for the focus groups, attended groups as an       observer on behalf of       the Committee, and liaised with the research company in the writing of the       final report.
The report       recommended that several of the descriptors of the principles be changed       to reflect more       adequately the public's understandings of the terms.
Before 2012, change was inopportune, but, in 2012, Philp brought the       report and his own research       [R2] to the attention of the (largely renewed) Committee as it       worked on its 14th Report "Standards         Matter: a review of best practice in promoting good behaviour in public         life" (Jan 2013) [C4].
Philp       contributed particularly to the Report's Chapter 3 on the seven principles       (which cites Philp's paper       [C3, C4]), and stressed the importance of defining the principles       in terms that make sense equally       to members of the public and those in public office.
The Report introduced       several changes in the       descriptors broadly following the research.
For instance, `honesty' is now       expressly defined as       being truthful, rather than in relation to conflicts of interest.
The       seven principles and their new       descriptors provide the basic template for codes of conduct throughout the       UK public sector,       applying to all elected and appointed officials.
b) Helping to Identify Best Practice in Regulation       Hine has also worked closely with the CSPL [C5].
His research on       accountability mechanisms and       regulatory regimes, their positive and potentially distortive effects, and       the relationship between UK       concerns and the wider international context, helped to inform Chapter 6       ("Ethical Regulation") of       the 14th Report of the CSPL, "Standards Matter: a review of         best practice in promoting good         behaviour in public life" (Jan 2013) [C4].
Hine contributed       key insights from the team's research,       and also provided access to draft material from the team's on-going study       of attitudes by first-time       MPs to the regulation regime, which is cited in the report [C6].
The report was later accepted by       the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards and included in her annual       report to Parliament in       July 2013.
In the same period, Hine contributed a substantial memorandum (and Peele       also gave evidence)       to the Cabinet Office Review of the CSPL in 2012 [C7].
Hine's       analysis and Peele's evidence,       which drew on their broader research on regulation, was extensively       quoted in the Review [C8, pp.
5, 8, 9, 11, 13] and informed several of its recommendation that the       CSPL should steer a less       controversial, more strategic and effective course.
c) Shaping the Independent Parliamentary Standard           Authority's Approach to Regulation       Hine and Peele have also worked closely with Independent Parliamentary       Standards Authority       (IPSA).
IPSA &#8212; established in 2009 in the wake of the MPs expenses scandal       &#8212; was viewed by       many MPs as a controversial innovation.
As the regulator was working       through a series of       difficulties in its relationship with Parliament and public opinion, the       IPSA CEO asked Hine and       Peele to provide research-based advice to enable senior IPSA staff to       achieve a greater       understanding of the wider context of public ethics and to facilitate       inter-agency communication.
Hine participated in IPSA's Panel of Experts, and Hine and Peele organized       a series of seminars       for senior IPSA staff [C9].
These seminars drew directly on the       team's research to discuss:       alliance-building strategies to secure more effective links between IPSA       and stake-holders in       promoting acceptance of the new standards; regulator accountability       (assessing the       appropriateness of the accountability IPSA had hitherto been subject to       from (i) the Public       Accounts Committee, (ii) the Speaker's Committee for the Independent       Parliamentary Standards       Authority, and (iii) the specially-constituted Parliamentary Select       Committee); pay and pensions;       and the draft Green Paper on MPs' conditions, prepared for publication in       December 2012.
The research, together with initial findings from Hine's research on       attitudes of first-time MPs,       helped IPSA's senior management to better understand the wider context of       UK ethics regulation       and the importance of institutional alliance-building.
The team's central       research finding &#8212; that       ethics regulators need sensitivity to the complexities of their       institutional location and selective       alliances with their stakeholders and with other regulators to be       effective and independent &#8212; has       helped inform IPSA's approach to policies on the regulation of MPs'       business costs and expenses,       and in particular, the determination of MPs' pay and pensions [C9].
d) Shaping the international debate on ethical standards in           public life       Political ethics is an area of growing importance to governments around       the world and the group's       work is shaping debate beyond the UK.
Hine has been invited to present his       findings on regulation       and standards to legislators in Kuwait (May 2012) and to three successive       delegations of Indian       parliamentarians to Oxford (under UKFCO sponsorship).
He continues to       collaborate with       members of the Ethics Committee of the Indian lower house (Lok Sabha), in       revising its rules for       registering financial interests and in drafting its first code of conduct.
Philp is a registered expert       with the Council of Europe and has acted as a consultant on projects       concerning corruption, ethical       regulation and risk assessment with reference to Central and Eastern       European States [C10].
Clear and effective standards in public life are central in protecting       the public interest, sustaining       the legitimacy of the wider political system, and in building public       trust.
The team's work in this       complex area of public life has contributed to the clarity of standards       and is enabling regulators in       the UK and beyond to adopt approaches that command support and compliance       from the       institutions that they regulate.
