     Meningitis C:     The studies on meningitis vaccines led by the University of Oxford have       had a direct impact on national and international immunisation policy.
Trials of the combination Haemophilus influenzae type b-Serogroup C       meningococcal meningitis vaccine (Menitorix, GSK vaccines)2       supported recommendations for its use in several countries including the       UK and Australia7 as a booster dose for toddlers.
The       quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine (MenACYW, Menveo, Novartis Vaccines)1       is now recommended for high-risk groups and travellers by the UK       Department of Health following the study in infants conducted by the       Oxford Vaccine Group.
These recommendations were widely reported8       and led to the vaccines' licensure9, and are cited in the US       recommendations.
In areas where meningitis C vaccines are used, serious       disease caused by the targeted bacteria has essentially ceased.
Over the       past 5 years there have been just 2 deaths in people under 20 years of       age, in comparison to 78 deaths in the UK in the year prior to the       Department of Health's introduction of these Meningitis C vaccines10.
The phase 4 studies designed and conducted at the University of Oxford,       which showed that those vaccinated with serogroup C meningococcal vaccine       in early childhood can lose immunity, together with data from the Health       Protection Agency, led to widespread changes in immunisation policy in       those countries using the vaccine11.
This also led to       widespread media coverage.
Adolescent booster doses have been recommended       in many countries including the UK11, Canada12 and       the USA13, with national recommendations citing studies by the       University of Oxford as primary evidence.
Meningitis B:     Studies on serogroup B meningococcal vaccines have led to major media       interest following conference presentations of trials conducted in Oxford       including numerous newspaper reports, front page coverage by the       Independent (2008), Daily Mail and extensive BBC News reporting.
The first       infant studies of a new serogroup B vaccine (Bexsero) were conducted in       Oxford and have been extensively cited.
Professor Pollard was asked to       give evidence to the World Health Organization in April 2011 on serogroup       B meningococcal vaccines14.
In addition, the first phase 3       infant study in Europe, led by Oxford University investigators, assembled       with data from other global studies, led to licensure of the vaccine by       the European Medicines Agency in early 2013.
A recommendation in the UK       for use of the vaccine among high risk groups and laboratory workers has       been made15, and its routine use for children is being       considered by the Department of Health16.
The design and       development of new vaccines for serogroup B meningococcus by Oxford       University have led to a number of patents on the candidate vaccines       (based on various surface proteins including Opa, PorA and       FetA17), which provide a licensing position for the University       as these vaccines progress through early phase clinical trials.
Conduct of Trials:     Studies on plain polysaccharide meningococcal and pneumococcal vaccines       provided the first direct demonstration that these vaccines do not induce       memory B cells, explaining the phenomenon of hyporesponsiveness (where       "booster" doses of vaccines do not induce an immune response).
This led to       a change in policy for vaccine trials, which had previously used plain       polysaccharides to test immunological memory.
This outcome was cited in a       commentary from Novartis Vaccines in 200918.
