     Daniels drew on her original ethnographic research in Japan to develop a       2D/3D model for communicating complex anthropological knowledge to       multiple audiences, in an effort to increase public understanding,       awareness, and appreciation of Japanese culture.
[R7] The         Japanese House both advanced academic knowledge (see section 2) and,       served as the concept and the catalogue for the exhibition.
[R1] As       testament to the public appeal of this book, to date 2,500 copies (210 in       the Museum shop) have been sold and the book was reprinted nine months       after it was first published.
The exhibition (2011) had more than 12,000       visitors over six months and was accompanied by extensive school and local       community outreach programmes, craft workshops, curatorial tours led by       Daniels, and study days in which she participated.
Educational impact     The exhibition [R7] and its associated educational activities       have directly increased public knowledge, understanding, awareness and       appreciation of Japanese life and culture among individuals from a broad       range of ages and backgrounds, through various school, education and       community outreach programmes.
In total 235 young people attended these sessions (from 8 Primary       Schools, 1 Secondary School, 1 Higher Education College, and 1 Special       Educational Needs school).
374 people attended the Adult Education and       Learning programme, while eleven community outreach sessions were attended       by 242 participants, both adults and children.
These programmes [C1,         C2] supported part of the secondary school curriculum for Geography       (QCA Unit 2) `What sort of homes do people live in today?'
and (QCA Unit       22) `A contrasting locality overseas'.
The Education Officer for Access       and Public Programmes at the Geffrye Museum commented that it was "a great       exhibition which was a joy to [design a] programme around, as it worked on       many levels for various different audiences.
Not only was the content       [based on the research] fascinating, but the interactive re- creation of       the flat meant that people of all ages could engage with it.
"[C2,C3,C4]       Finally 1,478 children and 1,150 adults participated in 125 holiday       creative activities.
In total, 2,628 people participated in educational       activities connected with this exhibition over its 6-month duration, which       compares favourably with the 803, 2,402, and 1,045 people who attended the       three previous temporary exhibition events (also of 6 months' duration) in       the same museum (see below for discussion of visitors' behaviour and       comments collected in a ethnographic study during the exhibition).
[C5]     Museum audiences     As mentioned above, between June and August 2011, Daniels and two of her       MSc students, Laura Haapio-Kirk and Rosanna Blakeley, conducted an       ethnographic study of sixty visitors, who were selected at random to       evaluate and collect evidence of the impact of the exhibition.
Their       interactions with the displays and each other were observed and recorded,       and they were then interviewed.
[C5]     The study found that some participants were in search of knowledge (40%),       but more were driven by the pleasure of the unexpected (50%), while a       minority sought inspiration for their own homes (10%).
Most importantly,       the study showed that the exhibition was successful in questioning       preconceptions about Japan.
A British woman in her 70s admitted that       because of the war she held anti-Japanese sentiments but "The display of       everyday normal living made me feel that Japanese people are very similar       to us", while two British women in their 20s expected Japanese homes to be       "compartmentalized and ordered" but they actually found that they "looked       messy and normal".
Of the 1,305 entries left in the visitors' book, only       23 were negative, representing overall an overwhelmingly positive       response.
[C6]     Other comments, elicited in the ethnographic study,[C5]       demonstrated that the exhibition challenged preconceived stereotypes about       Japan.
Typical examples were: "Fascinating.
Totally different from the       stereotypical image.
A real eye opener" and "Excellent exhibition of       contemporary Japanese people's houses and lives.
Very precise and detailed       description of Japanese life.
This contributes a lot to understanding       Japan."
Finally, all Japanese participants (10% of total visitors) were       upbeat.
In the words of a Japanese man in his 30s living in London: "The       exhibition shows Japanese lifestyle and not the stereotype.
It is really       what the Japanese are like and not just what Westerners think they are       like.
"[C5]     When the exhibition closed, most objects were given away in a free raffle       attended by more than two hundred people and Daniels is currently       conducting a follow-up ethnographic study that investigates the direct       impact of some of these objects inside people's homes in the UK.
Ethnographic museums in Leiden, Stockholm, and Vancouver have expressed an       interest in hosting the show.
In an updated version, Daniels will make       improvements suggested by visitors, such as enabling a more in-depth       engagement with the underpinning research through giving visitors the       opportunity to access additional information about specific objects       displayed through the use of mobile phones.
Most participants were       positive about the interactive/immersive aspect of the exhibition.
As an       American in her 30s explained: "One thing I really liked was that it was       extremely personal: I actually felt like I was in a Japanese film quite       often.
"[C7] The level of tactile interaction was influenced by       people's naturalisation into the `do not touch' philosophy adopted by most       museums, while the absence of clear instructions meant that many copied       others and those who had visited Japan or were Japanese frequently acted       as guides.
In this manner the exhibition encouraged the transfer of       cultural knowledge and understanding between the researchers and those       attending the museum, and also between individual members of the       exhibition's audience.
Museum practitioners     To ensure that Daniels' research was fed back to museum practitioners, in       addition to publishing in the Bulletin of the National Museum of         Ethnology,[R7] she also presented these findings at       international conferences attended by curators at the British Museum       (2012), the National Museum of Ethnology in Osaka (2013), and National       Museum of Ethnography in Stockholm (2013).
The effect of this on those       attending is clear from a statement by the anthropologist responsible for       the European exhibition collections at the National Museum of Ethnology in       Osaka: "`At Home in Japan' offers museum practitioners a new model for       facilitating more subjective, immersive visitor engagements with       exhibition displays.
"[C9] As confirmed by the Head of Collections       and Exhibitions at the Geffrye Museum, "Amongst the many exhibitions I       have been involved in, this has been one of the most effective in taking       scholarly research and making it truly accessible and engaging to a wide       range of visitors, while also leaving a legacy for the future in terms of       enhancing our practice.
"[C8]     Media     As well as academic reviews, the exhibition had public reach through more       than one hundred articles in popular print media including The         Guardian, The Japan Times, the Telegraph (`top five       exhibitions in London'), the Evening Standard, and Time Out.
The exhibition was reviewed in a range of design and interiors magazines       such as ID Magazine, Styles, Interiors, and Blue         Print, which stated that "At Home in Japan certainly succeeds in its       mission to demystify the Japanese home and shatter our minimalist       preconceptions.
"[C10] Public exposure was also increased via the       exhibition featuring on various blogs.
Several quotes include: "The       careful presentation made this a truly fascinating way to learn about       Japanese domestic culture" (Culture Wars Blog, 08.07.11); "I think       the exhibition fulfilled its aim completely.
I felt so at home in the       exhibition, and so like I was really in Japan" (Haikugirl's Japan Blog,       17.07.2011); and "A number of strong similarities emerge in the ways       people behave at home which help the sense of empathy the exhibition tries       to create.
The myth of minimalism [in Japan] is finally debunked" (British       Council Blog.
[C11]
