     Karmiloff-Smith's research was brought to the attention of P&amp;G       because of her consultancy for the Emmy-winning TV series Baby It's         You (Channel 4), and her accompanying book which reached No.1 on the       London Evening Standard non-fiction list.
She is a key contributor to the       educational program of Pampers at P&amp;G since 2002.
As Pampers' main       consultant in the field of baby development, she helped design and develop       key elements of this educational program, including written materials,       podcasts, DVDs, road shows, and exhibitions.
As a direct result of       Karmiloff- Smith's work with P&amp;G, this company is now an industrial       partner in the department's current EC- funded Marie Curie Centre grant.
During the first phase of Karmiloff-Smith's work with P&amp;G until 2009,       she wrote six booklets on key issues in child development, covering the       period from prenatal to 18 months (title pages of booklets are shown on       the left).
These were followed by three booklets for second mums.
These       booklets were sent to over 450,000 parents per year across the UK, France,       Germany, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland.
The booklet on infant sleep was       particularly successful, and was translated into Italian, Spanish, French,       Greek, Hungarian, Russian, Polish, Lithuanian, Latvian, Estonian, Danish,       Swedish, Norwegian, Arabic and Hebrew.
The popular success of these       booklets led to a follow-up DVD-based project with P&amp;G.       Karmiloff-Smith designed three DVDs with developmental information       tailored to the baby's age (from prenatal to 2 years old), which were sent       to over 250,000 parents per year across the same countries.
Since 2010, P&amp;G has distributed development-related materials via       their Pampers.com website.
Karmiloff-Smith wrote over 50 articles and       contributed to 50 monthly newsletters on multiple aspects of baby       development, including sleep, perceptual, attentional, cognitive       development, and mother-child interactions, on this website (see sources       S1-S5 for recent examples).
Most were made available globally across many       Pampers.com websites (e.g.
in Western Europe, South Africa, Philippines       etc.).
For Western Europe alone, traffic numbers (from Sept. 2011)       indicate some 840,000 visitors per month for the website.
Individual       articles are read on average about 10,000 per year in the UK alone.
About       15% of all pregnant mothers across Western Europe are registered to       Pampers' monthly electronic newsletters, and this goes up to 26% for       mothers with babies 0-36 months old.
Thus, over 2 million parents are       currently subscribing to these educational newsletters.
Another aspect of Karmiloff-Smith's work with P&amp;G is her ongoing role       as scientific advisor on Pampers communications and advertising (as       described in an official letter from the Senior Manager for External       Relations at P&amp;G; source S6).
Throughout the assessment period,       Karmiloff- Smith gave talks on child development to P&amp;G staff in their       European Headquarters in Geneva, to staff at Pampers Ireland, to the staff       at their factory and research facilities in Germany, and she was the       keynote speaker at the Pampers Sleep Seminar in London (February 2012).
She regularly provides Pampers with up-to-date advice to check the       scientific correctness of the claims made in television advertising on       sleep, motor development and brain development (e.g., Is it correct that       repetitive noise is soothing and helps babies fall asleep?
How early do       babies start to recognize individual faces?).
In 2010, Karmiloff-Smith       developed a large-scale Q&amp;A programme for P&amp;G that was sent out by       SMS to parents in developing countries.
As part of this initiative, she       was also involved in the development of hospital posters and other new       mothers' materials in South Africa.
She also advises advertising agencies       and P&amp;G officials on the child attractiveness of packaging options for       P&amp;G products.
For example, her recommendation to introduce fully       opaque and therefore less child-attractive packaging of liquid laundry       capsules has been implemented since 2012, and a study conducted in Italy       showed a 300% reduction in the accidental ingestion of these capsules by       small children.
Karmiloff-Smith's work with P&amp;G demonstrates how collaboration with a       multinational company can facilitate the effective communication of       scientific insights into child development to a wide international       audience.
According to the Senior External Relations Manager at P&amp;G, "the         millions of parents worldwide who proactively continue to subscribe to         our different parenting information are a tribute of the quality and         relevance of the content developed by Prof. Karmiloff- Smith"       (source S6).
In addition to informing her work with P&amp;G, Karmiloff-Smith's       developmental research formed the basis for a series of twelve articles on       various aspects of child development published in 2010/11 in Nursery         World (source S7) &#8212; a magazine targeting healthcare managers, early       years coordinators, child-minders and nursery school teachers with a       circulation of 16,000 and a readership of 80,000.
