     Brown has served as an independent expert on a number of public bodies.
1) The National Minimum Wage.
Brown was appointed an independent member       of the Low Pay Commission (LPC) when established in 1997 to set up the       National Minimum Wage.
He served until 2007 and the influence of his       research on the LPC continues to the present.
The first Chair of the LPC,       and temporarily the Chair for 2008-2009, testifies (T1) that Brown `played       an active part in the substantial task of defining the NMW and of       conducting and commissioning the research whereby the Commission assessed       its likely and actual impact on employment, pay and productivity.'
He       refers specifically to Refs 1, 2, and 5.
He writes that, on his return to       the LPC in 2008, `it was evident that the integrity of the initial design       of the NMW and its supporting institutions was intact.
Our confidence in       our advice to government continued to draw on the rich and constantly       renewed British empirical research to which Professor Brown's work had       made and continued to make an important contribution.
...
Professor       Brown's published research since 1993 has made a significant contribution       to the continuing success of the British National Minimum Wage since       2008.'
The present Secretary of the LPC testifies that Brown's analysis (Ref 6))       `has been a central part of the induction reading which we give to all Low       Pay Commissioners, and to all new members of the Commission's Secretariat,       and we will continue to use it in this way in the future' (T2).
In 2011,       the National Minimum Wage was judged to be `the most successful policy of       the past 30 years' in a poll of members of the Political Studies       Association conducted with the Institute for Government (W1).
2) Arbitration and mediation.
Brown has been a member of the Panel of       Arbitrators of the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (Acas)       since 1985.and the independent chair of the Fire Brigades National Joint       Council body for mediating disputes that cannot be settled at brigade       level since 1998.
The Head of Strategy of Acas, testifies (T3) to Brown's       research `having a significant impact on policy thinking and practice'.
She says, inter alia that it `has provided invaluable commentary on the       dynamics of the employment relations.
This is critical to understanding       the world in which Acas operates.'
She writes of the value of his research       on `partnership working' (Ref 3) With regard to dispute resolution, she reports that `his material is       important in underpinning the training provided to new arbitrators' (e.g.
Ref 4).
She refers to Brown's leadership with Ref 5, which Acas, as a       sponsor of WERS, `particularly welcomed'.
3) Trade union development.
In       2005, the government established the Union Modernisation Fund (UMF) to       enable trade unions to improve their administration.
A Supervisory Board       was set up to administer this at arms length from government.
Brown served       on this until the UMF was wound up in 2010.
The UMF was judged to have a       substantial effect in changing trade unions.
The Programme Manager of the       UMF, testifies (T4) that `Over the course of three funding rounds       [Brown's] extensive academic research in this field played a significant       part in the deliberations of the Board.
In particular, Prof Brown's       research on the changing role of trade unions in Britain and the       increasing individualisation of employment enabled him to provide very       useful insights into how trade unions might be supported through the UMF       to adapt to their new circumstances'.
4) Labour contracts reform and conflict resolution in China.
Brown has       been invited to China six times since their Labour Contracts Act of 2008,       partly to discuss the implications with government officials.
He returned       twice in 2010, at a time of rising industrial unrest, to address the All       China Federation of Trade Unions and government researchers on dispute       resolution procedures and on minimum wages.
He co-organised two       conferences, attended by officials, at Renmin University in 2011 and 2013       on labour reform in China.
The head of the relevant Ministry's research       institute testifies (T5) to discussions based on Ref 1, writing `this has       been helpful in helping us to advise the Chinese government on policy in       the period following the introduction of our Labour Contracts Act'.
In       2012 Brown was appointed an Honorary Professor of Renmin University and       also a consultant to the principal government research project on       collective bargaining reform.
(722 words)
