     Research at the RVC has provided global health organisations and       governments with scientific evidence urgently required to manage the       threat posed by one of the most high-profile viruses in recent history.
Policies based directly on findings from cross-continental research into       the HPAI H5N1 virus have had profound social and economic implications,       enabling more efficient allocation of limited resources for disease       control and reducing the devastating economic damage from the culling of       domestic birds.
In Southeast Asia alone, virus outbreaks have caused the       destruction of 140 million birds, equating to losses of around $10bn and       putting low-income families' livelihoods at risk.
To fill-in data gaps and promote science-based policy implementation, the       RVC's VEPH team carried out a number of studies as part of a DfID-funded       programme on Pro-Poor HPAI Risk Reduction Strategies, including risk       assessments for eight governments in Asia and Africa [a].
The       studies identified risk factors and geographic hot spots for infection;       the advantages and disadvantages of vaccination campaigns; and the       effectiveness of rest days in live bird markets.
The risk assessment       exercises facilitated the formulation of existing scientific evidence into       risk mitigation strategies.
Programme findings were presented at the final       research meeting in October 2010, held in conjunction with the Animal       Production and Health Commission for Asia and the Pacific (APHCA) in       Thailand, attended by senior policy makers from fourteen countries; key       findings were also reflected in the ten key messages arising out of the       Programme's Southeast Asia research, and presented to APHCA in November       2010 [b,c].
The VEPH team's studies were closely aligned with global disease control       policy, resulting in the rapid translation of Programme findings into risk       management strategies.
Consequently, governments have been able to tailor       control measures for high-risk areas, adapt vaccination campaigns to       minimise the risk of infection and safeguard traders' livelihoods.
Thailand, Vietnam and Africa have now modified their HPAI control       strategies, with more focused vaccination and culling campaigns.
The UNFAO       Senior Animal Production and Health Officer for Asia and the Pacific       commented: "The RVC's research [...] demonstrated how a number of         characteristics [...] contribute to disease risk in poultry systems.
[It] also contributed to the understanding of the social and economic         context within which poultry producers operate.
The RVC's risk         assessments were therefore critical in informing the Programme's ten key         messages" [d].
Recommendations to introduce market rest days as       opposed to full closure are also likely to have restricted the spread of       the H5N1 virus.
The introduction of rest days has helped secure buy-in       from local communities for disease control efforts.
(Draconian moves to       force market closures spawn black markets and the creation of favourable       conditions for the virus.)
Research activities have been complemented by major capacity building       work, with veterinary staff from over 70 countries worldwide being trained       by researchers from the RVC, utilising the underpinning research findings.
These UNFAO-supported activities were focused on improved surveillance for       HPAI in endemic and disease-free countries and improved international       coordination of national surveillance and control efforts [a].
Findings       were communicated at a UNFAO-backed workshop in Thailand in 2008, attended       by 80 participants, including government representatives from China,       Indonesia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam [e].
Pfeiffer co- edited       the book Health and Animal Agriculture in Developing Countries (Natural       Resource Management and Policy, Vol.
36) (Springer, 2011), which has been       translated into Chinese and Japanese.
The VEEPH team's work on risk assessments and surveillance has been       referenced in various poultry publications and other media       internationally, including a feature in the British Medical Journal in       2011, indicating the penetration of the research outcomes encapsulating       the One Health approach, with broad reach to relevant stakeholders,       including the human medical profession [f].
RVC research guided the formulation of guidelines issued in 2011 by       OFFLU, a network established by the World Organisation for Animal Health       (OIE) and the UNFAO, on avian influenza surveillance at country level [g].
The Chairman of OFFLU comments: "In particular, the RVC's demonstration         of the demographic, spatial and socio-economic characteristics of         poultry systems and their associated risks [...] can be evidenced in         OFFLU's guidance on targeted risk-based sampling for on-farm         surveillance."
[h]     In Europe, Pfeiffer has been a member of the European Food Safety       Authority's Panel on Animal Health and Welfare.
Risk assessments relating       to HPAI involving the RVC team have shaped guidelines contained in a       series of Scientific Opinions issued by the EFSA, such as the May 2008       Statement, in response to a European Commission request, on the animal       health and welfare aspect of avian influenza and the risk of its       introduction into the EU poultry holdings.
Guidance given in these       Statements has remained in force throughout the REF impact period [i].
VEEPH's work was also incorporated into risk management guidelines that       incorporate value chain analysis, adopted and promoted by the UNFAO, with       Rushton one of the two main authors.
[j].
In July 2012 the United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)       awarded the RVC the status of FAO Reference Centre in Veterinary       Epidemiology, a reflection of the global recognition of the RVC as a       centre of excellence in veterinary epidemiology [k].
The research findings and RVC's expertise in this field continue to       impact upon policy discussion in the UK and internationally: Pfeiffer was       invited to make a presentation on avian flu to the UK Parliamentary Labour       Party Health Group in January 2013 [l].
He was one of 30 international       experts invited to an emergency meeting held under the auspices of the       UNFAO's EMPRES (Emergency Prevention System) Animal Health team in April       2013 to address epidemiology, surveillance and risk management of H7N9 &#8212;       the newly emergent strain of avian influenza responsible for the most       recent outbreaks in China [m], which was recorded, with webcasts available       from the UNFAO website [n].
