     Our research has achieved a notable impact outside academia during the       assessment period.
The strength and diversity of this impact is evident in       the broad range of impacted variables at a national and international       level, and across overlapping spheres of economic, organisational and       health and welfare impacts.
The reach of the impacts is outlined below.
The findings from our research investigating the impact of the recession       on work-related stress and employee absenteeism have been disseminated       through a wide range of national and international media outlets including       the Daily Mail, Huffington Post, the Independent, and NHS online (6       &#8212; numbers in bold refer to evidence in Section 5).
A university spin-out company, Managing Wellbeing Ltd (www.managingwellbeing.com),       was created to develop web applications to support our organisational       strategies to improve employee wellbeing.
Working alongside the Republic       of Ireland's (ROI) Health and Safety Authority we developed a new       indicator of health and wellbeing, the 'Work Positive Profile' (1).
The `Work Positive Profile' is a refinement and development of the Work       Positive Survey.
To date, over 30 organisations have taken adopted this       survey tool, representing over 25,000 employees.
Alongside validating and psychometrically improving the ROI national       psycho-social risk audit tool we provided a clear positive impact for the       organisations involved.
This has fed into their HR strategy with regard to       enhancing social capital by providing detailed management reports       identifying ways to improve employee health and wellbeing and manage       psycho-social risk to over 30 organisations, as well as individual       employee feedback identifying opportunities to improve wellbeing to over       8,000 employees (1).
To encourage the adoption of this new indicator and to improve access to       the service we created an automated online version of the 'Work Positive       Profile' (accessible at www.workpositiveprofile.com).
A variation of this health and wellbeing audit tool has been deployed by       other organisations nationally and internationally, including NATO (1),       London Metropolitan University, and Business in the Community.
The success of our organisational wellbeing support has generated       international interest.
For example we worked with Eli Lilly, a       multi-national pharmaceutical company, in the ROI and this resulted in       them receiving global recognition at corporate level for best practice in       employee wellbeing.
Consequently, other sites across the Eli Lilly group       are actively considering adopting a similar template to that used within       ROI (3).
The significance is outlined below.
Our engagement with a range of organisations has had a significant impact       for the beneficiaries.
We have had direct influence on organisational       health and wellbeing strategies impacting on over 50,000 employees.
Some       of the prominent organisations that have participated include Danske Bank       (formally Northern Bank) (2), Northern Ireland Civil Service (4),       Police Service Northern Ireland (PSNI) (5), and University       College, Cork.
Managing Wellbeing's web tool, the 'WELL Hub', facilitates health support       and employee access to support services by clearly signposting support       services both inside and outside of the organisation.
Currently, over       45,000 employees now access health and wellbeing related information       within their organisation through one of their organisational `WELL Hubs'.
Danske Bank, the PSNI and Northern Ireland Civil Service have embraced our       strategy of creating voluntary `Wellbeing Champions' within their       workforce.
This has increased employee engagement in wellbeing throughout       the workforce (2,4,5,7,8).
Working in partnership with the Northern Ireland Civil Service we have       developed and co-authored (with Occupational Health Service personnel) the       NICS WELL Programme 2012-2014 launched in September 2012 (4,8).
This is an innovative multi-level health and wellbeing initiative that       generates a significant and sustainable increase in the engagement and       skills development across all 28,000 NICS employees.
The NICS WELL       programme is based around a central wellbeing website (WELL Hub) and a       network of voluntary WELL champions across all departments.
This approach       has helped the Northern Ireland Civil Service to break down departmental       barriers; draw together existing experiences and best practices; and share       these throughout their organisation (4).
Feedback has been       universally positive from staff, managers, HR and union representatives (4).
Engagement levels have been excellent.
Since programme launch in September       2012, there have been over 20,000 website visits, direct interaction with       over 10,000 NICS employees and over 100 voluntary WELL Champions have been       trained to deliver 140 wellbeing events driving positive sustained       behavioural change with the workforce (4).
Our advice and       supporting web tools have Improved the effectiveness of workplace       practices regarding Human Resource Management and enhanced corporate       social responsibility polices.
Our on-going engagement has resulted in organisations winning award       recognition for the first time at a local and national level (e.g.
CIPD       People Management Awards &#8212; PSNI; Orange National Business Awards &#8212; PSNI       and runner-up Danske Bank; Irish News Awards &#8212; PSNI and Danske Bank;       Business In The Community &#8212; Danske Bank) (7,9), as well as       internationally (e.g.
Outstanding Health and Safety Contributor &#8212; Eli       Lilly) (3).
The adoption of our WELL Hub and wellbeing strategies have preceded       improved health and welfare outcomes, such as increased employee       engagement and reduced absenteeism (2).
This is supported by the       recent report from CIPD on absence management that identifies the work       with the PSNI as representing best practice in this area (10).
We have also engaged directly with a wide range of national and       international organisations to conduct wellbeing-based risk assessments,       such as: Carlow County Council, Danske Bank, Eircom, Eli Lilly,       Electricity Supply Board (ESB), Dublin City Council, Dun laoghaire and       Rathdown County bCouncil, London Metropolitan University, Merck, NATO,       Northern Ireland Civil Service, Novartis, and University College Cork.
This activity has helped these organisations identify opportunities to       improve the effectiveness of workplace practices (1,3-5).
For       example, identifying wellbeing areas of most interest to staff (2,10),       and opportunities to manage psycho-social risk (1).
The evidence of impacts and indicators are outlined in Table 1.
Table 1:               Advancing HR practice through employee wellbeing strategies -               Research Impacts                             Key Research Areas           Impacts and Dates           Evidence           Impact Indicators                             Relationship             between working conditions, employee wellbeing and behaviour           Further research             understanding with findings resonating beyond academic sector             (2010-13)           Coverage within a wide             range of national and international media outlets including (6)           A range of indicators have             underpinned this research activity, including:             &#8226; The development of new wellbeing instruments (e.g.
audit tools             (1), WELL Hub) 			&#8226; Increase employee engagement (2,4)             &#8226; Reduced employee absenteeism (2)             &#8226; Organisational charters, policies             and guides (4,8)             &#8226; Award recognition for organisations we have worked with (3,7,9)                                        Improving             methods of auditing psychosocial work conditions           &#8226; Developed and validated a national             tool for conducting             psychosocial work audits (2010-13)             &#8226; Modified version used in Europe (2011-12)           Testimonials from national bodies (1) and             organisations that have deployed the audit tool             (2,5)                             Developing HR strategies             to improve employee wellbeing           Impacted on new health and wellbeing             strategies for organisations with over 50,000 employees in             Europe (2010-13)           Testimonials from organisations that have             adopted our             HR strategies (2-5)             Organisational programme guide (8)                             Developing HR tools to             improve employee             wellbeing           Developed new online tool, the, to help             organisations improve employee wellbeing.
Online tool adopted by 4 organizations representing 45,000             employees (2009-13)           Testimonials from organisations that have             adopted the WELL Hub             (2,4,5)
