     Agriculture     Artificial insemination is used principally in pig breeding, to enable       cost-effective and wider access to high genetic value gene pools, and       avoid transport of live animals with inherent risks of disease       transmission and the potential for stress and injury in transit.
The       overall value in agriculture is to improve animal productivity and       increase the food supply.
Up to 85% of swine are now bred using AI.
Improvements in efficiency, to which the RVC has contributed [a], have       resulted in lowering AI costs and expansion in its use.
Although bull sperm are readily recovered viably after freezing, and are       produced in quantity, boar sperm has not been as amenable for use in       commercial AI.
Sperm quantity per inseminate must be sufficient to ensure       maximum fecundity, (which has restricted usable `doses' per ejaculate), as       economic value is driven by number of piglets per litter contributing to       total lean tonnage.
Use of frozen/thawed sperm remains a small fraction of       the total, commercially valuable for accessing high genetic value boars       which deliver higher lean content in offspring.
The novel formulation of       cryopreservation biological media that Watson's team developed, informed       by their research into factors affecting fresh and frozen/thawed sperm       competence, have become standard in pig production using frozen/thawed       sperm.
The Knowledge Transfer Manager at the British Pig Executive (BPEX)       confirms: "The RVC's research has contributed to its [AI] expansion         within the sector, and the accompanying economic and commercial         benefits.
Watson and Behan's work on improving the sperm competency of         frozen/ thawed boar semen, through new, and now standard, biological         media formulations, has brought a number of benefits."
[b].
This,       together with the team's identification of genetic markers which indicate       the viability of boar sperm for cryopreservation and likely fresh       longevity, has addressed sub-optimal performance of frozen/thawed boar       semen, as well as helping to overcome the short period of usability for       fresh ejaculates, which formerly restricted access to the highest genetic       stock, by reasons of distance and transport logistics.
RVC's research also demonstrated that a significantly smaller sperm       sample may be used for post cervical AI - leveraging gain from high       genetic value boars - with appropriate biological media, without loss of       reproductive success [b].
The expertise of the RVC team was sought by       world leading agricultural breeding business IMV Technologies, leading to       a collaboration including field trials in pigs, using 50% of the       previously accepted industry standard of sperm numbers per insemination,       enabling twice as many inseminations per boar [5].
The new Deepgoldenpig catheter, originally developed in collaboration       with IMV Technologies for use with fresh semen, additionally facilitated       use of reduced sperm concentration to enable a wider application of       cryopreserved semen from superior boars.
Field trials for a second new       catheter, Goldengilt, demonstrated that intracervical AI of gilts as well       as sows, with small sperm doses, could be undertaken safely and simply by       stockmen with appropriate training.
IMV states that more than 30% of all       pig breeders worldwide now use the company's `gold standard' insemination       solutions [c].
The efficacy of these new catheters, as demonstrated by the       RVC's field trials research, has led to their being supplied through or       copied by many other AI technology companies internationally, including       e.g.
Schippers and Innovis [d,e].
Evidence that managing contact between boars and sows prior to breeding       can maximise breeding performance, has established SSM, in a refined form,       as standard practice internationally in commercial pig breeding operations       using AI [f].
This is also confirmed by BPEX: "... [RVC] work played a         key role in understanding the importance of the management of contact         time in providing optimal conditions for insemination ... developing         practices which have now become standard in many commercial breeding         operations."
[b].
As pig breeding has become professionalised in recent years, the value of       these developments has contributed to the expansion and economic value of       AI in commercial pig breeding.
(Around 20-30% of total global production       before the REF period, to 60-80%+ in 2013).
Human assisted reproduction     In seeking to further minimise the spread of infection, Watson's research       into the transmission of infectious agents by semen during storage in       liquid nitrogen has led to good practice guidelines for aseptic       preparation and well-sealed packaging.
The findings have been taken up in       human medical AI to minimise risk of HIV or other viruses contaminating       shared storage of semen samples [g].
The Scientific Director of the Centre       for Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Coventry, comments: "In         our clinical protocol, we use a purpose designed commercial kit that         includes a disposable spacer device that avoids the tip of the straw         coming into contact with the semen.
This spacer is discarded once the         straw is filled.
[...] The concept of keeping the semen out of contact         with the tip of the straw for hygiene purposes, as recommended in the         paper [research reference 8], [...] has been adopted into routine         clinical practice."
[h]     Conservation     The extensive studies at RVC on sperm cryopreservation have played a       central role in the global development of Genetic Resource Banks (GRBs),       now recognised as one of the most effective means by which threatened       species can be preserved and managed [i].
As the Head of the Centre for       Species Survival at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute has       commented: "...the concepts developed and the research conducted at         the RVC are contributing to the acceptance and advancement of GRBs and         cryobiology to benefit managing and conserving endangered species ...         [these tools] are rapidly becoming common to zoo breeding programs         throughout North America and Europe".
The RVC's research has       therefore enhanced the success of efforts to maintain and increase       biodiversity of small breeding populations without the costs, risks and       impracticality of live animal transportation.
Successful examples recorded       by the Smithsonian include development of protocols to produce offspring       from the AI of frozen sperm from the scimitar-horned oryx and cheetah, and       the preservation of sperm of the black-footed ferret, one of the rarest       mammals in all of North America.
The species was thought extinct before       1979, but its rediscovery and an ongoing major captive breeding programme       from 18 animals has enabled re-introduction at 19 sites in the USA, Canada       and Mexico.
Ferret offspring have been produced from sperm cryopreserved       for more than two decades [j].The wild population is still endangered, but       is estimated to have expanded since 2008 from 700 to 1,000 [k].
In conclusion, the RVC's research has helped to increase the productivity       of domestic livestock in all developed farming territories, providing real       economic value.
This programme of work has additionally contributed to       safeguarding of human health in assisted reproduction and made a critical       contribution to successful captive breeding and maintenance of genetic       biodiversity for wildlife conservation and species survival.
