     Cardiac disease is one of the most common conditions presented to the       veterinarian.
It has been estimated that up to 15% of dogs presented to a       practice may show some signs of cardiac disease and this increases to over       40% in dogs older than 7 years of age.
DMVD, which is progressive and       incurable, accounts for around 75% of all cases of canine congestive heart       failure.
A number of breeds show a predisposition &#8212; such as Cavalier King       Charles Spaniels (most animals eventually affected and high proportion at       younger age), Chihuahuas, fox terriers, Boston terriers and miniature       poodles, pinschers and schnauzers.
Dobermans and a number of other large       breeds have disproportionately high rates of dilated cardiomyopathy.
Diagnosis can be challenging: Clinical signs of cardiac disease may be       absent or indistinguishable from those of other conditions, particularly       respiratory disease.
Indications from physical examination may be       inconclusive, especially in a distressed, anxious or uncooperative patient       and thoracic radiographs difficult to interpret.
Detection of a heart       murmur is not conclusive.
Cardiac ultrasound, which usually requires       referral to a specialist, is often necessary to fully characterise the       disease.
However, a cardiac biomarker can be used in first opinion       practice as part of the diagnostic workup and guide decisions about       additional testing, the need for referral and treatment.
[text removed for publication].
The RVC team has continued to work in       partnership with Idexx to provide evidence for the clinical value of this       test and to identify ways of enhancing this.
Prior to 2008, ACE inhibitors were the primary drug class used in       treatment for canine DMVD.
The QUEST trial demonstrated compelling       evidence (91% improvement) that pimobendan in conjunction with       conventional therapy could prolong life.
Accompanying the publication of       the trial results, an editorial, by Mark Oyama of University of       Pennsylvania, commented: "I ... currently consider pimobendan the single       most important addition to the medical therapy of dogs with symptomatic       DMVD and dilated cardiomyopathy since becoming a veterinary cardiologist       more than a decade ago.
... the study by Haggstrom et al is to be       commended not only for its ambition and meticulous reporting but also for       its ultimately successful multicentered design"[d].
An American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine Consensus Statement,       which disseminates good practice via cardiology specialists in the USA and       Europe, to which RVC contributed, was rapidly issued reflecting these       findings [e].
The trial results have transformed sales of the drug (as Vetmedin) during       the REF impact period.
In its 2009 Annual Report, Boehringer Ingelheim       (BI) reported for Vetmedin, double digit growth in Europe, compared with       the previous year; year on year growth in the USA exceeding 50%; and       market leader position in the cardiovascular segment in Japan, from launch       in 2008 [f].
[text removed for publication]     The QUEST trial also showed significant improvement in quality of life.
As dogs may be euthanized when their symptoms are perceived to be       overwhelmingly debilitating, rather than dying naturally of disease, this       was a critical factor in transforming the approach to management of this       condition and, of course, represents a hugely positive outcome for       affected dogs and their owners.
Boswood's contributions to the QUEST and PROTECT trials have led to BI's       requesting his assistance in designing and leading an even larger trial &#8212;       EPIC [h] - aiming at identifying if pre- symptomatic use can delay the       onset of signs of clinical disease in DMVD.
He is principal investigator       on the study and was one of three international cardiologists involved in       writing the protocol.
The study involves 36 centres in 11 countries, is       the largest prospective veterinary cardiology study to date and has       already successfully recruited its target of 360 patients.
[text removed       for publication]     As an international opinion leader in veterinary cardiology, Boswood has       contributed to the dissemination of research findings thereby contributing       to changes in professional practice.
In addition to invited conference       presentations, including those to the British Veterinary Association       Congress (2011) [j] and international CEVA cardio symposium (2011) [k]; he       is featured in CEVA's on-line CPD `cardio-academy e-learning programme       [l].
In the twenty month period from launch in March 2011, Boswood's first       cardio-academy presentation received 2,196 visits from a total of 4,200       veterinary cardiology specialists from 8 European countries, registered on       the site [m].
