     ASF is a devastating disease with mortality approaching 100% of infected       animals.
Its introduction into some countries has resulted in the loss of       between 30 and 50% of the pig population.
There is no vaccine and no       treatment available.
It has become endemic in many infected territories       and (outside Africa) its principal impact has been economic, through loss       of status for international trade and costly control strategies to       eliminate the disease.
In Spain, this has been estimated as US$92 million       over 5 years.
The net benefit of preventing ASF introduction in the USA is       accounted to be almost US$4,500 million &#8212; nearly 5% of the value of total       pork product sales.
Defra cites the scale of concern in Europe by       comparison with classical swine fever (CSF) outbreaks: in East Anglia in       2000/2001 control costs were &#163;4.4 million and the total cost of a large       outbreak of CSF in the Netherlands in 1997 was estimated at $2.3 billion.
For these reasons, it is considered crucial to avoid ASF progressing into       and across European Union territories (infection within the EU is       currently limited to Sardinia).
The presence of ASF in relatively       near-border Russian Federation territories has caused grave concern to the       European Union.
The ASFRISK consortium project has enabled RVC, as leaders of work       package 3, to contribute to the first risk assessment for ASF virus       introduction via live pig importation for the EU [a].
The identification       of geographical areas and time periods of highest risk has helped improve       the effectiveness of surveillance programmes, as well as improved       biosecurity policies.
RVC contributed to the EFSA's ASF working group, and led the development       of a generic qualitative model underpinning this risk assessment.
This was       applied to assess risks of different routes of transmission of ASF from       the Trans Caucasus countries and Russian Federation into the EU.
The model       considered ASF remaining endemic in domestic pigs and/or in wild boars in       these territories and spreading; and the risk of it becoming endemic in EU       domestic pigs and or wild boars if introduced.
The conclusions informed       EFSA's Scientific Opinion on ASF requested by the European Commission [b       c].
The transparency of the model enabled decision-makers at the European       Commission to recognise the critical points and also the uncertainties       affecting the risk estimates, allowing improvement in mitigation measures.
The Chief of the Animal Health Service, Animal Production and Health       Division of the FAO notes: "The group contributes both through written         reports and direct contact with decision makers, including participation         in advisory committees [...] in developing a generic qualitative model         for risk assessment, they created a tool that [...] has the additional         and broader value that it can be adapted to assessment of risk of other         diseases, spread through pig, and potentially other, livestock trade.
"[d]     Following the guidance from the risk assessment, in February 2011, the       Official Journal of the European Union published a Commission Decision,       `in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee of the Food       Chain and Animal Health' relating specifically to addressing risk of ASF       transmission from Russia [e].
The issue remains under regular       consideration by the Committee, on behalf of the Commission [f].
The Commission has publicly reported its use of the ASFRISK outputs, in       control strategies for ASF, and in promoting its willingness to provide       training and help neighbouring countries to manage the problem, to the FAO       and Russia [g,h].
The presentations from the Directorate-General for       Health and Consumers (DG-SANCO) also reference the 2011 Commission       Decision and the formal EFSA Scientific Opinion.
The ASF research provides a specific example of how VEEPH under the       leadership of Pfeiffer and their holistic approach to veterinary       infectious disease problems allows rapid translation of the results of       their research into government policy and surveillance schemes.
Members of       the VEEPH team are disseminating the outputs of their research and       contributing to evidence-based policy making both through written reports       and through direct contact with decision makers: Advisory activities and       consultancies are regularly undertaken for national governmental and       international development organisations including Defra, European       Commission, European Food Safety Authority, the United Nation's Food and       Agriculture Organisation and International Livestock Research Institute.
Pfeiffer is an advisor to the European Commission's DG SANCO on       surveillance strategy.
His experience as a veterinary epidemiologist       working in animal and public health led to his appointment as Chair of the       AHVLA's independent Surveillance Advisory Group tasked to develop       recommendations for a new more effective and affordable approach to       veterinary surveillance in UK.
As Chair, Pfeiffer used his research       findings to inform the overall structure and priorities of the group.
The       group's recommendations have been accepted by Defra, and are now in the       process of being implemented under the Surveillance 2014 project, for       which Pfeiffer has been appointed to the Project Board [i].
In addition,       Pfeiffer was asked to join the Exotic Disease Subgroup of Defra's Science       Advisory Council, which acts as a policy advisory body to the Chief       Scientific Advisor and Chief Veterinary Officer regarding Defra's       preparedness to manage outbreaks of exotic diseases such as ASF.
Furthermore, the RVC is a member of the Global African Swine Fever       Alliance which promotes international knowledge exchange to fight this       disease [j].
In July 2012 the United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)       awarded the RVC the status of FAO Reference Centre in Veterinary       Epidemiology, a reflection of the global recognition of the RVC as a       centre of excellence in veterinary epidemiology [k].
It is currently one       of four such centres in the world and the only one of its kind in the UK.
It delivers impact through:            Providing advice and expertise on risk-based animal disease         surveillance to FAO and FAO member countries;       Informing FAO of changes in epidemiologic situations of animal         diseases;       Assessing risks associated with animal diseases and provide advice on         appropriate surveillance methods; and       Contributing to capacity building programmes in FAO member countries         or at a regional level.
