     When VetCell Bioscience Ltd was established in 2002, as a spin-out from       RVC, it was the first       company in the world to offer a veterinary stem cell based treatment.
RVC       granted an exclusive       licence to VetCell to the patented technology identifying Professors Roger       Smith and Allen       Goodship (with others) as inventors [a].
The company was purchased in 2010       by Quy Biosciences       Ltd, and in 2013 became a subsidiary of Westhouse Medical Ltd, [text       removed for publication] [b].
The patent is now granted or pending in UK, USA, Canada, Europe, (Austria,       Belgium,       Switzerland, Germany, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands and       Sweden), Australia and New       Zealand.
Professor Smith has been a director (1/08 - 1/11) and advisor       (1/11 - 12/12) to the       company though much of the impact assessment period.
VetCell works with a large number of independent veterinary surgeons       (including those of RVC)       who provide the clinical components of the therapy (collection of stem       cells and injection to the       injured tendon of the expanded culture).
The company, authorised by the       Veterinary Medicines       Directorate, undertakes expansion of the cells using a commercial contract       laboratory.
Substantial       international expansion of the business during 2008 was enabled through       the UK Trade and       Investment Passport to Export programme (initiated in 2007), which       recognised VetCell for       Outstanding Achievement through the Programme and in its Special Award for       BioEntrepreneurial       Company of the Year 2007 [c].
VetCell's services are now offered in the       UK, USA, Canada,       Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden and Norway,       with 1,235 horses       treated between 2008 and 2012.
Tendon injuries are a particular problem in performance horses,       especially National Hunt       racehorses, with approximately 25% incurring some tendon damage during       training.
In 2012, there       were nearly 5,000 horses in training for National Hunt racing in Great       Britain and Ireland, which       accounts for approximately 50% of jump racing worldwide.
Flat racers -       more than 9,000 in the       UK in 2012, are also at significant risk.
Stem cell treatment has advanced       equine clinical practice,       for this problem, becoming an accepted methodology internationally.
A       senior Newmarket       veterinarian comments: "A particular value is the decreased risk of         re-injury - which is consistent         with good repair of damage, rather than formation of scar tissue -         enabling successful return to         pre-injury exercise levels.
The equine veterinary profession has         followed the introduction of this         novel treatment modality with great interest; many adopting it as a         significant improvement on         more traditional treatments."
[d].
Research reference 6 was the most       downloaded paper (2,153       times) from the Equine Veterinary Journal website in 2012 [e], indicating       the interest in the value of       the technique from specialist veterinarians in this field.
Smith's published work and VetCell's success as an international market       leader in veterinary       regenerative medicine established the market opportunity for others, which       has fostered a range of       businesses using mesenchymal or adipose-derived stem cell treatments (e.g.
V-Care Biomedical       and 2F-stemcells (Germany), Equstem, Vet-Stem and Medivet America (USA),       Fat-Stem       (Belgium), Eponacell (Czech Republic), Vet Biotechnology and Regeneus       (Australia)), many of       which reference Smith's publications on their websites.
[text removed for       publication].
Over 74% of racehorses treated by VetCell have successfully returned to       racing, post treatment.
Nearly 2,000 runs have been recorded post-treatment, with over 600 wins or       placings, including       the winner of the Welsh Grand National 2010 [f].
The statistically       significant reduced re-injury rate       of horses treated with stem cell therapy is also associated with welfare       benefit: Re-injury in racing       horses is likely to lead to consideration of culling.
Hence the therapy       can extend the (healthy)       lifespan of the horse.
A further welfare benefit and impact through changed professional       practice, has been gained       through the switch to the new treatment: Although conventionally advised       treatment for equine       tendon injury has been a period of rest followed by a gradual return to       full `work', the controversial       practice of thermocautery or `firing' (the application of a red-hot firing       iron, or occasionally liquid       nitrogen to induce scar tissue,) is still used.
A professional racehorse       trainer [g], commented :       "The welfare impact of this [stem cell] therapy is to have certainly         helped reduce the amount of         firing that takes place and certainly it has helped the horses that have         been able to return to full         athletic function after treatment, by not having had to be considered         for culling."
Since 2008, VetCell has received more than &#163;250,000 in European funding       and from the       Technology Strategy Board to develop its stem cell technologies for human       application.
RVC has       been a sub-contractor or collaborator on each of the projects.
Human phase       II clinical trials for       Achilles tendinopathy have ethical approval and acceptance from the UK       Medicines and       Healthcare products Regulatory Agency based on protocols and results from       equine therapy [h].
The trials are proceeding with funding from the UK Stem Cell Foundation.
A       Consultant       Orthopaedic Surgeon at the Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital commented:       "...the approval and funding for trialling a human application, based         on a body of equine research         and clinical experience is an outcome of notable significance."
[i]       Adaptation of autologous stem cell treatment to the intra-synovial       environment, for human rotator       cuff injury is also underway at RVC with funding from the Medical Research       Council [j].
The       Nuffield Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery at the University of Oxford has       commented:       "Although the ramifications of this work on human health have yet to be         realised, the equine results         and their acceptance as a basis to advance to an intra-synovial human         treatment represent a         significant impact on human clinical medicine.
Historically, clinical         veterinary therapies - medical         and surgical &#8212; have often been derived from the development of human         treatments.
Hence it is of         particular note that Professor Smith's autologous mesenchymal stem cell         therapy for equine         injuries of the superficial digital flexor tendon has been pioneering in         this field."
[k]     In addition to the impacts on professional practice and health, stem cell       therapies have attracted       much public interest, and consequently, this work has been taken up widely       in the media.
Smith's       work has been widely cited in discussion and review articles relating to       the opportunity and       potential for, and ethics of, human treatment as well as the existing       veterinary applications, and so       contributing more generally to the public understanding of and interest in       healthcare science [l,       m,n].
