     AMR is a long-standing and escalating problem in both human and       veterinary medicine.
In addition, it is now well recognised that one may       impact upon the other.
For example, cross-resistance to fluoroquinolones       used in human treatment may be caused by veterinary use of a drug of the       same class.
Fluoroquinolones have applications as easy-to-use first or       second-line therapeutics for intractable systemic infections, with major       herd health implications in food-producing animals.
Consequently, it is       important economically and from an animal welfare perspective to maintain       their efficacy through prudent use and dosage optimisation.
In 2008, 2       tonnes of fluoroquinolones were used in food production animals in the UK,       from a total of 384 tonnes of therapeutic AMDs.
Following a rise in human fluoroquinolone-resistant Campylobacter       infections in the USA, possibly associated with consumption of poultry, in       2005 the FDA withdrew approval for use of enrofloxacin in poultry.
This       was a seminal event:- the first time an animal drug had been removed from       sale because of potentially associated emergence of resistance in humans.
It led to subsequent drug evaluation using a system that focused on       probability of AMR emergence and, specifically, the probability of that       resistance transferring to human infectious disease therapy &#8212; particularly       for drugs such as fluoroquinolones &#8212; that are essential for treatment of       life threatening infections in both humans and animals.
In Europe,       regulatory authorities have taken a similar approach [a].
Through his published research and direct advocacy, Lees has contributed       substantially to these changes in veterinary drug registration practice:       both the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) now emphasise the       importance of PK/PD modelling to establish doses that eradicate the       bacterial infection as well as providing a clinical cure.
The 2006-2010 Antimicrobial Strategy of the EMA Committee for Medicinal       Products in Veterinary Use (CVMP) noted "... possibilities to further use       PK-PD modelling in the establishment of best dose and dosing regimen" [b].
Their Strategy on AMDs for 2011 &#8212; 2015 focuses strongly on the importance       of measures to minimise risks from AMR.
However, in reviewing the previous       strategy document it notes that PK-PD modelling had only been addressed at       a product level, rather than being adopted in revised general guidance       [c].
The revised Guideline has now been produced, which states where PK/PD       relationships are well established "... it may be possible to omit       dose-determination studies" and run clinical trials testing one or a very       few regimens [d].
Consequently, Lees's work and advocacy has also made a       contribution to animal welfare through a reduction in experimental animal       use.
Lees has been instrumental in providing guidance and ensuring       implementation of this integrated PK/PD approach.
The Office for New       Animal Drug Evaluation at the Center for Veterinary Medicine, US Food and       Drug Administration acknowledges this [e]: "Dr Lees has served as a source       of invaluable contributions to the body of knowledge impacting the       development and use of veterinary pharmaceuticals.
From an informational       perspective, the community of veterinary clinical pharmacology experts       have a far greater understanding of pharmacokinetics (PK), interspecies       differences, and exposure-response relationships (PK/PD) through his       published works."
The Head of Veterinary Medicines and Product Data       Management at the EMA also recognises this contribution [f]: "Recognising       that the production of scientific papers alone is often insufficient in       itself to change regulatory practice, Professor Lees has been a vocal       advocate for the integration into regulatory guidance of the principles       supported by his research."
This has included delivery of invited seminars       to assist in up-skilling members of regulatory bodies and policy makers.
These presentations have focussed on both improving understanding of the       application of PK/PD modelling to optimise dosage selection for avoiding       AMR, and on effective drug registration policies to minimise AMR in       production animal and human medicine.
Lees presented to the CVMP's annual       symposium in 2005 and 2008.
In 2011, he delivered a series of similar       presentations for members of Defra and the Veterinary Medicines       Directorate (VMD).
Through his position as a Council member of the Royal       College of Veterinary Surgeons, Lees has contributed to the formal       `Technical Engagement' for the next UK five year Antimicrobial Resistance       (AMR) strategy and action plan, which the Department of Health has been       developing in collaboration with Defra [g].
Lees's PK/PD integration/modelling approach has been disseminated, and       its uptake by industry advanced, through conventional publication and       conference presentations, including invited plenary lectures at major       conferences for the scientific, regulatory and veterinary communities,       such as the European Association for Veterinary Pharmacology and       Toxicology Congresses, 2009 and 2012.
He has been a member of all       organising committees of: the bi-annual International Congresses on       Antimicrobial Agents in Veterinary Medicine since 2002 and the tri-annual       European Association for Veterinary Pharmacology Congresses since 1988.
The move towards assessment of drug approvals based on AMR risk alongside       clinical benefit has, of course, been mirrored by changes in industry       research and development, to assemble data that meet the regulators'       requirements.
Lees has undertaken much of his work in collaboration with       animal health companies, demonstrating selection of optimised treatment       regimens through PK/PD modelling.
To gain and preserve their market       approvals, animal health companies are keen to show that, prudently used       at an appropriate dose rates, their drugs will minimise AMR risk.
For safe       and practical field application they need to balance selection of higher       dosages to ensure bacterial eradication against possible host toxicity and       economic viability, with regard to the cost of the treatment [h].
[text removed for publication]
