     Two categories of evidence demonstrate that EPRG research has exercised       an impact beyond academia: demand by non-academic users (and in particular       their willingness to incur costs to secure access to research); and direct       testimony, as documented in a 2012 ESRC-commissioned impact evaluation       report by CAG Consultants (source 8).
Demand by non-Academic Users     The main conduit for the EPRG's research is the Energy Policy Forum which       is funded by annual subscriptions from a number of corporations.
Users       beyond academia both from the public and private sector have been anxious       to participate in EPRG via a programme of conferences, seminars, dinner       discussion groups, on-site briefings, working papers, newsletters, online       updates, advisorships, and secondments.
Each year, the EPRG has held two       domestic and one international conference to disseminate research,       attended by 70-100 separate stakeholders from industry and government.
The       need to cap attendance at 100 indicated the existence of excess demand.
Numerous non-academic users subscribed to EPRG working papers, newsletters       and updates, such DECC, Ofgem and the Prime Ministers' Office.
Ofgem       demonstrated demand for EPRG research by inviting EPRG staff to act as       Advisors, including David Newbery, Steven Littlechild and Michael Pollitt       during the 2008-2013 period.
The Department for Energy and Climate Change,       `impressed with previous "prophetic" EPRG research on electricity market       design' requested and obtained an academic secondee, Christian Winzer,       from EPRG to work on a technical update paper on Electricity Market Reform       (5/11-3/12) (p. 22, source 8).
As a result of Newbery's prominence through       EPRG's conferences and publications in assessing market reform he was       recruited as the Deputy Independent Member of the Irish Single Electricity       Market Committee (Nov 2012) and a Technical Expert in DECC's Electricity       Market Reform Delivery Plan Panel (Feb 2013).
Non-academic end users incur costs in order to learn about EPRG research,       indicating their expectation that it would positively affect their       activities.
Public-sector users incurring such costs included the UK House       of Commons, the Japanese Diet, the Department of Energy and Climate       Change, the Treasury, 4 regulators including Ofgem.
7 NGOs, 5 Industry       bodies and 6 firms.
The costs incurred included pecuniary expenses, the       opportunity cost of time, and &#8212; for key stakeholders &#8212; annual subscription       fees for membership in EPRG's Electricity Policy Forum.
Firms were willing       to pay &#163;20,000 per annum and government agencies &#163;3000 for membership.
As another example of impact arising from this research, Ofgem invited       Newbery to the TAR stakeholder meeting on 5 Nov 2007 where he presented       the case for an enduring LMP-based access regime.
The Government overruled       this idea and chose "connect and manage" to which Ofgem responded by       commissioning Newbery to write a report on transmission charging, which       was published in 2011 (source 1 and 2).
Similarly, the European       Commission's Directorate-General for Energy, concerned at the slow pace of       integrating national electricity markets and cross-border transmission,       commissioned Newbery and Strbac to write a report on transmission, which       was published in 2011 (source 4) to adjudicate between proposals for       Physical and Financial Transmission Rights, drawing on earlier work of       Gilbert et al (2004) (source 5).
Direct testimony     On Transmission Pricing:     An impact evaluation report by CAG Consultants (2012) concludes       uncompromisingly that governmental and industrial users regarded EPRG       research as exercising an impact on their decisions.
The EPRG `were seen       as a primary source of advice and knowledge on energy economics and       markets, especially by the Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC)       and Ofgem' (source 8).
On Electricity Market Reform;     EPRG has played an influential role as a sounding board for the       Electricity Market Reform process and face-to-face briefings with DECC       (2010-2013) in Cambridge and London led to a number of policy impacts' (p.       4, source 8).
DECC described EPRG as `the premier group in electricity       markets' (and David Newbery as a key player)' (p. 16, source 8).
DECC       stated that a number of suggestions made by EPRG `are now being proposed       for legislation'.
(p. 16, source 8).
Newbery's work also `created interest       from Australia and the EPRG study is cited in the new Australian approach'       (p. 16, source 8).
An EU policy-maker stated, `we have followed what       [EPRG] are doing, downloaded papers, and been inspired by documents' (p.       19, source 8).
Industrial users credited EPRG with `moving the debate from       a rhetorical one to a more quantitative approach, where facts and figures       are being brought to bear.
They moved the policy debate forward on issues       such as carbon capture and storage, distribution networks, energy market       reform, ... cost of renewable policy, security of supply, ... and how       commercial projects ... should be taken forward and regulated.
This       greater understanding has had an impact at EU level which then is passed       down to industry.'
(p. 4, source 8).
One industry stakeholder commented:       `We value them [as being different to consultants] because of their       independence and ability to free think and take a rounded look' (p. 35,       source 8).
The House of Commons acknowledged the contribution of Newbery       on Electricity Market Reform as special advisor in HC (2011) Electricity       Market Reform, HC 742, 16 May, Vol 1 (sources 6 and 7).
