     The communication of complex scientific issues surrounding controversial       technologies has long been identified as of key importance in the public       debate over their acceptance and regulation.
Major concerns over science       communication of GM and nuclear waste disposal were the key drivers of the       influential House of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee year       2000 report on Science and Society which led to the establishment of the       Science Media Centre (SMC).
Smith's media work with the SMC, and direct       public engagement activities on nuclear issues, have made an outstanding       contribution to the scientific community's public response to the       Fukushima accident and to public understanding of nuclear and radiation       risk issues in general.
This case study is set within the context of Smith's long record of       commitment to public engagement activities on nuclear issues.
Since 2008,       he has given eight talks to practising (for Institute of Physics, IoP) and       trainee physics teachers (total audience ca.
300), numerous lectures to       schoolchildren (total audience ca.
700) including a prestigious IoP       "Physics in Perspective" lecture.
Lectures to general audiences (totalling       ca.
750) have included five well-attended Cafe Scientifiques.
Until 2012,       he was on the organizing committee of the Institute of Physics (IoP)       Teachers' Update Course3.
In the immediate aftermath of the three explosions (12-15 March 2011) at       Fukushima, there was an urgent need by the international news media for       independent expert opinion on the accident's significance and its       consequences to people and the environment.
The statement by the EU       Commissioner for Energy that "There is talk of apocalypse... practically       everything is out of control" was widely reported.
This, together with       Germany and Italy's rapid renouncement of nuclear power, contributed to an       atmosphere of panic surrounding nuclear issues in Europe as well as Asia.
During the weeks after Fukushima, Smith made a key contribution to the       developing scientific understanding of the likely consequences of the       accident and to the worldwide dissemination of that understanding.
This       made a real difference to news agencies' coverage of the event, as       evidenced by letters from Reuters4 and the BBC5.
Through dozens of media interviews reaching a global audience of many tens       of millions7, his knowledge of the environmental mobility of       radioactivity allowed accurate prediction of the likely impacts of marine       and terrestrial contamination, in particular the need for an extended area       of long term evacuation (e.g.
Smith, J.T.
Nature article6;       online 05/04/11).
Importantly, his comments placed the likely health risks       from radiation in their proper context.
A partial analysis of Smith's Fukushima coverage7 identified       40 outlets including The Sun, Financial Times and BBC Six and Ten O'clock       News.
It is likely that coverage in total ran to hundreds of media       outlets; for example, coverage by Radio 4's PM, USA Today and New Zealand       national public radio was not picked up by the clippings analysis.
A       highly successful live online Q&amp;A session on Fukushima with Smith, run       by Nature (06/04/11) received more than 5000 hits8 and an       edited version appeared in Scientific American magazine.
As a key expert       for the SMC1, Smith was one of four scientists in a press       briefing (29/03/11) to 11 national science journalists including Reuters,       The Guardian and the Today programme.
This generated considerable science-       based press coverage on the environmental contamination, and, perhaps more       importantly, communicated the negligible health risks of plutonium       detected near the reactor, and of Fukushima radionuclides detected in the       UK and Europe.
Averting unfounded scare stories on radiation is as       important an impact as the generation of science-based coverage, as       emphasised by Fox1,9:     "The main event for the SMC in 2011 was the nuclear crisis at Fukushima       [it] was the only story in town and headlines about "another Chernobyl"       and "nuclear apocalypse" screamed out from front pages... [our] scientists       offered a considered assessment of complex and terrifying events.
Because       of their efforts, alarmist headlines were at least partially balanced by       the kind of accurate, evidence-based science we desperately need in times       of media frenzy."
The research by the submitting unit clearly helped underpin the many       interviews given by Smith.
The need for permanent evacuation and       assessment of health consequences needs an understanding of the       environmental mobility of radiocaesium and the evaluation of dose.
Prognosis of direct impacts on ecosystems is dependent on work on       radiation effects on organisms to which Smith has made an important       contribution.
These research papers (5,6 above) themselves have generated       media coverage (despite being good news stories), including New Scientist,       BBC Radio Scotland and EURONEWS (broadcast worldwide).
Public engagement activities are "of vital importance to an informed       public and political debate on the costs and benefits of nuclear power and       radioactive waste disposal"1.
Smith's contribution in this area       has "helped elevate and inform the debate"2 on the risks and       consequences of nuclear power.
