     Drama as an effective educational tool tends to go unrecognised in       cultures where engagement       with performing arts is seen as unusual, privileged and elitist &#8212; the       preserve of an exceptional gift.
By focusing on everyday performativity, it is possible to facilitate       teaching and learning by       encouraging action, reflection, analysis and re-action.
This has proved       particularly valuable and       popular in the transition from reliance on `chalk and talk' methods       prevalent in immediate post-       Ceausescu Romanian schools, to a more dialogic approach.
Victoria       Hlenschi, current Vice       President of EDAR, notes that "the benefits of drama in an educational       system still marred by the       traditional methods of the communist legacy were immediately obvious.
As a       participant since the       very beginning of this national project I have felt its positive impact       both personally and       professionally, which has naturally reflected in my teaching and my       students' performances".
Harrop and Loudon have disseminated a theoretically informed model of       practice developed in a       range of cultural settings which has led to the foundation of the       Educational Drama Association of       Romania which now has a membership of approximately 150 teachers, spread       across the country.
The organisation exists for `promoting drama in education both as an       elective and as an extra-       curricular activity... to develop...critical thinking'.
The organisation       held its inaugural conference at       the University of Resita in 2007 and is now an independent, sustainable       and locally governed       organisation whose aim is being achieved in schools across Romania.
In       addition to working with       150 Romanian teachers, Loudon, her students and the department's graduate       student company       have visited teachers in more than 50 schools across the country, and some       four thousand pupils       have taken part in workshops.
Their work has impacted on teaching and       learning methods in       Romanian high schools.
This has attracted the attention of the Romanian       Ministry of Education and       the Romanian media; the work has been reported in three television news       interviews (reaching       some 60,000 viewers in total), and in two articles in regional newspapers       (reaching some 8000       readers in total).
Harrop and Loudon delivered joint summer schools in Romania in 2001       (Calimanesti), 2002       (Novadari) and 2003 (Brasov).
The first of these, in Calimanesti, led       directly to the establishment of       the Educational Drama Association of Romania.
The second (Novadari) won       the European Union       award for best language project.
The third attracted teachers from       Estonia, Macedonia, Russia,       Slovakia and Slovenia.
In 2004, the British Council devoted, for the first       time, an international       Hornby Summer School to Educational Drama and located it in Mercuria Ciuc,       Romania, inviting       Harrop to undertake the role of Director.
In 2005, Loudon was invited to       speak at a joint conference       of the Romanian Association of Teachers of English and the Romanian       Association of Teacher       Educators at the University of Cluj.
In 2007, EDAR organised its inaugural       independent conference       with the Romanian School Inspectorate and University of Resita.
Loudon was       invited to give the       opening address and conduct a workshop for the participants.
In 2008, Loudon was asked to address officials of the University of       Resita and participants in a       non-UK Erasmus arrangement to give an overview of the University of       Chester/EDAR project.
Meanwhile, "the association [EDAR] managed to create a network of teachers       of English ready to       implement and sustain educational drama in Romania".
[Hlenschi, V. EDAR       Vice President, 2013.]
From 2004 to 2009 Loudon travelled with groups of Drama students from the       University of Chester       to conduct drama workshops jointly with EDAR members in Romanian schools,       offering supported       experience in the drama classroom.
Loudon's work mentoring a University of       Chester graduate       applied theatre company, 2engage, allowed her to step back from       direct involvement and pass the       mantle of the work to the company, who were then supported by the       increased resource and       organisational capacity of EDAR.
From 2009 onward the company (with the       active support of the       department) has continued to work with teachers and pupils in Romanian       schools with further       planned visits for 2014.
The project has reached more than 50 schools       across the country, and       some four thousand pupils have taken part in workshops.
This work has       attracted attention from       the Romanian Ministry of Education and media, including television news       reports and interviews,       both regional and national.
In less than a decade (from 2004 to 2013) the project has moved from a       British Council supported       initiative to a sustainable national project.
As the Vice President of       EDAR put it this year, "Drama       helps both teachers and students develop their communication, problem       solving and social skills,       their emotional intelligence, creativity, cooperation and collaboration,       self-esteem and self-       confidence."
[Hlenschi, V. EDAR Pice President, 2013.].
The work of Harrop       and Loudon has       played a crucial, determining role in bringing this valuable approach to       Drama to the Romanian       education system.
