     Professional law enforcement training and practice has been influenced         by Cognitive Load research       The reach of our innovative Cognitive Load (CL) techniques is global.
Since 2003, Vrij has delivered over 50 training sessions on using the       cognitive load approach to police (Belgium, Canada, Italy, Norway, South       Korea, The Netherlands, US, UK), intelligence services (Australia, Israel,       Singapore, UK, US), judges (New Zealand, US), legal professionals (The       Netherlands, UK, US), bankers (UK), psychiatrists (Italy, UK), social       workers (Denmark, Finland, South Korea, The Netherlands, UK) and insurance       agencies (The Netherlands, UK).
Since 2010, Vrij has worked with the US Federal Law Enforcement Training       Center (FLETC) to incorporate the cognitive load approach into the       training of law enforcement personnel.
FLETC is a Congressionally-mandated       organisation responsible for providing initial and advanced training to       all 91 US Federal law enforcement agencies and trains almost 70,000 law       enforcement personnel per year.
Vrij's CL technique has been included in       the FLETC Introduction to Criminal Investigation Training Program (January       2013), the Advanced Interviewing for Law Enforcement Investigators       Training Program (June 2012) and the basic interviewing course for       criminal investigators (January 2013) [1].
The Singapore Police Force's entire training in lie detection is based       upon Vrij's work, which they find highly applicable in practical contexts.
They have used CL lie detection techniques successfully in several high       profile and sensitive cases, and share their lie detection knowledge with       Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei.
[2].
In Canada, The Edmonton Police Service and other police forces in Alberta       (e.g., Calgary Police Service) have included Vrij's CL lie detection       techniques in their interview and interrogation training programs.
To date       600 officers have been trained in CL lie detection and the approach is       considered to be a valuable addition to an investigator's toolkit, used on       a regular basis [3].
Intelligence training and practice has been influenced by Cognitive         Load research       Since 2006, UK and US intelligence agencies have funded research across 11       projects into the Cognitive Load lie detection approach, to the value of       &#163;1,447,474 (Grants 3, 6, 8-15, section 3).
Vrij's CL lie detection       techniques have been adopted and are in use by intelligence organisations       worldwide including in the UK, US, Australia, Israel and Singapore.
Adopters include the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure       (CPNI, Defence, UK), which provides advice to a range of organisations       responsible for the national security infrastructure.
According to the       CPNI they "have found the research useful in advising a number of       organisations on interviewing strategies across a range of security       contexts, and has received positive feedback on the usefulness of the       research findings and their practical application to investigative and       security interviewing" [6].
US intelligence end-users include the High Value Detainee Interrogation       Group (HIG) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
The HIG/FBI have       agreed that, on request, confidential information can be provided on the       impact of Vrij's work regarding HIG/FBI highly sensitive operational       activities.
[7].
For security reasons, intelligence services cannot reveal       their sensitive activities.
However, the significance of the CL lie       detection approach to these US and UK end users is demonstrated by the       sustained funding for this research.
A business has adopted the Cognitive Load lie detection techniques       CL lie detection techniques (adopted since 2009) are an important aspect       of training delivered by New Intelligence, an Australian company that       delivers interview training to Australian police, and other public sector       organisations including Australian Tax Office, Australian Customs and       Border Protection Service, Australian Defence Force, Commonwealth       Department of Immigration and Citizenship, and Commonwealth Department of       Infrastructure.
New Intelligence delivers CL lie detection training to       more than 1200 trainees per year.
The CL techniques are used frequently in       the field and provide distinct advantage to investigators [4].
A new service has been commercialised as a result of applying         Cognitive Load research       The Innovation Group PLC (IG) is an international organisation that inter         alia provides commercial services to insurance companies.
Their       activities include conducting telephone interviews with potential       claimants on behalf of motor insurance companies.
Since 2010, Vrij and       Leal have worked with IG to implement the CL lie detection approach into       their processes and commercial services, in order to assess the veracity       of insurance claims during telephone interviews with claimants.
As a       result of employing a CL lie detection based interview protocol the       percentage of claimants who decide to drop their claim after being       interviewed by IG has risen to 65-72% (compared to an industry average       30%).
This gives IG the competitive advantage of a unique product in their       marketplace [5].
