     The MSC is a collaborative project with Marwell Wildlife (the charity       managing Marwell Zoo) who are committed to the educational and scientific       outcomes of the project [1] and advertise the project via their website       [6].
Marwell Zoo receives approximately 500000 visits per annum, of which       approximately 36000 visit the MSC.
Visitors are from a broad cross-section       of socio-economic backgrounds and ages (approximately 10% under 21yrs old       [7]) many coming from groups difficult to engage in science communication       through other means.
Visitors can watch the scientists working with the       macaques through a viewing window, and engage with information materials       surrounding the MSC (developed with Marwell education team).
The materials       explain specific research findings plus background information.
For       example, there is an interactive facial expression sign that invites       visitors to guess the `meaning' of each facial expression (relating       directly to our comparative facial expression research).
The Marwell       education team integrate the research into their educational workshops       through interactive tasks based on our experiments with the macaques [2].
Public understanding and engagement has improved as a result of our         research.
We assessed visitor knowledge and attitudes and visitor       behaviour systematically.
We compared visitors on days when the scientist       was present, with visitors on days when the scientist was not present, and       also compared those who read the signs with those who did not.
First,       visitors perceived greater learning when the scientist was present,       suggesting that the presence of the scientist affected how much people       felt they could (and did) learn from the experience.
Second, visitors       exhibited more positive attitudes to science and conservation when the       scientist was present, suggesting that the scientist facilitated       attitudinal change.
Finally, the visitors were tested on their       understanding of our specific research findings relating to facial       expression (present on the signs).
Those visitors who had read the signs       exhibited greater knowledge and understanding than those who had not.
These are the first quantitative data to demonstrate actual, tangible       learning from a zoo-housed research focussed exhibit, and have since been       published in a high impact peer reviewed journal [3].
The research has had a specific educational impact on children.
We       conducted a focus group with local college teachers, conducted       quantitative surveys with parents/guardians at Marwell Zoo and conducted       an online survey with teachers taking school groups to Marwell Zoo between       January and August 2013.
Over 80% of respondents reported that the MSC       supported student learning at school and teachers rated `watching the       scientist' as the most educational activity at the MSC [8].
The potential       for further public engagement at this specific site has also been       recognised by the British Psychological Society, who awarded &#163;19,340 to       Bridget Waller (and Katie Slocombe at the University of York) as part of       their public engagement grant scheme (see grant 3).
Interactive       touchscreen games have been developed and installed at the MSC and       Edinburgh Zoo Budongo Trail chimpanzee enclosure based on the research       conducted at the two sites [9].
Overall, 24% of visitors (and 44% of       11-21yr olds) use the touchscreens.
Thus, since installation in March       2013, we estimate 96,000 visitors have used the games in Edinburgh Zoo,       and 60,000 in Marwell Zoo.
Visitors who engage with the games perceive       science as significantly more interesting than a control group, and       demonstrate increased knowledge about research findings explained in the       games [10].
As young people play on the games significantly more often       than adults, the games have the greatest impact within this age group.
Animal welfare has been enhanced by our research.
The testing       process has a beneficial effect on the macaques by decreasing aggression       and increasing positive social behaviours [data published in a scientific       article: 4].
As the macaques voluntarily separate from the social group       when they use the touchscreens, this emulates wild patterns of behaviour       where the group members have brief episodes of separation followed by       reunion.
Practitioners have used our research findings.
Within the zoo       community the Macaque Study Centre has attracted considerable interest.
Micheletta was invited to talk at the British and Irish Institute of Zoos       and Aquaria (BIAZA) Mammal Taxon Working Group (October 2012) to introduce       touchscreen training primates in a zoo environment.
Dr. Antje Engelhardt       (German Primate Centre, Germany) is building a similar facility at       Darmstadt Zoo (Germany) modelled on the MSC (after visiting our facility       and seeing the benefits for public engagement, animal welfare and       scientific productivity [5]), and the Owl and Monkey Haven (Isle of Wight)       are working with us to develop a similar facility with two new species of       macaque.
