     The seating design research has had significant impact across a number of       areas including market and business expansion and development; sales; user       benefits; design for manufacture and corporate identity.
Market and business expansion     Licensing the designs has proved to be a major spur to developing new       products and markets for the licensee.
This includes a measurable effect       on jobs and profitability, not only for the principal manufacturer, but       also subcontractors.
Licensee of the Opus designs, Amadeus (www.amadeus-equipment.co.uk),       based in Battle, Sussex, has grown from a sole trader to a business employing       five people.
It subcontracts to build the frames for the chairs, thus       safeguarding further jobs and turnover.
In the case of the SE chair licensee, Hille (www.hille.co.uk),       it was purchased from the administrators in 2009 by the injection moulding       company that had developed the plastic components of the chair.
The new       company brought together the expertise of both resulting in significant       synergies, reducing the time to market, providing scales of economy and       decreasing manufacturing costs.
Relocating to Ebbw Vale, Gwent, South       Wales, the company now employs 64 people in an area of high unemployment.
[Ref 1]     Licensing and the development of the AIS range is proving to be a       catalyst for the development of hf Contract Furniture (www.hfcontracts.com).
It will be the first home-grown design for the company, resulting in a new       approach to the care home marketplace as well as opening different       markets, such as those in China.
[Ref 2]     Sales 	[text removed for publication]     User and organisational benefits     For individual users the postural and ergonomic features contribute to       wellbeing.
For the organisation the visual language enhances the       appearance, appropriateness and context of its environment.
For example,       still in use in the Symphony Hall, Birmingham, the Opus seating has       provided user benefits in terms of players being able to rehearse for       longer as well as a contemporary design that complements its surroundings.
(http://birminghamtoolkit.com/case-studies/visitor-economy/cbso 	  shows the current CBSO conductor,       Andris Nelsons, talking about the orchestra with Opus seating in the       background.)
"I am firmly of the opinion that Opus chairs are the market leader for       orchestral musicians."
[Ref 4]     "The Opus Chair is, in my opinion, just fantastic.
It provides excellent       support and comfort for me as a 'cellist and is always my first choice of       chair...." [Ref 5]     The sleek appearance of the SE chair has proved to be very popular with       the new academies.
It too has provided user benefits with children sitting       still for longer and improving their concentration.
[Ref 6, Ref 7]     Modular design     In the case of the SE seating, by producing the chair in two moulded       parts (instead of the more common single component), the number of moulds       required to produce the six sizes of the BS EN 1729 standard is three.
Clearly, six different moulds would be required for a single component       version.
The moulds are also smaller.
Added together, this results in a       substantial reduction in tooling costs and the level of pre-production       investment required.
Corporate identity     The final area of impact is that of the seating designs and values being       used to reinvigorate the whole of a firm's design led ethos.
Again this is       particularly evident in Hille, as evidenced by its website www.hille.co.uk,       as well as its liveried delivery vans that feature the SE chair.
