     The application of re-emergent craftsmanship knowledge blended with       digital technology to reconstruct and de-construct artefacts has allowed       the detailed analysis of their original manufacture, form and materials.
This in turn has enabled the re-manufacture of artefacts, to enable public       exhibition and handling of objects by the general public.
These impact       benefits have resulted in the uptake of the techniques by practitioners,       curators and conservationists in the jewellery and heritage sectors.
Most       significantly, the technology and associated protocols developed enable       the museum sector to respond in new ways to the conflicting and complex       balancing act of conservation, dissemination and access; digital       technologies present novel solutions in bridging these demands.
The       deployment of these digital techniques has provided a conduit between the       past and the present, allowing greater engagement for professionals and       museum visitors with the artefacts and uncovering insights that would not       have been possible previously.
The application of the technology in these       novel ways extends beyond current curatorial practice, facilitating       changes in working practices that reach across a range of jewellery and       heritage domains.
This can be evidenced by the increasing reach of this       interaction, first on a regional scale and now on a national scale, as       seen below:     Black Country Living Museum, West Midlands (2008)     In one of the earliest projects with the heritage industry, the       techniques described above were adapted to reproduce of a series of       historical insignia from the Dudley Borough Police and Postal Service for       use in period museum costumes.
The original steel stamping tools had been       lost and to remake them would have been prohibitively expensive;       therefore, working from the few remaining artefacts, held by The West       Midlands Police Museum, replica insignia (buttons, rosettes, collar and       helmet badges, helmet fittings and spikes, and belt buckles) were created.
There is both qualitative and quantitative evidence for the impact of the       research.
In the period 2008-10 the museum received on average 300,000       visitors per year; and, most importantly, the replica artefacts formed a       significant dimension of the visitor experience: "The visitor experience       was enhanced and enriched by these authentic costume characters.
The       museum attracts a great number of visitors who pay great attention to       detail as they are reliving their past experiences and memories"       [Operations Manager, Black Country Museum, see corroborating statement 4].
Thus the application of JIIC processes presented a unique solution in       recreating previously lost historical artefacts to address the integrity       of these period costumes and enrich the experience of visitors to the       museum.
Birmingham Museum Trust (BMT) (2009, 2011, 2013 and current)     2009 saw the initiation of a relationship of JIIC with the BMT that has       continued to develop over the last few years in a number of different       engagements.
2009 was the 200th anniversary of Matthew Boulton's death;       Birmingham City Council promoted a year long festival celebrating his       life, work and legacy.
Boulton was a leading industrialist and were he       manufacturing today he would undoubtedly have embraced new digital       technologies.
Curators at Birmingham Museum &amp; Art Gallery were keen       that Boulton's pioneering ethos of manufacture should continue in their       exhibition - Mathew Boulton: Selling what the world desires, Gas       Hall 30th May - 27th Sept 2009.
BMT commissioned a       set of replica candlesticks utilising the techniques described above       whilst retaining the original design by Matthew Boulton.
These replicas       formed an educational handling exhibit for the exhibition and were seen by       32,700 visitors [see corroborating statement 3].
Copies were also made for       a range of limited edition collectors' items.
These were available to       purchase through the museum.
This led on to further projects with the BMT,       for example:            `A gift fit for the Pope' Cooper (2011) - an unfolded replica of the         large ceremonial cross recently unearthed as part of the Staffordshire         Hoard and presented to Pope Benedict from Birmingham City Council and         the people of Birmingham during his visit in Sept 2010.
An identical replica of the unfolded cross has been seen by over         600,000 visitors at BMAG.
Current planning for the Staffordshire Hoard Galleries to open (2014).
This research is allowing curators to radically rethink how they can         exhibit, engage and disseminate their collections.
BMT's new         Staffordshire Hoard Galleries are in development with plans in place to         include replicas from the Hoard.
JIIC has been commissioned to produce         two replica items and negotiations for further work are taking place         [see corroborating statement 3].
The Deputy Director of BMT has noted: "The impact of these       initial studies has been significant...the manufacture of the replica       items has created a focus for exploring practical and ethical frameworks       for the interpretative display of the artefacts.
For a collection in heavy       demand, yet with complex display challenges, this is a significant benefit       to the owning partners" [see corroborating statement 2].
Museum of London (2010-13)     It is just over 100 years since the Cheapside Hoard (predominantly       Elizabethan and Jacobean jewellery) was discovered.
With the current       exhibition `London's Lost Jewels: The Mystery of the Cheapside Hoard' a       Senior Curator at the Museum of London took the opportunity to review       research on the Hoard.
With many of the objects damaged or completely       missing aspects of their design, our craftsmanship analysis offered       possible clues to suggest how they may have looked.
Virtual reconstruction       sequenced the manufacture of the artefacts as they are now (damaged and       missing elements) which in some cases presented a skeleton of precious       metal; this was augmented to suggest how they would have looked 400 years       ago, fresh from the workshop complete with pearls, enamels and stones.
This collection is predominantly jewellery and as such was designed in       relation to the body.
To engage with the artefacts as originally intended,       they should be worn and handled, not an activity usually associated with a       museum visit.
3D metal printed objects produced from CAD and combined with       traditional craftsmanship provided enhanced replicas, revealing for the       first time how these objects would have looked.
This research has directly       affected how some of the exhibits will be displayed and how visitors can       respond to the collection; for some exhibits the policy will be please       touch!
If a visitor is able to interact directly with a replica, hold it       and turn it over, assess its weight and wear it, that becomes a       significant learning experience and a valuable memory associated with that       visit.
This collaborative project is the subject of a BBC4 3D Short film       produced in 2011 [see corroborating statement 1] and, in anticipation of       the Museum of London's major exhibition in October 2013, has also featured       extensively in a number of different media publications, e.g.
New         Daily Telegraph, Australia, Fox News, New York Times,         New Scientist, North Korea Times.
A Senior Curator at the       Museum of London has commented on the significant effect that this       research has had "The results have prompted us to reappraise the work of       the Elizabethan and early Stuart jeweller, and have added immeasurably to       our understanding of contemporary craft skills, innovation and       manufacturing techniques which enable us to start answering the question       of how these artefacts were made 400 years ago" [see corroborating       statement 1].
Our work has also featured elsewhere in the heritage sector,       such as:     National Museums Liverpool (2008)     A replica Anglo Saxon brooch has been part of their permanent collection       and available for visitors to examine and handle at the Weston Discovery       Centre, World Museum.
Virtual Fossils (June 2012)     Our novel application of this technology was also seen in our       collaboration with University of Birmingham for their `Virtual Fossils'       event as part of their Annual Community Day in June 2012.
Rapid prototypes       of the fossils were produced which enhanced the experience of visitors, as       noted in some of the visitor feedback.
