     In his 2007 book Thomas revealed for the first time the extent to which       the Police National Computer (PNC) which holds the national collection of       criminal records was being accessed by non-police organisations (Thomas       2007).
The PNC had traditionally held criminal records for the police and       the courts and no one else.
The police had, however, in conditions of some       secrecy, been quietly allowing other organisations to have direct and       continuing access to the PNC.
Thomas was able to demonstrate that some 38       non-police organisations (and possibly more) had been allowed to have       access by the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) little known       sub- committee known as the Police Information Access Panel (PIAP).
This spreading use of criminal records beyond the police and the courts       had taken place purely on the basis of police decisions and with no       democratic oversight.
There was even a policy called `Phoenix Links' to       spread the practice; `Phoenix' was the name of the PNC application that       held records.
When the House of Lords Select Committee on the Constitution       in 2008 began its investigation Surveillance: Citizens and the State       Thomas brought the work of the PIAP to the attention of the Committee.
His       Memorandum on the subject was re-produced in the Committees final report       (House of Lords 2009:437-438).
The Coalition government in May 2010 announced its intention to review       the whole of the criminal record regime and the use of criminal records       for employment screening.
An independent advisor (Sunita Mason) had       oversight of these reviews which reported in two phases in February and       December 2011 (Home Office 2011 a and b).
Thomas was invited to the Home Office to take part in Phase 2.
He spent       two hours at the Home Office in London on 15th December 2011 discussing       all aspects of the criminal record regime with staff of the Public       Protection Information Team.
He also provided them with a written paper       (`Response to the Home Office on their Criminal Records Review' (15       December 2010) (15pp) (his contribution was acknowledged in the second       phase report (Home Office 2011b: p69)).
Following this visit he was       invited to further discussions at a visit to the ACPO Criminal Record       Office (ACRO) in Hampshire (1 September 2011).
The significance of PIAP and the PNC access to non-police organisations       was noted in the Sunita Mason's final report:     "I believe further consideration could be given to [PIAP] membership,       which needs to be sufficiently broad to reflect legitimate interests       across government and the importance to the public at large of who has       access to criminal records data..."     This complex landscape needs to be rationalised so that there is a clear       national perspective on who has access to criminal records and for what       purposes.
In my view, access should never be granted for purely commercial       reasons and such requests should be automatically barred.
(ibid: p35)     and recommendation 7 of the report said that:     (i) Access to criminal records via the Police National Computer should       only be granted where it is necessary for public protection or criminal       justice purposes.
(ii) All such access should be agreed by the Police Information Access       Panel (PIAP), based on appropriate business cases and supply agreements.
(iii) All existing supply arrangements should be reviewed within the next       12 months to check they conform to the standards set by PIAP (ibid)     and the secrecy of the decision making was held to be not in the public       interest:     The handling of criminal records is a legitimate matter of public       concern.
Any citizen should have straightforward access to clear       information about what these records consist of, how they are handled and       how they might impinge on their lives.
This is as much an issue for       victims of crime as for those who commit them (ibid p41).
The Sex Offender Register     Thomas made an impact on policy re.
the sex offender register by       assisting solicitors and lawyers in a case at the UK Supreme Court against       the Home Office.
He was approached by Pete Weatherby of the law firm Irwin       Mitchell who had taken up the case of two people who challenged the sex       offender laws that said life-time registration could never be appealed       against.
Thomas provided them with background material that enabled them       to win the case (including telephone advice during the Supreme Court       hearing) and which required the government to introduce new laws to       maintain compatibility with the European Convention on Human Rights (R on       the application of F and Angus Aubrey Thompson (Respondents) v. Secretary       of State for the Home Department (Appellant) [2010] UKSC 17).
The resulting new laws were in the form of a Statutory Instrument called       the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (Remedial) Order 2012 no 1883 which amended       the Sexual Offences Act 2003 by introducing new sections 91A-F.
In future       all life-time registrants would have a right of appeal and some 43 (of 91       applicants) have now been taken off the register (see Daily Mail 6 May       2013 using the Freedom of Information Act       http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2320483/Child-rapists-       taken-Sex-Offenders-Register-secret--police-say-protect-human-rights.html       &#8212; accessed 19 July 2013; see also Thomas 2009, Thomas and Thompson 2012).
