     Professor Frost was appointed as the Independent Chair of Bradford       Safeguarding Children Board, for a four year period commencing in 2010.
See: http://www.bradford-scb.org.uk/about_us.htm     This is a leadership position involving working with senior managers of       children's services - including health, social care, criminal justice and       education.
The work involves taking complex decisions about the management       of situations where children have died or experienced serious incidents.
The appointment arose directly from research presentations and       dissemination relating to multi-disciplinary work.
The chairing role       delivers an income stream for the University.
The contract with Bradford       finishes 30th January, 2014.
The local authority area was       subject to an Ofsted inspection during 2012 during which the partnership       working (which included the Safeguarding Board) was found to be excellent.
See http://www.bradford.gov.uk/NR/rdonlyres/C911EC1C-0CDE-4540-9D10-         8A2AE5BA766D/0/BradfordCouncilSafeguardingandlookedafterchildrenOfstedinspection2012.pdf     Professor Frost has recently been appointed to the equivalent role in       North Yorkshire, commencing 1st September, 2013.
His research       activity was mentioned by the organisation as an underlying reason for his       appointment.
The Chief Executive of North Yorkshire issues the following       statement to staff following the appointment:     `I am very pleased to announce that Professor Nick Frost has been offered       and accepted the role of Independent Chair of North Yorkshire Safeguarding       Children Board.
The selection process involved strong partner       representation from the Board's Executive and they were unanimous in their       recommendation.
Nick has a long and distinguished career in safeguarding       and wider children's services.
He has published widely particularly on       multiagency partnership working and brings a positive collaborative style       to build on the work of our previous chair'.
See: http://www.safeguardingchildren.co.uk/     The Chairing of Safeguarding Boards has a direct impact on policy and       practice with children and young people.
The work includes monitoring       service delivery, enhancing multi-disciplinary work and addressing any       inter-professional conflicts that arise between professional and/or       organisations.
Professor Frost also Chairs a West Yorkshire wide group (2012-present)       addressing the complex issue of child sexual exploitation together with       the police.
Professor Frost has utilised his research findings to       influence the delivery of services around Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE).
In Bradford services have developed, under the influence of Professor       Frost, to develop a multi-disciplinary, `co-located' hub, which has       significantly enhanced the delivery of services.
This has led directly to       an increased number of arrests of suspected perpetrators and significantly       improved services for children and young people.
At a meeting held in July       2013, with the Chief Constable of West Yorkshire and the Police and Crime       Commissioner, Professor Frost was praised for his leadership in the field       of challenging the sexual exploitation of young people.
Professor Frost was appointed an Associate for the organisation Research       in Practice in 2010, which aims to ensure that research findings have an       impact.
He has developed a training pack on multi-professional work for       dissemination within local authorities.
He has worked directly with a       number of multi-disciplinary teams to help them plan their work and       service delivery.
This has a direct impact on the way that services are       configured, designed and delivered.
He has also acted as a research advisor to the Republic of Ireland       government (2008-09) on multi- disciplinary working.
This led to the       publication of a number of reports which have directly influenced Irish       policy and practice through promoting good practice with children and       families.
See you tube http://www.caab.ie/Events/Event-Videos-Main/Events-Videos.aspx?videoID=13     Professor Frost has close links with a wide-range of statutory       organisations (including the Department for Education, and a number of       local authorities) and voluntary organisations (including Home-Start,       Action for Children, CLIC Sergeant, Barnardo's and the NSPCC) for which he       contributes to conferences, `away days' and service planning.
All these       events help to shape practice and policy.
Professor Frost is regularly invited to give keynote addresses on topics       relating to multi-disciplinary work with children - during the last two       years over 20 such addresses at international (Denmark and Eire), national       and regional conferences.
These are largely practitioner-based conferences       attended by senior managers, policy makers and practitioners in the field.
As a result of these inputs Professor Frost is often asked to run       workshops, away days and related events with managers and practitioners.
Professor Frost has contributed two chapters to the forthcoming Open       University book that underpins programmes relating to multi-disciplinary       work with children and young people.
This book makes a contribution to       influencing and shaping the workforce of the future.
