     The developed quantitative instrument is suitable, among other things,       for use in: (i) township, county and community primary hospitals for use       in birth defect screening of the large-scale population; and (ii)       grass-roots hospitals, the emergency rooms of large hospitals, and by       patients' families to conduct the rapid detection and efficacy tracking of       Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI).
The importance of each of the two       application areas &#8212; screening for birth defects and for detection and       tracking of AMI &#8212; will now be presented, before the overall impacts of the       Brunel research in terms of cost and savings are summarised.
Birth defects screening (see corroborating source [S1]):       There are about 26,600 Down's syndrome children born in China every year,       resulting in an added social burden of up to 6.5 billion RMB, and       tremendous mental anguish for, as well as economic pressure on, many       families.
Neural tube defect is the most common congenital malformation in       China, and it is the most frequently occurring birth defect.
There are       about 8 to 10 million children born in China with neural tube defects each       year, accounting for 1/3 to 1/4 of the world's children with neural tube       defects, and representing the highest country-based incidence in the       world.
The economic burden in China per year of neural tube defects is up       to 200 million RMB arising from associated birth qualities that threaten       the mental and physical health of affected children and their mothers.
The       social burden is, however, much higher (estimated at 6.5 billion RMB).
As       such, this is a serious public health issue.
Rapid, early prediction and       diagnosis of neural tube birth defects across a wide range of populations       will greatly reduce the incidence of birth defects and also have great       significance for the social and economic benefits.
The impact of the       research has been to improve the speed and accuracy of diagnosis in the       hospitals across the five Chinese provinces where the medical device which       uses the algorithms has been adopted, reducing the economic and       alleviating the social burden to parents, families and the provinces       involved.
Cardiovascular disease screening (see corroborating source       [S1]): Currently, about 17 million people die of cardiovascular disease       each year, of which more than half die of AMI.
In the past few years, the       incidence of AMI has significantly increased and more than 1 million       people now die of AMI and its complications each year.
However, about 1/3       of patients pass away outside hospital since they have not had the       opportunity for timely diagnosis.
Thus, early diagnosis and correct       handling can not only reduce incidences of mortality, but also play a       vital role in the future of rehabilitation.
According to relevant       statistics, two out of three patients have prodromal symptoms a week       before the onset of AMI.
In these cases, most patients can avoid death by       using affordable, convenient and accurate pre-screening offered by simple,       cheap, reliable and easily-accessible medical devices instead of the       sophisticated and expensive instruments available in hospitals (which are       usually accessible only by appointment).
The device developed as a result of the research reported in this impact       case offers an improved method to carry out the prediction of birth         defects and AMI via the Brunel team's innovative image       processing algorithms.
The usage of the device is simple, rapid and       inexpensive, which is appropriate for developing countries such as China.
Most similar products available in the market are very much related to       qualitative and semi-quantitative results, requiring expert interpretation       which can be costly and error-prone.
The product developed as a result of       this research, however, takes the lead in achieving rapid quantitative       testing by the improvement of the strip and instrument.
Taking into       account the high occurrence of AMI as well as China's existing types of       hospitals and clinics, even if just 1% of the hospitals in China adopt the       product, the impact will continue to grow and be significant.
The impact       is reflected in the product being approved for sale by the Chinese health       authorities and adopted by five Chinese hospitals outside the trial sites,       representing penetration into 14% of China's administrative areas.
Before being approved by the Chinese state and adopted by hospitals, we       conducted four clinical trials on 448 patients in Fujian Province Hospital       and Fuzhou General Hospital in China in 2012 (see corroborating sources       [S2,S3]).
All trials demonstrated that there was no significant difference       between our devices and currently commonly used instruments (e.g.,       ASCCESS-type automated chemiluminescence analyzer of Beckman Coulter,       Inc.).
As a result of the trials, the product has been commercialised and       is currently used in the following county hospitals in China:            Tingzhou Hospital, Changting County, Fujian Province.
Mashan County People's Hospital, Guangxi Province.
Jinxiang County People's Hospital, Shandong Province.
Linquan County People's Hospital, Anhui Province.
Tanghe County People's Hospital, Henan Province.
Conservative estimates are that there are approximately 1000 patients for       each hospital per year currently using the device.
Based on the current       costs for using the traditional instruments and our developed devices, a       patient should be able to save at least 100 RMB (approximately &#163;10) per       test with improved test accuracy of 9% on previous tests and with faster       turnaround times for test results.
