     A key member of Labour Left since it was established, Clack was       identified by the founder of Labour Left as providing intellectual support       for an ethical socialist vision.
He asked her to contribute an essay on       ethical socialism for The Red Book, published in November 2011 as       an e-book and then as a paperback in January 2012.
The book has generated       a significant amount of attention: the e-book has been downloaded just       under 30,000 times, while around 300 copies of the paperback have been       sold.
The ideas contained within it have been debated on Labour Party       websites and Labour activist blogs.
Through its websites, Twitter and       Facebook, Clack's essay has prompted discussion about the future direction       of Labour Party policy.
Charting a shift in political paradigms is rarely straightforward and       rarely lineal.
The extent to which the ideas put forward by Clack in The         Red Book in November 2011 are shaping Labour discourse and policy       can be tracked by paralleling parts of it with Ed Miliband's leader's       speech to conference a year later in October 2012:     a) Clack: "In order to develop an ethical socialism, the vision       of the individual at the heart of the neo-liberal account must be       challenged, and this means considering once again the relationship between       self and society.
According to Aristotle, humans are `social animals' not       isolated units...Wellbeing, according to the New Economics Foundation, is       to be found not just in the achievement of personal goals, but in a sense       of oneself as socially grounded, part of a wider community.
To focus on       `the individual' is to ignore the fact that we are human precisely because       we find our fulfilment in our relationships with each other.
We need each       other."
(p. 15).
Compared with Miliband: "One Nation: a country where everyone has       a stake.
One Nation: a country where prosperity is fairly shared.
One       Nation: where we have a shared destiny, a sense of shared endeavour and a       common life that we lead together."
And similarly, "with so many people       having been told for so long that the only way to get on is to be on your       own, in it for yourself, we just can't succeed as a country."
b) Clack: "A society recognising the value of all its parts would       look rather different from ours.
Pay differentials between the top and the       bottom are shockingly out of proportion.
These economic inequalities       suggest a society that has failed to think about what makes for society in       the first place; such failings must be addressed" (p. 18).
Compared with Miliband: "With the gap between rich and poor       growing wider and wider, we just can't succeed as a country.
With millions       of people feeling that hard work and effort are not rewarded, we just       can't succeed as a country."
And "I will never accept an economy where the       gap between rich and poor just grows wider and wider.
In One Nation, in my       faith, inequality matters."
c) Clack: "Consider New Labour's promotion of `aspiration.
'...The       problem with such an ideal is that it targets the aspiration of `gifted'       individuals without thinking about the kind of society that enables all to       flourish.
Considering the way in which aspiration has been connected to       education exposes the paucity of this vision...What is desperately needed       is an holistic vision of society where the contribution of all its parts       is recognised and treated with dignity and respect."
Compared with Miliband: "You see for a long time our party has       been focused on getting 50% of young people into university.
I believe       that was right.
But now it's time to put our focus on the forgotten 50%       who do not go to university."
d) Clack: "a society that values all and that understands the       importance of strong communities as supportive places for individual       flourishing" (p.19).
Compared with Miliband: "a country for all, with everyone playing       their part".
The relevance of ethical socialism for framing contemporary left politics       was first discussed at a Labour Party fringe event at the national       conference held in Liverpool in 2012.
Clack spoke on a panel that included       the Chair of Labour Left and Labour MP for Easington.
From this event came       a collaborative writing partnership with the Vice-Chair of Labour Left and       Clack now blogs regularly for the Huffington Post UK Labour site.
She has       also written for the main Labour blog, Labour List, exploring the theme of       kindness as a political virtue.
As Chair of the Oxfordshire group of Labour Left, Clack organised and       spoke at a Red Book discussion on Ethical Socialism at Ruskin College       Oxford in February 2012.
This attracted a large audience drawn from the       local party, the local Labour Women's Group, as well as members from       further afield.
A follow up event took place in May 2013 when she       discussed with the political commentator Bill Keegan the legacy of Gordon       Brown and the lessons Labour policy makers might learn after the financial       crisis.
The renewal of interest in issues of ethics and the need to discuss more       explicitly the values that underpin political decision-making led to a       further invitation to speak at a fringe event at the 2013 Labour Party       conference fringe on Ethics in Public Life.
Having been elected as a       Labour and Co-operative Party councillor in Oxford in May 2012, Clack       spoke as a philosopher who is also a local politician.
This debate on       ethics took the form of Clack debating, with the MP for West Bromwich       East, the impact of the Leveson Enquiry.
The points highlighted by Clack       focussed on the challenge it poses to the last 30 years of neo-liberal       consumerist values and the importance of moving towards policies that       enshrine a more communitarian form of society.
