     Lawson has made a sustained and effective contribution to economic and       cultural aspects of the music business.
He remains unusual in pursuing and       influencing an agenda across theory and practice that enhances an       understanding of performance at the highest level.
His own playing       activity focuses upon new ways of communicating with audiences and on new       ways of training musicians.
In particular, he has influenced creative       practice by his practical investigations into the relationship of       musicians, repertory and audiences.
He connects with a wide public not       only through recordings, broadcasts and publications, but through       interaction with institutions such as the Association of British       Orchestras, Conservatoires UK Research Forum (as chair), individual       orchestras, museums and cultural and community venues.
He achieves a broad       educational impact through ABRSM publications and inclusion on HEI reading       lists worldwide.
He consistently reaches an international audience not       only through performances and recordings but through his contributions to       the International Symposia on Performance Science (Auckland 2009,       Toronto 2011, Vienna 2013) which, as the proceedings indicate, include       many professional practitioners in their delegate lists.
While most       innovations in performance practice have been largely driven from outside       academe, Lawson has been in a distinctive position to articulate the       realities of the marketplace and their relationship with scholarship and       research.
For example, his article `"Attractively packaged but unripe       fruit": The UK's commercialization of musical history in the 1980s' was       published in the peer-reviewed Performance Practice Review (2008,       vol.13).
This journal aims to bridge the gap between theory and practice       and has a wide reach across the executant community, especially in the       USA.
Lawson's research publications may be found on the syllabus of music       courses in various parts of the world.
His work reaches important markets       through the ABRSM Performer's Guide to the Classical Period (sales       c10,000) and through his ABRSM editions of Grades 5-7 Clarinet Pieces       (initial domestic and international sales of over 6,000 from their June       2013 publication to 31 July [S1]).
His Cambridge books (including The         Cambridge History of Musical Performance) continue to appear on the       reading lists of UK universities including Manchester [S2], St Andrews and       Goldsmiths and are recommended as essential reading for LRSM and FRSM       candidates.
Internationally they are used by Singapore Examinations Board       and the Universities of Indiana, Tasmania, New South Wales, Melbourne,       Rioja (in a 2005 Spanish translation) and Mexico.
They are also       represented on the select reading list of the website Early Music         America.
The Cambridge Companion to the Clarinet (ed.
Lawson) appeared in a Chinese edition in 2010.
The Lef&#232;vre discs (2007, 2011) have circulated in the UK, America,       Canada, Japan, France, Germany, Belgium and Italy on the Naxos       distribution network, attracting global acclaim [S3].
International         Record Review (December 2011) emphasised their didactic value as       follows: the Lef&#232;vre Sonatas "still frequently feature in syllabus lists       (Nos.
3 and 5 are currently Grade V and VI pieces in the ABRSM       syllabus).... Lawson, well-known as a period instrumentalist, brings these       academic works to artistic life with subtle use of ornamentation and       sensitive variation in dynamics which are omitted from Lef&#232;vre's original       scores.
This disc...is invaluable to pupils studying these works.
Their       pedagogical nature is reinforced by the welcome initiative that scores can       be downloaded from the...website."
The American journal Fanfare       wrote of "impressive technical command" and "superb clarinetistry".
The         Gramophone wrote of Lawson's Mozart disc: "an interpretation of       distinction...a recreative process that spreads beyond the printed page."
The Cambridge History of Musical Performance (2012) has been widely       reviewed, in The Wall Street Journal, Early Music Today       and BBC Music Magazine, inter alia.
It was described in Early         Music as "a magisterial survey that will surely remain a standard       reference work for a generation" [S4] and praised by The New York         Review of Books as having invested a genre largely associated with       specialized scholarship with "the reliability of a trusted friend."
Its       international impact is enhanced by belonging to a prestigious Cambridge       series, with consequent global reach and influence.
Lawson's research leadership as RCM Chair of Historical Performance has       repositioned the College work across theory and practice; his influence       has achieved wider reach, impact and significance for the RCM's historical       resources.
The Museum of Music has been reconfigured, with radically       enhanced opening hours.
Incorporating special exhibitions related to the       RCM performance programme, it offers tours for schools and for higher       education institutions, general tours and discovery sessions.
From 2008 to       June 2013, it has hosted over 18,000 visitors from over 70 countries, and       between the 2008/09 and 2011/12 academic years saw annual visitor numbers       increase by nearly 50%.
The RCM's 1692 bass viol by Barak Norman was lent       to The National Gallery's Vermeer and Music: The Art of Love and         Leisure (2013).
The National Museums of Scotland's Mary Queen of         Scots exhibition displayed the guitar (c1650) attributed to Rene       Voboam.
Closely associated with the Museum's unique collection of viols,       the RCM's International Festival of Viols has since 2007 promoted       a series of concerts, masterclasses and lectures, as well as exhibitions       of instruments and bows; these promoted understanding and appreciation of       a little known period.
Twenty-two events were hosted between 2008 and       2013, with a combined 1500 in attendance.
The RCM Library's external       profile has been developed by publication in 2005 of a series of 30       postcards portraying major autograph holdings, as well as facsimiles of       Elgar's Cello Concerto and works by Parry, Howells and Beethoven.
The       Library loaned its Mozart K491 autograph to the Albertina in Vienna for an       exhibition in 2006.
The facsimiles have found an international readership       among the RCM's partners, and Parry's Jerusalem was distributed at       the 2009 BBC Proms launch.
A further scholarly BBC connection was the       publication of The Proms: A New History (Thames &amp; Hudson,       2007), co-edited by David Wright.
Among specific projects during Lawson's tenure, The Listening Gallery       (2008-10) was an AHRC knowledge transfer collaboration between the RCM and       the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum [G1].
Stemming from research in music,       art and design, the project connected objects in the V&amp;A's collections       with 50 new downloadable recordings of period music that share their rich       and distinctive pasts.
A summative evaluation of the Medieval and       Renaissance Galleries from 2011 showed that a high percentage of users       engage with the audio-points, a strong indication that they are valued by       visitors [S5].
The project also made significant contributions towards       enriching curatorial knowledge of objects in the collection, establishing       a model for use internationally.
In another distinctive project, Ashley Solomon (RCM professor from 1994,       Head of Historical Performance from 2006) has investigated and recorded       the 10,000 manuscripts amassed by the Jesuit missions in Bolivia in the       100 years after 1670, blending European baroque and local culture and       powerfully illustrating the fusion of two rich civilizations.
Florilegium,       RCM Ensemble in Association, has performed this music in over 30 concerts       in the Bolivian jungle, at the Wigmore Hall, the RCM and internationally,       to a combined audience of more than 18,500 [S6].
The Arakaendar Bolivia       Choir of native singers was founded in 2005, sponsored by the Prince Claus       fund.
Three discs were recorded in Amsterdam and Bolivia.
A Guardian       reviewer wrote "the Arakaendars have developed in little over five years       into one of the most remarkable choirs in the world" [S7].
The Association       Pro Art y Culture awarded Solomon the Hans Roth Prize (2008) in       recognition of his assistance to the indigenous people [S8], and the       Florilegium `Bolivian' London concert and other UK performances raised       &#163;10,000 to buy instruments for children in Bolivia [S9].
