     Obstructive airways diseases are of major clinical and economic       importance and include chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) that       affects 10% of the world's population and cystic fibrosis (CF), the most       common lethal genetically inherited disease affecting Caucasian       populations.
There is an urgent unmet medical need for drugs to target       mucus obstruction of the airways in diseases such as CF and COPD, where       mucus obstruction restricts airflow, promotes infection and inflammation,       and limits the delivery of other inhaled drugs with potential to cure or       treat the underlying airway disease.
Additionally, obstruction of the       airway that occurs in Intensive Care settings and diseases of muscle       weakness, such as motor neurone disease, present similar clinical       problems.
In these conditions, removal of obstructing secretions is vital       to improve the delivery of inhaled drugs to treat the underlying disease.
Prior to 2001, Prof Shute was investigating the anti-inflammatory effects       of heparin in sputum from patients with CF.
At the time she was working       closely with the CF consultants at Southampton General Hospital (SGH),       which is the CF Centre for the Wessex region, covering a population of       ~2.8m in Hampshire, Dorset, South Wiltshire, Jersey and the Isle of Wight.
Her observation that heparin also had mucolytic effects was of immediate       significance to the CF (Dr Mary Carroll) and COPD (Dr Peter Hockey)       consultants, since it was known that chronic mucus hypersecretion and       airway obstruction are significantly associated with an excessive decline       in lung function and an increased risk of hospitalization.
Further, there       was a significant unmet clinical need for new therapies to increase mucus       clearance from the airways in both CF and COPD patients.
These findings       led, in 2002, to the filing of three patents around the use of inhaled       heparin (evidence #6), of which one has been granted, and the spin-out of       Ockham Biotech Ltd (evidence #1) to facilitate the commercialisation of       the IP.
Commercial impact is evidenced by the commercial investment for the       projects described.
Ockham Biotech Ltd who have invested more than       &#163;200,000 in the project to protect the patents (evidence #1) and the       Italian pharmaceutical company Zambon S.p.A who have an option agreement       with Ockham and invested &#8364;70,000 to support the project (evidence #2).
As       a result of this research, the CF-specialist Pharmacist at SGH routinely       prescribes inhaled heparin for off-label use (evidence #3) and Dr Hockey       prescribes it for his COPD patients (evidence #4).
Outcomes for these       patient groups have improved and no adverse events are reported.
The reach       of this new approach has extended to Portsmouth Hospitals (evidence #5)       where it is used in the intensive care setting, and further afield       (evidence #3).
Patients report an improvement in their symptoms and       improved clearance of congested airways, which is an important outcome for       patients, especially those with CF (evidence #8).
Intravenous drugs are generally nebulised for delivery to the airway to       increase local concentration and drug efficacy and to reduce systemic       side-effects when compared to IV treatment.
Laboratory data showed that       the anti-coagulant activity of heparin is neutralised by basic proteins in       sputum, thus providing a convincing explanation for the surprisingly good       safety data seen in the trial.
Thus the multiple pharmacological       properties of inhaled heparin ensure local mucolytic and anti-       inflammatory effects in the right tissue compartment, with no evidence of       systemic side effects.
Using the recommended device (see below) ensures       effective delivery and decreases wastage of drugs, resulting in       significant savings to the NHS.
Our results have shown that heparin is not delivered efficiently, if at       all, from the new generation of Pari eFlow Rapid&#174; nebuliser, although it       can be delivered successfully from the Pari-LC Plus nebuliser.
As a result       of our research, IV preparations of heparin are now routinely prescribed       for off-licence use by jet nebulisation in patients with CF and COPD in       the Wessex region.
In addition it is instilled through endotracheal tubes       to assist mucus clearance, for example in patients with motor neurone       disease in the intensive care unit at SGH.
Dr Shute's pioneering studies helped to overcome the reluctance of       respiratory physicians to prescribe inhaled heparin and led to a       subsequent far-reaching Phase II clinical trial of inhaled heparin in a       dry powder form in CF, which was sponsored by Vectura PLC and conducted in       the UK, Ireland, Poland, Australia and Italy in 2008-2010 (evidence #9).
Inhaled heparin was reported to be safe and well tolerated, compliance was       high, anti-inflammatory activity was demonstrated and sputum was easier to       clear from the airways.
Impact Summary: This case study reports impact on health and       welfare through the development of a new intervention to improve outcome       for patient groups, as well as impact on commerce through creation of a       spin-out business that has attracted international investment.
