     Three funded projects have been undertaken for the Children's Workforce       Development Council       (CWDC) with outcomes feeding through reports, regional conferences and       high-level meetings,       into policy on workforce reform [corroborating source A].
This informing       of public policy contributes       to improved public services in a rapidly expanding arena and parallels       similar international trends.
Research and dissemination on playful learning has seen increasing impact       through practitioner       publications [B] and (to date) eight keynote presentations at practitioner       conferences, regular       meetings with senior policy officers charged with re-configuring the       curriculum for young learners       and has fuelled the now high profile national debates on play and learning       in the early years.
As a       long-time Chair of the key national professional early years' organisation       (TACTYC) Broadhead       convened a high status research colloquium at Leeds Met in 2008 and       presented summaries from       this with colleagues to MPs and policy makers in the House of Commons       (HoC) and to the Select       Committee on Children and Families [C].
Documents from HoC presentation       were referenced in a       major review of the primary curriculum undertaken by Sir Jim Rose and       advocating for playful       learning in primary education.
Recognition of expertise in the broader       area of children's workforce       development and integration of services has attracted two internationally       renowned Visiting       Professors (Peter Moss; Angela Anning).
Their regional seminars held under       the auspices of the       Centre for Research into Childhood (now incorporated into the Centre for       Social and Education       Research across the Life course) and the Carnegie Research Institute have       been well-attended by       policy makers, workforce staff, University staff and students, creating a       forum for information       exchange at all levels of influence.
Brock has also been a member of the TACTYC executive and involved in the       aforementioned       colloquium, the evaluation of early years policy and the development of       national conferences.
Research models of professional practice developed in this research are       widely drawn on and two       handbooks of professional practice have been published, the first on       interdisciplinary work [D] and       a forthcoming one concerned with reflective practice.
This research       directly informs practice in the       field, as evidenced by a keynote at a professional symposium organised by       Kirklees Local       Authority and attended by 70 Early Years Professionals [E].
This led to       the commissioning of an       evaluation of the social impact of the National Year of Reading in two       local authorities in Yorkshire       and Lincolnshire.
As the keynote speaker at the Staffordshire early years       conference in June       2010, Brock presented research on early language development, story and       bilingualism to 100       early years practitioners.
Research into social change and childhood (Moss, 2007- ongoing)       challenges social assumptions       about children and young people lacking motivation, being disengaged or       apathetic.
The focus is       on the ways they engage with wider social change and the research explores       the form of their       political engagement.
This research has raised public awareness,       redressing the distorted       portrayal of young people in relation to the 2011 riots and drawing       attention to the cuts in services       to young people.
This impact was through a contribution to BBC Radio 4       programme `Thinking       Allowed', chaired by Professor Laurie Taylor [F], a programme which       introduces the wider public to       aspects of sociological research.
Following this Moss was invited to       contribute to Sociology       Review, the magazine that enhances pedagogy related to A' level sociology       [G].
The magazine is a       teaching and learning resource for teachers and pupils following the       curricula and is disseminated       internationally.
The research into autism and especially the development of a "minimal       speech approach" (Potter       and Whittaker, 2001) has introduced an innovative and widely referenced       approach in working with       children with severe autism.
It has Influenced professional guidelines at       national level in the UK,       being cited in government guidance on best practice approaches to       education in the area [H].
Further afield, this work is cited in the international reference work       "The Encyclopaedia of Autism"       (Volkmar, 2013) which reviews research findings globally to define best       practice in the field [I].
The       research on father inclusion (Potter, 2004-ongoing) has impacted on skill       enhancement in       workforce development through changes in training delivered by leaders in       the field of father       inclusion work.
Specifically, the main charity commissioning the research,       Fathers Plus, developed       a work-based learning element to their training and a range of training       materials focusing on the       key skills needed by those in the field of male engagement, as identified       in the research [J].
