     Cerebral palsy (Van der Linden):     The original work with FES (NMES) conducted in children with CP by van       der Linden has been identified as having an important influence in the       clinical treatment of this group.
Jan Herman, Senior Physiotherapist at       the Anderson Gait Analysis Lab at the Astley Anslie Hospital, is willing       to provide a testimonial indicating that the study by van der Linden et al       (2008) on the effects of FES in children with Cerebral Palsy has directly       influenced their clinical practice to such an extent that they now       routinely consider prescribing FES as an alternative to an ankle foot       orthosis (AFO), especially in the older child.
Mixed-methods FES Stroke Research Work (Bulley et al):     A dedicated FES service has a positive impact on functional ability and       quality of life after stroke.
Following this research-led service review,       a Lothian-based clinic assessing twenty four patients per annum has now       been established.
The key beneficiaries of this impact were, in priority       order:     1) The group of stroke patients with dropped foot who were observed in       this research study to significantly improve their walking capability and,       potentially their capacity for sustained independent living;     2) Subsequent groups of potential service recipients, who because of the       research were able to continue accessing the service at its original level       of access (24, instead of the reduction to 12, patients fitted with FES       per year;     3) the Local NHS clinicians who as a result of the qualitative research       and clinical practice reflection were able to utilise their expertise more       effectively and in a more integrated fashion;     4) The local NHS Service provider who as a consequence of this research       was able to offer a clinical service that better met the needs of the       users.
FES units were initially funded by the Stroke Managed Clinical Network,       then NHS Lothian agreed to fund 24 units a year.
When the new, more       expensive, PACE units were introduced this number was reduced to 12       because of increased cost.
However, as a result of good practice in the       clinic, as described in the article written by Shiels et al (2011),       follow-up and refurbishment of old FES units (ODFS) meant that 24 patients       per year could still be fitted.
The qualitative studies of the patient and carer views (Wilkie et al       2012), alongside a service evaluation, were particularly useful as these       provided evidence supporting the continuation of the service.
At a time       when the cost of equipment is continuously reviewed, the findings of this       research allowed a case to be made to support the continuation of the       provision of FES to stroke patients in NHS Lothian.
The equipment is now       funded through the Neurological Out-patient Physiotherapy Service at       Astley Ainslie Hospital, Edinburgh.
FES and Multiple Sclerosis (van der Linden, Mercer et al)     Although there is evidence to support the use of FES for people with       stroke, there has been little research into its potential for people with       MS.
Moreover, previous investigations in people with MS did not       comprehensively examine gait characteristics and so offered limited       insight into how FES may facilitate walking ability or improve fatigue.
The impact of this research is rooted in the provision of a better       understanding of how FES assists gait in people with MS, for example       whether in the longer term FES-assisted gait leads to decreased fatigue       and ultimately how this may assist clinical service providers to more       effectively deliver the required clinical service.
A related approach is evident in recently funded research (ELHF) which       offers promise as a means to assist clinical service providers to more       effectively deliver FES provision for people with MS.
In people with MS,       foot drop is often exacerbated as the result of fatigue.
When a patient is       assessed for suitability for FES during a clinical appointment, the       patient's walking may only be visually assessed over several metres.
Our       pilot research study has recorded the amount of foot drop through using       flexible ankle electrogoniometry over a period of extending walking (a       maximum of six minutes) with a view to assessing the amount of foot drop       over time.
Both the information provided by detailed 3D gait analysis, as provided       by clinical gait analysis services in the UK, and the possibility of       recording the degree of foot drop during a walking test, which can be       carried out during a clinical appointment, have the potential to augment       the information content of clinical assessments and have an impact on the       clinical service provided at Slateford Medical Centre, Edinburgh.
As a result of this research, local clinicians will now consider       referring patients with MS for clinical gait analysis to assess the need       for FES and the impact of FES on gait kinematics.
In addition,       consideration is being given to the recording of the ankle kinematics       during a prolonged walking assessment as part of routine FES fitting or       follow-up appointment.
