     The impact of the Centre's research around capital punishment and the       death penalty is wide- ranging, both in terms of reach and significance.
The key areas of overlapping and interconnected impact, and evidence in       support of the same, are outlined below:     - Effects upon awareness and understanding of issues relating to the         death penalty amongst key stakeholders in the national and international         legal and political communities.
Key here is the selection of Dr Jon Yorke by the International Academic       Network Against the Death Penalty to present an overview of the UN       Quinquennial Report on the Death penalty, at the UN Commission on Crime       Prevention and Criminal Justice in Vienna in 2011.
Dr Yorke also presented       a paper at the first African conference on the death penalty held in       Uganda in 2004, which was used to inform the Kenyan Parliament during       their legislative discussion on the country's Terrorism Bill.
- Changes to policy and practice at the European level.
Notable here is the application of Dr. Yorke's historical research as a       member of the drafting committee of the Guidelines on Strategy Against the       Death Penalty, which was submitted to the European Commission, the       European External Action Service (EEAS) and to Lady Ashton, High       Representative of the European Union.
Dr Yorke made specific mention of       the need to streamline the delivery of information on the death penalty,       to continue to focus on the multilateral (UN) and bilateral dialogues and       for the establishing of a wider academic community on the death penalty in       the EU, and these were drafted as specific policy initiatives for the EU.
Dr Yorke's recommendations which are recorded in the extracts of his       speech in the final report of the EU- NGO Forum, were implemented as       specific policies in the EU (See EU Report in Section 5, pp.
4, 7-10,       20-22).
- Effects on the understanding and awareness of national and         international policymakers regarding their knowledge of international         issues relating to capital punishment and the death penalty.
Most pertinent here is Dr Yorke's membership of the Foreign and       Commonwealth Office, Death Penalty Expert Group (a sub group of the       Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs,' Advisory Group       on Human Rights).
Drawing upon his policy-centred research, Dr Yorke has       provided advice to the British government to inform their strategy for       communications to Embassies in retentionist countries.
He has also       provided points of clarity on the UN and EU minimum standards on the death       penalty.
In 2012, the British government made particular note of the       increase in executions in many Islamic countries.
The Minister of State       wanted to clarify the information provided to British Embassies in North       Africa and the Middle East, and Dr Yorke was commissioned by the Expert       Group to provide a report entitled, "Islam and the Death Penalty," for       this purpose.
In June 2013, Dr Yorke was invited to address the Academic       Session of the World Congress Against the Death Penalty at the Royal       Academy of Fine Arts in Madrid.
Dr Yorke's panel was chaired by Mr. Jose       Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, former Prime Minister of Spain.
- Use of Amicus Curiae Briefs (Friend of the Court) for the         protection of constitutional rights the United States.
Professor Julian Killingley has acted as counsel and joining-counsel in a       number of amicus curiae briefs which have helped protect the       rights of those facing the death penalty, and has acted for Amnesty       International, the Bar Counsel of England and Wales and the Bar Human       Rights Committee of England and Wales.
Dr Yorke's research supported an amicus       brief contributing to the abolition of the sentence of life imprisonment       the juveniles who commit non-homicide criminal offences.
This case       abolished the sentence of life imprisonment for juveniles who commit non-       homicide criminal offences.
- Benefits to activities, processes and understandings of legal         organisations in the United States.
This refers to the research-informed advice Dr Yorke provides to the       American Bar Association's Death Penalty Moratorium Project, which is the       federal professional body of practicing lawyers in the United States.
He       has provided guidance for the project on their statements on international       law and the death penalty, and also on their initiatives for developing       programmes in Africa.
- Benefits to the performance and practice of UK lawyers applying         their skills to US cases.
Dr Yorke draws upon the policy research of the Centre in his capacity as       an instructor on the CPD course run by the NGOs Amicus and Reprieve to       train UK lawyers to represent people on death row in the United States.
