     Rights of Illegitimate Children     In 2001, the Legislation Committee presented a report to States Assembly       on succession rights.
This report recommended that the current laws of       succession should be repealed so as to allow any person freely to dispose       of moveable estate subject to the right of the court to provide a proper       sum out of the estate for the maintenance and support of the dependants of       the deceased.
The report also recommended that there should be no       difference in treatment between legitimate and illegitimate children of       the deceased and expressed concern (but nothing more) that such       discrimination could be contrary to the European Convention on Human       Rights.
No such legislation was ever implemented.
In light of the failure of States to rectify the alleged deficiencies in       succession laws, the Trust commissioned Meryl Thomas to report on whether       the existing laws were human rights compliant.
Her report was completed in       autumn 2009 and concluded that the current succession laws violated the       Convention rights in several respects.
The Trust as a result wrote to the Legislation Advisory Panel (the Panel)       presenting them with the findings from Professor Thomas' report and asked       them to confirm that the Panel would make certain that legislation was       brought forward within three months that would ensure that the Island's       obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights were complied       with.
Questions were raised in States Assembly debates (Hansard, 20th       October 2009) as to the lack of proposed legislation in light of the law       being non-compliant with Convention principles.
The Panel decided to concentrate on the area of difference that         existed between legitimate and illegitimate children and a proposition         was debated in the States Assembly on 23rd March 2010 (P7/2010) and was         approved.
The Wills and Successions (Amendment)(Jersey) Law 2010, which         came into force on 29 January 2011, granted an illegitimate child the         same rights of inheritance as a legitimate child.
Douaire (dower) and Viduit&#233;     The Legislation Advisory Panel published their Draft Report on 2 March       2012.
In parts 6 and 7 of this Report they discuss the `Thomas Report'.
They quoted large sections of the Report and following the recommendations       in the Thomas Report said , "...the Panel felt bound to accept that the       discriminatory elements inherent in the workings of douaire and viduit&#233;       were in substance at odds with the egalitarian norms of the modern western       world of which Jersey... is part.
The Panel therefore accepted the need       for legislative change to equalise the treatment of surviving spouses       insofar as their reserved rights of life enjoyment of property were       concerned."
As a result the Wills and Successions (Amendment No 2) (Jersey) Law 201-       was drafted and published on 27 February 2012.
The result of this Law is       to abolish viduit&#233; and extend douaire to widowers as well as widows, so       that the property rights of both surviving spouses have been equalised.
Moreover, this right to dower has also been granted to surviving civil       partners.
