     The project Exhibiting Europe has generated change in the museum       world.
Its impact has been pan-European in reach.
Its significance lies in       its close collaboration with prospective users and its impact on three       types of beneficiaries: museum organizations, museum professionals, and       policy-makers in the museum &amp; cultural field.
Museum organizations:     At the institutional level the project team established close working       relations with museum organisations.
Exhibiting Europe became one       of only eight partner projects of the Europe-wide Network of European       Museum Organisations (NEMO).
The project team presented its preliminary       and final project results at the annual NEMO conferences in Linz (2009),       Copenhagen (2010) and Athens (2011), via the NEMO newsletter and at the       International Council of Museums (ICOM) world conferences in Shanghai       (2010) and Cape Town (2012).
Kaiser focussed especially on advising these       museum organizations on how to improve their cooperation and lobbying       despite limited resources.
As the NEMO project manager has stated (CS1),       you `have helped our organization greatly to enhance its effectiveness.
... We now seek to work more closely with resource-rich national       institutions and to harness the intercultural competence of individual       museum entrepreneurs better for strengthening our impact on national and       European policy-making ....'     Museum professionals:     The project team's direct contacts with museum professionals created a       durable academic-practitioner network in addition to generating evidence       for the project.
Several practitioners were involved in the project       workshops in Trondheim (2008), Wroclaw (2009), Manchester and Amsterdam       (2010) including the director of the exhibition company Tempora and the       director of the City Museum Luxembourg.
In addition, 20 practitioners       attended the final conference in Oslo (2011) with mixed       academic-practitioner panels including the director of the House of       European History.
Kaiser also established close links with the ESF-funded Inventing         Europe programme and has made a major contribution to the novel       systematic cooperation of a team of 13 historians with major European       science and technology museums including the British Science Museum.
Together they have developed an interactive web-site (http://www.inventingeurope.eu/)       hosted by the Foundation for the History of Technology which first went       online in September 2012 (11.000 hits by 31 July 2013 &#8212; CS6).
The web-site       combines objects from the museums with stories and story pathways written       by historians, making them accessible for HEI and school teachers/students       and others with an interest in the history of technology.
The Keeper of       Science and Medicine at the British Science Museum has confirmed (CS2)       that this `is just the way we can make most accessible and widely       interesting our intellectual and physical resources'.
According to the       Research Director at the Deutsches Museum (CS3), this new internet       facility `greatly enhances our opportunities as museums for engaging in an       interactive way with users online, also enticing them to visit our own       websites and actual material exhibitions.'
Moreover, as the President of       the Board of the Foundation for the History of Technology has emphasized       (CS4), `... the new website engages youngsters in particular, and nurtures       their interest in current as well as past technological innovations.
This       will also increase the likelihood that they will study or work in a       related field which is so important for European businesses.'
Kaiser has also provided advice, based upon his research, to museum       professionals on how to enhance their reflexive knowledge of their own       transnational practices and to develop more convincing transnational       narratives for their museums.
He has published several pieces in       internet-based European cultural magazines (e.g.
http://www.eurozine.com/articles/2011-11-24-kaiser-en.html)       which are widely read by curators.
Moreover, he has worked closely with       the project team of the House of European History, a museum of Europe and       European integration history due to open in Brussels in 2015.
The director       and several members of the project team have frequently consulted him to       ensure that their narratives reflect the `transnational turn' and the       state of the art of research on the history of European integration.
For       example, the curator, who leads the development of the permanent       exhibition for the period from 1945 to the early 1980s, has stated `that I       find many stories in your publications about transnational societal actors       fascinating.
Some of them will be invaluable for linking the political       history and the social history of integration far more organically in our       exhibition.
As a result I am sure that our visitors will understand much       better the connections between their everyday life experiences and memory       and what happened in "Brussels".'
(CS5)     Policy-makers in the museum &amp; cultural field:     More recently, finally, Kaiser's publications for a broader public       together with his collaboration with museum organisations and museum       professionals have led to his inclusion in a new high level policy       dialogue about `narratives for Europe'.
This was initiated by the European       Parliament and is run by the cultural centre Bozar in Brussels and the       European Commission.
Together with c. 50 other artists, intellectuals and       academics Kaiser was invited to an inaugural debate in Brussels on 23       April 2013 with Commission President Barroso and commissioners Vassiliou       and Reding.
On 11 July Kaiser then participated in the first `general       assembly on forms of imagination and thinking for Europe' in Warsaw, with       Barroso and the Polish Prime Minister Tusk.
This will be followed by a       working dinner and reflection half-day with Barroso and the Italian Prime       Minister Letta in Milan on 8-9 December 2013.
The EP and the Commission       expect that this high-level policy dialogue will generate new ways of       `narrating' Europe and European integration which should make it easier       for EU citizens to connect with the EU, its institutions and policies.
