     The significance of the Portsmouth Voices project was that it presented a       challenging narrative of       Portsmouth's history, successfully engaging people in the region beyond an       established core       constituency of museum-goers.
Moreover, Beaven's research and leading role       in the formation of       the project pushed its boundaries beyond traditional museum content and       encouraged the       Portsmouth City Museum (PCM) to re-evaluate its approach to future       exhibitions (CS3 &#8212;       references to Section 5).
Beaven played a key role, in collaboration with the Museum, in       formulating the concept, design and       thematic content of the project proposal for Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF)       support.
On its successful       outcome, Beaven, with project partners PCM and Portsmouth Historic       Dockyard Trust, was       charged with managing a budget of &#163;223,500 for a series of activities       leading up to a key exhibition       in 2009-10.
The project engaged the Portsmouth and Hampshire public       through displays,       publications and educational packs on the history of Portsmouth's popular       culture from the late       nineteenth century to the present day.
Part of the source-material for the       exhibitions and       publications was formed from a major collection of over three hundred new       oral histories generated       by the project (CS1).
Beaven's research framed the core themes that directed the oral history       interviews and the topics       covered in exhibitions and publications.
PCM remarked that Beaven's       `research and consultation       was vital as it pulled the project in a more fruitful and challenging       direction and beyond the       parochial', adding that he took the Museum out of the `Local Authority       silo' (CS2).
The issues of       class, gender, ethnicity and generation ran through the major concluding       exhibition entitled `The       Game of Life: Exploring Family Life in Portsmouth'.
The perspectives       generated through Beaven's       research on citizenship and the city underpinned the exhibition's approach       to its core ambition: to       present an inclusive history of Portsmouth in the twentieth century,       ranging from the socially       disadvantaged to the privileged, and across a sweep of social and ethnic       groups not previously       represented in the Museum.
The project thus included consultation and       interviews with Polish,       Russian and Kurdish migrants, and engagement with Portsmouth's Lesbian,       Gay, Bisexual and       Transgender community.
The exhibition proved popular with the public, attracting over 31,000       visitors between July 2009       and January 2010 (CS2).
Taking its intellectual lead from Beaven's work,       `The Game of Life'       explored how the moral assumptions that underpinned key life stages       (infancy, childhood,       adolescence, courtship, marriage, parenthood, old age and death) changed       between the 1920s       and the present day.
Moreover, the exhibition's engagement with difficult       and challenging issues       such as racism and sexuality stimulated public debate and inspired Dr Jane       Mee, Manager of       Portsmouth Museums and Galleries, to write an article for a key       international practitioners'       publication, the Museums Journal.
She noted that despite early       concerns about the exhibition's       engagement with sensitive issues she was pleased that `the project team       had the confidence to run       with the material' and that the real lesson that the Museum had learned       for the future was to `trust       the public and be less afraid of taking risks' (CS3).
Equally challenging issues were explored in an oral history campaign on       `Food', which invited the       public to reflect upon differing food traditions and cultures, the       industrial production of food, and       eating disorders.
This extended its reach beyond the Museum through the       development of       educational packs and oral history training.
Thus, as PCM have noted,       teachers at Mayfield       Secondary School in Portsmouth employed the project's core themes as the       basis for pupil       discussion on eating disorders.
Pupils also learned oral history       techniques and created textile       based art on the theme of food that was included in the exhibition (CS2).
An important aim of the project was to involve the local community in the       generation of oral       histories.
In designing the content of this activity, Beaven used his       research as a basis to frame the       interview questions on subjects such as teenage experiences, courtship,       masculinity and inter-generational conflict.
Beaven and PCM established community events to       recruit and train local       people in the techniques of oral history.
This work resulted in 433       person-days of input by       Portsmouth volunteers (CS1), reflecting the enthusiasm generated around       the project, which       eventually collected 314 individual histories.
In addition, a `Video Van'       visited community events       and fairs in Portsmouth where members of the public were filmed answering       questions about their       life.
A selection of the oral history interviews and video material was       employed in the exhibition.
These interviews are an important legacy of the project, as another of       its achievements was to       have them digitised, transcribed and catalogued, making them permanently       available to the public       in the Portsmouth History Research Centre.
This project overall has helped       to transform the       Portsmouth oral history archive from a relatively little-used local       resource to one with markedly       greater public use and regular access from international researchers (CS2       and CS4).
In summarising the impact of Beaven's research on the project, PCM noted       that his `input helped to       us to forge the key aim of involving people who were not natural       museum-goers and engage with       different viewpoints that captured a range of gendered, class, ethnic and       generational       perspectives.'
(CS2) This success has led on to an extended engagement       between Beaven's work       and the City Museum, most recently in a successful HLF bid for him to       curate an exhibition on the       First World War in 2014 (CS2).
