     As a direct result of the work on curriculum development and creativity       in music education, Fautley was on the steering committee for the       production of secondary strategy materials for music education, produced       and published by the (then) QCA in 2007.
Subsequent to this, Fautley was a       key member of a four-person committee at the QCA, charged with developing       APP (assessing pupil performance materials) in music education.
He is       currently a member of the expert advisory panel for the new National       Curriculum.
Fautley's work on assessment in music education has received widespread       recognition in the United States, and he was invited by the University of       North Carolina, Wilmington, to undertake joint research in this area.
This       has been reported on in a peer-reviewed paper presented at the International         Society of Music Education conference in 2012.
His work also came to       the attention of other American universities, where his work has impacted       extensively.
In Florida, Fautley's work was significant in the way in       which the new curriculum and assessments were devised from the outset, as       was observed:     "In 2012 the State of Florida required that all teacher preparation       programs revisit their curriculum in order to align with the new Florida       Educator Accomplished Practices.
The assessment work of Fautley influenced       all aspects of this massive undertaking, for example, new syllabi for       every undergraduate music class leading toward state certification       including competency charts &#8212; with assessment rubrics, and critical task       assignments &#8212; also with assessment rubrics" (From Florida International       University)     Fautley has presented research findings on assessment of creativity at a       range of conferences in the UK, and overseas too, including Germany,       Greece, and China.
Combining data from across a number of research       projects, Fautley's (2010) book has been warmly received: "If God hadn't       wanted us to sort out assessment in music education, he wouldn't have       given us Martin Fautley" (David Ashworth, www.teachingmusic.org.uk)       .
Also, in the UK, a local authority adviser noted that:     "[Fautley's research on assessment] has been critical to the national       development of thinking around assessment in music education.
It has       informed significant professional discussion about principles and       pedagogical implications, both at national and local levels.
Given the       breadth of its scope, it is difficult to pinpoint precise examples of       where a teacher has used a specific strategy from the research &#8212; but its       importance to the national thinking about musical assessment should not be       diminished because of this."
(From County Inspector for Music, Hampshire.)
This work on assessment has also impacted upon New Zealand, as a user       there observes: 	  "In teacher education, Assessment in Music Education       directly informs my teaching of pre-service secondary music students,       forming the basis of lectures on assessment.
I have observed improved       assessment practice in my pre-service student teachers as they put the key       ideas, pedagogies and concepts in Assessment in Music into action in the       classroom.
I have used Assessment in Music Education as a resource with       teachers in our investigation into the assessment of group composing at       senior secondary level.
Martin Fautley's model of group composing has       directly informed my own theoretical model which I have developed into an       assessment tool" Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand.
Fautley's assessment work has also used by the Chilean Government:       "[Fautley's] book Assessment in Music Education has been an       indispensable book in the formulation of the new Music Curriculum for       Chilean Music Education since music teachers in Chile lack proper       orientations with regards to musical assessment."
See corroborating       statement, Chilean Government Advisor.
Fautley has co-authored with Richard Colwell of the USA (the world's       leading expert on assessment in music education) a chapter on Assessment       in the Secondary School Classroom in the Oxford Handbook of Music         Education.
The Listen Imagine Compose (http://bit.ly/11uAoKA)       research project, in which Fautley is principal investigator, is having       impact now.
Fautley has addressed the Association of British Orchestras,       and directly resulting from this he has been asked by the Arts Council       funded organisations to develop a tool for reflective practice in       school-based arts projects.
Fautley's work in this project has been cited       by Ofsted as an example of good practice, where it was noted of his       involvement "...they use his expertise in musical assessment to research       the different ways in which composers and musicians used questioning       techniques" (http://bit.ly/Szmjv8).
He       is a co-opted member of the Midlands working group on assessment and       progression in music education, which is impacting on teaching and       learning and policy in the region and beyond.
Fautley's research has had direct impact on end-users, as the Director of       learning for Birmingham Contemporary Music Group observed:     "Professor Martin Fautley's input into BCMG's Learning and Participation       Programme has had an enormous impact on: developing more effective       evaluation and reflection procedures for projects; improving the quality       of projects through unpicking and theorising our practice and pedagogy as       an external evaluator and researcher; sharing new learning with our wider       BCMG team of composers and workshop leaders through contribution to CPD       and reflection sessions; raising the profile of BCMGs work through sharing       joint research at national and international conferences."
The impact from creativity has been significant, and with continuing work       and development in this area, will remain so.
