     As noted above, impact was derived from the participatory approach       adopted, in which education stakeholders, as main beneficiaries were       centrally involved in questions asked, design and implementation, study       interpretation and dissemination.
The impact case study thus brings       together findings of trustworthy studies on a significant topic of concern       to those most affected, then disseminated through user-friendly reports       and conferences and local networks, as well as fully peer-reviewed papers.
The aim has been to inform critical thinking of stakeholders, stimulate       discussion and worthwhile education action, to offer a new perspective,       locally, nationally and internationally.
In accordance with the CRE's       approach to impact, policy-makers have been impacted upon       directly.
As have leaders and teaching and learning.
This       has been achieved by building on major beneficiaries of professional       organisations, education professionals and students, locally, nationally       and internationally.
The intention has been to increase critical understanding of the       interplay between policy and practice within political, ideological and       educational contexts that are complex, situated and interactive; and to       contribute new conceptualisations and understandings.
The work for UNICEF aimed to provide reliable, accurate and comprehensive       quantitative and qualitative data on the impact, achievements and       constraints of a family education programme (2005-2009) to assist the       Government of Uzbekistan and generated relevant recommendations for       further programme directions (for 2010-2015) at national, regional and       community level.
Upscaling the project from regional to national level,       ensured that key informants were major beneficiaries, in this case,       government ministers, regional, district and local officials but primarily       by empowering families and communities with knowledge and skills to ensure       that they thrived.
`...
Provision of reliable, accurate and comprehensive data on the         working of UNICEF's Family Education Project (FEP) for the Government of         Uzbekistan with broad aim of family empowerment and increasing families'         knowledge of child-rearing practices through community volunteers'       [Advisor for UNICEF].
At a subsequent British Academy-sponsored conference       it provided an inspirational example for practitioners contemplating their       own policy-to-practice interface at a time of economic decline that       challenged upgrading of existing EY provision, (Aubrey, 2012).
Impact has       been enhanced by an explicit strategy to engage major beneficiaries from       the start and throughout the research process.
The ESRC-funded EY       leadership project has had a continuing impact that served as a model for       projects undertaken in the REF period.
Development of training materials       formed the basis for uptake by a wider group of professionals,       disseminated through local and national conferences held by British       Association for Early Childhood Education (2008) and EY Workforce Group       (2009).
The research has informed and continues to inform iterations of the       NPQICL programme (National College for Teaching and Leadership, 2008,       2010, 2013-in progress).
The textbook (Aubrey, 2011) is a key text       nationally used by NPQICL participants and is still one of the few       leadership textbooks where the children's centre leaders voice is central.
The book is also widely used to support leadership research at Master's       level.
An invited keynote at a professional Round Table conference was hosted by       Universities of Griffith, Deakin and Melbourne (2009) to `...contribute         concepts relevant to multi-agency leadership to local multi-agency teams         ... interrogate their practice ... inform implementation strategies to         promote health.'
[conference organiser and chief investigator on       project with colleagues from Griffith University] and professional       seminars were organised by international educational organisations       Learning Capital and Kinderland in Singapore.
`...Influences policy         debate, increases practitioners' and leaders' ... critical         understanding... encourages practitioners to continue professional         development and upgrade skills through accreditation' CEO, KLC       Singapore].
Invitations to write for professional electronic networks, e.g.
the EYP       Forum (2009) and the Children's Centre Leader Reader (2012) followed.
A       single-authored textbook for professionals and NPQICL students is already       in its second edition (Aubrey, 2011).
Related chapters in nationally-       popular EY textbooks also run to further editions (Pugh and Duffy, 2013;       Maynard and Thomas, 2014).
Most recently, a request was received from the       DfE (2013) to comment on EY leadership for the Nutbrown Report (2012)       [electronic communication available].
The regional conference that launched the thinking-skills-in-mathematics       project (Aubrey et al., 2012) involved one of the original       programme designers and distributors to secure an interest in       participation by English and Welsh schools.
Research questions generated       allowed advisers, head teachers, co-ordinators and class teachers to       explore, analyse and reflect upon their own professional practice and       indeed one head teacher later incorporated findings in an inspection       submission.
Dissemination of findings at local, national and European       practitioner conferences in 2011 raised awareness and a dedicated website       to the project has been established.
An invitation to write a chapter on       EY policy-to-practice mathematics in an influential Australian text has       been negotiated in 2013 and participation as distinguished academic in a       recent EY policy and practice debate served to increase students' critical       understanding of interplay between policy and practice and create a       teaching resource that will influence future student groups.
A visiting       Chinese scholar working with the team on the thinking skills project also       applied our model: `the pedagogical approaching (involving group         discussion and problem-solving, critical evaluation of responses and         forming independent judgements) was found suitable for Chinese         classrooms and developed in Shandong Province' [Visiting Scholar,       Shandong Broadcast &amp; TV University].
Strategies and questions underpinning the studies that explored the       evidence on the use of ICT in the EY and creative partnerships between       artists and EY teachers were negotiated with sponsors in advance.
Data to       be gathered and analysed and dissemination formats were agreed in advance,       for the former, a practitioner website and the latter, local teacher       workshops, creative networks established and exemplar creative       installations constructed.
Meanwhile, at national and European level providing evidence and       supporting work of the Commission has contributed to `developing new         data and analysing relevant policies across Europe, providing         recommendations for actions to improve effectiveness ECEC services and         contribute to comprehensive approach to tackling underachievement'       [PI, European Commission project].
A new project is being planned to capture multi-vocal perspectives of a       multi-disciplinary and cross-departmental team of BCU staff and students       on an outdoor environment together with nature research officers.
In line       with the Trust's remit to work towards connected spaces: bigger and better       and more joined people, the goal will be towards creating `connected       communities' of researchers, reserve staff, students and children       concerned.
In summary, the overall aim has been to inform critical thinking of       stakeholders, stimulate discussion and worthwhile education action, and to       offer a new perspective, locally and nationally that, over time, has also       had an impact internationally, as demonstrated.
