     1.
Context     The spin out of Articulate Instruments Ltd. from QMU in September 2003       was an impact-oriented strategic move to facilitate the eventual uptake of       EPG in healthcare.
The insight was that independence from QMU as an HEI       was necessary to obtain and retain "CE marking" of products (especially       EPG).
Without CE marking, EPG cannot be sold, used or supported as a       clinical device in the European Union, i.e.
for non-research, clinical       diagnosis and therapy in the NHS.
Long term, impact requires that EPG is       not just be a research tool but a certified medical device.
CE marking was       obtained in 2004.
Prior to this process, sales of EPG were only for       research purposes (albeit including clinical research), not clinical       treatment, which had precluded many routes to impact.
The main evidence       for impact, along with levels of uptake of products in the census period       clinically and internationally, is the ongoing financial health of the       spin-out company.
2.
Baseline figures     EPG is a well-known technology in academic phonetics.
It has existed in a       number of formats for several decades.
Older sales figures of our unique       systems will give some baseline context to current impact.
The older       system EPG2 (1983-1992) gave rise to the sale of 72 systems (17 to       hospitals and clinics for clinical linguistic research).
EPG3 (1993-1998)       had 52 sales (12 to hospitals etc.
for clinical research).
From 1998-2003,       just 23 EPG3 were sold.
The Personal Training Unit (PTU) was a standalone       product aimed at therapy use, of which around 30 were sold in the UK and       Ireland from its launch in 1998 till 2003.
These sales covered basic costs       and were handled from Reading University, then QMU.
Articulate Instruments took over in 2003.
From 2003-2008 there were 126       customers, 46 (37%) in the UK.
Thirty of these were non-academic: 21 in       the UK, 9 in Europe and Canada.
Turnover was approximately &#163;130k per year.
Initially, most customers were buying EPG systems but from 2008 onwards       UTI (Ultrasound Tongue Imaging) products have been added and sales have       increased.
An increased level of sales was seen when Articulate       Instruments Ltd. was formed.
This enhanced level of impact has been       sustained over the census period with further new products added.
Some products, mainly the new EPG "Articulate" palate (see below), were       designed by WRENCH alone.
EPG palates exist in tandem with EPG analysis       systems.
We will note EPG palate sales separately below, which are largely       of value to other companies.
The new palate sales are an impact of       underpinning QMU research into EPG systems and of WRENCH's palate       research.
Number and Distribution of Sales, Turnover, and Profitability         2008-2013     Figures are from audited accounts and internal financial returns of the       company.
Average turnover was ~&#163;109k in the census period.
The company is       profitable and sustainable and is supported through sales of goods and       services.
There have been 98 new customers &#8212; mostly universities &#8212; across       21 countries in addition to the UK (Fig 1) since January 1, 2008.
There       have been 27 non-academic customers &#8212; mostly hospitals &#8212; either from the       UK (14) or Europe (13).
The products are not licensed for clinical use in       the USA at this time for reasons of cost of the licensing process.
Year end (July 31st)           Turnover (&#163;)                             2008 (ie from 01.08.07)           125,856                             2009           126,729                             2010           55,863                             2011           77,885                             2012           105,491                             2013 (unaudited)           160,381                             total           652,205                          Table 1.
Financial summary of turnover 	     Figure 1.
Number (and %) of UK customers and overseas customers by         continent (n=98)          4.
Effect on the UK economy via expenditure     The company's receipts have supported WRENCH since 2003 and through the       impact census period (i.e.
he received no salary from QMU).
The company       also supports SMEs through contracts to supply parts and services.
This       flow-through to the wider economy differentially favours high-technology       SMEs, such as a local Musselburgh company ZOT, and freelance software       programmers.
The customisable ultrasonic system underlying the high-speed       system is manufactured by Ultrasonix from Vancouver, Canada.
Thus, the       main related businesses are:            ZOT for circuit boards, electronics and containment boxes for EPG.
ZOT for shaped and prepared aluminium components for UTI headset.
Local freelance software programmer.
EPG palate manufacturers, supported directly by their own customers.
5.
EPG palates     These are a necessary part of EPG use &#8212; they are custom-built from a       personal palate mould and are unique for each speaker using EPG.
In       addition to the traditional "Reading" palate, designed at Reading       University, there is a new "Articulate" design arising from research by       WRENCH.
We could cite sales of all palates for use with EPG as part of the       financial impact, since the underpinning research was into a new       generation of EPG, and all EPG use requires palates of one type or the       other.
From 2008-2013, most were manufactured in Frenchay Hospital,       Bristol, by Incidental, Reading, or by individual hospitals or dental       clinics, e.g.
in Sweden or Japan.
We estimate that over 80 of the Reading       palates were made during the census period annually, at ~&#163;400 each (~&#163;200k       total).
Since the 2007 launch, 85 new Articulate palates have been made       (~&#163;34k).
These figures are additional to the company turnover &#8212; customers       get palates made by a local dentist and purchase them direct from one of       the dental technician companies mentioned or use their own staff time to       manufacture them.
Articulate Instruments Ltd. merely supplies printed       circuits for the Articulate palate (~&#163;8k income in total, included above).
6.
Synergistic research/impact activity, clinical activity     The company has contributed in financial terms (&#163;20k) and in staff-time       (approx.
3 months) as formal contributions to the ULTRAX EPSRC-funded       project.
The company has also contributed time and resources to       implementing alterations to its software to reflect the developing       research needs of its beta-testers in CASL Research Centre.
The       commissioned work for the ESPF dual-EMA facility contributed an EMA       module to the AAA software and synchronisation components.
Articulate       Instruments and CASL collaborate both for research purposes and to achieve       impact.
The latter is facilitated by and embodied in activities such as       clinician workshops, beta-testing, consultancy, physical collocation,       seminars, technical support and applied research.
We secured funding as part of ULTRAX and a QMU PhD bursary to do clinical       UTI research.
Eight children were treated in the census period, providing       invaluable applied research experience, case data for clinician workshops,       and ideas for clinically-relevant improvements to AAA.
Results were       positive: Parent A said of her son's treatment: "using the         visual seemed to help [him] position his tongue."
Parent B said: "I         was initially sceptical &#8212; especially when I saw the helmet!
His         confidence has increased and he is now able to communicate clearly,         without anxiety."
7.
Leadership and expansion of use of UTI     UTI was used by around a half-dozen laboratories across the world in       2001.
QMU and Articulate Instruments have been involved in this community       since the 2nd by-invitation-only international Ultrafest at       UBC, Vancouver (2004).
We know of no laboratories in the UK or Europe       using UTI before QMU.
The combination of underpinning research, falling       costs and the promise of consistent reliable support from a specialist       software/hardware company has helped in the expansion of UTI.
We believe       critical elements in this expansion are the leadership, commercial       independence, longevity, and specialist support offered by Articulate       Instruments Ltd.
The company announced in 2012 that it would co-organise       Ultrafest VI in Edinburgh and attracted 88 non-QMU registrations.
An       associated clinical workshop attracted 17 registrations.
In the UK,       video-UTI equipment with AAA is now being used in universities in Glasgow,       Manchester and Newcastle.
AAA software is available in Edinburgh, London,       Aberdeen and Strathclyde.
High-speed Ultrasonix systems, with associated       AAA hardware and software, have been ordered or purchased by universities       in Germany, Brazil, England and Italy, with more hardware in the USA.
Of       the 50 phonetic laboratories we know of worldwide in 2013 using UTI, 25       are using Articulate Instruments hardware and software.
Even more       institutions - 39 - use the headset.
Company A states that QMU's ultrasound research in collaboration with       Articulate Instruments Ltd "has been commercially useful for our           company ...
The phonetic research done at QMU has solved         problems with acoustic synchronization and demonstrates the benefits of         high speed ultrasound for linguistic analysis.
Our first sale           for phonetics research was to QMU, but we have now sold 7 systems       of that type of scanner to phonetics research labs in Europe, the UK,         and North America, who are following their lead.
We look forward to continuing our partnership with QMU and expanding our         portfolio into this unique research area."
(our emphasis, quoted       from a letter on file at QMU, cf.
the private list of named       corroborators.)
