     This research has had impact on UK and French policy and on peace and       security in Africa.
Following the 9/11 attacks on the US, the Saint-Malo process was       relaunched and Chafer was       invited to act as a Foreign Office consultant, briefing outgoing UK       ambassadors to Paris and to       Francophone Africa on French Africa policy.
Building upon this established       record, Chafer's       research has, since 2008, had an impact on both the policy-making process       and decision-making.
Four different types of impact have resulted from the research:     Policy-making impact In September 2009, at the request of the FCO,       Chafer and Cumming       produced a private report (`France and Britain in Africa since Saint       Malo') for its Africa Strategy       Group, which was reviewing its representation in West Africa.
It stressed       the importance of       engaging with francophone countries in West Africa: 'we got a lot from the       meeting' which `fed       usefully into the analysis' and provided `key insights into the       francophone piece we're examining as       part of the West Africa project' (email, 23.11.09, Strategic Policy       Adviser, FCO, source I).
Following       this review the UK decided against closing some African missions, in Mali       for example, which       would have negatively impacted on HMG's ability to engage in the country       in 2013.
Subsequently,       on 3 November 2010, hours after a groundbreaking UK-French defence       agreement, Professor       Chafer was invited to brief Henry Bellingham, FCO Minister of State, on       ways of improving UK-       French cooperation in Africa ahead of his visit to Paris for discussions       with his French counterpart.
`Mr Bellingham found the meeting very useful and interesting' (source VI).
`Your research project       on French and British Africa policy: understanding and improving       cooperation' was very timely.
It       helped underpin the policy decision to burden-share with the French the       response to the crises in       the Sahel and North Africa, each contributing their respective strengths       in the area in a coordinated       way.
Your meeting with the Africa Minister in late 2010 was very helpful       in setting the context for       this, as well as pointing out the imbalance between French and British       resources given to       ECOWAS .
.
.
You followed this up with a well-received presentation in       late 2012 in Chatham       House for senior FCO and MOD staff on the opportunities for security       co-operation with France'       (source II).
Changing practice In November 2011, Chafer was invited to give a       briefing to MoD, FCO and DfID       officials on the research project's key findings and specifically to look       at opportunities for improving       HMG's engagement with the francophone countries in ECOWAS.
As a result of       this briefing, the       FCO undertook to get a full time senior diplomat posted to Abuja to lead       on ECOWAS issues:       `Your contribution was thought provoking, and I am pleased that we are       already acting on getting a       full time senior diplomat posted to Abuja to lead on ECOWAS issues.
I will       definitely be making       enquiries about getting a fluent French speaker in that role'.
This advice       was subsequently taken       up and a French speaker appointed to this new post in Abuja (source V).
Policy legitimising impact: The research described here has had an       impact by providing a solid       evidence base for policy decisions that were being taken.
For example, in       September 2012, Chafer       was invited to present the research findings to the influential France-UK       Defence Forum, which for       the first time included a session on military cooperation in Africa:       `British and French government       officials have looked into areas of convergence where security cooperation       might be possible and       your research has been very useful in serving to confirm and clarify       thinking that was already being       formulated with regard to cooperation, particularly on security issues in       Africa - as confirmed by       the French intervention in Mali and the support provided by the UK'       (source IV).
Institutional memory: The research project has served to sustain       the momentum of the Saint-Malo       process, in a context in which officials move posts every 3-4 years, with       the result that institutional       memory, particularly at middle and lower levels of government bureaucracy,       relating to       commitments made, lessons learned and opportunities identified, is often       uneven and patchy.
These exchanges refreshed and sustained institutional memory about the       Saint Malo process,       provided opportunities to discuss areas of Anglo-French convergence and       ensured that UK and       French officials were better aware of who they needed to talk to on the       French and UK side       respectively, something which is not always clear because of the different       institutional set-ups for       Africa policymaking in the two countries.
The impact of the research was       to contribute to       embedding the practice of collaboration, particularly between       middle-ranking French and UK       officials `on the ground' in Africa thereby saving time, as officials did       not have to constantly       `reinvent the wheel', and reducing possibilities for misunderstanding.
Its significance can only be understood with reference to past       Anglo-French rivalry in Africa.
The       two governments' decision to move from rivalry to cooperation in Africa       represented a paradigm       shift in policy.
They now recognized that Anglo-French cooperation was       vital for security and       believed that, by working together, the UK and France could better tackle       the challenges facing       Africa while providing better value for money.
However, they did not       sufficiently understand the       other country's outlook, approach, agendas and priorities, obstacles which       this research has       helped to overcome.
By undertaking over 160 interviews with highly placed       officials and decision       makers and disseminating the key findings of the research widely through       academic publications,       policy briefings and high-level presentations to international thinktanks       (also published in open       access on their websites, sources VIII-X), the project contributed to       officials' understanding of each       other's policy agendas and priorities by identifying obstacles to enhanced       cooperation.
In so doing       it helped to build trust and provided research-based policy       recommendations that fed into debates       that were taking place between policymakers about how and in what policy       areas to collaborate.
It       thus formed part of the underpinning for these policy decisions.
The reach of its impact is national and international.
This may       be gauged from the fact that the       presentations of the research findings were attended by officials from the       FCO (including Research       Analysts and Strategy Unit), MoD (International Policy and Planning),       DfID, the French Ministry for       Foreign Affairs (including the Director of the `P&#244;le politique europ&#233;en de       d&#233;veloppement'), the       Agence Fran&#231;aise de D&#233;veloppement (including the Head of its Fragile       States Unit), as well as       officials in Brussels, development practitioners and journalists.
Chafer       also briefed the Foreign       Office Minister for Africa, Henry Bellingham, and Lord Chidgey,       identifying areas of convergence       and opportunities for cooperation and putting forward parliamentary       questions for Lord Chidgey to       ask in the House (source VII).
`Your research has been most helpful in       serving to confirm, shape       and clarify the thinking that is beginning to be formulated in government       circles with regard to       cooperation .
.
.
a number of the recommendations from your research were       subsequently taken up       by HMG'.
(source III).
