     Our technology makes historical information about Britain's places widely       available and easily findable.
The National Archives create finding aids for archivists and the general       public.
"The existence of the GBHGIS and its ready accessibility through       the Vision of Britain' website has obviated the need to develop a separate       GB place name authority file.
... [We] have been working with you [for       over 10 years] ... and I have been very impressed by the continual       development of the GBHGIS from its earliest beginnings to the rich       resource that exists today.... Successive revisions and upgrades have       refined and expanded your data to the point where archivists and their       customers can have great confidence in the accuracy and comprehensiveness       of the resource.
[Your] approach, combining GIS technology with the       information science concepts of thesauri and ontologies, has created an       innovative product which meets [our] needs far more thoroughly than would       ... off-the-shelf technology"(1, 10).
Our statistical metadata techniques have served the Office of National       Statistics in two ways: influencing their dissemination of 2011 census       data, via "a significant contribution"(4) to CAIRD: the ESRC-funded Census       Aggregate Information Resource Demonstrator, i.e.
a prototype       dissemination system, and by ourselves directly disseminating earlier       data: "Whilst ONS publishes data from the more recent censuses (1971       onwards) on its websites it lacks resource to web publish data from       earlier Censuses ...
Vision Of Britain has provided users with not only       [such] data but detailed supporting information and analysis ...
Comparison over time between Censuses is complicated firstly by changes in       administrative, enumeration, and statistical boundaries and secondly by       the changes in questions, definitions, and coding systems.
The [GBHGIS]       team have developed a substantial understanding of techniques to manage       these changes"(4, 9) The same techniques "greatly assisted DEFRA both in       analysing long term trends in agriculture, and in providing public access.
In particular, the construction of a formal concordance relating the many       different classifications of crops and animals used by the annual Farm       Census since 1866 enabled new uses of the data as time series"(5).
A Vision of Britain through Time launched in October 2004.
We have       maintained this open access web site for nine years, steadily enhancing       its content.
Usage has grown steadily (NB most academic historical sites       rarely exceed 10,000 monthly unique users):        Over the year to 26/9/2013, the site was used by 1,812,462 different       people, 79% from the UK; a significant fraction of total population.
Some       users leave clear tracks; for example, there are 7,342 hyperlinks from       Wikipedia into Vision of Britain.
Mostly, however, we are       supporting purely personal research in local and family history; but this       has great significance for the participants: it reinforces their sense of       identity, place attachment and community bonding, so contributing       substantially to well-being and mental health.
The reasons why our site is so useful are summarised by Britain's leading       author on genealogical use of the internet, whose publications include The         Genealogist's Internet published by the National Archives: "What       distinguishes Vision of Britain for family historians is that its       material on the history of places is coherent, authoritative and national       in coverage, providing information essential for locating appropriate       genealogical records and contextualising, geographically, an individual       family's history.
Genealogists need to build up complex pictures of       people's interaction with the landscape, and to understand the       geographical character of particular places: for example, reasons why       their ancestors moved in or out, such as industrial expansion or       unemployment rates.
Because the site integrates a range of disparate       resources, it has the particular merit over more narrowly focused projects       of alerting users to sources of information that they may have been       unaware of"(2).
Recognition as a reliable source of local historical information has led       to wide use by local authorities: drawing a random sample of 50 from the       151 English county, borough and unitary authorities, at least eighteen       (36%) of their web sites reference us, as an authoritative source of       information for reports or a recommended resource for library users(8).
(7) exemplifies the former while(6), a retrospective looks at all       Britain's cities which received extensive press coverage, is the largest       scale use of our data by the sector.
Underpinning all this is our expertise in structuring information for       effective spatial discovery, taken further in our Old Maps Online site       launched in 2012, and listed by the British Library as among "100 Websites       which [curators] judge will be essential reading for future generations       researching our life and times in 2013", alongside Facebook and Twitter:       "this type of visual search is revolutionising the way in which we conduct       historical research and will be invaluable for future researchers wishing       to dive through layers of history geographically"(3).
