     IfE research on endocrine disrupters has provided the scientific       underpinnings for decision making processes in the European Union, USA and       in organisations of the United Nations, specifically the UN Environmental       Programme.
This took place through three distinct types of activity;       first, by raising awareness of endocrine disrupting chemicals, second, by       examining and demonstrating the strength of the scientific evidence for       harmful effects of endocrine disrupters, and third, by developing ways of       handling these chemicals within the framework of EU chemical regulations.
Critical analyses of the literature by IfE researchers (Kortenkamp et al.
2011, Weybridge +15) concluded that exposures to endocrine disruptors are       likely causal contributors to the total global endocrine-related disease       burden (e.g.
hormonal cancers, declines in reproductive health) which is       now unprecedented (WHO / UNEP 2012).
They also concluded that endocrine       disrupters should be regulated as strictly as carcinogens, mutagens and       reproductive toxicants.
This work exposed a critical gap in EU chemicals       regulations with insufficient protection especially of mothers and their       unborn life.
In the European Union, three pieces of European Community legislation       deal explicitly with endocrine disrupters: The Plant Protection Product       Regulation, PPPR (1107/2009); the chemicals regulation, Registration,       Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals, REACH (1907/2006) and the new       Biocidal Product Regulation, BPR.
Under all these regulations the European       Commission is now mandated with developing scientific criteria for the       identification of endocrine disrupting chemicals, with the aim of removing       them from use entirely, or restricting their use significantly.
It is here       that IfE research also created impact by finding ways of implementing       better regulation for endocrine disrupters.
IfE research showed that the ways in which endocrine disrupters act pose       several challenges to the existing EU regulatory regime.
The life stage       where exposure takes place is absolutely critical, but also whether the       toxicity is irreversible and whether endocrine-related toxicity occurs at       low exposures.
This meant that a tailor-made matrix had to be developed to       translate the outcome of toxicity tests into decision criteria for       restricting the use of chemicals identified as endocrine disrupters.
Recommendations for such decision criteria were elaborated in Kortenkamp       et al.
(2011) and have found entry into the blueprint of endocrine       disrupter regulation in the EU, the "Report of the Endocrine Disrupters -       Expert Advisory Group (ED EAG)" from the European Commission DG Joint       Research Centre (Munn and Goumenou 2013).
The "State of the Art Assessment       of Endocrine Disrupters" (Kortenkamp et al.
2011) and the "Weybridge +15       report" (EEA 2012) were also listed as important reference documents for a       motion of the European Parliament which was passed on 14 March 2013 and       called on the European Commission to implement better protection from       endocrine disrupters (procedure reference 2012/2066 INI).
Professor       Kortenkamp has been called twice to brief MEPs on endocrine disrupters in       connection with the drafting of this motion, first on 18 September and       then again on 14 November 2012.
In autumn 2012, the European Commission DG Health mandated the European       Food Safety Authority (EFSA) with elaborating criteria for the regulation       of pesticides with endocrine disrupting properties, by end of March 2013.
The "State of the Art Assessment of Endocrine Disrupters" was one key       document for the deliberations of the EFSA scientific committee.
Dr         Daniel Pickford was called to serve on the working group which       produced the EFSA Scientific Opinion on the topic (EFSA 2013).
Professors Susan Jobling and Andreas Kortenkamp engaged in       translational activities at the UN level and were called by the UN       Environmental Programme to present their research in support of a motion       to adopt endocrine disrupters as an emerging policy issue under the       Strategic Approach to Chemicals Management (SAICM).
SAICM was adopted by       the International Conference on Chemicals Management (ICCM) of the UN       Environment Programme as a policy framework to foster the sound management       of chemicals.
It supports achieving the goal of ensuring that by 2020       chemicals are produced and used in ways that minimize significant adverse       impacts on the environment and on human health.
On the strengths of the       presentations by Jobling and Kortenkamp, the ICCM3 meeting in Nairobi       (17-21.9.2012) comprising 540 participants, representing more than 150       governments, other SAICM stakeholders from international organizations,       industry and civil society adopted endocrine disrupters as an emerging       issue under SAICM (UNEP 2012).
The delegates decided to develop a workplan       for this group of chemicals, with a view of reducing health risks in       developing countries.
In summary, endocrine disrupter research at IfE has created global impact       by first making the scientific case for the need for regulatory action,       and second by developing regulatory approaches that pave the way for       restricting their use significantly.
This will contribute to better health       protection.
As much as 24% of human diseases and disorders globally are       estimated to be due to environmental factors, and many of the most       prevalent diseases are associated with the endocrine system.
IfE       researchers have therefore catalysed the improvement of human and wildlife       health by influencing regulation that will lead to improvement in elements       of the environment that impact public and wildlife health.
For some groups of chemicals first labelled as endocrine disruptors by       IfE scientists, the strength of the incriminating evidence is such that       the use of these chemicals is no longer permitted in some countries.
For       example some phthalates (identified as EDCs by Jobling) cannot be       used in toys and childcare articles in the EU and, in the USA, the       Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (2008) banned the use of six       phthalates in toys and child care articles at concentrations greater than       0.1% (Kortenkamp sits on the USA Chronic Hazard Advisory Panel on       Phthalates).
In response to a European ban, plasticizers with no endocrine       disrupting properties have been developed.
In 2011, the Danish government       decided to ban the use of some parabens (first identified as EDCs by Routledge)       in personal care products intended for children up to three years old as a       precautionary measure, as children might be especially vulnerable to       hormone-like effects.
The Danish ban triggered a new assessment at EU       level which led in November 2011 to a recommendation by the EU's       Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) for an entire EU- wide ban       on parabens in products aimed at children under six months old.
Growing       awareness about parabens has inspired a number of manufacturers to banish       them in favour of safer preservatives, while some have simply accepted a       shorter shelf life as the price of doing healthy business.
You can often       find personal-care products labeled "paraben free," Signers of the Compact       for Safe Cosmetics have committed to avoiding their use; the list of these       companies can be found at www.safecosmetics.org.
