     The NESS evaluation, and Anning's work as the educationalist and       core member of the impact module of the National Evaluation of Sure Start,       had an immediate impact on the development of Sure Start services.
The       Director of the Sure Start Programme (1999-2006) states: "Sure Start had a       profound and direct impact on the way early years services are delivered       in England.
In particular, early disappointing Sure Start impact results       published in 2006 led to an in depth study on programme variability for       which Anning was the project leader ...
The findings from this       study had a direct impact on the requirements for the great expansion of       Children's Centres that followed.
Of particular relevance was the       importance of good local data systems to understand local needs, and what       groups were not using Sure Start services, and the importance of matching       local empowerment strategies with a clear focus on activities that would       enhance child development."
(H) The Sure Start Director (1999-2006)       continues: "Evidence from the themed study on the Quality of Early       Learning and Play in Sure Start Local Programmes (Anning et al       2005) was also was used by civil servants to ensure local programmes were       improving the child focused activities, and had an impact on wider       discussions on the need to improve the training requirements for childcare       workers."
(H).
Ultimately, the significance of this case lies in Anning's role       in promoting enhanced life chances for children in poverty or at risk (D)       and over 3,000 children's centres across England continue to deliver       provision shaped by the Impact Module of the NESS evaluation.
Reports,       accessible on the DfE website, are widely used by professionals and       students.
NESS publications from the Impact Team provided the evidence       base for policy changes to combat poverty, educational failure,       worklessness, family and relationships breakdown.
The Chief Research       Officer at the Department for Education in 2012 states in a letter to       support this case study: "On behalf of the Department for Education, I am       pleased to confirm that the Impact Module of NESS findings informed       systemic changes in services for families with young children defined as       at risk/vulnerable.
In particular, though the concept of multi-agency       teams delivering universal services remained central to successive Labour       and Coalition government policies, NESS Impact Module findings evidenced       the need to target specialist expertise at point of needs (examples being       the enhanced role of family nurse/health visitors and day-care staff for       identifying and responding to needs for two-year-olds deemed to be at risk       of health, welfare or educational related targets.)"
(G).
The       Minister of State for Children from 2005 to 2009 also stressed the       continuing impact of the NESS evaluation: "During the period 2008-2013,       cumulative findings from the National Evaluation of Sure Start impacted on       policy and practice in early years services for young children defined as       vulnerable/at risk and their families."
(J).
During the period 2008-2013 cumulative NESS findings of the Impact Module       informed:     (1) Systemic changes in integrated services for vulnerable families       The concept of multi-agency teamwork remained central to Labour and       Coalition policies.
NESS evidence clarified the need to target specialist       expertise at point of need (e.g.
the enhanced role of family nurses/health       visitors) whilst multi-agency teams delivered universal, non-stigmatised       services.
Evidence of the importance of targeting 2-year-olds at risk       resulted in extending free childcare to them (A).
(2) Rethinking resources and funding of Children's Centres The       average funding allocated to SSLPs/CCs was &#163;500,000 revenue per year.
Early disappointing NESS findings on Impact in 2005 mediated by PV       evidence of `what worked' formed the basis of guidance and increased       accountability for all Children's Centres.
Continuing this impact from       2012, the Coalition government instigated payment by results (e.g., for       take up of free nursery places by 2 and 3-year-olds) (B).
(3) Revision of training and qualifications of early childhood staff       Evidence of the difficulty of operationalising integrated services       resulted in upgrading the workforce.
As a result of this evidence Early       Years Professional Status (EYP), and masters level Leadership and       Management qualifications (NPQICL) for managers were introduced .
References [1] and [2] are referenced in Families in the       Foundation Years Evidence Pack: [2] on Page 14, Anning, [1]       on Page 29.
This Evidence Pack is a key guidance document for EY services       (E).
(4) Enhancing the role of family support and parenting projects By       2008 NESS Impact findings (C) indicated positive effects of the       intervention.
Of 14 outcomes 7 showed significant differences between SSLP       and non-Sure Start (MCS sample) areas.
These included: improved child       social behaviours, improved child independence and self-regulation, less       harsh discipline and home chaos, improved home learning environments,       parents making more use of services, higher rates of immunisations and       fewer child accidents .
In 2012, NESS reported significant effects on 4 of       15 parental outcomes in survey of 7-year-olds (D).
Children's       Centres are perceived to work and maintain a central role in supporting       vulnerable families with young children.
The Director of the Sure Start       Programme from 1999 to 2006 stated in a letter to support this case study,       written in 2012: "Sure Start has had a profound influence on key       principles in the delivery of children's services across England: the       importance of working with adults as well as children, the importance of       education, social care and health working together for family welfare, and       the difficulty of offering universal services that are successful in       reaching and improving outcomes for the most disadvantaged families have       all been part of the original Sure Start thinking.
The National Evaluation       of Sure Start provided crucial evidence on how such services should be       delivered, what we got wrong in the original design, and the changes to       the original design that resulted in the delivery of over three thousand       children's centres across England.
The evaluation results will continue to       play a key role in the arguments going forward on childcare and early       education policy.
"[H] Evidence of continued impact, particularly of       the PV research which Anning led, continued after 2010.
The Coalition       Government shifted policy imperatives for Children's Centres (funded       directly by the government) to focus on the neediest families and to       involve charities and private companies with a track record of helping       parents [B].
