     There are four major impacts arising from this research:     (a) A highly successful and profitable spin-out company has been created       and sustained;     (b) A new technology process has been adopted by the company's commercial       partners;     (c) A new intervention has been trialled with patients;     (d) Clinical outcomes for patient groups have been improved.
In 1999, the University of Portsmouth and the Cancer Research Campaign       (CRC; now CRUK)       regarded a spin-out company as the best route for further development of       SJG-136 towards Phase       I clinical trials.
Spirogen Ltd was subsequently formed in 2000, founded       by Thurston and Dr Phil       Howard (Senior Research Fellow at UoP until 1999, and now CSO at       Spirogen), along with John       Hartley (UCL) and Chris Martin (Xenva Ltd) [1].
The commercial       success of the company is       evident from the acquisition of Spirogen by Astra Zeneca for $200m in 2013       [2].
A new intervention with SG-136 was trialled with patients,       and significant clinical benefits       were observed [3, 4, 5].
SJG-136 entered a number of Phase I       clinical trials [6-8] in the mid-to-late       2000s in the USA through the National Cancer Institute (Vanderbilt       [Rothenburg / Puzanov], Sloan       Kettering [Rizvi], MD Anderson [Ravandi] and Ohio State University       [Byrd]), and in the UK through       Cancer Research UK (Edinburgh [Jodrell] and Royal Free London       [Hochhauser]).
The results       showed evidence of clinical efficacy and the side-effects were relatively       non-toxic (e.g.
lower limb       oedema and fatigue, which were transient and reversible).
Significant       patient benefit in the form of       partial responses and stabilisation of disease was observed in ovarian and       bowel cancer,       melanoma and leukaemia.
To date, over 69 patients have been treated in multiple Phase I clinical       trials.
There were15 cases       leading to disease stabilisation and three notable Partial Responses       recorded in patients heavily       pre-treated and resistant to other chemotherapy agents.
On the basis of       these Phase I data, SJG-136       (subsequently renamed SG2000) entered Phase II clinical trials in ovarian       cancer through the       US National Cancer Institute in early 2011 [3ii], and the trial is       close to completion.
A further       Spirogen-sponsored Phase II clinical trial in leukaemia with two centres       in the USA started       recruiting in 2013.
During the mid-2000s, Spirogen Ltd approached the US Biotech company,       Seattle Genetics Inc.,       with an interest in attaching a PBD dimer to an antibody to generate       targeted therapies.
This       relationship has developed to the point where a CD33 targeting       antibody-PBD conjugate (ADC) is       in Phase I clinical trials [9,10].
Since 2011, Spirogen has also       had research collaborations and       license agreements with Genentech Inc., a member of the Roche Group.
These       biotechnological       and clinical developments were instrumental in convincing MedImmune, a       subsidiary of Astra       Zeneca, of the commercial potential of SG2000 conjugates in anti-cancer       drug therapy [1,2].
Commenting on the recent deal, Spirogen CEO Dr. Chris Martin said: "This       deal reflects the very       significant progress made by our scientists, most notably over the last       two years, as we have       applied our warhead and linker technologies to the development of highly       potent and specific       ADCs.
We believe that PBD-armed antibody-drug conjugates will emerge as a       critical component       in the next generation of cancer biologics with the potential to make a       difference for oncologists       and their patients.
We look forward to combining our world class       capabilities in this area with       MedImmune's ability to develop this exciting class of oncology drugs."
(www.spirogen.com/news/latest.php?id=1071)
