     In order to establish a colony on a surface, a microbe must first be able       to adhere to that surface.
Preventing such adherence is therefore a       logical strategy for the prevention of microbial colonisation to the       surfaces of biomedical implants, artificial organs and dental enamel, to       name but a few.
Microbial adhesion to teeth is a prerequisite to decay, so       treatments that inhibit adhesion are prime candidates for inclusion in       oral hygiene products.
Furthermore, such dental coatings not only have the       potential to reduce caries (cavity) formation, but also to limit the       acid-induced demineralisation of enamel, the increased permeability of       dentine (which leads to dental hypersensitivity), and the unsightly       staining of tooth surfaces by, for example, spices, tannins and nicotine.
The Portsmouth team's innovative approach of using their ultra-low       surface energy fluoropolymers to reduce bacterial colonization received       considerable media attention (ref.
1).
In turn, this triggered the       attention of several industrial partners, each of whom signed evaluation       licenses in the technology.
These partners' application interests ranged       from the inhibition of marine biofouling (DowCorning), through the       prevention of soiling in engineering tools (Unilever), to uses in domestic       household products (Reckitt Benckiser) and biomedical materials       (GSK).
However, the greatest impact from the Portsmouth Team's research         has been in the arena of oral healthcare through an ongoing         collaboration with GSK (ref.
2).
During the development of their fluoropolymer as a dental care         material, the Portsmouth team, in collaboration with GSK, found that (1)       the fluoropolymer coating, when deposited from aqueous emulsion,         greatly reduces demineralisation of dental hard tissues by dietary       acids, and the consequential tooth wear and erosion; (2) the fluoropolymer       reduces dentine permeability as evaluated by the industry-standard       hydraulic conductance model; (3) inhibits the adhesion to dental       substrates of primary oral colonisers (S. sanguinis, A. naeslundii),       a major aetiological pathogen implicated in dental caries (S. mutans),       and a mixed bacterial culture isolated from human saliva; and (4) inhibits       extrinsic staining by tooth chromogens such as the polyphenolic components       of tea, coffee and red wine.
The obvious commercial potential of the Portsmouth team's fluoropolymer       was immediately recognized by GSK who subsequently filed for patent       protection of the intellectual property relating to the design of the       fluoropolymer itself, to a process for its preparation, to oral care       compositions comprising such polymers, and to its use in the prevention,       inhibition and treatment of dental erosion, tooth wear, dentine       hypersensitivity, anti-staining of dental enamel and anti-adhesion of oral       bacteria.
(ref.
3)     When added to toothpaste and/or mouthwash, such materials provide an       efficient, biocompatible and cost-effective means of limiting the damage       to teeth by oral bacteria.
Therefore, the development of these innovative       compounds as inhibitors of bacterial adhesion to dental surfaces has wide       ranging benefits in enhancing the oral health of the general public,       not only in the UK, but also worldwide.
In the words of the Director of       Gum Health and Dry Mouth Research and Development at GSK (ref.
2), collaborations with the Portsmouth team "have been very         successful and have resulted in next generation products which have a         big impact on the quality of life of patients and consumers."
GSK       toothpastes are sold world-wide and include many well-known brands in the       UK, such as Sensodyne&#174; and Aquafresh&#174;.
