     The research described above and the group expertise led to the selection       by the Metropolitan Police in 2010 of one of the group's members, Dr.       Michael Sutherland, as an expert scientific witness in a series of fraud       investigations involving bomb detection devices [8].
These devices were       purported to detect small electrical and magnetic signals at great       distances, in a similar manner to the techniques pioneered in the Quantum       Matter group.
Dr Sutherland devised and conducted a series of double blind       tests on the separate substance detection devices to test their efficacy       under scientific conditions, and also produced detailed critiques on the       science that the devices claimed to use.
He was also called to The Old       Bailey on four separate occasions as an expert witness [8].
Fraudulent bomb detection devices were sold to police forces and the       military in many countries, most noticeably in Iraq, where they       contributed to significant loss of life through their inability to prevent       suicide bombings.
A UK government ban on exporting such devices was put in       place in 2010 while the investigations were undertaken.
In considering the operating mechanism of these fraudulent explosives       detectors, Dr. Sutherland drew heavily on his knowledge of the techniques       employed in the above body of research to rigorously assess the physics of       the devices.
The ADE-651 device for instance was alleged to work on the       principle of Nuclear Quadropole Resonance (NQR), which would require       detection of small electrical signals in coils similar to those used in       [2,6].
A calculation of the size of NQR signals that might be sensed by       this device proved unequivocally that the NQR effect would yield signals       far below the threshold detection limit.
Similarly, the GT200 device was       said to be sensitive to diamagnetic and paramagnetic responses of       substances some 700m away from the operator.
Using experience gained in       designing detection coils for use in magnetic susceptibility measurements,       it was possibly to demonstrate that the claims of the manufacturer of this       device were similarly impossible.
The thorough scientific assessment of the operating principles of these       devices, along with rigorous double blind testing of their effectiveness       by Dr. Sutherland formed a key part of the prosecution case.
Leading       Counsel of the prosecution states, "Although his contribution to all of       the trials has been invaluable, Dr Sutherland's considerable expertise in       superconductors and novel magnetic and metallic materials, was essential       in the trials relating to the ADE 651 and the GT200....The independence of       Dr Sutherland's research, the quality of it, the clarity of his reports       and the evidence he gave were all fundamental in securing convictions.
"[7]     The impact of this work is twofold.
First, in 2013 convictions were       secured in 3 of the 4 trials, with the fourth trial ongoing.
This has       disrupted several major international fraud rings, with an estimated       combined turnover of &#163;70 million.
The use of the fraudulent bomb detection       devices had caused significant human damage.
On delivering a guilty       verdict, Judge Richard Hone QC said that use of the devices "in all       probability materially contributed to causing death and injury to innocent       individuals" [9].
A former British Army bomb disposal officer stated       "Countless tragedies have been caused, both directly and indirectly,       because of these devices."[10].
The Detective Superintendent who led the       Avon and Somerset police investigation said "I'm confident people have       lost their lives because of this."
[11].
The City of London Police confirm       that "Dr Sutherland's contribution to the investigation was a key factor       in securing guilty convictions for fraud at court, and for stopping the       manufacture and sale of these devices" [8].
A second impact has been the enhancement of the international reputation       of UK science through significant national and international press       coverage, much of which has reported on the work of Dr. Sutherland.
Dr.       Sutherland has made numerous media appearances to discuss these scientific       findings, including BBC news, Channel 4 news, and SKY TV business report       [12-16].
