     Upon the successful completion of his five year EPSRC Advanced Fellowship       Doran was awarded       a one year PPARC/RSE fellowship in New Venture Creation in 2004.
These       awards were       designed to train research-council funded fellows in how to start a       business.
Significant commercial       interest then led to the creation of spin-out Geomerics in 2005.
The four       founders of Geomerics       were Chris Doran (who left the Cavendish to become CEO), Anthony Lasenby,       Mike Hobson and       Joan Lasenby.
The background IP in geometric algebra was used to create a       series of       demonstrations and proofs of concept that were taken to potential       customers.
These       demonstrations included applications in animation, physics and       electromagnetic modelling (which       was under consideration as a secondary market).
Based on customer feedback       Geomerics       decided to focus attention primarily on lighting for computer games,       tackling the problem of real-       time calculation of global illumination in a virtual world.
Geomerics is now a well-established company employing 22 people in its UK       and Canadian       offices, up from 15 in 2008.
Its technology runs across a wide range of       platforms, from console to       PC to mobile, and in 2013 Geomerics was one of the first groups of       companies announced to be       working on the PlayStation 4 with Sony.
To date Geomerics' Enlighten       software has been licensed       by over 30 titles, with customers in the USA, Canada, Iceland, Germany,       Sweden, Norway, Russia,       Ukraine, Japan and Korea.
These customers include three of the largest       publishers on the planet:       Electronic Arts, Square Enix and Take 2 Interactive.
All of these titles       have been developed since       2008.
Geomerics biggest customer is EA, and Geomerics' Enlighten product is now       fully integrated with       EA's Frostbite game engine, as described in a joint Geomerics / EA       presentation [8].
The single biggest title Geomerics has been involved with is Battlefield       3, released by the EA DICE       studio in 2011.
EA DICE were the first customers of Geomerics, and       Battlefield 3 has become       viewed as the title that re-set the bar in graphics quality for games.
The       game has sold nearly 20       million copies, and brought around $1bn of revenue into Electronic Arts       [7].
It has won over 60       game industry awards, including the 2012 BAFTA for best game.
Many of the       awards are for the       quality of its graphics [6].
As well as Battlefield, Enlighten is now employed in some of the major       franchises in the industry:       Need for Speed (the leading racing franchise); Eve Online; Command &amp;       Conquer; XCOM; and       even Plants versus Zombies (the top-grossing launch title on iOS).
In 2012 Geomerics was awarded a Develop Industry Excellence Award for       Technical Innovation.
These awards are the only ones voted for by developers, and represent a       significant endorsement       of the technology and team at Geomerics.
Since 2008 Geomerics' revenue due to sales of Enlighten have been in       excess of &#163;1.7M.
[9]
