     Three types of impact are claimed: (1) initiating a move away from a       broad-brush risk factor approach to the explanation and prevention of       crime towards a focus on key causal factors and mechanisms; (2) being       recognized and utilized by policy makers; (3) contributing to social       science education nationally and internationally.
(1) PADS+'s most significant impact is on the terms of the debate in       crime prevention and policing.
PADS+ is advancing thinking about the       development of more efficient and effective crime reduction policies by       drawing attention to the value and importance of the explanation (causes       and causal mechanisms) of crime, rather than the identification of factors       which are merely statistical correlates (e.g., markers such as gender,       race and socioeconomic status, which cannot be causes of crime).
This has been facilitated by wide dissemination.
The 2007 SCoPiC       Conference co-organized by PI Wikstr&#246;m and then Chief Scientific Advisor       to the Home Office Professor Paul Wiles, and PI Wikstr&#246;m's 2012 Nigel       Walker Lecture were attended by large numbers of senior representatives of       government and criminal justice agencies (100-300).
Following the       publication of Breaking Rules, PADS+ was the subject of articles       in four national daily newspapers (e.g., Sources 1, 2) and several       publications aimed at practitioner groups (e.g., Source 3).
PADS+       researchers took part in interviews for BBC radio and television e.g.
BBC       Radio 4, `Thinking Allowed', 15th August 2012 (source 4); BBC       World Service News, 6th July 2012 (13:45); BBC Breakfast Show,       6th July 2012 (7:30).
Reviews of Breaking Rules in       influential practitioner-targeted journals describe it as `a crucial book       for police officers leading or designing crime reduction or preventative       strategies' which provides `crucial insights for policing' (Source 5), and       having `implications for penal policies' (Source 6).
The change in the terms of the debate is evidenced by the number of       invitations from local, regional, national and international practitioners       and policy-makers' wishing to hear how the findings from PADS+ can and       should change the way they work to reduce crime.
PI Wikstr&#246;m has been       invited to various meetings organized by the Home Office (attended, for       example, by the Chief Scientific Advisor, Deputy Director of the Strategic       Policy Team, and Chief Economist/Director of Social Science; e.g., June       2009, 2010), Members of Parliament and the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit       (March 2008), the Ministry of Justice (March 2008), the Cabinet Office       (September 2012), the Youth Justice Board (November 2008, April 2011), the       Ministers of State for Crime Prevention (Home Office) and for Policing and       Criminal Justice (Home Office and Ministry of Justice) (March 2013),       various police constabularies and local government offices (e.g., March,       May and October 2013), the US National Institute of Justice (April 2011),       the Swedish National Police Board (August 2011), and the Danish Crime       Prevention Council (April 2013).
In 2011, Wikstr&#246;m was appointed external       expert to the Home Office Crime and Policing Group.
(2) PADS+ has been utilised in the development of policy and practice in       the following respects.
First, practitioners and policy makers have       started to integrate the implications of PADS+ into their work.
For       example, the Safer Peterborough Partnership writes "[we] are really         keen to develop our policies... working with Professor Wikstr&#246;m...         enabling the Partnership to develop its approach with a strong         understanding and consideration of what causes crime and criminality"       (source 10); and Nottinghamshire Constabulary writes "We are keen to         consider how we take the findings and ensure our local policy decisions         pay due attention" (source 11) and they hope to "turn the SAT         theory and the research findings into local operational activity"       (Source 12).
Second, the Home Office (Office for Security and Counter       Terrorism) commissioned a report applying SAT to radicalisation, which has       been cited in the Government's Prevent Strategy for preventing       violent extremism (source 8) which is part of CONTEST: The United       Kingdom's Strategy for Countering Terrorism (source 7).
Third, the Home       Office has commissioned a report, currently in development, detailing the       implications of PADS+ research for policy and practice, indicating their       intention for this contribution to the knowledge base to be utilised in       local and national crime prevention strategy.
(3) In addition to its impact in criminal justice and policy arenas,       PADS+ has been included as a case study in the OCR Psychology A Level       syllabus (Source 9), which is taught to an estimated 12,000 UK students       each year, and PADS+ researchers have been invited to speak at a number of       UK secondary schools.
Breaking Rules (Reference 1) is already       being used in University courses in the US (Temple University), Germany       (Universities of Hamburg and Mannheim) and Sweden (Malm&#246; University) and       the fact that Reference 3 has been one of the most accessed articles in       the Journal of Quantitative Criminology since its publication suggests it       is also being used extensively in university courses.
