 The research conducted at the Violence Research Centre has had impact on practical interventions undertaken by public bodies at the local, the national, and the European level.
It has also influenced European research strategies.
Locally in Switzerland: The findings of the experimental z-proso study [References 1 and 2] included the recommendation to the municipality of Zurich to introduce the social skills programme PATHS/PFADE on a wider basis.
The municipality extended the programme and it is currently used in over 600 classes and nurseries in the city [Source 1].
Recently the Canton of Solothurn has started the introduction of the programme in over 160 classes.
Nationally in Switzerland: On the basis of his expert report in 2009 [Reference 3], the Swiss Government adopted in June 2010, a national plan (2011-15) for evidence-based violence prevention (Source 2, citing Eisner in footnote 3 and in 5 other places).
The interim report says that `the principal academic basis for this Programme is the Report Youth and Violence Prevention (Eisner 2009)': Source 3, p. 10 our translation).
This plan includes support for implementing interventions, coordination between all levels of public administration, a data-base on evidence based programmes, funding for evaluation studies, national conferences for prevention practitioners, and a practitioner support service [Source 3].
The interim report concludes that `In our view, the Evaluation Project can agree to recommend the philosophy of evidence-based procedure in preventing violence.
Apart from assertions by Expert Eisner, this philosophy is as yet not widely disseminated in Switzerland' [Source 3 p. 38].
The impact of the recommendations in Professor Eisner's study on child sexual abuse (Reference 3) was evaluated in an internal report to the funding agency, the Optimus foundation.
Impact was evaluated through 20 interviews with representatives of local and national public agencies, child protection networks, and NGOs.
Responses suggest impact at several levels: a) The general public `booklet', which summarizes main findings in an approachable way and relates them to prevention strategies was found to be widely used by practitioners [Source 4].
b) The report was found to have been important input for policy initiatives.
For example, primarily based on the findings presented in Reference 3 the Swiss Federal Office of Gender Equality developed recommendations for the cantons and municipalities about measures to reduce dating violence amongst adolescents, which have since led to a considerable number of prevention initiatives [Source 5].
c) Finally, respondents in the criminal justice system found the report an important resource for responding to political initiatives.
Influence wider in Europe: The research by Dr Ttofi on bullying prevention, partly funded by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council [Reference 5], has been disseminated through the Campbell Collaboration, the most important organization globally to make social-science research accessible to policy-makers and practitioners.
It was met by considerable interest amongst the general public and by policy-makers in several countries.
Findings of the study were featured in, amongst others, the Time Magazine, the Boston Globe, the Economist  and Svenska Dagbladet [Source 6], In 2010, the authors of Reference 5 were invited to present their findings to Norway's Ministry of Education and Research, which produced a policy report based on the findings [Source 7].
Reference 5 also was a crucial resource for the National Action Plan on Bullying of the Republic of Ireland [Source 8, pp.
76-7].
Influence on European research: The studies conducted by Professor Eisner [References 1,2,3] had impact on research at the European level.
In 2010, he was commissioned by the European Science Foundation (ESF) and the Jacobs Foundation to develop a strategic workshop on `Evidence-based developmental prevention of violence and bullying: European Strategies'.
The conference resulted in the ESF adopting a foresight Science Position Paper for a Science-Based European Violence Prevention policy [Source 9].
The position paper, which is the considered view of the ESF social science committee, has been disseminated widely amongst European public health and criminal justice institutions; it includes nine recommendations for improving the effectiveness of research supported violence-prevention.
