     Without the underpinning research, undertaken at AUB in the mid-2000s,       GPB would never have come about and there would have been no impact.
The       significance and reach of the impact are evidenced as follows: GPB was       commissioned in 2008 by Folly, a leading digital arts organisation, for       Portable Pixel Playground supported by the Lottery Fund and other arts       organisations.
It encouraged young people to use everyday technologies in       new and creative ways and helped to combat the stereotype that playing       with technology is a solitary experience.
At time of writing, GPB remains the lead activity shown on their website       and includes interviews with children and adults.
Portable Pixel       Playground travelled round North West England developing a digital       audience and `exceeding expectations and targets'.
The research was       validated professionally when GPB was accepted by Siggraph for the 37th       convention and exhibition on computer graphics and interactive technology       in 2010.
There followed in 2011 exhibitions at the Dowse Gallery (New Zealand);       Maker Faire, Newcastle; Art Rock, St Brieuc; and Scopitone, Nantes.
Scopitone is a trans disciplinary festival mounted by Stereolux and       appealing to a large eclectic audience.
GPB attracted a YouTube audience       and was a great hit, described online as: `Une Installation vraiment       marrante &#8212; un gros bac &#224; sable avec des bestioles dedans &#8212; et qui stup&#233;fie       les petits enfants !!'
The varied locations from techno-fairs and arts centres to rock and film       festivals and from theatres to children's play areas, has resulted in       considerable impact.
Whereas the piece was originally researched and       designed specifically to engage children with technologies, its popularity       is connected to its playfulness, relative low cost and simplicity of       installation, combined with its versatility.
Science and technology       centres like At-Bristol where a more sophisticated iteration of GPB opened       in 2012 as `Living Timeline', are part of the growing investment in       science and technology learning through participants' direct experience       and entertainment.
The At-Bristol piece exemplifies the impact of the GPB technology and       builds on it to create a 4.6 m physical timeline at the main entrance to       the Museum that combines a long table/timeline containing objects relevant       to the environment, augmented with projected interactive creatures that       will respond to being petted, picked up and splatted.
It brings the last       460 million years of evolutionary development to life, with creatures       ranging from spiders and snails, through ammonites and trilobites to       dinosaurs inhabiting a Mixed Reality ecosystem.
It is part of a permanent       exhibition `Our world &#8212; no more waste' explores the Earth's systems       and history and finds ways to make the incredible information accessible       to visitors from two to eighty.
The creatures are projected onto a       physical 3D landscape.
As with GPB, creatures sense the presence of       visitors through the use of Kinect stereo camera sensors, and they respond       accordingly by disappearing, running away, or crawling up your arm.
In a       sense, therefore, the impact of the entire museum experience will be       preluded by this interactive piece.
Impact at these events is enhanced by the researchers' direct engagement       with the users in discussion sessions as at Dowse Gallery (where they were       described as `ingenious and imaginative artists').
Squidsoup's 2012       commission for the RSC builds further on the GPB research to produce walls       alive with a living wallpaper of animated texts which when touched will       scuttle off like insects engaging participants in the ephemerality and the       eternal presence of Shakespeare's work.
The work was seen by an estimated       25,000 members of the public.
The beneficiaries of the research undertaken by Birtles as part of       Squidsoup are: adults, children and anyone with an interest in discovering       more about spatial relations, socialisation, ecology, cultural engagement,       and science and technology in a digital age.
The potential for this kind       of approach to physical interface design is huge.
The use of 3D cameras in       computer interfaces is expanding, though current usage generally focuses       on tracking and analysis of body movement and gesture.
The research       undertaken for GPB opens up possibilities for using similar technologies       for analysing topography / surface shape.
The organisations that have       commissioned and exhibited GPB and related pieces have extended their       audiences and been endowed with new ways of outreach and communication.
The works impact through being immersive and interactive, family-friendly       and playful, sociable and generative of communication; all the video       footage of GPF indicates high levels of visual focus, manual engagement       and verbal communication.
