     The integration of non-conventional treatment methods such as osteopathy       and acupuncture into       mainstream public sector primary care has been a gradual process.
A small       number of early       adopters piloted NHS services in the 1980s.
Peters, who was       Director of the Complementary       Therapies team at the Marylebone Health Centre (MHC) played a leading part       after Dr Patrick       Pietroni gained the necessary funding (&#163;750,000) to inaugurate the St       Mary's Medical       School/Waites' Project (extended primary care team project) in1988 and       appointed Peters as       Senior Research Fellow.
Peters co-authored a paper on the feasibility of       collaborative working in       an extended primary care team that included complementary practitioners in       NHS general practice       in 1991 (Reason P, Peters D et al 1991 ibid).
Peters and Davies published       a preliminary       description of the MHC musculoskeletal acupuncture and osteopathy service       in 1994 (Peters D,       Davies P 1994 ibid), and in the same year provided a chapter on the       benefits and challenges of       doctors and complementary practitioners sharing responsibility for patient       care.
MHC's inter-professional learning and multidisciplinary primary care team       model became the focus       of academic study with the establishing of the Centre for Community Care       and Primary Health at the       University of Westminster.
The collaborative model had national influence.
Other groups       subsequently established versions of the integrative model in their own       areas (in particular Liverpool       Centre for Health, Lewisham Hospital NHS Trust Complementary Therapy       Centre, Glastonbury       Health Centre, Healthworks Newcastle, Cullompton Integrated Medical       Centre).
Then, as GP fund-holding       was succeeded by PCT multi-funds in the mid-90s, a community-based version       of the MHC       model made acupuncture and osteopathy available PCT-wide via the       Westminster PCT       Complementary Therapies Service.
This in turn acted as a model for PCTs nationally: a national survey       conducted in 2002-3 (to which       66% of PCTs responded) showed that 30-63.2% of the responding PCTs       declared they were       providing community access to complementary therapy services (Wilkinson J,       Donaldson J, Peters       D. 2004 ibid).
The House of Lords Science and Technology subcommittee on       Complementary       Therapies took on the integrative model as one of its key case studies.
Peters work was written up in a workbook published in 2002 (Peters et al.
2002) which was well-reviewed       (e.g.
by Lewith, Freshwater, Dijkstra), and attracted praise even from       those who have       reservations about integrating complementary therapies into mainstream       healthcare (Ernst 2002).
The demonstrable and growing presence and popularity of osteopathy and       acupuncture in the NHS       led to the inclusion of osteopathy in the 2001 RCGP guidelines on low back       pain.
Subsequently,       the 2009 NICE guidelines on early intervention in acute low back pain       included osteopathy and       acupuncture (see http://www.nice.org.uk/CG88).
Subsequently, we set up and tested the model in various NHS settings.
It       was evaluated and shown       to be effective through research at the Victoria Medical Centre by the       University of Westminster       (http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2296/12/49).
Out of this work, another service for       musculoskeletal pain was established for Kensington &amp; Chelsea PCT in       2010-11.
The Kensington &amp;       Chelsea Beating Back Pain Service (BBPS) was a pilot service for patients       with persistent low back       pain.
An evaluation, conducted by Ridge, Cheshire and Polley       found 38% of patients experienced       a clinically significant improvement in their pain at 3-month follow-up       (in press,       http://www.biomedcentral.com/bmccomplementalternmed/).
As a consequence of having led these       developments in NHS care, Peters was invited to participate in the ARC       symposium on research       priorities on the role of complementary therapies in MSK disease in 2009,       and in 2012 he gave       evidence to the House of Commons Health Select Committee on workforce       planning in relation to       CM in the NHS (http://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-a-z/commons-         select/health-committee/news/12-01-19-etwp-ev3/).
The team at       Westminster are now involved in       commercializing this work in the new NHS commissioning environment, for       example, developing an       online self-care library (http://selfcare-library.info/)       which presents the evidence-base for the use of       CT and self-management options.
Additionally, the recent establishment of       the Westminster Centre       for Resilience at the University will research the use of       non-pharmacological interventions in long-term       chronic conditions.
Peters D, Chaitow L, Morrison S, Harris G. 2002.
Integrating       Complementary Therapies: A       Practical Guide for Primary Care.
Harcourt Brace.
Edinburgh.
Dijkstra PU.
Review Manual Therapy Vol 7 No 2 (2002)     Lewith G. Review.
Complementary Therapies in Medicine, Vol 10, No 1,       March 2002     Freshwater D. Review.
Complementary Therapies in Nursing and Midwifery.
Vol 8, No 3, Page       173, August 2002     Ernst E. Review.
Focus on Alternative and Complementary Therapies, Vol 7,       No 2, page 206, June       2002
