     Scheid's research provided a crucial spark for a revitalisation of the       Menghe medical current in both China and abroad.
Following a period of       flourishing and wide-spread impact that extended from the 1820s to the       1970s, by the 1990s the vitality of Menghe medicine had visibly declined.
Very few young practitioners considered themselves as belonging to this       medical current and its institutional base and influence was by then       negligible.
Scheid's interest in Menghe medicine, his collaboration with       local historians and informants, and the publications of his research in       China and the West stimulated a renewed interest in revitalising the       current.
This is important for a variety of different reasons.
First, it       has contributed to the creation of local identities at different levels:       families, local and regional communities, and scholarly communities.
Second, it is reinvigorating a medical tradition that has long been       considered one of the most important branches of Chinese medicine.
Third,       Scheid's research has facilitated the establishment of cross-cultural and       transnational links at personal and institutional levels that are       generating new possibilities of learning for Chinese medicine       practitioners and researchers.
Locally, in Changzhou, Wujin and Shanghai the Menge current reorganised       once more formally around the Changzhou Menghe Current Development         Association &#24120;&#24030;&#23391;&#27827;&#37291;&#27966;&#25215;&#36681;&#26371;, established in 2007.
In August 2007 over four       hundred Chinese and international scholars meet in Changzhou to celebrate       and promote Menghe medicine.
The city's Changzhou Daily presents this       remarkable event.
The local historian Li Xiating expressed his deep       gratitude in the city's Changzhou daily for Volker Scheid's scholarship       that supported the revival.
Since then, the Association publishes a       regular Newsletter that seeks to archive the history of Menghe Medicine,       organizes meetings and conferences, and has become an important force in       bringing local history alive in the region.
At three Shanghai hospitals       members of the Association work and train students.
Scheid was invited to       lecture at the annual meeting of the Association in 2008 and has been       asked to advice on its future development and possible       internationalization.
Funding from the Association's Chairman, Mr. Gu       Shuhua, has been made available to fund the translation of Scheid's       monograph Currents of Tradition into Chinese with publication       envisaged for 2014.
Seizing an opportunity to promote their town following the work of       Scheid, government and party representatives at township level helped to       establish a specialist clinic in the Menghe township, the Famous Doctor's       Clinic of the Menghe Current (Menghe yipai mingyitang &#23391;&#27827;&#37291;&#27966;&#21517;&#37291;&#22530;) ).
The       Changzhou city's Chinese medical hospital has taken over another field of       representation and transmission and markets its style as "Menghe",       esteeming to provide space for scholarly exchange and begin educating       Western foreigners also.
The head of the hospital Zhang Qi has stressed       that she hopes Volker Scheid will continue to play a major role with the       aim to achieve transnational recognition of Menghe medicine.
Local actors have also begun to employ the heritage of Menghe medicine to       raise recognition of their town and region to promote cultural tourism.
In       2005, a new Museum of Menghe Medicine was opened in Menghe Township in the       renovated home of the Fei family.
The Museum lists Scheid as a member of       the Menghe medical currents and displays his works.
In 2010, work on       rebuilding the original Ding family residence in Menghe commenced and was       completed in October 2011.
The site has a memorial to the famous physician       Ding Ganren situated within a memorial park.
It is envisaged to use the       site to train foreign students in the future.
(Note: The Fei and Ding are       two of the major medical families belonging to the Menghe current).
A CCTV       television series documenting the history of Menghe medicine was filmed in       2009.
Knowledge about the Menghe current is also widely employed by       Changzhou Council to promote local history and tourism through local media       and the world-wide web.
Since Scheid first visited Menghe in 2000, local historians like Li       Xiating have begun publishing a number of new studies on the Menghe       current that draw their inspiration and much information from Scheid's       research.
Menghe medicine and Ding family medicine have been selected as       important research topics funded at regional, provincial and national       level.
Scheid has been asked to work with a research group in Shanghai in       developing local research projects.
Abroad, Chinese medicine practitioners now recognize Menghe medicine as       an important tradition within Chinese medicine.
This helps to shape the       identity of individual physicians and the wider medical tradition.
Together with Five Branches University in San Jose/Santa Cruz, California,       Dr. Ding Yi'e, a great-grandson of Ding Ganren, is currently actively       establishing a US-based centre for Menghe medicine.
Scheid has been asked       to participate as an advisor.
Finally, Scheid's research helped the individual Menghe families to       reclaim aspects of their family history that had been forgotten.
