     Golding's research impacts Health and Welfare, and Practitioners         and Services, where professionals use his findings in their work.
Golding's Motion Sickness Susceptibility Questionnaire (MSSQ) predicts       susceptibility to motion sickness.
It has been translated into several       languages (Chinese, Russian, Spanish) and used in a variety of contexts       worldwide.
Since 2012, as a result of prior European Space Agency (ESA) awareness of       Golding's work, all participants in Zero-gravity parabolic flights       conducted by Novespace for the ESA have been screened for motion sickness       risk using the MSSQ (9 flights involving 67 flyers to date; information       not available for classified military flights).
These put flyers (e.g.
industrial researchers working on Zero-gravity microchip design) in a       weightless environment and are highly nauseogenic.
Those flyers whose MSSQ       responses indicate they are at risk of motion sickness are prescribed       appropriate medication.
The MSSQ has been used to evaluate military motion sickness       countermeasures.
This arose from Golding's role as invited visiting       scientist at the US Naval Medical Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory       (NAMRL).
Scientists working for the US military used the MSSQ when       evaluating the effectiveness of drugs at NAMRL (2008, 2009), and to screen       participants when evaluating the effectiveness of stroboscopic       illumination of military helicopter cabins during nauseogenic flight at       the United States Army Aeromedical Research Laboratory (2011).
Other impact on Practitioners and Services is in medical       treatment of motion sickness, where professional guidelines and training       have been influenced.
The British Medical Journal (BMJ) Best Practice guidelines for Motion       Sickness represent `official advice' to doctors from the British Medical       Association (BMA) on the disorder.
Golding is author on 11 / 74 (15%) of       the publications on which the guidelines are based.
The BMJ reaches all       150,000+ doctors who are BMA members.
Golding's research also underpins professional training: Continuation       Medical Education (CME) for practitioners.
The BMJ commissioned a clinical       review article from Golding and colleagues, informed by his work.
This is       the basis for a module on "Managing Motion Sickness" on the BMJ Learning       site, which forms part of the CME offered by the BMA to clinicians in the       UK.
The module is also accredited for Continuing Professional Development       / CME by professional bodies such as the Austrian Academy of Physicians,       the Dubai Health Authority and others in Australia, Oman, South Africa,       USA, and New Zealand for the period 1/12/11-1/12/13.
Reviews from users       (ranging from pharmacists to general practitioners) indicate its utility.
The online version of the resource has been downloaded over 6,000 times,       indicating a high level of user engagement with the module and a       significant contribution to CME.
Some best practice recommendations result from work directly commissioned       by users.
Golding worked with the NAMRL, sponsored by the US Special       Operations Command (USSOCOM), on objective evaluation of motion sickness       medication.
The 2009 report recommended considering scopolamine rather       than USSOCOM's existing drug of choice.
The work on desensitisation therapy has impacted Health and Welfare,       where outcomes for patients with vestibular disorders have improved.
Throughout 2008-2013, desensitisation techniques arising from Golding's       work have been used in clinical settings.
The techniques involve graded       exposure to vestibular or symptom-provoking stimuli, and controlled       breathing exercises.
The methods improve on previous treatments because       graded exposure allows steady improvement in patients' tolerance and       habituation to (particularly visual) stimuli, as opposed to intense       stimuli from the start of treatment.
The latter leads to overload, severe       symptom increase and likely non-compliance with treatment.
Controlled       breathing works in a similar way, allowing patients to tolerate stimuli       for longer periods.
Over time this results in greater improvement.
The       methods are mainly used by physiotherapists and cognitive behavioural       therapists.
Clinics where the techniques are used include Charing Cross       Hospital and the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, the       National Ear Nose and Throat Hospital (Gray's Inn Road) and a number of       vestibular clinics in the United States.
At these clinics, all patients       presenting with dizziness, vertigo, postural and/or gait instability due       to a vestibular disorder have been treated with the techniques, which can       be regarded as the standard treatment for these symptoms.
Around 100-120       such patients are seen yearly at the London clinics listed above, with       several hundred being treated across the UK as a whole.
All these patients receive customised graded exposure.
Approximately 40%       of such patients in these clinics and across the UK also receive       controlled breathing exercise.
This applies particularly to those with       increased anxiety symptoms and avoidance behaviour.
Golding's techniques were demonstrated in a 2012 episode of the BBC's       `Bang Goes the Theory' where he worked with a lifeboat crewman to       drastically reduce his symptoms.
