     The development of the Nature's Raincoats initiative was a natural       culmination of a growth in external interest of the research of the group.
During 2005-2007 the group received increasing numbers of enquiries from       companies and the media relating to its research.
Some related to a Nature       Highlight/News which was heavily reported in the popular and trade press.
Some related to an invited report for the Analyst aimed at industry       practitioners, which contextualized our research in terms of existing       patents and future possibilities.
Some related to a New Scientist report       "Repulsive vegetables".
When the group published its research on       underwater breathing without a gill the media interest included       FoxNews.com, TechDigest and SoftPedia.
This led to local newspaper and BBC       radio interviews and eventually a 15-minute programme on BBC Radio 4       Material World.
In 2008, with the theoretical physics group of Professor Yeoman's at the       University of Oxford, we decided to create a Public Understanding exhibit       "Nature's Raincoats" at The Royal Society Summer Exhibition 2009.
Ours was       one of 21 selected from 103 proposals on the basis of scientific quality       and novelty, and attractiveness in promoting Science to the general       public, post-16 students, policy makers, and the press.
We created a website www.naturesraincoats.com with sections targeting       general public understanding and companies wishing to understand more       about how to work with us.
We linked this into the Nottingham Science City       initiative with the reporter Brady Haran who created www.test-tube.org.uk       with a "Meet Neil Shirtcliffe" video, a "Superhydrophobic video" and a       film about the Royal Society Exhibition.
The exhibit was sponsored by       EPSRC, the Materials KTN and included a photographic competition.
The       exhibition and web-site have been maintained by the group to create an       enduring "front door" into the group's research.
The exhibition is a       series of hands-on exercises directly linked to our research (see www.naturesraincoats.com/Royal         Society Exhibition.html).
1.
Public understanding impacts through the Physical exhibition     The initial benefit of Nature's Raincoats was to the visitors to the       Royal Society Exhibition, typically children inspired to continue science       and engineering to a higher level.
The exhibition had 5,522 visitors and       worldwide media coverage.
The exhibition was invited (and sponsored) to appear at Techfest (Mumbai,       India, in 2010 and 2012 www.techfest.org)       &#8212; the largest Science and technology exhibition in India with an estimated       85,000 visitors.
The exhibition was also invited (sponsored by EPSRC       Public Understanding Programme) to appear In the Discovery Zone at the       2010 Times Cheltenham Science Festival which sold about 23,000 tickets and       was invited to appear at the National Big Bang Fair (www.thebigbangfair.co.uk)       in London 2013 with 65,000 visitors followed by BBC Summer of UK wildlife       event (Cardiff, June 2013) and the British Science Festival (Newcastle,       September 2013, www.britishscienceassociation.org/british-science-festival).
2.
Public understanding impacts through the Website and the Media     A second benefit was the general public understanding from the linked       videos for the test-tube project e.g.
[6] video explaining the basic       science has had 260,823 visitors (@25/09/13).
www.naturesraincoats.com had       21,020 unique visitors from July 2009 to May 2013 from over 40 countries       with the largest being from the USA [7].
Media interest has also resulted in us providing a specially prepared       laboratory coat (2009) for Richard Hammond's use in the series Invisible       Worlds (BBC/Discovery Channel) and advice and guidance (2012) for the       development of a stunt for use in the BBC series Richard Hammond's       Miracles of Nature (Oxford Scientific Films) [3].
3.
Commercial and Educational impacts     A third benefit was the raising of awareness of the commercial       possibilities of the research through trade reports, for example, Eureka       (a site for Engineering Design) "Nature shapes superior surfaces"       10/9/2009.
More reports were made at the time, including for the Materials       KTN, and permissions were granted for research images to be reproduced in       an educational textbook.
Further benefits of the sustained website, YouTube videos and wider       publicity have been to companies wishing to assess application of       superhydrophobicity to their areas.
Examples include: UK Sport, Water       sports performance, EPSRC invited Olympics pilot project (see section 2)       and separate project, 2008 [1].
Rolls Royce Plc (Derby, U.K.), 2008,       leading to an in-house company programme and directly to the filing of two       patents (US2011147219 and US2011151186) [2].
HumiSeal Europe Ltd.       (Winnersh, U.K.), 2010, funded applied research on product development       [5].
FurTech Ltd. (Glynneath, U.K.), 2011, product development pilot study       [4].
In the US Troy Dassler, a teacher and outreach coordinator in Wisconsin,       developed educational activities for children having used Natures       Raincoats website and discussions with us resulting in an educational web       site (http://microexplorers.blogspot.co.uk/2010/03/super-hydrophobic-surfaces.html)       and with the work reported in an educational article "Recognizing       Excellence: From Macro to Micro to Nano" [8].
