     Providing the evidence base for the development of policy and       implementation of the conservation of tropical forests is a core       motivation that runs throughout the group's work as demonstrated by the       selection of examples of the impact of this research given below.
a) Pioneering REDD+ Implementation: Providing Tools, Building Capacity     Improving International Capacity     Since 2009, five of the group's PhD students and PostDocs (Drs Maniatis,       Scriven, Zelazowski, Roman-Cuesta, Girardin) moved to influential       positions in the UN-REDD programme, charged with developing government       REDD+ programmes across the world.
This has helped global governance       regimes to have enough trained scientific experts, and the UN team have       maintained close links with the group, providing a direct bridge between       academic research and policy implementation.
As one example, Dr Danae       Maniatis, who worked on estimating the biomass of Congo Basin forests for       her DPhil, is now the lead technical expert for the UN REDD programme,       charged with implementing REDD+ monitoring in 10 Congo Basin countries,       and directly designing and implementing the monitoring system for the       Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Implementation of Pioneering REDD+ Projects in Africa     The team have been working closely with pilot and prospective REDD+       projects in several African countries, including Ghana, Ethiopia, Nigeria       and Sierra Leone.
In Ghana, Malhi trained a team of researchers led by Dr       Winston Asante (Nature Conservation Research Centre) [Section 5: C1]       in methods (developed in previous research) for measuring carbon stocks.
Dr Asante and his team have become a regional hub for such monitoring       efforts, and provided further training in field methods in Nigeria,       Liberia and Ethiopia.
The Oxford team has led two training workshops in       Ghana (Prof Malhi, Dr Metcalfe), and one each in Gabon (Dr Girardin, Dr       Doughty) and Ethiopia (Prof Malhi, Dr Morel).
In Ethiopia, for example,       Malhi and Morel have a strong scientific involvement in mapping the carbon       resources and supporting the development of a REDD+ Project in Bale       Mountain National Park, using the ground plot and satellite methods       developed in the course of Morel's DPhil.
This is in close collaboration       with the Ethiopian government and NGOs and may become only the second       fully operational REDD+ project in Africa, and therefore a leader in that       continent.
Furthermore, the government of the state of Oromia (the largest       state in Ethiopia) has decided to employ the protocol developed at Bale       Mountain for its state-wide strategy.
National Biomass Carbon Maps for African Nations     Malhi led an effort to create a biomass carbon map of Ghana [C2],       in collaboration with Ghanaian NGOs and government institutes.
This       involved providing training in field biomass carbon assessment (using the       methods developed and refined in previous work in Amazonia &#8212; e.g.
[R1],       and in satellite remote sensing (e.g.
[R2]).The map was made       freely available [C3] and has played a significant role in       government decision-making, and in informing prospective local-scale REDD+       projects.
The model of open and free distribution was used to encourage       collaboration and openness with data, and to bypass the need for expensive       private consultancies.
This model gained traction, and Prof Malhi was       invited to a meeting in May 2012 in Addis Ababa, where he presented the       Ghana project and the techniques involved.
The meeting resulted in plans       to begin rolling out a similar product for East African nations including       Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya [C4].
The work has also resulted in       close collaboration with the government of Gabon, whom the team is       assisting in the development of a national carbon map.
Prof Malhi was an       official scientific advisor to Gabon at the 2009 climate conference in       Copenhagen [C5].
b) Forest Governance     Protected Areas and their Effectiveness     Since 2009, the Forest Governance group has been working in partnership       with the University of Queensland to develop a global database of       Protected Area Management Effectiveness assessments (the PAME database).
The database now holds over assessments of Protected Area (PA) management       for over 6,700 protected areas, completed by PA managers and stakeholders.
The database provides a key tool to evaluate national and global progress       towards the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) targets for protected       areas.
It has been used to demonstrate progress towards CBD targets in       several high-profile publications and at international meetings (including       the IUCN World Conservation Congress in 2012), and has also been used to       track progress towards the CBD targets by the Biodiversity Indicators       Partnership (BIP), the global initiative to promote and coordinate       development and delivery of biodiversity indicators in support of the CBD,       Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEA), IPBES, and national and       regional governments.
The PAME database is now being integrated into the       IUCN World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA), where it will provide an       open-access resource for researchers and policy makers [C6].
REDD+ Governance     The UNFCCC REDD+ "safeguards" establish broad principles of good forest       governance that are considered critical to the success of REDD+.
However       the process of operationalizing these safeguards has been controversial,       fostering intense debate over the fairness of REDD+ interventions and the       distribution of benefits from global to local scales.
To help chart a way       forward, the Forest Governance Group has developed conceptual tools for       mapping out the complex social and economic trade-offs of REDD+ in a       manner that is conceptually robust and comprehensive.
This includes the       design and application of an "Equity Framework" together with the       University of Southampton, Australian National University and the US-based       Rutgers University.
The Equity Framework has been adopted by research       partners at the regional level in Asia (RECOFTC) and Latin America (CATIE)       as well as the Uganda Coalition for Sustainable Development (UCSD) to       assess REDD+-related projects in Bolivia, Uganda, India and Cambodia.
McDermott has since been invited by a major Brazilian NGO (IMAFLORA), as       well as by the Kingfisher Group, Europe's largest home improvement       retailer, to discuss how the Equity Framework might be used to evaluate       the impacts of their forest-related activities.
The Ecosystems/Forest Governance Group's expertise on safeguards has also       been solicited by key governmental and intergovernmental fora.
These       include the Group's participation as experts in Germany's development of       Social Standards for its International Climate Initiative (ICI) and the       GIZ-CCAD Central American Regional collaboration on REDD+ safeguards, as       well as in training sessions for GIZ aid workers engaged in REDD+       activities.
It also includes serving on Global Forest Expert Panels for       the intergovernmental, inter-agency Collaborative Partnership on Forests       (CFP) that assess policy options for international forest governance and       REDD+ [C7].
As a result of this Panel work, McDermott has been       quoted in over ten different news releases in numerous countries including       the US, Finland, France, Germany, and Indonesia regarding the challenges       that REDD+ faces in safeguarding the welfare of indigenous and local       communities in tropical forests.
