     Based initially on a conference paper at the British Institute of Energy       Economics, the research on Green Deal has been very widely publicised in       the UK.
The publication and its implications were summarised in a policy       briefing by UKERC, in February 2013, in order to maximise its impact among       the relevant communities [Section 5: C1].
It has attracted       attention from business and Government stakeholders, and the media.
The       conference paper led to an invitation to meet analysts at the Department       of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) to discuss the details of the       Government's impact assessment for the Green Deal policy package.
DECC       officials provided the team with their own calculations in order to refine       and check the team's own analysis.
The research also led to invitations to       give oral evidence to the House of Commons Energy and Climate Change       Select Committee inquiries on `The Green Deal' [C2] and `Energy       Prices, Profit and Poverty' [C3].
Internationally, impact of this research has been high because of the       global profile of UK energy efficiency policy and the widely recognised       need for policy innovation.
The Green Deal is the most substantial `on       bill' financing mechanism in the world and is being closely observed       outside the UK.
The research was featured in a plenary session       presentation at the main European energy efficiency conference (with       several hundred participants from industry, energy suppliers, governments,       research, consulting, and the NGO sector) in June 2013 [C4].
The team's research has been influential in setting the public agenda for       discussion about the Green Deal, being quoted as expert opinion in daily       newspapers (e.g.
The Guardian [C5]) and in the specialist energy       press (e.g.
Utility Week [C6]).
It has also been cited by       influential business lobbies (e.g.
National Home Improvement Council [C7])     Early impact of the ESFIT concept as a way forward for energy efficiency       policy has come about in the context of discussion on electricity market       reform.
The absence of substantial measures to promote energy efficiency       has been widely identified as a problem, and, as a result of this       research, ESFITs (also known as premium payments) have emerged as a strong       candidate to address this problem.
The idea has been widely discussed with       those directly responsible for policy making in DECC.
These include:     a.
Minister of State responsible for energy efficiency policy at a       private ministerial breakfast in DECC, 17th March 2011.     b. DECC Chief Scientist, at private meeting in Oxford.
8th       June 2012.     c. Energy Minister, UKERC delegation to DECC, 11th March 2013.
These interactions resulted in a formal government consultation including       the idea of a `premium payment' by DECC.
As a result of his research [R3,         R4], Eyre was the lead author of the UK Energy Research Centre       response to this consultation, and was subsequently invited by DECC to       undertake a rapid review of their analysis, resulting in an       acknowledgement in DECC's final impact analysis [C8].
The work attracted parliamentary attention in the context of the 2012       Energy Bill.
Initially this was through an invited opening presentation by       Nick Eyre at the Parliamentary Renewable and Sustainable Energy Group       meeting on 21st November 2012.
This was attended by the Chair       of the DECC Energy Select Committee, and chaired by one of the Committee       members (Alan Whitehead, MP).
At this meeting DECC publically confirmed       that the idea of a feed-in tariff would be considered in a forthcoming       consultation.
Following this meeting, written evidence was provided to the       Energy Bill Committee on ESFITs [C9].
These interactions resulted       in a cross-party amendment to Energy Bill to enable ESFITs (moved in the       Standing Committee by Alan Whitehead MP, 29th January 2013),       and a subsequent discussion leading to a cross-party amendment for Energy       Bill Report Stage to require `demand reduction regulations' that will       allow energy saving feed-in tariffs [C10].
There has been considerable support from policy stakeholders,       particularly in the environmental community.
For example, Eyre has been       consulted by Green Alliance and the Association for the Conservation of       Energy on legislation needed to enable ESFITs (24th January       2013) and Eyre then briefed major environmental NGOs on amendments to the       Energy Bill to allow ESFITs (13th March 2013).
Both NGO (e.g.
UK Association for the Conservation of Energy) and parliamentary       contributors to the debate regularly cite the team's research [C11,         C12].
The concept of ESFITs is also beginning to have wider impact amongst       policy analysts.
There are already two publications from organisations       with significant policy influence (the European Commission and the       Regulatory Assistance Project, respectively) which build on the evidence       and ideas presented in [C1] for an international policy community.
Both strands of research are also cited in the final draft of the       forthcoming IPCC Working Group III Report.
