     The impact of the research is most directly evident in coalition       formation.
Phase 1 of the research had offered a theoretical distinction       between coalitions and also policy prescription on the efficacy of       particular types of coalition strategies.
The last ten years have revealed       the growing strength of the collective bargaining efforts by developing       countries in the WTO via new coalitions.
These coalitions reflect the       characteristics that the research had alerted scholars and practitioners       to.
That this reflection is more than a coincidence is evident in the       explicit reference that trade negotiators make to this research.
Negotiators from key developing countries have &#8212; in their written works &#8212;       utilised and built on the research to better understand and implement       their coalition strategies.
Instances include: (a) In 2008, a Mexican       trade negotiator utilised Narlikar's definitions and analysis of       coalitions to assess coalition performances of developing countries (see source         i, below); (b) In 2011, the South African Ambassador to the WTO       utilised Narlikar's research on coalitions as the basis for his assessment       of the NAMA-11 coalition's effectiveness (sources ii and iii); (c).
In 2012, a Brazilian diplomat cited Narlikar's analysis as having       influenced his view of multilateral negotiations processes (source iv).
He has since written that "Dr Narlikar's analysis of coalitions and       multilateral negotiations in agriculture trade, particularly her insights       on power positions and coalition strategies and resilience, was       instrumental in giving theoretical understanding for the management of the       G-20 coalition led by Brazil and its strategy in the WTO Doha Round       negotiations" (source v).
Moreover the official history of the WTO       (published in 2013 with the backing of the Director-General of the       organization) cites and acknowledges Narlikar's work on coalitions and the       institution (source vi).
The indirect impact of the research has been to accord recognition to       coalitions in the WTO, thereby resulting in a striking turnaround from       policy from the days of the GATT and the early years of the WTO (when       coalition bargaining was referred to as an almost unseemly activity more       appropriate to the domain of the United Nations Conference on Trade and       Development &#8212; UNCTAD).
Today coalitions form the heart of WTO diplomacy.
They find recognition on the official website where many are listed, and       also in Director General Pascal Lamy's "concentric circles" model of       decision-making where representatives of different groupings are included.
The responsiveness of the organization to coalitions is at least       indirectly influenced by this research, given that the coalitions       themselves have become more visible and effective by applying some of the       findings.
Again, The History of the WTO acknowledges the relevance       and value of this analysis (source vi).
International organizations, particularly the WTO, have utilised the       findings of Phase 2 of the research.
The first Warwick Commission on the       reform of the multilateral trading system utilized Narlikar's research and       also invited her to serve as a Commissioner (Report launched in December       2007, discussions of report in 2008).
The resulting Warwick Commission       Report (source vii) has been widely cited by practitioners for its       recommendations as a realistic and optimistic way forward for the       multilateral trade negotiations.
Two examples are worthy of note.
Simon       Crean, the Australian Minister of Trade, in a speech to the Australian       Parliament, addressed the Report extensively while praising the       Commission's recommendations with explicit willingness to implement them (source         viii).
Patrick Low, the WTO chief economist, has also used the       Report in a WTO working paper as a model for future decision-making in the       WTO (source ix).
The official history of the WTO (source vi)       also cites Narlikar's work of 2006 and 2012 on the organization.
The third phase is also generating impact.
The European Parliament       recently conducted an expert consultation on a different institutional       approach to resolving the current trade deadlock (in response to a US-led       attempt to facilitate a services "plurilateral").
Narlikar served as an       expert witness, and was asked particularly to focus on the response of the       rising powers to the alternative approach and suggest common ground for       compromise; the information gathered at the consultation is meant to help       formulate European Union positions and strategies at international trade       negotiations in May 2012 (source x).
Furthermore, Narlikar's       analyses of institutional reform have been used as a reference point by       various organizations, reform commissions, NGOs, and professional training       programmes.
Related to this third phase are the activities of the Centre for Rising       Powers, an interdisciplinary research centre based at POLIS, with Narlikar       as the founding Director.
A recent and on-going example of the impact of       the CRP research agenda on policy policy is Narlikar's discussion on the       potential establishment of a BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and       South Africa) Development Bank.
The Financial Times in September       2012 (source xi) was among the first to rely on Narlikar's       expertise to assess this potentially ground-breaking cooperative bank       among rising powers.
Jim O'Neill of Goldman Sachs, who was the first to       coin the acronym BRICs, has publicly acknowledged her foresight on this       issue (source xii).
