 The work of Nathaniel Mellors is positioned to create relationships between the present day media and traditional highbrow approaches to Art practice.
In its varying manifestations it is engineered to create critical debate and social discourse both inside and outside the artworld.
Through the BBC commission `The 7 Ages of Britain Teaser' 2010 Mellors was chosen to make a film sequence introducing the final episode of the series showing the role of media and modern Art in twentieth Century British history.
This practice-based research, articulates contemporary art's interdisciplinary approach to media that combines film, performance, prosthetics and drama for a programme nationally and internationally broadcast with estimated viewing figures of 6 million.
Throughout 2010 - 12 Mellors Ourhouse episodes have received funding from the Netherlands Film Fonds and BKVB Funding programme (Netherlands).
The global reach of the Ourhouse series is evidenced by the 3 room installation presented at the Venice Biennale &#8212; this achieved an audience of 440,000.
The work combined video presentations with photograms and an animatronic sculpture, `Hippy Dialectics', that integrates electronics, engineering, sound and prosthetics in a single work.
Mellors' work has received critical acclaim across international media platforms, restricted not only to Art publishing.
In 2011 Mellors was awarded the Cobra Art Prize, a nationally recognized award in the Netherlands that acknowledges the significance of experimentation and innovation in practice and research and foregrounds the importance of the social role of the artist.
On the event of this prize Mellors and Bloor on `the Nest' an exhibition held at the cobra museum Amstelveen that researched the museum archives presenting works by renown artists of the movement in a constructed sculptural installation alongside their own video, sculpture and photographic work.
The exhibition investigated the legacy of playfulness and experimentation in art making that reflects the historical significance of the cobra movement fusing it with new methods and sensibilities for the benefit of a contemporary audience.
Mellors has been collaborating with colleague Chris Bloor from a mutual research base since 2010 and in September 2011 Mellors and Bloor co-curated HYPERCOLON a compendium show spread across the 8 spaces of SMART Project Space in Amsterdam.
Identifying each individual space with a human body part, the exhibition curated artists from a broad spectrum of recognition and provided several up and coming early practitioners, notably Timothy Van Zoelen and Linda Quilan, the opportunity to exhibit alongside more established artists, the Chicago imagists, Brian Catlin, and Paul Lafolley, and with consigned work from the Harry Price Archive and Vito Acconci studio.
The work of Dunn, which involves students, has significant media attention (see section 5) and is genuinely collaborative: with students, with academic staff, with very high profile artists.
This work has also resulted in Dunn being shortlist for a major national prize; the Liverpool Art Prize.
Dr Kill's work, across the two projects (both collaborations with Dr Alice O'Grady from the University of Leeds) (described in section 2), has been seen by huge national and international audiences (Bestival has an audience of 30,000+), there is also a 24 minute documentary film on the project (due for release in 2013/14), it has also attracted research council funding and during the course of this project she has developed a social media following of over 4000 people.
All of these projects involve a strong, and published, commitment to collaborative practice as a theoretical frame.
For Alan Dunn this model of working is an economic and non-hierarchical method of developing and distributing content and is recognised as such by a range of international practitioners in the field of academic audio art, from The Wire Magazine through the Audio Research Editions at Liverpool John Moores University.
The series has also contributed to Dunn being shortlisted for the Liverpool Art Prize.
For Dunn, "The CDs offer students and staff a unique opportunity to present their work in a real-life context, with each package being designed by students.
Collaboration within the School is essential, as is increasingly cross-Faculty work and partnerships with agencies such as the BBC, Universal Music and Berkeley University."
Dunn's work has been the subject of radio, TV, online and print media.
Many of which can be accessed via his website at http://www.alandunn67.co.uk/.
Dr Kill's work can be found discussing collaboration on youtube and in various print media.
However it is the collective contribution to the principles of collaborative practice, and the notion of non-hierarchical approaches to this practice that constitute the claim for impact.
