     Dasher is a fast and easy to learn text-entry interface using natural       continuous pointing gestures,       so taking advantage of humans' natural ability to make high-speed analogue       movements.
It can       also use button presses, clicking and tapping gestures as input.
As well       as being faster, it is       simpler to use than conventional writing systems and produces considerably       fewer errors.
In       contrast to most writing systems, the Dasher approach enables efficient       communication in almost       all languages, regardless of alphabet.
All that is required is an alphabet       file that defines the       alphabetical order, and a training text in the target language.
Alphabet       files have been created for       136 languages, and training texts have been produced in 20 European, 4       Asian, 15 Indian, 12       African, and 3 Middle-Eastern Languages.
Special prototypes of Dasher were       developed in 2011       for writing in Japanese and Chinese, making Dasher's transformational       impact on users global.
Dasher is an open source product &#8212; the source code was released under the       GNU public licence       (GPL) in 2002 and all subsequent versions have been issued similarly.
This       guarantees free       access to the Dasher source code, and allows it to be stored in the       publicly accessible GNOME       repository.
Dasher was included in the GNOME 2 desktop in January 2004,       and agreement was       reached in November 2011 to include it in GNOME 3.
The GNOME desktop is       the default desktop       environment for the Sun MicroSystems (now Oracle) Solaris operating system       and most Linux       distributions.
Since its release, Dasher has been downloaded from the Inference Group       website over 120,000       times of which 71,000 times since 2008.
It has also been included in       software packages distributed       by others, including Ubuntu, Solaris, and Tobii (who sell gaze-tracking       systems).
Dasher was designed to use hardware that may be much smaller than       conventional keyboards and       is therefore particularly useful for smart phones and tablet computers.
As       a result of the Inference       Group's continued research into porting Dasher to mobile devices [Ref 5],       Dasher was made       available for the Android market and the iPhone, iPod touch and iPad in       2010.
It has been       downloaded to Android devices over 5000 times with a user-review rating of       4.2/5 and from the       Apple Store over 400 times since October 2012.
Dasher has transformed computing for those unable to use a conventional       keyboard because it       can be driven using any pointing device, such as a mouse, rollerball,       touchpad, joystick or gaze-tracker.
Since 2008, significant advances have been made in the usability of Dasher       with pointing       devices, particularly with gaze-trackers and joysticks.
Dasher has proven       to be ideally suited to be       used with a gaze-tracker as it is mode free: you look at what you are       writing, and do not need to       escape into an error-correction mode, nor an "accept-model-predictions"       mode as in systems       which offer word-completions.
Unlike other systems it is also robust to       blinks and can infer and       correct poor calibration.
Dasher adapts to an individual's writing style       to such an extent that it is       sometimes possible to write several words using a single glance.
One issue which Dasher faced was that commercial gaze-trackers are       expensive, and typically use       special-purpose high resolution, high frame rate infra-red cameras.
The       significant cost of       commercial gaze-trackers motivated research into gaze-tracking and       head-tracking using ordinary       cheap web-cams.
So far, a gesture switch &#8212; an algorithm which learns and       detects facial gestures       such as "look up" or "smile" &#8212; and a head tracker suitable for hands-free       writing with Dasher have       been developed [Ref 6].
Dasher can also write text using discrete button presses as input, either       by selecting a screen       region, or using precise timing information.
This feature prompted       collaboration with IDRC       (Toronto) who developed Tecla, a hardware device which converts wheelchair       joystick controls       into bluetooth keypresses with an on-screen keyboard to be able to use an       Android smart phone       using the joystick.
As a result of the Inference Group's research [Ref 5],       it is now possible to       switch between the Tecla on-screen keyboard and Dasher so that writing a       text message on a       mobile phone using a single wheelchair button and Dasher in a new       one-button mode became       easy.
Tecla was commercialised by Komodo OpenLab Inc. in 2012.
The Dasher development team receives positive feedback from users on a       weekly basis confirming       the transformative impact Dasher has made on their lifestyle quality and       well-being.
Examples of       user testimony include:       "I am an occupational therapist in London who has been using Dasher for       many years with children       and adults with significant physical disabilities that prevent them from       using a standard keyboard or       mouse."
(20 September 2012)       "I found your software on the web and think it is wonderful!
My mother has       ALS and although she       can still use her hands typing is a one finger time consuming tiring       effort, yet she has a lot to say.
In addition she writes to many who live in Turkey in Turkish as she and       her husband lived there for       25 years.
Having that language available was a very happy surprise.
I live       in another state and       your software will allow her to communicate with me and others via email       and in the future using       speech and eye gaze programs as needed.
For that I say thank you."
(18       September 2012)       "I have a personal example &#8212; an acquaintance of mine who had ALS.
I       installed Dasher on his       computer, and in short order he was able to communicate with his wife and       family much more       rapidly, was able to compose documents and e-mails, etc.
Made a very       significant improvement in       the quality of his life."
(Accessibility Principal at Oracle &#8212; 5 April       2013).
