     The long-standing preoccupations of Harold Offeh's performance work, as       an active engagement with the received history of visual culture, led to a       major commission by the National Trust as part of their new contemporary       art programme, The Garden of Reason.
Jointly funded by the Arts       Council, England and Heritage Lottery, Offeh has undertaken a series of       performance events at Ham House, a Seventeenth Century stately home in       Richmond-Upon-Thames, London (2012).
In turn both comic and bizarre these       performances invited visitors to the property to encounter and engage with       unexpected objects in the grounds of the house: the Ham Hermit in the       grounds' grotto or living topiary elements installed in the formal garden.
It is the aim of Offeh's work to open up stories relating to the lives and       aesthetic sensibilities of the estate's owners, in particular Elizabeth       Murray, Countess of Dysart, who played a significant role during the       Commonwealth and Restoration whilst also redeveloping Ham House.
The         Garden of Reason, which opened and closed with performances by       Offeh, took place at a time of major restoration for Ham House, during       which the National Trust sought to further involve local communities and       offer alternative ways of experiencing the gardens and their histories,       using contemporary art.
The second project involving Offeh's work as part of this expansion of       performance art also redresses a familiar leisure activity, that of       Christmas shopping, but in a venue and with an audience more familiar with       conventions of theatrical performance &#8212; the Barbican theatre, London.
Working as part of the collective Duckie Offeh's interactive       performance for Copyright Christmas drew visitors into an uneasy       world between soap opera, music hall and everyday theatre to play again       with the familiarity of stereotypes.
dressed here as a female, black       toilet attendant.
The audience toured the foyer and stage as cultural       consumers in a satirical critique which refused to draw lines between the       different aspects of theatrical and artistic practice that are labelled       `live art': an impact of Offeh's work that is central to the reach of his       investigations.
The reach of the two examples cited mixes up established       audiences and takes them to unanticipated places and experiences, whether       the National Trust visitor who experiences a live art performance, a live       art audience taken to a site of the cultural mainstream or the theatre       critic whose familiar territory is reduced to a version of Poundland.
The       impact of this performance-based research is not only on the audience,       however, but equally on the institutions and organisations who play host       to the events, testifying to the increased de-marginalisation of       performance and its flexibility to exist both within and outside existing       art institutions.
The impact of Charnley's work similarly opens audiences to new       experiences through her role as an artist, one who collects and curates       the contributions of others.
Here We Are (2008-ongoing) is part of       a collaboration with the Brazilian artist Patricia Azevedo and the public       participants with whom the project is realised.
Building from recorded       conversations with occupants of the works' location it is their words       which constitute the resulting audio performance to address attitudes to       place, both physical and emotional.
In the Brazilian village of Brumadinho       the initially unwitting participants are made aware of their contributions       through public broadcast, redirecting their own questions and statements       to a new context.
Funded by the Arts Council, England, as part of their       Artists Links England-Brazil project (2009) Charnley and Azevedo have       worked with groups in Northumbria, UK and Brazil using a variety of       similar formats.
A second project, grouped under the title Leave Blank       addresses questions of immigration, using adapted immigration forms as a       site to discuss who is welcome to which places.
Through both public       participation, video and performance Charnley has developed a strategy to       ask questions pertinent to the sites of exhibition, including the Northern       Art Prize 2008 in Leeds (where she was a finalist), Belfast (as part of       Belfast exposed (2010) and part of the `Bed-in' at Liverpool's Bluecoat       Gallery (2011).
Each project, in their different manifestations, impacts       on the lives of the participants through a subtly altered form of cultural       understanding, suggesting that established forms of communication might be       opened up to alternative possibilities; sometimes this takes place within       a clearly understood framework of contemporary art but in other cases       these small interruptions carry no identified categorisation.
