     Wishart's Encounters achieves impact in several diverse ways.
The       research has had an effect on       numerous beneficiaries including:            schoolchildren and teachers participating in workshops, which were (a)         attached to the         recording field-trips, and then (b) organised subsequent to the         composition phase in order         to present the work to groups including those who had been recorded;       hundreds of CDP/Sound Loom users worldwide, including several         well-known composers         and educational institutions;       audiences who have purchased the published versions of the piece (300         copies of the CD         sold to July 2013);       audiences at Wishart's lectures and lecture/demonstrations about the         work;       festival and concert promoters, who have found increased interest in         this kind of music         through the positive reception of Encounters;       students of speech and dialect, due to the archiving of Wishart's         original recordings.
Community engagement.
The period of material collection provided       valuable opportunities for       children and adults to engage with the process of creating Encounters.
While collecting recordings       of voices in schools in Co. Durham, Wishart also ran composition workshops       for groups of       schoolchildren at which, under his guidance, they composed their own       pieces based on speech       rhythms.
This had various benefits: the schoolchildren gained confidence       in the use of music       technology and an appreciation of its creative possibilities; and they       were introduced to       composition while at the same time becoming aware of the potential       musicality of their own       speech.
Shortly after the completion of the composition (but before its       premiere) in spring 2011,       Wishart took an 8-channel sound-system to local community venues and       schools, and presented a       talk and demonstration about the work to groups of children and adults       whose voices had been       used in the composition [3].
This was supported by &#163;5k of funding from       Musicon, the University's       professional concert series, and facilitated by the Department's       technicians.
Venues included: The       Bradbury Centre, Age UK, Sunderland; Ryton Comprehensive School; Our Lady       Primary School,       Esh Winning; St Joseph's Primary School, Ushaw Moor; Wearhead Primary       School, Wearhead;       Greenfield School, Newton Aycliffe; Witham Hall, Barnard Castle; and the       Morpeth       Northumberland Gathering.
Software development.
The digital transformation of the material       required the development of new       tools within CDP/SoundLoom, which led to another form of impact.
Wishart produced new software       tools for the composition of Encounters, benefitting subscribers       to the program.
The number of       individual subscriptions to CDP was 543 as of July 2013: they include       several well-known       composers [5, 6] [text removed for publication].
Over a hundred       institutions use the program,       including Columbia University's Computer Music Center, some with site       licences of up to 30       workstations.
The users are located in about 20 countries in Europe, Asia,       North and South       America, evidencing the presence of dedicated followers of this software       in a highly competitive       world.
CDP's coordinator writes that `[I]t is undoubtedly [Wishart's]       creative and programming       genius that has made the CDP system one of only a handful of similar       power.'
[4]     Performances and other forms of dissemination.
The final 8-channel       surround-sound work was       completed in January 2011 and premiered to a full house at the Sage       Gateshead on 4 May,       preceded by a public lecture by the composer.
Wishart then took the work,       alongside public lecture       presentations about the research, on a tour of international venues.
At       Auditorio Blas Galindo,       Mexico City's premier concert venue, an audience of 200 attended the       event.
Despite the majority       of the audience being unable to comprehend the language in the piece, the       work was       enthusiastically received.
Similar concerts were presented at the Irish       Chamber Orchestra Hall,       Limerick (May 2011); Audiorama, Stockholm (October 2011); Dutch Royal       Conservatory of Music,       Den Haag, (November 2011); Danish Royal Conservatory of Music, Aarhus       (December 2011);       Game of Life, Den Haag (May 2012); Institut f&#252;r Musikwissenschaft und       Musikinformatik (IMWI),       Karlsruhe (July 2012); Sound Travels Festival, Toronto (August 2012);       Black Box Auditorium,       Sibelius Academy, Helsinki (September 2012); Song Circus, Stavanger and       IMATRONIC Festival,       Karlsruhe (November 2012) and Conservatorio di Musica Benedetto, Venice       (December 2012).
The concert at Toronto was also webcast, while the accompanying talk was       published in Econtact!
(15.2, at http://cec.sonus.ca/econtact/15_2/wishart_encounters.html).
These invitations themselves       demonstrate the impact of Wishart's composition in raising the profile of       electroacoustic music.
Wishart also presented the complete work at the following venues in the       UK: King's Place, London       (May 2011); Cockermouth's Midsummer Festival (June 2011); Jacqueline du       Pr&#233; Concert Hall,       Oxford (June 2011); PACE Studio 1, De Montfort University, Leicester       (January 2012): The Atrium,       University of Edinburgh (February 2012); Eleanor Rathbone Theatre,       University of Liverpool       (February 2012); York University (September 2012); Sound-Scotland       Festival, Aberdeen and       Bangor University (November 2012); and Keele and Birmingham Universities       (February 2013).
A       sound installation based on parts of the Encounters material was       created at the Botanic Gardens,       Durham, in June 2012.
The Cockermouth performance was particularly       significant because it had       valuable consequences for the festival.
A representative of the festival       writes: 'The fact that       Encounters was coming to Cockermouth encouraged the Festivals Group       to apply to Grants for the       Arts to commission new works which would also use electro-acoustic       technology and local       material.
The application [for funding of &#163;10k] was successful, and for       2012... [a] local composer       and community musician [composed] a piece of live music, using recordings       of local voices and       sections for traditional musicians and local choirs.
Placing Encounters in       the festival provided an       audience of people who would not otherwise have been exposed to this kind       of work, who       responded positively to the experience.'
[1]     The First Act of Encounters has also been performed in       Birmingham, Berlin, K&#337;ln, Freiburg,       Bergen, Paris, and Wroclaw (Musica Electronica Nova Festival), and various       acts presented in       Barcelona in June 2012.
Interviews and broadcasts of extracts from the       work have also been aired       on Radio UNAM Mexico City and on Swedish Radio.
Given the typically small       audience for       electroacoustic music, Wishart's unusually high number of performance       commissions is a measure       of the research's extensive reach, and of its perceived significance       amongst programmers and       audiences.
Typical of the reaction of audiences and critics to Encounters, a       reviewer of the presentation at       Sound-Scotland writes: `What really generated the fascination and       excitement in this amazing       musical journey were the transformations created from the voices by Trevor       Wishart, alchemist in       sound.
Choruses of voices, huge organ chords and as the programme note       said so aptly       "imaginary musical instruments" that sounded as if they had come from       another universe.
This was       an amazing journey for the ears, for the mind and even at times for the       emotions.
Thank-you       Trevor Wishart for letting us take a glimpse into your fabulous universe       of sound.'
[2]
