     Dibble's extensive dissemination activities, which have reached a wide       audience through public lectures, TV and radio broadcasts, commercial CD       recordings, the national and local press, and music publishers, as well as       by collaboration with professional and amateur performers, have ensured       its profound impact.
Both his research and its subsequent dissemination       have aimed (a) to make the music of these composers known to the wider       public, (b) to explain its significance, and (c) to provide performing       materials for professional and amateur live performances, and for       commercial recordings.
He has also supervised over 20 PhD students in this       area of research since 1993 (5 completed since 2008), many of whom have       contributed further to the dissemination of this repertoire as academics,       producers and performers.
Dibble's work also led to the donation of         the Stainer family archive to Durham University library in 2010,       making material publicly available for the first time: the catalogue of       this collection was consulted no fewer than 1,138 times in the 12 months       to March 2013 [7].
The principal impact of Dibble's research has been increased         performance and programming of this repertoire.
Before Dibble       embarked on his research, most of the music of Parry, Stanford and Stainer       was unavailable in print or as commercial recordings, and was rarely       broadcast.
An indication of the neglect of these composers can be found in       the archives of the BBC Proms, Britain's best-known classical music       festival (www.bbc.co.uk/proms/archive).
A handful of Parry's pieces was featured heavily in the Proms in the       inter-war years, but by the 1950s this had been effectively reduced to an       annual rendition of `Jerusalem' on the Last Night.
Between 1954 and his       sesquicentenary in 1998 only two performances of other works were given.
As a direct result of a consultancy with Dibble, the BBC made Parry a       featured composer in 2010 and presented four major works: Symphonic       Fantasia in B minor '1912' (23 July 2010), the still unpublished Elegy         for Brahms (8 August 2010), Symphonic Variations in E minor (5       September 2010), and Blest Pair of Sirens (11 September 2010).
Thus, as a result of Dibble's research, publications and advocacy, the       composer was featured more in 2010 than in any year since 1930.
The Proms are just one example of the way in which Dibble's research has       facilitated and inspired much more extensive programming, performance,       recording and broadcasting of works by these composers, and the exposure       of a broad audience to previously unavailable music.
As shown below,       Dibble has had both a direct influence on the programming of particular       events, and a longer-term effect on the programming strategy of several       arts organisations.
In many cases it was the positive public response to       performances and broadcasts dependent on Dibble's research which       encouraged promoters and media organisations to programme more of this       music.
Dibble's research has allowed others to programme the music as part of       major festivals, to record the music for commercial CD releases (and       digital downloads), and to feature the music in radio and television       programmes.
A professional conductor writes of the impact of Dibble's       research in leading to `often unjustly neglected works being brought to       public attention by way of professional performances and CD recordings.
[Dibble] has also brilliantly edited, and even orchestrated [incomplete]       works, once again, directly influencing the accessibility of works for the       public.'
[4] High profile performances and broadcasts as well as numerous       CD releases [9] are evidence of the effect this work has had on public and       commercial institutions, and on key individuals within them.
The very fact       that Dibble has been in regular demand as a consultant &#8212; including       numerous unsolicited requests for advice from broadcasters, recording       companies and performing groups &#8212; is testimony to the impact of his       tireless advocacy, which itself was the focus of a Gramophone       article on 22 October 2012 [8].
As a BBC producer writes, `[Dibble's]       enthusiasm for these relatively unfamiliar composers is infectious and I       know of no other more energetic protagonist nor imaginative communicator       of their music' [10].
Dibble was contractually engaged as consultant for a 90-minute TV         documentary on Parry, `The Prince and the Composer', commissioned       for the BBC, and played a prominent role throughout its production.
The       director comments that `I consulted [Dibble] right at the beginning of the       project, before anything else had got under way, and his book was by my       side throughout.
He played a very important part: it would have been       difficult to have done the film without him.'
[1] The film was premiered       in May 2010 on BBC 4 and was reshown on BBC 2 on Christmas Day 2011,       introduced by the Prince of Wales to an audience of 1.16 million people,       and released on DVD in May 2012.
A movement from Parry's Magnificat       (1897), 'Et Misericordia', was featured in the film on Dibble's advice       (and is also included in full as an extra on the DVD): this resulted in       the whole work being programmed at the St Endellion Festival (April 2012)       from materials prepared by Dibble, and recorded by Chandos with Neeme       J&#228;rvi and the BBC National Orchestra and Chorus of Wales.
Dibble has also       orchestrated excerpts of Parry's unfinished opera Guenever, which       was recorded by the BBC Concert Orchestra and released on CD in 2009.
Guenever is one of a number of Dibble's projects to have reached a       broadcast audience.
Parry featured on Composer of the Week       three times in the census period (May 2011, February 2012, June 2013), the       second of which included this work.
In other broadcasting projects, BBC       Radio 3 aired a series of performances recorded in Belfast in February       2011, featuring the Ulster Orchestra, Ulster Youth Choir and Howard       Shelley.
These included the world premiere of Stanford's Overture in         the Style of a Tragedy and the first performance in a century of his       Fairy Day, both pieces existing only in manuscript until edited by       Dibble.
Parry's choral ballet Prosperine was edited and       reconstructed from manuscripts by Dibble and performed for the first time       since 1912.
Broadcasts such as BBC 1's Songs of Praise (24       February 2008, and 19 December 2010), featuring works made available       through Dibble's research on Parry and Christmas carols, further extend       the reach of this work.
The rate of the BBC's production of this emerging       repertoire is evidence that it now considers both Parry and Stanford as       mainstream composers.
Dibble's work has led to consultancies for several other music         festivals, notably the annual Three Choirs Festival, where his       research &#8212; both in text and music editing &#8212; provides an important strand       of their performance repertoire.
A festival administrator writes that       Dibble's `published work and personal advice have often proved invaluable       to programme planners seeking guidance on suitable works to include in the       Festival programmes.'
[2] Apart from the choirs featured in this festival,       the BBC National Chorus of Wales, Guildford Choral Society and London Bach       Choir are examples of groups to have benefited from Dibble's research and       consultancy, while the use of his edition of Parry's `Welcome, Yule!'
(OUP) in the Nine Lessons and Carols at King's College Cambridge in 2010       is just one example of the extensive use of Dibble's editions in Anglican       churches, cathedrals and chapels.
Apart from orchestras cited elsewhere in       this document, the English Symphony Orchestra, RTE Symphony, Ulster       Orchestra, and BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra have all benefitted from       Dibble's consultancy.
Another example of Dibble's influence in       contributing to the concert repertory is his completion of Stanford's       Second Violin Concerto, which was premiered in Durham Cathedral on 2 March       2012 to an audience of about 500 people.
The success of this event led to       a London premiere by Rupert Marshall-Luck with the Orchestra of St Paul's       at St John's, Smith Square on 28 February 2013.
CD recordings drawing directly on Dibble's research amount to more       than 20 from 2008 to 2013, including premiere recordings of Stanford's       Piano Quartet No.
2, Parry's Coronation Te Deum and other items in       their oeuvre [9].
Dibble's contribution has consisted of the provision of       newly-edited performing materials and booklet notes, and consultation and       design of the repertoire with leading recording companies such as Hyperion       and Chandos.
His contribution to the new Vivat label's recording of choral       music by Parry and Stanford included the edition of the Coronation Te         Deum and an essay of 4,000 words; the recording reached number one       in the UK's specialist classical music chart in its first week of release       and was nominated as one of three for the award of 'choral recording of       the year' in the Gramophone.
The reach of this research is       evidenced by the sales figures of the recordings.
[text removed for publication].
These sales evidence not only the considerable       generated by the companies and a significant amount of work provided for       professional orchestras &#8212; a profound impact overall on Britain's musical       culture.
