     The Long-Term Neurological Conditions Research Initiative (LTNC) research       initiative produced essential evidence about how effective and affordable       services should be designed.
The LTNC initiative was designed to provide       the evidence base for policy-making in the Department of Health [6].
The       research from the LTNC initiative has directly impacted service delivery.
For example, the Cornwall and Isle of Scilly Primary Care Trust (PCT)       commissioned `RENEW' an exercise delivery program based on the research.
As producers of the underpinning research, the MSG were requested to audit       the service in 2011, finding a trend towards reduced clinical service use       in those taking part in the system [6].
Consequently the MSG has also been       requested to audit the Oxfordshire community Physical Activity Care       Pathway for individuals with and without disabilities [7]     In response to the need at a local level, the Clinical Exercise And       Rehabilitation Unit (CLEAR) was created at Brookes in 2005 to facilitate       exercise for people who require a higher level of supervision due to their       medical condition.
The significance of this impact is demonstrated by the       fact that in 2012 there were 3000 total clinic attendances.
Patients       referred to the unit have reported improved health and attributed it       directly to the exercises they have undertaken under CLEAR supervision.
One CLEAR unit client said: "The progression I have made in six weeks         has been quite remarkable &#8212; noticed by friends and family.
Importantly I         feel more confident and capable in my physical abilities."
Another       CLEAR client said "If it wasn't for James' [CLEAR staff] dedication I         wouldn't have improved and be able to walk...as much as I now can.
CLEAR         has been life changing for me, more than anyone will ever know" [8].
The unit has also impacted on the practice of healthcare providers (GPs       and physiotherapists), who now refer their patients from Oxfordshire and       as far as Gloucester and Cheltenham.
The unit also runs camps for children       in the school holidays, including the Oxford dyspraxia group and the       Oxfordshire paediatric physiotherapy service.
Having established a working model of delivery at a local level the       success of the CLEAR unit has led to the establishment of the CLEAR Trust       a registered charity which aims to;            Advance the treatment and care of children and adults with long-term         movement disorders and neurological disabilities, through the provision         of affordable sustainable exercise and rehabilitation facilities and         equipment,       Support research and education in movement science and movement         optimisation.
[9]          Supported by the community physiotherapy service and sports partnership,       Satellite CLEARs have been set up in the Thames Valley to support both       adults and children with neurological conditions at two sites, with plans       to expand to a further three sites in 2013/14 [9].
The unit employs a mutually beneficial arrangement whereby clients are       supported to exercise by exercise and health trainees, an average of       twenty per annum, which include a proportion of visiting students and       practitioners.
To widen the impact further, based on the MSG research that provided the       first evidence of the need for specific training of fitness professionals,       it was realised that in order to facilitate impact at a national level,       two key things were required; a National Occupational Standard (NOS) and       an accredited training course.
MSG research was presented to the Register       of Exercise Professionals (REPs) to make a case for the development of a       course and the NOS written by Dawes and endorsed by Skills Active [10].
REPs were sufficiently convinced of the need and expertise in the group,       that they agreed to work with the researchers to develop the `Exercise       Prescription for Long-Term Neurological Conditions' course in 2011 [11].
It is the only level 4 accredited course (20 Level M CATS points) in the       UK for healthcare and fitness professionals who are required to deliver       exercise to people with a range of long-term neurological conditions [12].
Since 2011, 36 people all over the UK have completed the course, some       sponsored by MS Society [13].
Dawes has incorporated the research findings       into invited articles and training workshops as part of a specialist       registrar course (Nottingham) to medical students (London) and       Physiotherapists (New Zealand).
A key finding of the research was that people with long-term neurological       conditions should be enabled and empowered to manage their exercise       according to their wishes and in response the PASS system of informing and       empowering people to achieve a physically active lifestyle was developed.
The PASS handbook [14] contains information to empower people with       neurological conditions to exercise and participate in physical activity       in the community.
4000 printed booklets have been distributed since 2009,       with 2000 funded by the MS society [13] and it is available on the group's       website, which since September 2011 to July 31st 2013 has had       8534 unique on-line viewings and the booklet downloaded 688 times.
MSG       research has been extensively incorporated into resources for exercise       delivery in neurological conditions including a neurological and       neuromuscular chapter for Churchill Livingstone in their Exercise       Physiology in Special Populations title.
In addition the researchers have undertaken a variety of activities to       ensure that research findings reach relevant practitioners and patients.
This has included speaking at events for practitioners such as the       Association of Chartered Physiotherapists interested in neurology (ACPIN)       group, Oxford Universities Hospital (OUH), NZ national physiotherapy       conference, MS Frontiers conference 2009, REPs National Convention       (Birmingham, 22 Sept 2011) Birmingham, Physiotherapy UK National       conference (Liverpool, 10 October 2012), reaching an estimated 1200       professionals face to face.
They have also reached out to professionals       through print media including Dawes' report in the REPs journal [15] (Jan,       2012) that is distributed to 35,000 exercise professionals.
Collett's       report on exercise `dose' in pwMS for the Wayahead newsletter [16], which       is produced quarterly by the MS trust for nurses and health professionals       who work with pwMS.
(Jan 2009).
They have also been able to meet with approximately 700 patients and work       with them through attending meetings of local groups including Parkinsons       UK, MS Society [13], Stroke Association, and Huntingdon's Disease       Association, therefore ensuring that the message about the possibilities       of safe and beneficial exercise is heard by the potential beneficiaries       themselves.
