     Impact on Defra policy       The greatest research impact achieved by this work has been the provision       of evidence-based scientific advice to HM Government that has led to a       modification in Government Policy and increased awareness of the efficacy       of current cattle-based controls for bTBA.
Providing a first       estimate of the contribution of missed infection to the on-going epidemic       has stimulated the debate and public understanding of cattle controls,       leading to questions being raised in both the Scottish ParliamentB       and WestminsterC,D.
The draft strategy for Achieving       "Officially Bovine Tuberculosis-Free" status for EnglandE       (Published 4th July 2013) uses our research to justify       strengthening herd level control policies in both high and low risk areas       &#8212; and in the edge area between them.
The close working relationships fostered between the DDU, Defra and the       Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency (AHVLA) from the outset       of `the problem herd' project, based around a `pathways to impact'       approach, has enabled the group's subsequent scientific outputs to be       tailored towards the needs of policy development from the start.
Thus, the       combined research outcomes of the work described in section 2 have       provided the robust body of evidence that has quantified the effectiveness       of Defra's cattle control strategies for bTB clarifying where improvements       need to be focussed.
It also demonstrated that outbreak persistence has       most likely resulted from reintroduction of infection from extrinsic       sources.
DEFRA has recognised the profound implications for policy.
For       example, much bTB research in the UK in recent years has been focused on       the development of new diagnostic tests in order to increase bTB detection       rates within affected herds, e.g.
the gamma-interferon test.
These results       have demonstrated that the potential for improvement in the resolution of       bTB incidents from novel tests is severely constrained by a high rate of       re-introduction of infection into herds.
Clearing infection from herds       will therefore only have limited impact if we do not also reduce the       exogenous exposure of herds to infection.
In terms of overall engagement with policy makers, Professor Wood and       colleagues have presented to the following Defra TB committees:            TB Eradication Group, 16/11/2011 (at the time the highest         non-ministerial Defra TB committee, but now superseded by TBEAG).
Public         minutes are available F        Defra's Epidemiology and Wildlife Risks Policy Advisory Group,         5/08/2011G        Defra's Vaccines Programme Advisory Sub-Group 15/11/2011G        Defra's Diagnostics Programme Advisory Sub-Group, spring 2011G        The TB Eradication Advisory Group for England (TBEAG)H           The models developed in this research have further translational benefits       beyond the confines of GB policy, being easily adaptable when applied to       novel populations in order to quantify the differences in bTB epidemiology       in different ecological contexts.
This has been demonstrated by Wood and       Conlan being commissioned by Northern Ireland (NI) policy makers to model       within-herd and extrinsic transmission of bTB in NI; this work is due to       start in spring 2014J.
Public understanding of bTB control in cattle       This work, especially that published by Conlan et al (2012), has       stimulated significant public debate and thereby increased public       understanding of the disease and its control.
As well as direct questions       in Westminster and the Scottish parliament, the paper was the subject of       press releases from Defra, the Badger TrustI, PLoS and the       University of Cambridge.
In addition to the subsequent media coverage       there was discussion on social network sites, including Twitter (with the       paper being tweeted over 50 times).K,L,M,N     Experts taking up specialist advisory roles       The importance of the DDU's work in a policy-making context has been       further exemplified by the invitation extended to Professor Wood to sit as       the sole independent scientist on Defra's new TB Eradication Advisory       Group for England (TBEAG)H. TBEAG's remit is to advise the       Animal Health and Welfare Board for England and Defra ministers on the       development and implementation of the strategy for eradicating bTB; it was       set up following a review of its predecessor (TBEG), which found, amongst       other things, that scientific input into bTB eradication policy should be       strengthened.
This continuous process of engagement has been central to the use of our       research in the formulation of the new Defra strategy for bTB control in       cattle in England and WalesD (published July 2013), which draws       extensively on our work (particularly Conlan et al.
2012).
