 Publication of the discovery of mecC in 2011 raised important questions about the detection and confirmation of MRSA in humans, and resulting decisions about patient care.
Prior to the research in this study, patients presenting with mecC-positive S. aureus were wrongly diagnosed as carrying methicillin-susceptible S. aureus rather than MRSA, given the low sequence conservation between mecC and mecA.
The importance of Holmes' work was highlighted by its dissemination (prior to full publication) via the EuroStaph network (an internet forum used by European clinical microbiology labs), which led to the immediate adoption of the Holmes group's new mecC-specific PCR primers, or use of the group's whole genome sequence data, for MRSA mecC detection by MRSA reference laboratories in England &amp; Wales, Scotland, Denmark, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway and Belgium.
Subsequently the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) guidelines for MRSA testing have been amended to include mecC MRSA [corroboration source 10] In April 2011, a meeting was called by Prof Maria Zambon, Director of the Health Protection Agency (HPA, now called Health Protection England) Microbiology section at Colindale, to explore the potential impact of the discovery of mecC on human health and MRSA screening programmes, and to discuss the epidemiology of the new MRSA in humans and animals.
The outcomes of the risk assessments undertaken at this meeting have since been used to inform the Department of Health, Public Health England and other relevant bodies about the potential risks of new MRSA strains, and how they might be mitigated [corroboration sources 7 &amp; 8].
A recent publication providing evidence of animal-to-human transmission has been cited in intra-governmental correspondence in the United States [corroboration source 9].
Based on the work of the Holmes group, and in collaboration with them, UK Department of Health and international microbiology reference laboratories have now developed a number of further tests to distinguish mecC from mecA that are more appropriate for clinical laboratory use (i.e.
multiplex PCRs that include species confirmation and mecA, in addition to detection of mecC) for accurate diagnosis of MRSA in infected patients [references 2,3,5 above].
For example, Reference 2 (section 3) includes the statement "The real-time quadruplex PCR was introduced into the HPA-SRU in August 2011, replacing the McDonald et al.
real-time triplex PCR (nuc, lukS-PV and mecA)".
As a direct result of Holmes' research, the PCR tests used to investigate MRSA isolates in Health Protection England (formerly the HPA) Staphylococcus Reference Unit, the Scottish MRSA Reference Laboratory, the Staphylococcus Laboratory at the Statens Serum Institut in Denmark, and other international MRSA reference laboratories have been changed to enable detection of mecC MRSA [corroborating source 2].
In hospital settings, there is increasing use of automated PCR testing, and test equipment is currently being updated to make provision for mecC screening of patients presenting with suspected MRSA, by the main test providers (Roche and Becton Dickinson).
A commercial microarray-based MRSA test system incorporating mecC sequence data has been developed and is now being marketed (Greiner bio-one, Genspeed MRSA Test System) [corroboration source 5].
A commercial qRT-PCR system incorporating primers for mecC is marketed by ELITech (MRSA/SA ELITe MGB&#174; Kit) [corroboration source 6].
The European Union Reference Laboratory for Antibiotic Resistance has published a recommended PCR protocol for the detection of MRSA incorporating primers for mecC [corroboration source 4].
On publication of the original discovery [1] considerable media interest was generated across the world.
There were reports in The Times, Telegraph, Independent, Guardian [corroborating source 1] and New Scientist in the UK.
International newspaper coverage included the Los Angeles Times and El Pais.
The story was also covered by interviews with Dr Holmes aired on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme, CBS television in the USA, and an extended interview on the BBC 1 programme Countryfile.
The discovery of this novel MRSA has been discussed at numerous industry and governmental committees including the Defra antimicrobial resistance co-ordination group [corroborating source 7] and the Advisory Committee on Antimicrobial Resistance &amp; Healthcare-Associated Infection [corroborating source 8].
European MRSA recommended testing protocols and methodologies have been changed as a result of this research [corroborating sources 4 and 10].
Publication of evidence of zoonotic transmission of mecC MRSA was reported in the Independent and the Daily Mail.
This work was also cited in a letter from a US congresswoman to the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration [corroborating source 9].
