     Although most UK/EU legislation resulting from this work was passed       pre-2008, their impact throughout the EU between 2008-2013 has been       substantial.
This is due to several facts; i) the Directives had a       phase-in period for existing units on farms, (of up to ten years), so that       they were implemented within this period, ii) changes to legislation and       their subsequent implementation has had further impacts in other countries       around the world, which are on-going now, iii) legislation that was passed       and implemented to 2008 remains current and continues to have on-going       effects on animal welfare today.
Confined sow welfare: paper 1.
(references in 5.1) Our       research, together with similar work by others led to the EU Directive         2001/93/EC "laying down minimum standards for the protection of       pigs" which banned the use of stalls and tethers for pregnant sows.
The       subsequent EFSA opinion on the welfare of sows also referred to CAWA work       and ensured that the ban would continue.
The Directive started to come       into force in 2001 but the major change in conditions for the 13-14       million sows in the European Union has occurred in a few years leading up       to 1st January 2013.The work has also been quoted in reports       that have led to similar impacts in Norway, in New Zealand, with a legal       ban on sow stalls and tethers in December 2011, in Australia, where a       phase-out of stalls and tethers was announced by the Australian Pig       Producers Association in November 2011, and in nine USA states during the       last five years.
The largest pig producer in the world, Smithfield of the       USA, announced a ban on sow stalls and tethers on its farms in 2011 with a       long phase-in period.
At least seven large food retail companies in the       USA will not buy pork if the sows were confined.
The results presented in       this paper were quoted in many television programmes and newspaper       articles in the UK and other countries.
Scientific reviews and reports       such as those of the Farm Animal Welfare Council all refer to the study as       key information.
The welfare of confined calves: paper 2.
(references in 5.2)       Our research led to the EU Directive 97/2/EC banning the use of       small crates for calves after 8 weeks and specifying diet with fibre and       iron.
This had to be implemented on all farms by 1st January       2007.
The number of calves affected in the EU is 26 million per year but       the greatest impact has been on the welfare of those calves used for veal       production.
In practice, our data have influenced further changes in       systems after that date as farmers developed their housing systems.
The       subsequent 2006 and 2012 EFSA reports and consideration by EU Member State       Ministers have resulted in the ban being continued, e.g.
see UK       legislation 2007 and 2012.
Legislation and codes of practice that prevent       the keeping of calves in small crates have been initiated in many       countries following this work.
Between 2006 and 2009, five USA States have       banned the use of small crates for veal calves.
These results were quoted       in many television programmes and newspaper articles, as well as by Farm       Animal Welfare Council and in EU reviews.
The EU scientific reports on       calf welfare referred to CAWA work.
The welfare of laying hens: paper 3.
(references         in 5.3) This paper and other CAWA publications were quoted in EU       scientific reports and led to EU Directive 1999.74/EC.
banning the       use of battery cages in the EU.
This was mainly implemented in the three       years leading up to the obligatory change date of 1st January       2012.
It has affected the vast majority of the millions of laying hens in       the EU.
Similar legislation, referring to our work, has been passed in       some USA states and codes of practice of supermarket and restaurant chains       in several countries refer to our work, the most recent being the       announcement late in 2012 of a ban on battery cages in New Zealand.
Welfare of farm animals during transport: paper 4.
(references         in 5.4) Our research was quoted in EU reports by the Scientific       Veterinary Committee, The Scientific Committee on Animal Health and       Welfare (2002) and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA 2004 and 2011)       and led to provisions in the EU Regulation 14305/04 on the Protection         of Animals During Transport (2004).
The European Commission is       preparing a revision to this, using research results from Professor Broom       and other researchers.
The research also led to Recommendations, binding       in 170 countries, by the World Organisation for Animal Health (O.I.E.)
following a report by the Working Group on Land Transport chaired by       D.M.Broom.
The O.I.E.
Code detailing this was published in 2012.
This and       many other CAWA papers were quoted in television programmes, newspaper       articles and scientific reviews.
Scientific information on animal welfare and its assessment:         publications 5 and 6.
(references in 5.5/6) Information       from our publications, including terminology such as "animal welfare" not       previously used in animal protection or other animal-related legislation,       was used in formulating the UK Animal Welfare Act (2006).
In relation to       the Animal Welfare Act, Prof Broom submitted evidence to Defra, answered       questions from Defra and had several discussions in person, by telephone       and by e-mail with Mr. Elliott Morley, the Government Minister       responsible.
This Act has led to a series of prosecutions in the UK in the       years since it was passed.
Information from our work has also been used in       formulating the legislation in several other countries, e.g.
Malta in       2010, draft legislation in the People's Republic of China in 2009, current       plans for animal welfare legislation in Mexico.
The development of       scientific studies of animal welfare has increased public debate and       understanding, has resulted in much media coverage, has led to hundreds of       new academic courses in universities around the world and has formed the       factual basis for the development of commercial standards for food of       animal origin.
