     The impact of SCI on society is enormous.
In the UK a person is paralysed       every 8 hours and there are around 1200 people paralysed from a SCI every       year.
There are currently thought to be approximately 50,000 people in the       UK living with paralysis.
It has been estimated by the charity Spinal Research that the current       annual cost of caring for people paralysed by SCI in the UK alone is more       than &#163;1 billion.
21% of people discharged from SCI Centres go into nursing       homes, hospitals or other institutionalised settings rather than their own       homes.
The support group Apparelyzed estimates that 20% of patients leave       SCI Centres clinically depressed.
There have been no effective treatments       for SCI to date.
This work has driven a significant increase in public       awareness, in part due to its mention in Melanie Reid's weekly column       (`Spinal Column') in The Times (Ref 2).
The programme of work described here led to the first demonstration that       cell therapies are beneficial in clinical SCI.
The impact of this has been       several-fold: our work, published in 2012, has 1) provided a novel and       effective therapy for canine SCI, 2) validated canine SCI as a clinically       relevant translational model of human SCI, and more generally achieved the       important objective of validating the use of veterinary disease models in       human medical research, and 3) provided justification for proceeding with       clinical trials in humans (for example, these are already planned in the       UK on the basis of this work with support from Wings for Life.
The publication of the clinical trial in the leading neurology journal Brain       in November 2012 triggered an avalanche of media coverage around the world       (Ref 1).
For example, in the UK the story was covered on the Radio 4 Today       programme, Radio 5 morning programme, and the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and       Channel 5 main news programmes.
The story was covered in all the main       daily newspapers.
Requests for interviews were received (and in many cases       provided) from France, Germany, Australia, Finland, Brazil and other       countries.
Public awareness of the study has been raised further via the       University's own website of research highlights and "You tube" video which       have received 8,489 and 72,784 views to date, respectively (Refs 4a and       4b).
This level of coverage raised the profile of veterinary medicine in       translational research as well as the profile of SCI and has stimulated       both practicing veterinarians and owners of dogs with SCI, as well as       clinicians dealing with human SCI around the world, to enquire how this       work can be made available and how it is advancing (enquiries that       continue to be made).
We are aware of a similar programme under way at the       University of Tokyo Veterinary School.
The study had impact at HM Government level, featuring as the example of       UK-based achievements in regenerative medicine in a keynote Eight Great       Technologies speech (Ref 3) by Rt Hon David Willetts MP, Minister of State       for Universities and Science, Department for Business, Innovation and       Skills (Speech 24/01/13).
