     Assyrian Christian communities found in northern Iraq and north-western       Iran, which are their original places of residence, and also in many       refugee communities scattered around the world (in Europe, the USA,       Canada, the Caucasus and Central Asia) speak over 100 dialects of North-       Eastern Neo-Aramaic.
Due to persecutions, nationalistic state policies,       forced evacuation of settlements and migration of speakers to the West,       the Aramaic language spoken by the Assyrian Christians (with all of its       various dialects) has been listed by UNESCO's Atlas           of the World's Languages in Danger as: `definitely       endangered'.
RAISING AWARENESS     Over the last few years, Khan has spoken to numerous Assyrian communities       and community leaders throughout the Assyrian Christian diaspora around       the world about his work and raised their awareness of the endangered       status of many of their dialects and the importance of documenting them       [5.1].
Khan has stressed in particular the need for native speakers of the       communities to be trained to carry out fieldwork and participate directly       in the documentation of their linguistic heritage.
There has been a very       positive response to this engagement with the communities, evidenced, for       example, by the interview with Homer Ashurian, the head of the Assyrian       Universal Alliance, in a radio programme broadcast by Chicago's WCGO 1590       AM station on the 23rd of April 2012, in which he spoke about the       importance of Khan's work for the community and encouraged members of the       community to attend a lecture that was to be given by Khan in Chicago at       Northwestern University.
An example of concrete evidence of such positive       response has been that of the Assyrian Universal Alliance Foundation, a       leading US-based community group whose main focus is on community care,       community cultural programmes and assisting refugees.
In 2011 they       provided financial support for a young Assyrian to undertake language       documentation work in Iraq under Khan's guidance to help preserve their       linguistic heritage (further details below).
Khan has been invited to address communities in public lectures in Europe       and the USA.
Some of these public lectures stand out for having raised       considerable awareness about the language amongst the wider diaspora, e.g.
the talk given to the Assyrian American Association of Southern California       (on 10/04/11; approx.
100 attendees; uploaded into YouTube with over 438       views [by 31 July 2013]) [5.2], and the one at Northwestern University       (10/05/11; approx.
200 attendees; 1,453 YouTube views [31 July 2013])       [5.3].
The latter, which included a Q&amp;A session with members of the       audience, has been subsequently republished on community organisation       websites (e.g.
ATRANEWS.com and the AUAF website); an Indian news website       (Firstpost) [5.4] and an excerpted version was created and uploaded by an       online forum discussant to a website (forumbiodiversity) [5.5].
On a       number of other websites, the Northwestern lecture and Khan's research       have been highlighted and recommended within debates about Assyrian       identity and linguistic heritage (e.g.
[5.6] and [5.7]).
In September 2011 the Iranian Assyrian community published an article       about Khan's work and its importance for their community in a community       magazine Sh&#257;mir&#257;m (in Persian) [5.8].
In February 2013 an article       about the linguistic documentation work of Khan was published in the The         Smithsonian Magazine [5.9].
At the time of writing this report, the       article had received 4.6k Facebook `likes' on the Smithsonian website and       numerous comments from members of the Assyrian Christian community.
The       contents of this article were reproduced in numerous media outlets in       print and on the web, including the sites of Assyrian community       organizations (e.g.
[5.10]).
After the publication of the article Khan was       invited to give interviews to numerous newspapers, e.g.
The Jewish       Chronicle (8 Feb 2013), The Times of Israel (14 Jul 2013) and radio       networks, e.g.
Irish National Radio, `Newstalk', 7th February 2013, US       National Public Radio (`The Story') (1 May 2013), BBC Radio 4       (`Broadcasting House', 9 June 2013).
These led to various other newspaper       articles about his research, e.g.
Nederlands Dagblad (1/9/2013, in Dutch).
Khan's work among the communities has also inspired several poets to write       poems about him and his efforts to preserve their language.
[5.11]     PRESERVING HERITAGE     Much of the traditional lexicon and folklore is not known by the younger       generations.
These documentation projects have been instrumental in       preserving knowledge of these endangered dialects for the communities.
Khan's numerous publications have made available full descriptions of a       variety of hitherto undescribed dialects.
The NENA database, which was       completed in 2009, holds details of 135 dialects and preserves audio       recordings of songs and stories of over 33 dialects.
In addition to his publication programme and NENA database project, in       2011 Khan initiated the Modern Assyrian Language Documentation Project       (MALDP).
An AUAF-funded fieldworker, trained by Khan, has undertaken       documentation among the Assyrian Christian communities of Iraq [5.12].
He       has also undertaken outreach activities, under Khan's guidance, about the       importance of preserving Assyrian linguistic heritage among communities in       the Middle East, Europe, North America and Australia (2011-2013).
In Iraq       he has held training workshops in community centres in Dohok (August 2012,       approx.
100 attendees) and Qaraqosh (August, 2012, approx.
attendees) and       distributed recording equipment.
As one of the beneficiaries of Khan's       training has stated: `I really appreciate your help and advice.
Thank you       again for your help and your great works you [have] done and you [are]       still doing for [the] Assyrian language.'
[5.13].
The fieldworkers archive       their recordings in the local community centres and send copies to Khan in       Cambridge.
The recordings are uploaded onto Khan's online NENA database, the audio       archives of which are opening accessible to the public and contain       recordings of both Christian and Jewish dialects.
