     The Project's exploration of the multi-dimensional appeal of the Shahnama       has promoted a greater       awareness of Persian culture in the West, particularly when it coordinated       its public engagement       activities with the UNESCO-recognised millennial anniversary of the       completion of the Shahnama       in AD 1010.
The online database created to support the Project documents manuscript       collections across the       world, including numerous private and semi-public collections which       normally restrict access.
The       website has had an average of 65,464 hits per month over the period from       mid-2008 to July 2013.
The Project joined Facebook in 2010 and has recorded 1,000 `likes' to       posts by the Project and       others.
The highest number of `hits' from any city in the world has       consistently been Tehran, Iran.
The support given to the Project and to the resulting exhibition       (discussed below) by the London-       based Iran Heritage Foundation (IHF), the Aga Khan Development Network and       the US-based       charity, the Parsa Community Foundation, whose core goal is the       `preservation and advancement       of the arts and culture' of the Persian Community, has been further       testament to the importance of       such endeavours aimed at the general public.
A recent $2 million endowment       for the Project from       an Iranian philanthropist is a striking endorsement of this claim (ref.
1).
Furthermore, the Project has received a number of unsolicited letters       from Iranians within Iran,       among them several students, expressing gratitude for the work of the       project and the way in which       it has brought Persian culture to a wider audience and enhanced mutual       understanding (e.g.
2).
The key impact of this research on the wider public is the major       exhibition, `Epic of the Persian         Kings.
The Art of Ferdowsi's Shahnameh' mounted at the Fitzwilliam       Museum in Cambridge       (01/09/10-09/01/11).
The exhibition curator paid tribute to the work of       the Project which informed       the curatorial process (3).
The research provided significant additional       enhancements to the       museum's presentation, with the creation of an audio gallery guide       relating to 18 key items and a       podcast offering an overview of the Shahnama (4).
The Museum's educational and outreach departments drew on the research to       develop teaching       resources, an interactive web resource, an online exhibition and a virtual       gallery.
The exhibition       received extensive media coverage (72 separate press cuttings logged) and       attracted 28,889       visitors and was visited by several school groups; Persian community       groups, interest groups such       as the Friends of the Chester Beatty Library in Dublin, UK and overseas       collectors; and tourists.
The Museum's survey based on 126 respondents, indicated that 75% of the       visitors had come to       the museum specifically to see the exhibition (5).
In September 2010, the       exhibition was       highlighted as a key UK tourist attraction: BBC History Magazine       website listed it among its top ten       `very best historical attractions', as did the Country Life       website for its `Best exhibitions to see this       September' feature (13/09/10).
Melville has continued to work with other       cultural/heritage       organisations hosting Persian exhibitions, such as the John Rylands       Library (Manchester) and the       State Library of Victoria (Melbourne, Australia), giving a public lecture       on both occasions       (Manchester, 25/03/10; 50 attendees; Melbourne 12/04/12, over 500       attendees (6).
The visitor survey and other forms of media such as online blogs offer an       indication of how the       exhibition gave the public new insights into Persian culture; one visitor       noted in a blog, that he was       `surprised by the clarity of certain illustrations, and how ideas and       stories were conveyed so       effectively even with a taste a thousand years old'.
(7).
For example,       visitor feedback demonstrated       that the exhibition raised a greater awareness of the cross-fertilisation       of Persian and Indian       cultural traditions, which was also raised by India's national newspaper,       The Hindu, subsequently       republished by the IRIB World Service website to highlight the role of       this exhibition in raising       awareness of the link between these two cultural traditions (8, 9).
These and other Iranian media agencies noted that Ferdowsi's legacy was       being commemorated       in the UK (10, 11, 12).
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office further       recognising the importance       of the exhibition in relation to cultural diplomacy created a video in       Persian emphasising the       contribution of Persian culture, attracting 2729 views (13).
The exhibition catalogue, co-authored by Brend and Melville, was praised       by The Economist which       stressed its contribution to a better understanding Iran (14).
The Museum       shop has sold 868       paperbacks and 75 hardbacks of the catalogue (943 hardback and 701       paperback copies sold       separately by the publishers) and 382 copies of the brief exhibition       guide.
Attendance at the 5       lunchtime Gallery lectures in the Museum and the evening lectures in the       Faculty (max.
50) within       a larger programme of events including Persian music concerts (max.
180),       film screenings and       literary talks, reached full capacity.
Media interest in the Shahnama has       continued beyond the       exhibition, with Melvyn Bragg hosting an In our Time episode       devoted to Ferdowsi and the       Shahnameh with Charles Melville as one of the three speakers       (13/12/12).
Inspired and informed directly by the research and the Cambridge       Shahnameh exhibition, a group       of Anglia Ruskin University students led by filmmaker, Sarah Gibson Yates,       created short films       which were aired at the Cambridge Picturehouse Cinema (15/11/10.
Similarly, Dr Fatima Zahra Hassan-Agha, following her association with       the Project, was inspired to       curate an exhibition of contemporary work of artists from Pakistan,       Russia, Australia and within the       Iranian diaspora, drawing its themes from the Shahnama, held in London's       Prince's Foundation       Gallery (16/11/10-13/12/10).
Dr Hassan-Agha, based in Sharjah, is now       embarking on a second       phase of her project and planning a further exhibition (15).
One of the       artists involved (Feofanov) is       now holding a solo-exhibition in Moscow, inspired by the Shahnama and       informed by the       Cambridge research project.
