     The research has had three main impacts.
i.
Use of the MQPL survey by HM Prison Service, and internationally     The MQPL survey was first adopted for use by HM Prison Service Standards       Audit Unit in 2004 as one factor in its Prison Rating System.
It has since       been extended by the Audit and Corporate Assurance Directorate of NOMS,       and remains in use to the present day.
MQPL scores from annual surveys are       used in moderating the Performance Rating of a prison in terms of its       decency and safety, and as part of an equality score (Sources 1, 4, and       9).
Since 2007, the SQL data has been used by HM Prison Service in assessing       the performance and quality of establishments, and in understanding       attempts to improve prison culture.
For example, since 2011 it has been       used to develop the `every contact matters' agenda in shaping the public       sector's bids to operate prisons as efficiently and effectively as       possible in a competitive environment (Source 4).
In May 2013, the Home Office Youth Justice Board implemented a three-year       commitment to extend the MQPL survey to young persons' establishments.
Information derived from the MPQL surveys is now used in the Board's       performance management framework (Source 4, 2).
Since 2012, the National       Audit Office has been in discussion with NOMS and the PRC to develop plans       for using MQPL in evaluating NOMS policy on the closing, opening,       extending and changing the function of prisons: (Sources 4, 2).
The research has been used to make significant decisions about the       management of contracts with both public and private sector prisons,       including the decision to end the rectification notice on HMP Rye Hill in       2009 (Source 7).
The research has had international impact.
Since 2010, the PRC has       trained personnel and overseen the use of MQPL in other jurisdictions,       including the Irish Prison Service, and the Norwegian Correctional       Research department, both of whom have now adopted the measure (Source 4).
Since 2012, the Centre for the Rehabilitation of Torture Victims (an NGO       in Kosovo) has used MQPL to identify ill-treatment of prisoners: (Source       8).
ii.
Influence on the `decency agenda'.
The `decency agenda' emerged in 2000-2001 as a key theme in the       development of HM Prison Service's measures of prison quality.
From 2004       to the present, the use of the MQPL surveys by HM Prison Service has       generated a body of qualitative and quantitative information that has       enabling the practical implementation of the `decency agenda' in prisons.
The MPQL surveys provided a language and a methodology for evaluating and       comparing the accomplishment of the general aims of `decency' and       `performance' in prisons.
The MQPL survey generated empirically valid information about the moral       practices and of prison staff, and the experiences and survival or change       trajectory of prisoners which were specific to individual prisons.
Senior       managers were able to use that information as they planned policies,       introduced cultural changes, and set or supplemented performance targets       in their own institutions: (Sources 1, 4 and 6).
Some specific examples       are: (i) in 2010 a HM Prison Service Deputy Director of Custody set `human       flourishing' targets for all of her Governors in the South West Area)       (Source 6); (ii) since 2011, the PRC team have been contracted to conduct       `MQPL-plus' surveys (including interviews and observation) in       `operationally important' sites undergoing significant reorganisation       (Sources 1, 4, 9).
iii.
Prison suicides.
Between 2001 and 2009, MQPL and SQL survey results influenced the       development of HM Prison Service measures which were successful in       reducing prison suicides.
Between 2001 and 2004 the Prison Service       commissioned Liebling and her colleagues to conduct MQPL and SQL surveys       in 12 prisons where there was a higher than expected suicide risk (Sources       1, 4).
The survey results identified which aspects of prison quality       tended to reduce prisoner distress, which the research showed was highly       correlated with three-year moving average suicide rates in individual       prisons.
Between 2005 and 2009, the results encouraged implementation of       the national violence prevention strategy by the Safer Custody Group at       NOMS Headquarters (Sources 1, 4).
The period saw a sustained reduction in       prison suicides, from 2005, which has continued.
The number of suicides in       1999, 2000 and 2001 was 81-2 (125 per 100,000).
Since the completed       implementation of the Safer Custody Programme in 2009-10, the figure has       fallen to 57 and 51 respectively (66-68 per 100,000), despite increases in       the prison population: (Sources 1, 4, 5, 7).
