     Risk from low dose ionizing radiation is of major societal concern, as       all living things, including       humans are exposed continuously to environmental background radiation as       well as artificial       sources, such as medical equipment for diagnostic and therapeutic       purposes.
Of particular       concern is variability between individual damage and response to radiation       (targeted and non-targeted)       due to their differing genetic make-up which has implications for       environmental risk       assessment and therapeutic design.
For risk assessment, a pool of knowledge is always needed to make a       societal impact; a change in       radiation protection regulation or practise in this case.
A single study       or a single group cannot       make any impact alone but the studies have to be repeated by independent       groups.
Societal       impact requires that the researcher is active in governmental and       international committees and       working groups.
Prof. Kadhim has had an outstanding contribution on the direction of       international research       specifically on non-targeted effects.
This started from her pioneering       observations on genomic       instability and bystander effects and contributions to the formulation of       a new paradigm of NTE,       which has profound implications for radiation protection and therapy.
The global framework for radiation protection leading to the societal       impact is based on       underpinning science evaluated in 2012 by United Nations Scientific       Committee on the Effects of       Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR).
Kadhim`s work on NTE was cited in their White       Paper making       recommendations to guide their future programme [a].
This White Paper has       been used to       formulate the principles of protection by the International Commission for       Radiation Protection       (ICRP) [b] that are then taken up in international standards, such as       basic safety standards and       national legislation that form the operational framework for radiation       practices.
Internationally, Kadhim`s research through the pan-European NOTE       programme has contributed to       the development of recommendations for international decision makers on       radiation exposure and       the future of radiation biology research.
This has taken the form of a       position paper from all of the       NOTE participants [1] which informs high level discussion at ICRP and       UNSCEAR.
In addition to her international reputation, Kadhim`s expertise and       competence has been       recognised by the UK government.
In particular she was appointed in 2012       to the Committee on       Medical Aspects of Radiation in the Environment (COMARE) [c], which is       responsible for advising       Government on the health effects of natural and manmade radiation, as well       as drafting advice for       the general public.
Through her work on the COMARE and as a member of the       "COMARE       Medical Practices Subcommittee (CT)," Kadhim is currently involved in the       preparation of a key       report to the Department of Health (DoH) concerning radiation doses from       Computerised       tomography (CT) scanners in the UK.
Drawing on the research undertaken by       Kadhim referenced       above (specifically [1]), this subcommittee report was explicitly tasked       with providing:     `advice to the DoH on the increased use and the optimisation and       justification of CT       exposure, with consideration of the potential benefit of practical       approaches and supporting       initiatives that might result in lower population exposure from the use of       diagnostic CT.`       [COMARE12-MPSCT-07]     CT is currently the main source of man-made radiation exposure in the       western countries and is a       major concern for radiation protection.
This report makes recommendations       for the DoH on clinical       guidelines [e], and therefore has profound implications for health and       welfare, in the context that       clinical and public health guidelines must ensure a fine balance between       the beneficial effects of       the use of CT in clinics against the potential risk for both patients and       clinic operators.
