     Black's research has been instrumental in resetting the museum and       heritage display agenda over the last twenty years, placing audiences       rather than collections at the centre of the engagement process.
His       approach combines overview/analysis/evaluation/debate around practice,       with action research through the development of policy documents,       interpretive plans and exhibitions.
Examples include current and past       collaborations with the National Trust, and Birmingham, Cardiff, Leicester       and Nottingham City Councils, and work with the Stoke Potteries Museum on       the re-display of the Staffordshire Hoard (see section 5.4), and most       recently with an AHRC funded KTA to support the small independent       Framework Knitters' Museum, Ruddington in developing a masterplan for its       future (see section 5.8).
Most of Black's past work, however, has involved       substantial Heritage Lottery Fund grants (e.g.
Galleries of Justice,       Nottingham (see section 5.6); Tyntesfield, National Trust; and Newarke       Houses Museum, Leicester) as part of wider grant aid from the EU and UK       Regional Development Agencies, with a total spend to date in excess of       &#163;80million.
Black's impact on display and content practice is reflected in the       continuing demand for his services from high-profile practitioner         groups to offer keynote speeches in the UK and Europe.
In the last       two years these have included: European Foundation, Berlin (Nov., 2011),       European Campus of Local and Regional Authorities for Culture (Oct.,       2012), the UK Association for Heritage Interpretation (Oct., 2012), UK       Association of Independent Museums (June 2012), UK Visitor Studies Group       (Feb., 2012), The Public History of Science, Technology, Engineering and       Medicine, Science Museum, London (April, 2013), and to Danish curators at       the National Museum of Denmark, Copenhagen (Sept., 2013) (see section       5.3).
It is also reflected in his high citations levels in practitioner       publications (see section 5.10).
Importantly, his contributions are not created in isolation, but through       working with project managers, design companies, museum or heritage       organisation personnel and local communities.
Most recently, Black has concentrated on the practical application of his     approach in relatively small institutions, including those that are     community based, through limited scale interventions to augment user     engagement and participation.
This is reflected in the four current     activities instigated over the last twelve months outlined below:     1.
Action research on display that stimulates user contributions         (on-going from 2013):     Supported by an Arts Council England Strategic Fund grant of &#163;105,000       Black, with colleagues from the Centre for Public History, and Museum and       Heritage Management, and the East Midlands Museums Service, has       distributed small grants and mentor support to a number of local museums       to pilot and evaluate display approaches that stimulate self-reflection       amongst visitors and generates user contribution, which in turn become       part of the displays.
The projects test approaches to content acquisition       and institutional participatory practice according to the precepts       outlined in Black's book Transforming Museums in the 21st         Century and subsequent conference papers.
Approximately &#163;50,000 is       committed in the current financial year (April 2013-March 2014) to four       distinct museum projects across the East Midlands, and an associated       website and blog.
2.
Developing an interpretation strategy for a `Heritage Gateway' in         Northampton:  		Black worked alongside project managers Focus Consultants (see section 5.1),       architect (Purcell), Northamptonshire County Council, Northampton Borough       Council, the Churches Conservation Trust, the Friends of Northampton       Castle and Spring Boroughs Residents Association to develop and cost a       `high level' interpretive approach to support a history and heritage       driven regeneration of the west side on Northampton.
The recommendations       reflect approaches Black outlined in his two books.
Full implementation,       with considerable community involvement, will take four to five years.
Black is currently working on phase two of this project, looking at       proposals and costs in detail, and has just been confirmed as a key member       of a team charged with redefining a `Northampton Cultural Quarter'.
3.
Developing a 2020 vision for Tullie House Museum &amp; Art         Gallery:  		Black ran workshops with the curatorial and education teams at Tullie House which were instrumental in       re-visioning the future role of the museum, and representing this       visualisation in a form that could be submitted to the Heritage Lottery       Fund as the core part of a multi-million pound bid (c&#163;12m), submitted in       November 2013 (see section 5.2)     4.
Non-user studies and focus groups for local museums:  In       2012-13, aided by a small grant from the East Midlands Audience Development Officer, Claire Browne, Black       was able to train MA students in preliminary non-user visitor studies for       two museums: the volunteer-run Ashby-de-la- Zouch Museum and the local       authority-funded Rutland County Museum.
The studies focused on local       audience disengagement and ways in which this could be redressed.
This       resulted in a series of recommendations, the bulk of which have since been       adopted (see section 5.5).
As importantly, the studies gave museum       personnel an understanding of the importance of on-going visitor research       and both sites now carry out their own survey work.
The project will be       extended in the academic year 2013-14, with a number of museums now       queuing up to be included.
