 The importance of the impact links directly to the centrality of the Buchenwald story to the GDR's post-war identity, created through the aggressive marketing by the state from the mid-Fifties onwards of the communist resistance fighters' own heroism at the expense of non-communist survivors of Buchenwald.
Two key mechanisms for this were the film Naked Among Wolves (dir., Frank Beyer, 1963), and the book of the same name authored by Bruno Apitz (1958).
Apitz was a founding member of the Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands, which dominated post-war politics in the GDR.
His novel was translated into over 30 languages and sold an estimated 2 million copies.
It was mandatory reading in East German schools.
The film was watched by over 2.5 million East Germans in cinemas, in addition to being distributed world-wide and reshown on East German television 6 six times during the 1960s and 1970s.
It has also been regularly screened on German television since unification in 1990.
Zweig also achieved national celebrity.
As Niven notes, `the collective memory of Buchenwald's communist prisoners was transformed into the official memory of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany', and incorporated into the country's `anti-Fascist legitimisation myth.'
Publicly contradicting this construct was a central part of Niven's scholarship, its initial objective and to the impact claimed.
There was wide response to Niven's book in Germany, particularly in the former GDR, even prior to the publication of the translation.
Thus, promoted by his publisher, Niven was invited to Berlin in November 2008 to be interviewed by German media (radio, press and television).
Further interviews and reports on the book followed on its publication in April 2009.
Following a presentation by Niven of his book at the Berlin Office of the government of Saxony-Anhalt (to an audience consisting largely of journalists), the Die Bundeszentrale f&#252;r politische Bildung (bpb) (Federal Centre for Political Education) bought the rights to produce upwards of 3,000 paperback copies of the book.
The centre focuses on promoting an awareness of democracy and participation in politics, taking up topical and historical subjects by issuing publications, by organising seminars, events, exhibitions, etc (see section 5.3).
Its adoption, therefore, of Niven's text, and its subsequent financial and organisational support for his public seminars and lectures, carries weight and significance, as does the incorporation of his material in teaching packs for younger students (see section 5.7).
One measure of the subsequent impact resulting from the book launch and its reception, and its subsequent dissemination by centres such as the bpb, was that it stimulated further media production.
The filmmaker Ute Gebhardt moved to make a documentary film about the Buchenwald child which, as she freely admitted, was based largely on Niven's book (and included an interview with him).
The film, Das Buchenwaldkind oder Was vom Antifaschismus bleibt (The Buchenwald Child or What Remains of Antifascism) was shown on the state-funded Central German Television (Mitteldeutscher Rundfunk) on 12 April 2010 (see section 5.1).
More public dissemination events followed: e.g.
the public readings and lectures which Niven was invited to give in Madgeburg, Erfurt and Berlin (organised in part by regional branches of the bpb).
In all these ways, Niven's work was continually disseminated to the German public.
The primary impact is the project's contribution within Germany to the `deconstruction of the myth of antifascism', particularly as it developed around events at Buchenwald.
Several of the press reports emphasised this aspect of Niven's book, believing it to have helped to clear away the distortions of history upon which East German communism had based its self-image (see section 5.4).
For this reason, the book proved controversial.
While it received much praise (the film director Eberhard G&#246;rner, for instance, compared it to a Shakespeare tragedy), it also prompted much anger, especially among former communist prisoners of Buchenwald, who felt that it unjustifiably set out to discredit the courage of former German communists.
The Lagergemeinschaft Buchenwald-Dora (League of Former Prisoners of Buchenwald-Dora), also angered by the press reporting, published a critique in its quarterly publication Die Glocke vom Ettersberg (The Bell of Ettersberg).
But the editor of the quarterly, an in attempt, as he put it, `to bring a measure of objectivity to the debate', allowed Niven to reply to the criticisms in the same edition &#8212; an indication that not all in the Lagergemeinschaft were in agreement as to the book's merits or demerits (see section 5.2).
The book thus demonstrably helped to trigger debate within the former prisoners' organisation.
Niven's book also had considerable impact outside of Germany, establishing Niven as a public authority of Buchenwald, leading to his participation in a Radio 3 programme on Buchenwald (Goethe's Oak, 2011 http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00swq96), contributions to articles published in The Observer in 2009 (http://www.theguardian.com/film/2009/jan/18/winslet-reader) and 2012 (http://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/mar/18/mystery-boy-who-survived-buchenwald), and interviews for the Discovery Channel series, The Rise and Fall of the Nazis (forthcoming, 2014).
