     The overarching impact of Bailey's research has been to influence the       development and activities of the African         Women's Empowerment Forum (AWEF), a community organization with an       increasingly international mission (1).
However, as we go on to       demonstrate, there were not only a series of more discrete impacts as part       of this process, but also Bailey's participative action research has begun       to contribute expert knowledge to shape the working practices of public       sector organizations.
The creation of an organization for female migrants, refugees and         asylum seekers.
AWEF aims to give voice to the voiceless and empower       women migrants, refugees and asylum seekers to take charge of their lives.
Since 2007, when Bailey joined the embryonic organization as a       trustee/strategist, she was `pivotal in helping to shape the organization,       making it sustainable' (2).
By playing a key role in helping to       `strategically position AWEF as a grassroots organization', Bailey shaped       the development of AWEF from a charitable and community organization to       their registration as a community interest company in 2011 (2).
AWEF has       had a significant influence on the lives of women in Nottingham from the       African diaspora: `They have worked very closely with destitute women       asylum seekers and refugees supporting them with law advice, shelter, food       and emotional support' (3).
Developing networks and communities for migrant and refugee women.
Bailey's research findings were central in helping to secure a grant of       &#163;10K for AWEF from Awards For All.
This grant proved central to AWEF's       development as it enabled them to identify and forge links with other       refugee-led organizations and demonstrated the value of networking to the       future of the organization.
Networking would become crucial in creating       AWEF UK which, since 2011, has championed the creation of an umbrella       organization of thirteen `Refugee Community Organizations' to help       charities with community building.
AWEF has become increasingly       international: for example, AWEF UK has become a member of the Diaspora       Volunteering Alliance (4).
Supporting empowerment and developing Communication Strategies to give         female migrants, refugees and asylum seekers a voice.
From       2007-2011, Bailey continued to work closely with the group.
She used her       research findings to increase the political awareness of the women       involved and to support their process of self-empowerment.
She was Chair       of the `Still Women: Voice of the Voiceless' programme.
Through discussion       sessions and regular meetings, Bailey not only enabled the group to       analyze social policies which impacted negatively on female asylum       seekers, but also helped the group to find a means to address these issues       to a wider audiences, including local authorities, politicians and the       third sector.
For example, Bailey played a key role in AWEF's community       engagement event `Thank You, Nottingham' (27 March 2010) which was       attended by (among others) the Lord Mayor of Nottingham Cllr Jeannie       Packers, MPs Alan Simpson and Lilian Greenwood and the venerable Arch       Deacon of Nottingham Peter Hill.
As the organization grew, Bailey developed strategies to help the women       involved use their voices:       `her knowledge of communication strategy was instrumental in the detailing       of the most effective ways of raising awareness for the organization and       structuring the operations' (2).
As a result of these self-empowerment       processes, AWEF has extended its resistance beyond the local and into the       public sphere by actively engaging with policy-makers, NGOs, and local and       national governments to create awareness of the problems faced by asylum       seekers.
For example, in 2009 the Executive Director Faith Gakanje was       invited to Downing Street.
She met the Prime Minister and presented the       views of AWEF and other partner NGOs on the issue of institutional       discrimination against asylum seekers.
Bailey's work with AWEF on       communication strategy has impacts beyond the organization.
The group has       organized a series of events to disseminate its ideas about changing       British society's perception of asylum seekers and refugees, and the       self-perception of these groups.
Creating jobs for Refugee Women.
Bailey's `skills were priceless       in the development of the business plan' (2).
By helping to make AWEF       economically sustainable, Bailey has supported the organization's       entrepreneurial activities.
For example, AWEF secured two Rayne       Fellowships to develop food and fashion business in order to create jobs       for African women refugees.
Shaping Professional Practices and Policy.
As a form of       participative action research, Bailey's work with AWEF has generated       further research findings.
These can be used to shape the work and       policies of public and voluntary sector professionals who work with female       asylum seekers and refugees.
A first workshop on `Refugee Women,       Empowerment and the Challenges of Everyday Life' was held at NTU in May       2013.
It was attended by professionals from refugee action groups in the       East Midlands and Faith Gakanje.
This forms the blueprint for future       workshops designed to share ideas about best practice and focusing on the       themes of networking, communication and empowerment.
