     Because Tomlinson's research generated interest beyond the academy, he       was invited to give many public talks and to offer expert presentations       and consultations to high-level international bodies.
In this way, he       provided conceptual and contextual analysis of cultural policy related       issues to inform the thinking and decision-making of international bodies.
This has included keynote addresses to the Council of Europe (Budapest       2003; Strasbourg 2005), an `expert presentation' on cultural respect and       understanding to the Commonwealth Civil Society Consultations Meeting and       a submission to the `Commonwealth Commission on Respect and Understanding'       which reported to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Kampala       (2007).
From 2008, these impact activities have continued.
Influence on UNESCO policy-making.
The most significant       impact stems from Tomlinson's 10,000 word expert briefing document for       UNESCO in 2008 on the theme of `Cultural globalization and the       representation of otherness through the Media' for use in the preparation       of the second UNESCO World Report (1).
This paper informed UNESCO's World       Report: Investing in Cultural Diversity and Intercultural Dialogue (2010).
Tomlinson's research underpinned conclusions drawn by UNESCO on cultural       diversity in a changing media landscape in Chapter 5 (Communication and       Cultural Contexts) and informed UNESCO's recommendations on supporting the       production and distribution of media that respond to the needs of local       contexts (2).
In particular, he influenced the way in which the report       addressed the relation between globalization and cultural diversity by       directing attention to the process of `deterritorialization' (a concept       that was at the heart of Tomlinson's Globalization and Culture).
An example of this direct influence can be found in Section 1.1 (p. 14) of       the UNESCO Report where it states that `One of the most far-reaching       effects of globalization is a weakening of the usual connection between a       cultural event and its geographical location as a result of the       dematerialization or deterritorialization process facilitated by       information and communication technologies (Tomlinson, 2007).
Likewise, in       Chapter 5, there is clear evidence of Tomlinson's influence in the       discussion of `Counter flows, local and regional trends' (p. 133 ff.)
and       `A changing media landscape' (p. 135 ff.)
These particular recommendations       continue to feed into UNESCO's sectoral priorities and policies (3).
Facilitating responsible corporate action.
The BBVA (Banco       Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria) Foundation, Madrid invited Tomlinson as one of       `the finest researchers and creators worldwide' to write a chapter on       `Cultural Globalization Reconsidered' for a book The Multiple Faces of         Globalization (2009) as part of the Foundation's `Frontiers of       Knowledge Programme' (4).
The BBVA Foundation is one of the world's       largest corporate sponsors of research as, `the most effective means to       address the challenges facing contemporary society'.
The findings of       contributors to the book have been used by the Foundation to produce       strategies for responsible corporate action to meet the demands of a       globalized world.
Encouraging international cooperation in development.
Tomlinson was commissioned to write an article &#8212; "Supermarkt der       Weltdeutungen: Der Austausch zwischen den Kulturen wirkt zugleich       befreiend und verunsichernd' (Supermarket of Interpretations about the       World: Cultural Exchange as Liberation and Uncertainty) &#8212; for the German       magazine Welt-Sichten (World View).
This new magazine for global       development and ecumenical cooperation is published by a coalition of       church-based charities in Germany and Switzerland (5).
A revised version       of the article was published in the 256 page Eine Welt Taschenkalender       (2012) published by Volker Harms Ltd, a diary-calender that aims to engage       the public and provoke discussion (6).
These publications are further       evidence of Tomlinson's impact on public debate and understanding.
Promoting global artistic expression.
The other       dimension of impact made during the review period is in relation to       cultural/arts bodies.
Tomlinson delivered a keynote lecture on       `Accelerated Living' at the Impakt Arts Festival Conference on Accelerated       Living in Utrecht (2009).
The impact was in providing an analytical       framework within which artists from across Europe could reflect on their       practices in the context of the cultural condition of global immediacy.
In       a paper on `Architecture, Globalization, Locality' to the Royal Institute       of British Architects Research Symposium 2011, Tomlinson offered a       cultural-analytical case study which provided opportunities for architects       to reflect on the cultural impact of their professional practice in the       context of the globalization process.
A paper on Globalization and       Acceleration in Nottingham Contemporary Gallery's Uneven Geographies       Lecture Series (May 26 2010) provided members of the local community with       a cultural-analytical narrative within which to interpret the artworks in       a major international exhibition.
