     There are a number of excellent academic groups in the computational       biology area, relatively few such groups in industry.
Most industrial       biologists have limited mathematical skills and training, while most       academic bio-mathematicians do not work in collaboration with experimental       biologists.
Fell's team at Brookes are one of the very few groups       attempting to close this gap.
Their impact falls into two main areas;       through Fell's involvement with Physiomics as Chief Scientific Adviser,       they are making powerful modelling tools available to industry; secondly,       by training students at Brookes who use modelling tools with systems       biology data, they are helping to provide the basis for a more       mathematically literate workforce in industrial biology.
In 2001, an independent biotech analyst, John Savin had the idea of using       computer modelling of cellular processes to improve the drug development       pipeline.
He identified Fell's research as exemplifying the concept he       had.
An investor was found and Physiomics plc was founded independently of       Brookes.
In the period 2001-2004 Fell was Science Director of Physiomics       and from 2005 has been Chief Scientific Adviser attending monthly R &amp;       D meetings and Scientific Advisory Boards (3 per year).
Both roles have       been facilitated through a consultancy agreement with Brookes.
Software for running modelling of biological systems was developed which       was used as a demonstration for pharmaceutical companies to try to attract       further R&amp;D funding for the systems biology approach to identify       targets.
Building upon the SCAMP programme, the models of threonine       synthesis and EGF signal transduction described above [2-4] were used to       test the Physiomics software.
Physiomics' first major contract was won in 2004 with Bayer Technical       Services, and interest from companies undertaking cancer drug development       followed, including Cyclacel in Dundee.
Since 2008, Physiomics has secured contracts with major players in the       pharmaceutical sector, which demonstrates they have adopted a new systems       approach to drug development and therapy design.
This can be demonstrated       by the numerous contracts which have been reported upon in Physiomics'       Annual Reports [a] and Physiomics' News &amp; Events pages [b] and       specific press releases including the collaboration with Pharmacometrics       Ltd, May 2011 [c] (joint development of DrugCARD database).
Building on       its work on predicting drug effects on cells, Physiomics has added therapy       design to its capabilities, in which the effects of combination drug       therapies on tumours are modelled and trialled on the software and the       best combination is chosen using the predicted effect.
This approach has       been demonstrated to be successful in trials funded by Eli Lilly in 2011       [d], in which the results were compared with a trial that used the       traditional mouse xenograft model.
The software correctly predicted the       outcome in 19 out of 21 cases [e].
This indicates huge potential in the       reduction in trial costs as the modelling can be run in 4-6 weeks instead       of 6 months, and no costs are incurred associated with the animals.
This       successful trial has resulted in two further contracts with a major global       pharmaceutical company, March 2012 [f] and a top-five pharmaceutical       company Aug 2012 [g] (names withheld by agreement with the companies).
Additional contracts of a therapeutic design focus include:            ValiRx plc, September 2011 [h]       Eli Lilly, November 2011 [i]       Sareum, The Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) and Cancer Research         Technology Limited (CRT) joint programme, March 2012 [j]          These contracts demonstrate that the field of systems biology and the       modelling approaches pioneered through the work of the Fell research group       at Brookes, now form an integral part of the latest approaches to drug       discovery and therapeutic design; thus a sector has adopted a new process       and technology.
Research and Development spending in the three-year period       of 2010 to 2012 was &#163;565k, more than double that of the period 2006 to       2008 at &#163;246K.
Similarly, the net Share Capital raised in the same periods       also more than tripled from &#163;621K to &#163;2.2million [a].
Furthermore, Physiomics has succeeded in its strategic aim of       diversifying the applications of its technology beyond drug development       and therapeutic design, as demonstrated in the 2010 contract with the       Carbon Trust, in collaboration with Green Biologics which involved       metabolic modelling of butanol formation in order to optimise its       production from waste as a viable fuel source [k].
Brookes has trained a number of the Physiomics staff working on these       contracts including Brightman who is still employed at Physiomics.
Others       who have since moved on include Lubna Bashir, Nazia Hussain, and Cathy       Derow (who has returned to Brookes to undertake a PhD).
Christophe       Cassagnole from the Mazat collaborating lab., joined Physiomics in 2004       and became Chief Operating Officer in 2007 [b].
