     Museums: collaborations with and influences on public bodies     Our principal collaborations have been with the National Maritime Museum       and Coventry Transport Museum.
Following Youngs' contribution to the       National Maritime Museum/Hakluyt Society Conference `Exploring Travel and       Texts' (2005), and Thompson's organisation of a colloquium on `Shipwreck       in the long Eighteenth Century' (2006), Chambers and Fulford, Jowitt, and       Thompson have each organised conferences and colloquia, hosted by the       Maritime Museum and open to the public, on aspects of English exploration.
In 2008 Jowitt organised `Richard Hakluyt 1552-1616: life, times, legacy'       (120 delegates/HEI and non HEI based); in 2010 Thompson organised       `Shipwreck in Art and Literature' (40 delegates, HEI and non HEI based).
In 2011 Chambers and Fulford organised `Joseph Banks, India, and the       Pacific' (90 delegates, HEI and non-HEI based; keynote by Chambers), an       event the Museum's Director of Research describes as `particularly       influential in helping to shape the Museum's thinking on exploration and       its legacies' (source 1).
Our partnership with the National Maritime       Museum was strengthened by Jowitt's and Fulford's appointments as Caird       Fellows in 2009 and 2010 respectively.
The Museum's Director of Research       is on the Hakluyt Project's Editorial Board and hosted an Editorial       Workshop for it (2011); Jowitt served on the Board of the Museum's Journal         for Maritime Research (Routledge); the Museum advertises the Hakluyt       Project through its website (source 6).
In 2009 Chambers and Fulford       organised with the Lincoln Museum and Art Gallery ('The Collection') a       conference on 'Cultivating Empire: Exploration, Science, and Literature',       with Chambers' opening talk to 75 non-academic delegates.
Chambers'       collaborative work with `The Collection'/Lincoln Council' was essential       and his expertise vital to Lincoln Museum's successful &#163;137k Heritage       Lottery Fund grant application in May 2013 (for an exhibition of the Endeavour       voyage to be curated, with associated educational activities, by Chambers       in 2014).
Youngs' AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award with Coventry       Transport Museum, commenced 2009, has benefited Museum staff by affording       insight into new ways of presenting material and has `highlighted areas of       the collection connected to travel writing which would not have been       possible without [the student's] placement' (source 4).
A small and       already popular permanent exhibition is among the outcomes.
Guiding the work of societies, libraries and other registered         charities:     Chambers delivered the Annual Lecture to the Sir Joseph Banks Society,       'Joseph Banks and the Secret Service' (August 2010, public audience of       200+), sits on its library committee and advises it on academic matters       and enquiries; Fulford has been a Trustee of the Joseph Banks Trust,       promoting knowledge of Banks; Thompson spoke on `Byron the Traveller' to       the East Midlands division of the University of the Third Age (2008,       audience of 100), and to the Hucknall Byron Society (2009, audience of       30); Jowitt gave the Annual Lecture on 'Queen Elizabeth I and Piracy' to       the Queen Elizabeth I Society of America (2012, New Orleans, audience of       200).
Youngs gave the opening address to the 2012 meeting of the Prince       Albert Society (Coburg, 30+) and arranged travel writing talks at       Nottingham's Bromley House Library (Susan Bassnett, March 2012; Sara       Wheeler, May 2013, both 30+), which `worked to generate interest in [the       Library's] collection and programme' (source 2).
Youngs continued to serve       on the Hakluyt Society's Council in 2008 and 2009.
Jowitt was co-opted       onto it in 2012.
Our relationship with that body `has certainly been an       important feature of the Society's development' from before 2008 and has       `brought together differing approaches to the study of travel literature       in such a way as to promote significant intellectual advance' (source 3).
Chambers has advised on decisions regarding export licences for works of       art of national importance (for Tate Britain, Arts Council England).
Youngs is President, and Ouditt Treasurer, of the International Society       for Travel Writing (from 2009).
Fostering public awareness of the cultural history of travel through         media contributions:     We provide expert contributions on the commemoration and re-evaluation of       travel history and writing to radio and television programmes; magazine       and newspaper articles; encyclopaedia entries; podcasts and websites; and       specialist knowledge to media researchers.
Chambers supplied an interview       and research about Banks for Dan Cruickshank on 'Kew: The Garden that       changed the World' (BBC, April 2009), and articles and interviews to local       media (BBC Radio Nottingham, Nottingham Evening Post).
Thompson       was a 'talking head' for a documentary on 'Travel Writing' (BBC Scotland       Learning, 2008) and was interviewed for BBC East Midlands TV news and BBC       Radio Nottingham about Byron as traveller (both 2009); Jowitt's article       'Queen Elizabeth's Pirates' was cover and lead feature in BBC History         Magazine (July, 2010: circulation 69,234; the podcast had 152,000       hits); her 'Tudor Voyaging and Richard Hakluyt' was published (with       podcast) in BBC History Magazine (November 2012).
Chambers'       expertise on Banks is frequently used by broadcast media: e.g.
Nutopia for       the History Channel 7-part series 'The British', for Sky Atlantic       (September 2012), which looks at Cook's first Pacific voyage; Jowitt gave       information on Hakluyt for episode 1 'Heart of Oak' of BBC2 series 'Empire       of the Seas' (2010); Thompson was advisor for a Chilean TV drama series       about Maria Graham (2011).
