     In 2008-09 the House of Commons Innovation, Universities, Science and       Skills Committee conducted       an extensive inquiry into all aspects of quality and standards.
The       inquiry was stimulated in large part       by the articles and statements that Professor Brown had made in the press       and elsewhere in 2007-08.
Professor Brown submitted both written and oral evidence to the Inquiry,       the burden of which was that       the main regulator, the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education,       should itself be strengthened       and should have a clearer remit to focus on and protect academic       standards; in addition, the grant of       taught degree awarding powers should always be conditional and a system of       institutional accreditation       should be introduced.
The Committee recommended:     The QAA ...should be reformed and re-established as a Quality and         Standards Agency...with         the responsibility for maintaining consistent, national standards in         higher education institutions         in England and for monitoring and reporting on standards.
(House of Commons Innovation, Universities, Science and Skills Committee.
Students and Universities.
Eleventh Report of Session 2008-09.
Volume 1, page 148.
HC 170-1.
London:       The Stationery Office       Limited).
The Committee also recommended that:     All higher education institutions in England should have their         accreditation to award degrees         reviewed no less often than every 10 years by the reformed QAA.
Where         the Agency concludes         that all or some of an institution's powers should be withdrawn, we         recommend that the         Government draw up and put in place arrangements which would allow         accreditation to award         degrees to be withdrawn or curtailed by the Agency.
(Ibid., page 149).
These recommendations reflected Professor Brown's proposals, especially       the need for a greater focus       on academic standards and the desirability of establishing a proper system       of institutional accreditation.
In July 2010 the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE)       announced the principles and       objectives of a revised quality assurance regime.
One of the key changes       was that in future institutional       reviewers would make judgements on `threshold academic standards'.
The       consultation document that       preceded the 2010 report explicitly listed the House of Commons report as       one of the contextual factors       that had led to the change.
This change &#8212; to give a greater emphasis to       scrutiny of academic       standards &#8212; was fully consistent with the conclusions of Professor Brown's       research as adopted by the       House of Commons Committee.
In June 2013 the Institute for Public Policy Research published the       report of a Commission on the       Future of Higher Education entitled A Critical Path.
Securing the         Future of Higher Education in         England.
This "sets out how Britain can continue to expand and       reform higher education, protecting       research and learning through austerity while ensuring that the sector is       equipped to play a leading       role in economic and social renewal in the future" (http://www.ippr.org/publication/55/10847/a-critical-path-securing-the-future-of-higher-education-in-england).
Professor       Brown gave both       written and oral evidence to the Commission.
Once again he argued the need       for a single       independent regulator focussing on academic standards.
The Commission       Report recommended       that `a new, single higher education regulator is created, based on       expanding HEFCE to incorporate       QAA and OFFA'.
OFFA is the Office for Fair Access.
The new regulator       `should be established by       Royal Charter and should report to Parliament &#8212; rather than the Government       of the day &#8212; on standards       in higher education'.
(Institute for Public Policy Research, 2013, pp.
108-109).
The Higher Education Policy Institute, the leading think tank in UK       higher education, has recently (July       2013) published a report by Professor Brown that recommends a streamlined       system of regulation for       UK higher education with a single comprehensive regulator accountable to       Parliament.
This is likely to       prove extremely influential as the government considers more radical       changes to the existing system to       be incorporated in legislation after the next election.
Brown has been a       member of the HEPI advisory       board since its inception, another marker of his standing in the field of       HE policy.
Professor Brown's work has also been featured regularly in the press &#8212;       particularly the Guardian and       Times Higher Education, demonstrating the significance of his voice       in educational ideas, politics and       culture beyond academia.
His most recent book, Brown and Carasso (2013),       has recently been       reviewed in the London Review of Books and Times Higher         Education.
