     The results of Linden's research undertaken during his time at Cambridge       have been used in two ways.
First, through applying the principles of       natural ventilation in the design of specific buildings which were       modelled in the G.K. Batchelor Laboratory from 1993 - 1998 using the       principles established by Linden's research.
This research revealed the       airflow pathways and ventilation rates that would occur in the building       and this allowed the designers to modify window opening sizes and       strategies.
The research has a continuing impact in two ways: as case       studies of successful low-energy buildings that, with growing public       interest in global warming, have led to an increased influence on       designers and architects, and by their contribution to the UK's reduced       energy consumption and carbon emissions: naturally ventilated buildings in       the UK typically have carbon emissions around 25% of fully air conditioned       buildings (Steemers &amp; Manchanda, 2010, Build.
and Environ, 45,       270-278).
The following naturally-ventilated buildings fall into this       category:     Internal Revenue Building, Nottingham, UK 1994       Cable and Wireless Training Centre, Coventry, UK (Royal Fine Art       Commission/Sunday Times Building of the Year Award 1994)       BRE Environmental building, Garston, UK 1996     The Centre for Mathematical Sciences at Cambridge (completed in 2004)       uses displacement ventilation, the mathematical modelling of which is       included in Linden's research papers.
Linden's mathematical algorithms for natural ventilation described in       Section 2 were adopted by and implemented into the US Department of Energy       whole-building simulation code EnergyPlus during the period 2003-2009,       thereby providing the code with the capability of modelling natural       ventilation for the first time.
EnergyPlus is a public domain code capable       of calculating the energy performance and internal conditions within a       building and has been used continuously in the US for regulatory and       world-wide design purposes.
The natural ventilation capabilities of       EnergyPlus are wholly the result of the research undertaken by Linden et         al and were an essential component in the design of the second       category of buildings, those designed with the use of EnergyPlus and the       specific modules based on Linden's research to optimize the energy       performance of the buildings.
The following buildings fall into this category:     San Francisco Federal Office Building, USA 2007       San Diego Children's Museum, USA (Winner 2008 Savings by Design Energy       Efficiency Integration Award)       San Diego Supercomputer Center, UCSD, USA 2008       New York Times HQ, New York, USA 2009     These buildings continue to provide energy savings and high-quality and       comfortable indoor air conditions, using design features predicated on the       code EnergyPlus, including modules specifically based on Linden's       research.
As noted above naturally ventilated buildings use less energy       and have significantly less carbon emissions than a conventional air       conditioned building.
EnergyPlus is used world-wide to simulate the energy consumption and       internal conditions within buildings.
First released in 2001 it currently       serves as a major regulatory calculation model in the USA for building       energy code purposes.
It currently has over 3000 members in its user       group.
Details of the code can be found at http://apps1.eere.energy.gov/buildings/energyplus/.
The research carried out between 1993-1998 also made a significant       contribution to the establishment of the consultancy company NaturalWorks       (http://www.natural-works.com)       in 2002.
The company is based in Portugal and currently employs 9 persons       and has a five year average annual turnover of 800k EURO.
The company       provides design assistance in low-energy buildings in both Europe and the       US, using principles and methodologies developed to predict the behaviour       and performance of naturally ventilated buildings.
