     The BP Institute research results have had an important impact on BP's       use of the Brightwater polymer and the way in which it has been deployed       in a number of oil fields throughout the world.
The research group's work has produced a direct impact on the design and       operation of polymer floods in two principle ways.
Firstly, the improved       modelling capability now allows an assessment of the possible impact of       the polymer flood, secondly it provides a novel and effective approach for       monitoring a field during a polymer flood.
This breakthrough has now been       implemented by BP.
The models and analogue experiments developed by the Cambridge BP       Institute have focused on the operation of the polymer as it flows through       a reservoir, heats up and gels.
These feed directly into models for       selecting the optimal size and concentration of a slug of polymer to be       added to the injected water to optimize the diversion of the flow away       from swept zones of the reservoir in a given reservoir geology.
Presentation of the model results to BP engineers, in December 2011, June       2012 and December 2012, has informed the design of polymer floods in       specific oil fields.
This new research underpins a new approach to       optimising the distribution of a given volume of the polymer in the       injected water and typically enables an additional diversion of between       several % to several 10's % of injected water into low permeability rock.
This increases oil production by several to several 10's %, which       increases the value of the production by US $ 3-30 million per well per       year.
When applied to tens of oil fields, each with tens of wells, the       value of optimising the technology increases to US $300-3000 million per       year.
Prof Woods research has also led to the recognition that once the polymer       gels, there are changes in the temperature of the fluid produced from the       field.
As a consequence, monitoring of well temperatures is now being used       routinely as a real-time indicator of flow behaviour in certain fields.
Such information enables real-time amendments to polymer injection to       increase the effectiveness and inform decisions about the value of       additional polymer treatment.
Prior to this new approach monitoring the       gelling of the polymer and hence assessing its impact was practically       impossible.
As a result of our work such monitoring can provide evidence       of successful polymer flooding, leading to decisions to use additional       polymer floods; the additional 1-10% oil production associated with this       is worth $US 3-30M per well per year.
BP filed a patent for this novel       monitoring technique in 2012, with GB first filing number 1122027.4.
The       content is confidential.
As well as providing reports on the research and application       developments, the research team in the BP Institute regularly interact       with the polymer flood team in BP, headed by Dr Ian Collins of BP, and       also reservoir engineers, to ensure the research is implemented and       incorporated in BP's reservoir management and engineering processes.
These       meetings also ensure the research team focuses on challenges of direct       impact to the field applications.
Meetings with BP reservoir engineers,       polymer chemists and enhanced oil recovery experts have been held on many       occasions, including workshops at the BP Institute of the University of       Cambridge during the months October 2009; March 2010; September 2010;       December 2011; June 2012 and December 2012.
The Advisor on Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery, BP Exploration           Operating Ltd. will corroborate that: "The research has         identified how the flow interacts with polymers as they gel within         porous rocks, and this is having a significant impact on the efficiency         of water floods for enhanced oil recovery, through improved modelling         capability and design of polymer treatments.
In turn this is leading to         improved field recovery."
"In addition, the research has led to         identification of a new monitoring technique, which has been developed         by Prof Woods and which has been patented by BP".
New results have also identified how such thermally sensitive polymers       can improve the effectiveness of heat recovery in inter-seasonal heat       storage by control of the flow fronts in complex permeable rock, and       especially to inhibit buoyancy-driven slumping of the hot injected fluid.
This enables 10's% more of the injected thermal energy to be recovered in       the early years of operation, which is a key time to help the economic       viability of aquifer thermal energy storage schemes.
A typical well can       recover fluid 10-20&#176; C warmer if the dispersion is suppressed by a polymer       bank; this leads to an additional heat recovery of 2-4 GW hrs per year,       with a value of US $ 0.5-1.0 million.
