     The development of miglustat has had a profound effect on the lives of       people suffering from two LSDs: Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) and type       1 Gaucher disease.
First licensed by the European Medicines Authority (EMA) for NPC in       January 2009, miglustat is the first therapy to be approved for patients       with the condition.
This disease usually affects children of school age,       but onset can occur at any time from early infancy to adulthood.
Previously there were no treatments to relieve the multiple and severe       symptoms, which include difficulty with upward and downward eye movements,       difficulty with swallowing, ataxia, dystonia, learning difficulties with       progressive intellectual decline, tremors accompanying movement and, in       some cases, seizures.
In infants, NPC can also compromise liver function.
In most countries, all NPC patients who meet treatment guidelines are now       prescribed miglustat; the exception is the USA, where the figure is nearer       50% as the drug is still awaiting FDA approval.
While not curing NPC,       miglustat substantially slows disease progression.
The drug has a large       volume of distribution and the capacity to access deep organs such as the       brain, bones, and lungs, making it particularly effective in managing the       central nervous system aspects of NPC7.
There is evidence that,       if used early enough, miglustat may even prevent the development of       neurological symptoms8.
A systematic review from 2012 examined       how miglustat improved swallowing difficulties in NPC patients, suggesting       that this also reduced patients' risk of developing bronchopneumonia (a       common cause of death in NPC) and resulted in greater life expectancy       compared to untreated patients9.
The chair of the US National       Niemann-Pick Disease Foundation, arguing for the drug to be licensed for       NPC in the US, stated that treatment with miglustat slows the `relentless       progression' of the disease and gives months or years of improved quality       of life10.
Miglustat has been licensed since 2002 for some patients with type 1       Gaucher disease.
This is the most common of the LSDs, caused by an enzyme       deficiency which leads to a collection of fatty material in the spleen,       liver, kidneys, lungs, brain, and bone marrow.
Symptoms include an       enlarged spleen, anaemia, fatigue and bruising.
Severe and disabling bone       pain and fractures are also common; untreated patients typically become       dependent on wheelchairs owing to this.
The disease is primarily treated       using intravenous enzyme replacement therapy, but miglustat provides a       highly important and effective oral alternative for patients for whom       enzyme therapy is unsuitable or becomes unsustainable owing to damage       caused by repeat injections.
Since 2008, however, miglustat has shown itself to have two other       significant applications in the treatment of type 1 Gaucher disease.
Firstly, it is an effective oral therapy for the long-term maintenance of       patients previously stabilised with enzyme replacement therapy11.
Secondly, there is evidence that miglustat reduces the incidence of bone       pain and improves bone mineral density in type 1 Gaucher disease, even       more effectively than enzyme replacement therapy12.
In 2008       this led to the EMA approving a type II variation for Zavesca (miglustat),       so that guidance on the positive effect of miglustat on bone disease in       type 1 Gaucher disease was included in the medicine's information sheet13.
Sales of miglustat have shown a dramatic rise from CHF 6.1 million in       2004 to CHF 84.7 million in 2012.
Since 2008, sales have more than       doubled, totalling CHF 315 million, and they continue to rise; in the       first quarter of 2013 sales were 23% up on the same quarter in 201214.
Given the limited market for this drug in patients with two very rare       diseases, this continuing sales growth is notable, especially since for       one of those diseases, type 1 Gaucher, miglustat is only licensed for the       treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy is unsuitable.
To date the drug has been used to treat several hundred patients with type       1 Gaucher disease and NPC worldwide.
