     Campath is now a treatment of choice for many cases of CLL and for       patients who have relapsed from their disease.
It benefits patients       and is cost-effective relative to other agents.
Financially, its use in       the treatment of CLL has generated substantial income for both the       pharmaceutical industry and the university sector in the UK.
Benefit to patients with CLL       The specificity of Campath means it is well tolerated compared with       conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy; it is effective at stabilising       disease or inducing clinical remission; and it has been shown to improve       survival and quality of life.
Campath's importance in the treatment of relapsed CLL has been reinforced       by clinical trials showing that its use in combination with chemotherapy       (e.g.
fludarabine or methlyprednisolone) and/or rituximab in the treatment       of patients with CLL who had failed all available therapies, resulted in       more effective clinical responses and increased survival5.
Other large international clinical trials studies have shown its efficacy       as first-line treatment for those patients who have CLL6-8,       particularly with genetic abnormalities associated with a poor prognosis,       such as those affecting the tumour suppressor protein p536.
The       following quote from this reference states that Campath `combined with         methylprednisolone is the most effective induction regimen hitherto         reported in TP53-deleted CLL' 8.
Low dose monotherapy       using subcutaneously administered Campath has also been shown to be       efficacious in poor prognosis CLL8.
Subcutaneously       administrated Campath simplifies treatment, opens up the options for       patients requiring maintenance therapy to control their disease, and       reduces costs8-9.
More than 70 papers and/or reviews have been published since 2008       reporting the efficacy of Campath in CLL and, as further evidence of its       widespread use for the treatment of CLL, patient access programmes have       been established in 50 countries.
In September 2012 Campath was no longer       commercially available for the treatment of CLL, because the manufacturer,       Sanofi- Aventis/Genzyme, made a decision to surrender the licence so that       Campath could be licensed for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (under       the new name Lemtrada)10.
Under the US Campath Distribution       Program, Campath is provided free of charge by Sanofi-Aventis/Genzyme to       appropriate patients, to ensure that CLL patients have continued access to       treatment11.
Currently, Campath is being used to treat ~1,500       patients/year with CLL12.
Financial benefit to the pharmaceutical and university sectors       The $60,000 per patient average cost of a Campath course of treatment for       CLL brought in a total of $76M in 2011, with cumulative worldwide sales of       approximately $268M between 2010 and 201212.
Therefore, the       income for the UK during the REF period is substantial, with 2% going to       the UK university sector (including Oxford University), 2% going to       British Technology Group (BTG, a company assigned rights to Campath), and       2% to GlaxoSmithKline (Campath was originally licensed to Burroughs       Wellcome, a company later merging to form part of GSK).
