     Clinical impact     The use of Lemtrada (the proprietary name submitted to the health       authorities for the use of alemtuzumab in the treatment of MS) is highly       significant in terms of healthcare, because of the way it demonstrates       that very short-term therapy can give long-term benefit in the treatment       of immunological diseases.
Professors Waldmann and Hale acted as scientific advisors to the 2008       CAMMS223 trial (334 patients), which reported alemtuzumab to be superior       as a treatment for MS than conventional interferon beta-1a (IFN03b2-1a)       therapy4.
The significant improvement of results obtained in       the study following short-term pulsed alemtuzumab treatment (given over 5       consecutive days in the first month and then over three days after 12 and       24 months) compared to IFN03b2-1a administered over a three year period       was confirmed in a subsequent retrospective study on the same group of       patients over another two years5.
Traditional MS treatments compromise the whole immune system risking the       development of cancers and infections.
In contrast, the controlled use of       alemtuzumab in a short-term course of treatment achieves a long-term       benefit for the patient with minimal side effects.
Importantly,       alemtuzumab therapy did not appear to result in the increased occurrence       of malignancies.
Indeed the repeated administration of alemtuzumab       appeared to result in decreased adverse side effects6.
These       studies also highlighted the possibility that the suppression of       inflammation in MS could inhibit those downstream disease mechanisms that       lead to long-term disability.
This is an extremely important factor for       younger patients.
Additional support for the efficacy of alemtuzumab in MS       was provided by recent results from the phase III clinical trial (MS-CARE       II) comparing alemtuzumab with IFN03b2-1a.
This study, reporting efficacy       and safety data from 840 treatment-failed and treatment-naive MS patients,       described a decrease in disability with alemtuzumab with 65% patients       relapse-free at two years (compared with 47% on IFN03b2-1a), and a 49% and       42% reduction in relapse and disability rates respectively, compared to       that obtained using IFN03b2-1a (6).
These improvements were durable       despite the fact that 80% of patients received no further doses of       alemtuzumab during the first year of the extension study7.
The exceptional results of the phase III clinical trial have been       included in an application for regulatory approval for use of Lemtrada in       the USA and Europe8.
This application is currently under review       by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) &#8212; its use has already been       unanimously supported by the FDA Advisory Committee.
In June 2013, the       European Medicines Agency's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use       (CHMP) recommended that the drug be licensed for people with active       relapsing-remitting MS9.
Financial impact     The `blockbuster potential' valuation of Lemtrada was considered to have       been a major factor in the acquisition of Genzyme by the pharmaceutical       giant Sanofi in February 2011.
Sanofi agreed to pay at least $20.1 billion       and up to $23.9 billion, the exact amount to be paid depending on Genzyme       achieving certain agreed milestones based principally on the development       of Lemtrada.
At that time the income from Lemtrada was predicted to be at       least $700 million annually10.
Genzyme is developing Lemtrada       for use in MS in collaboration with BayerHealth11.
