     The number of organ and stem cell transplants taking place is increasing       year by year.
In 2010, in       the USA alone, 16,898 kidney and 6,291 liver transplants were performed7       while in excess of       50,000 stem cell transplants are performed annually worldwide.
Although       more than 90% of renal       transplants survive for one year, this figure drops to less than 50% after       10 years8, thus       emphasising the urgency for the availability of improved therapies for       supporting transplant       patients.
The increasing use of alemtuzumab (now manufactured by Genzyme), used       off-label, continues to       represent a major advance forward in the field of tissue transplantation.
Used increasingly in the       induction period, it is considered to be `the most potent currently used       lymphoid depleting       antibody'9.
The Users' Group meetings, organised by the University of Oxford and       clinical teams involved in       transplantation, have provided invaluable information that continues (i.e.
post-2008) to be critical       for the effective use of alemtuzumab.
The establishment of this resource       for clinicians, and the       efficacy of the antibody, have resulted in alemtuzumab being recognised as       an important       therapeutic antibody not only for allogeneic organ transplants including       kidney10, heart11 and       intestinal transplants12, but also in stem cell transplants in       diseases such as lymphoma13, acute       leukaemia14 and aplastic anaemia15.
The use of alemtuzumab continues to have major impacts in the following       areas:            Improvements in the conditioning treatments used before stem cell         transplants or as part of         the induction period prior to organ transplantation.
The use of         alemtuzumab reduces the         intensity of these regimes, with faster recovery of the immune system's         ability to fight         infection, and fewer adverse health problems, such as cancer, diabetes         or bone disease.
The promotion of improved survival of patients following         transplantation due to reduced         acute and chronic GVHD, and fewer deaths arising from infection.
The outcome of alemtuzumab use is a reduction in treatment-associated       toxicity for the patient.
Combined with its selective immunosuppressive properties, this has       resulted in patients requiring       less hospitalisation, and has increased access to cost-effective       treatment.
Current treatment costs of the recognised off-licence use of alemtuzumab       (brand name Campath,       MabCampath, Campath-1H or Lemtrada) currently manufactured by       Sanofi-Aventis/Genzyme are       greatly reduced compared to many other transplant therapeutic regimens       currently in use.
For       example, when used as an induction agent in kidney transplants, the cost       of alemtuzumab is       approximately &#163;264 compared to &#163;1684 &#8212; &#163;3100 for other therapeutic       monoclonal antibodies16.
