     No new drugs for memory loss conditions have appeared for at least the       last decade, and many existing medications ease symptoms without slowing       dementia.
In this context, the results of Professor Smith's research are       highly significant, since they confirm that a low-cost, easily available,       treatment shows strong signs of being able to slow the onset of dementia       in those with MCI.
A recent meta-analysis estimates that the risk of       developing dementia could be reduced by 20% by administering B vitamins in       order to lower homocysteine levels7.
Although people, including       Smith himself, have stressed the need for longer-term studies to       investigate these effects more deeply, many independent professionals have       responded positively to the results of the VITACOG trial.
It is clear that       some doctors are already prescribing B vitamins to those with MCI and       raised homocysteine.
For example, since 2011, in line with the VITACOG       findings, doctors in Sweden have been measuring homocysteine levels in       people who report declining memory, and routinely prescribing folic acid       and B vitamins to those with high homocysteine8.
The major impact since 2008 has been on the sale of B vitamin products,       both over-the-counter and on prescription, which make a claim to help       improve or maintain memory function in those with MCI.
Since Smith's 1999       patent covered this application of B vitamins, licence agreements based on       the patent bring in substantial income to the University of Oxford.
Interest from vitamin manufacturers began soon after the publication of       Smith and colleagues' original findings and the publication of the US       patent, and there are now a number of companies with licence agreements       and royalty payments either in place or under negotiation.
[text         removed for publication]11.
Since 2008 other companies have shown considerable interest.
In 2011 the       pharmaceutical company Recip (part of the Swedish company Meda) gained       approval in Sweden for marketing a B vitamin product containing B12 and       folic acid.
The Swedish authorities allow the claim to be made that the       product `maintains memory function and mental performance', reflecting the       positive view of medical professionals in Sweden reported above.
The       product is available over-the-counter in pharmacy shops throughout Sweden       with the trade name TriBvit Plus.
In July 2012 Recip/Meda introduced the       tablet in the UK (called here TrioBe Plus) for sale online12.
Also in 2012, Cobalz, a UK company, began to market a product (Betrinac)       in the UK containing the same B vitamins, `to maintain brain performance       and memory as you get older'.
[text removed for publication], the       product is targeted at elderly people with high homocysteine levels and       thus clearly based on the Oxford research13.
Isis Innovation (a       wholly-owned subsidiary of the University of Oxford, which helps Oxford       University researchers to commercialise intellectual property arising from       their research) has filed a second international patent14 [text         removed for publication].
Upon publication of the first paper from the VITACOG trial in September       2010, and again in May 2013 after publication of the third paper, there       was extensive media coverage around the world of the findings15.
This has promoted worldwide and ongoing discussion about the potential       benefits of B vitamins in delaying or preventing dementias.
It has also       helped to raise the profile of MCI and encourage more attention to be       given to the earlier stages of dementia.
More recently, the Quality and       Outcomes Framework (QOF), a voluntary annual reward and incentive       programme for all GP surgeries in England, set a target for patients with       a new diagnosis of dementia to have tests including serum vitamin B12 and       folate levels (NICE recommendation 1.4.2.1)16.
