 The critical impact of Professor Hay and colleagues' research has been in the provision of detailed, accurate and evolving information about the distribution of vector-borne diseases (particularly malaria).
The information has enabled the more effective targeting of available resources.
Worldwide, control of malaria is high on the political agenda, but WHO estimates that the large amount of international funding spent each year on control measures (US$2.5 billion in 2010) is less than half of what is ideally required.
Since the first map of P. falciparum transmission, the Malaria Atlas Project has gone on to develop increasingly sophisticated models of the spatial and temporal patterns of global malaria, based on the research described above.
MAP, which continues to operate out of the Department of Zoology, now provides a definitive and continuously updated open access mapping resource describing the distribution of malaria in every affected country in the world7.
The MAP website receives an average of 70,000 hits from around 216 nations every year (including visits from 97 of the 100 malaria endemic countries), and since 2008, MAP data have been used to help shape malaria policy and practice.
For example, in 2012 the African Leaders Malaria Alliance (ALMA), an alliance of 49 Heads of State and Government, used analyses based on MAP's open access map of P. falciparum transmission to explore how effectiveness of insecticide treated nets (LLINs) might vary from country to country.
This analysis highlighted priority areas in Africa for targeting of LLINs and through the Global Fund (an international financing institution dedicated to attracting and disbursing resources to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria) resulted in significant additional resourcing: 38 million LLINs in two countries, and US$117M for LLINs in three others.
The Chief Technical Advisor to the ALMA Secretariat confirms that the data provided `was vital in convincing partners as to the seriousness of the situation in the identified countries' and `extremely useful to ALMA in making the case for targeted investment in filling the LLIN gaps in several countries'8.
Since 2008, MAP has had its biggest impact in terms of influencing WHO policy on malaria.
While WHO's role is primarily advisory, it is powerfully influential at the level of national governments and sets the health agenda at a global level.
The prevention and control of malaria is, together with HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, at the top of WHO's list of priorities.
Since 2012 MAP has made substantial contributions to WHO's annual World Malaria Report9, which is `used widely in international and national level policy decision making' according to the Director of WHO's Global Malaria Programme.
He also confirms that `as well as their maps of malaria transmission and estimates of clinical incidence, MAP have provided information on the equitable distribution of funding for malaria control, the rational distribution of insecticide treated bednets ... and a range of other analyses provided responsively.'
This demonstrates the extent to which WHO considers MAP data to represent the `gold standard' for malaria mapping.
MAP is in the process of becoming a WHO Collaborative Centre to cement a joint approach to malaria burden estimation10.
MAP data also underpin the strategies of the Roll Back Malaria (RBM) partnership which was launched in 1998 by WHO, UNICEF, the UN Development Programme and the World Bank, in an effort to provide a coordinated global response to the disease.
For example, the maps used from March 2010 in several of RBM's `Progress and Impact' reports are provided by MAP, and Professor Hay was a co-author of the report on `Mathematical Modelling to Support Malaria Control and Elimination', in which RBM stressed that `mathematical modelling can play a critical role in navigating complex public health decisions'11.
The Global Fund uses MAP numbers and maps to analyse where interventions are needed, assess the level of intervention required and evaluate subsequently the usefulness of interventions.
In 2012 it collaborated closely with Hay and others on a comprehensive review of funding for malaria control, which established that current patterns of funding were inadequate and unequal12.
As well as supplying open-access data, MAP works with interested parties to create maps revealing specific information.
They have been engaged in a large-scale project with the Global Health Group at the University of California, San Francisco, whose goal is to stimulate practical international and local action to solve critical health challenges.
Supported by grants from the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation and ExxonMobil, its Malaria Elimination Initiative aims to identify and assess the countries which could feasibly become malaria-free in the near future.
MAP has provided in-depth mapping and assessment for all countries that are determining their path toward malaria elimination and the collaboration has generated two malaria elimination atlases13.
The Director of the Global Health Group states that `the atlases [for which he confirms that MAP provided the detailed mapping] have contributed to national and regional malaria elimination strategy, and have strengthened political and financial support for malaria elimination'14.
Recent research into the global distribution of dengue fever risk has already led to a significant impact with the GAVI Alliance, a public-private partnership focused on increasing access to immunisation in developing countries.
Detailed maps were produced to show levels of dengue risk in all 54 GAVI-eligible countries, and to identify where data were in most urgent need of update to improve dengue burden predictions15.
In conjunction with the Gates Foundation, GAVI has used the results of the research to inform its planning strategy; the Senior Program Officer for Neglected Infectious Disease at the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation states that Hay's work `has helped build the evidence base that the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, in partnership with GAVI alliance and others, is using to evaluate the pros and cons of including a future dengue vaccine to its vaccine portfolio for developing countries.
Our strategy development has been guided and informed by having this robust data platform'16.
