     The main impact of our research has been the widespread acceptance that       sub-basalt imaging can be greatly improved by a combination of using long       offsets and a low frequency broad-band source.
The major beneficiaries       have been oil companies exploring for hydrocarbons in frontier areas such       as the northwest margin of Europe, the Brazilian margin of South America       and the continental margins of India.
Approximately 70% of all continental       margins contain significant volcanic flows, so as oil exploration extends       into deeper waters of frontier areas the techniques discussed here have       become increasingly important.
The process by which our research has been disseminated was initially by       presentations at regular one-day meetings with the oil companies who       contributed to the iSIMM project.
This gave the participating oil       companies advance knowledge of progress, and thus a commercial edge and       which some incorporated into their exploration programmes.
Exchange of       personnel between companies, and the way so many expensive exploration       activities like drilling wells are often joint enterprises, means that a       6-month lead is often all they expect or need to obtain a commercial       advantage.
Our results from the Faroes-Shetland Basin were used in the 3rd       Faroes Licensing Round in November 2008 at which companies bid for       exploration rights, and continue to be used by oil companies to help plan       drilling targets.
The Director of the Faroese Earth and Energy       Directorate (Jar&#240;feingi) will verify "that several       companies bidding for exploration rights have applied this approach and       these techniques continue to play an important role in the hydrocarbon       exploration effort in the Faroese region".
The other main route of dissemination to a wider audience was through       presentations at conferences, and particularly those attended by oil       companies.
These oral presentations often preceded the formal publication       in international refereed journals, which often took 12 months, and we       typically gave talks on results as fast as they became available.
None of       our work was restricted from publication in any way, and we believe that       this led rapidly to its becoming widely known and used.
On several       occasions oil companies (specifically Shell, Amerada Hess, Total), having       seen presentations of our results, directed the seismic contractors       acquiring data under contract to use the same parameters as we worked out       for iSIMM.
Many other companies have also adopted the same principles we       developed in planning their surveys.
Schlumberger       Cambridge Research will attest that this work "motivated       clients to purchase proprietary acquisition by Schlumberger of at least       5,000 line-km of low-frequency, long-offset seismic data in the       basalt-covered regions of the Atlantic Margin" and will provide       evidence of the impact of our work on sub-basalt imaging, the importance       of the patents taken out, and the connection with US Patent 7,961,549,       which was granted on 14 June 2011, describing low frequency data       acquisition and processing approaches for seismic acquisition in areas of       sub-salt and sub- basalt exploration.
The benefits of improved survey design were clear in subsequent surveys       shot by oil companies from 2003 onwards.
Since 2008 the long-offset, low       frequency strategy is now widely used as standard in surveys on       volcanically-dominated continental shelves, and new acquisition       technologies continue to be developed to generate and record       low-frequency, broad-band data.
Further advances also come in improved       methods of processing, modelling and inverting the data.
This is seen       already from the fact that older seismic surveys, albeit with shorter       maximum offsets (typically only 2.4 km) have been reprocessed commercially       by oil companies to bring out the low frequency information, with       noticeable improvement in the sub-basalt image.
The Exploration       Team Leader at GDF-Suez will corroborate that "broad-spectrum       seismic sources as developed for sub-basalt imaging by the Cambridge       group and related seismic processing techniques have gone on to be       applied widely across other areas of the UK including the Central North       Sea where the additional frequency content can reduce risk on the       exploration process" and that "Several wildcat exploration wells       costing &#163;50M + have been drilled in areas where the sub-basalt imaging       techniques pioneered by the Cambridge group have been applied, for       example Lagavulin (217/15-1 in 2010/2011)."
The precise financial value of the work is difficult to quantify but the       typical licencing costs for broadband 3D seismic surveys are now in the       range of &#163;10,000 per km2 (with a typical survey being       200-1000km2).
It is estimated that over 8,000 km of       low-frequency 2D long-offset data, directly informed by the techniques we       developed, have been acquired on the northwest European continental margin       alone, with revenue of $80 million for the seismic contractors.
Worldwide,       the sub-basalt imaging market is much greater with important basins       offshore South America, West Africa, Greenland and India.
On land the       Siberian Traps, Karoo, Columbia River and Parana basins have major       sub-basalt prospectivity.
The ability to image beneath basalts developed       by this research has led to increased industrial activity to exploit       sub-basalt oil reservoirs.
A further important benefit has been the supply of trained researchers       into industry.
Many oil companies tell us that this is of equally great       importance to the research results we obtain.
Three out of four postdocs       employed on this research at Cambridge University now work in the       hydrocarbon industry and are still active in sub-basalt research.
This has       led to continued interaction between the industry and academics.
The oil       companies and contractors have benefitted from the much longer periods of       time and more focussed effort that the academic postgraduate and       postdoctoral researchers are able to devote to a single study, free from       the commercial deadlines in a corporate setting which require industry       workers to move on to other projects.
The academic research has benefitted       from access to state-of-the-art seismic acquisition systems owned by oil       company contractors, which are otherwise out of their reach.
Destinations of researchers after they left the Department of Earth       Sciences, Cambridge University: OMV; PriceWaterhouse Coopers; Universities       of Auckland, Cambridge and Durham; Dalhousie; Statoil; BP; GXT;       WesternGeco; 3DGeo; UK Civil Service (Environment).
