     From 2004 onwards CEEDR's research findings influenced the development of       government regeneration and economic development, policy and practice       towards deprived areas (1, 2, 3).
A primary beneficiary has been national       government, notably the Department of Communities and Local Government       (DCLG) but also other bodies (e.g.
HM Treasury, Department of Work and       Pensions (DWP), Department for Business Innovation and Skills (BIS), the       Cabinet Office and the Scottish Government), reflecting the cross cutting       nature of the local economic policy agenda.
The reach of this research       also extended to inform the work of local authorities and sub-regional       bodies in their development of enterprise and employment policy and       practice initiatives, particularly benefitting those communities living in       more deprived localities.
Work on sub-post offices in deprived areas for       example benefitted those running these post offices (via the development       of support funds and good practice guides on diversification) and the       communities they served.
The significant contribution of CEEDR's research to this policy area was       its distinct focus on enterprise, work and the wider local economic       development process.
As a senior DCLG official stated (1): `It's fair         to conclude that there was then a pattern of influence whereby the work         of CEEDR for ODPM and DCLG informed and influenced senior officials not         just within the Department but more widely across Government, and this         had significant impact in how policies were scoped, designed and         scaled'.
This impact resulted from CEEDR researchers developing a       strong working relationship with ODPM/DCLG over a number of years.
This       comprised regular participation in meetings and policy related events and       the sharing of preliminary findings with analysts and policy developers to       influence policy design along with Syrett's appointment to DCLG's Expert       Panel on `Neighbourhoods, Cities and Regions Analysis' (NCRA) (2007-10),     Shaping the wider local economic policy agenda     North et al's (2003) report identified constraints upon small business       activity in deprived areas and directly influenced the design and       introduction of the government's major (&#163;100m per year) Local         Enterprise Growth Initiative (LEGI) (2006-2010).
CEEDR's research       work also fed into and influenced the HM Treasury led, cross governmental       Review of Sub National Economic Development and Regeneration (SNR)       (2).
This included participation in workshops, the submission of an       influential written paper (later published in Regional Studies by       North and Syrett, 2008) and a commissioned think-piece for DWP/DCLG on       governance arrangements in relation to tackling worklessness in deprived       places.
The final SNR report (HM Treasury, 2007) (4) cites CEEDR's work       (North et al 2006; North et al 2007; North and Syrett, forthcoming;       subsequently published as North and Syrett, 2008) and lists other works in       the bibliography.
The SNR led to significant changes in the direction of local economic       policy and governance arrangements.
As a result the DCLG produced a major       restatement of regeneration policy entitled `Transforming Places:         Changing Lives.
A framework for Regeneration (CLG, 2008) which again       cites CEEDR work (North and Syrett, 2006; North et al, (2007) (5).
The new       focus on enterprise and worklessness and the simplification of local level       arrangements underpinned the introduction of the Working Neighbourhoods       Fund (WNF) (2008) and an enhanced role of local authorities in tackling       worklessness (see Houghton:2009 with reference CEEDR's work) (6).
CEEDR research also fed into subsequent rethinking of policy directions in       light of large scale reductions in public spending and government change.
Syrett was commissioned by DCLG to produce a think-piece and address a       `Regeneration Futures' roundtable' (2009).
He also attended a series of       DCLG events as an invited external expert (2009-12), and was an invited       speaker to the influential Lord Heseltine Review on UK Competitiveness,       on the role of local areas in promoting economic growth (2012).
North       presented findings to the Scottish Government (2009) and CEEDR work was       cited in DCLG Committee on Regeneration (2011) (7).
Examples of direct impact upon local economic policy and practice     Post offices in deprived areas: Research findings identified key       points for post office survival which fed into the publication of a Good       Practice Guide for Post Office Diversification published by the       Neighbourhood Renewal Unit (2005), which informed further such guides (8).
The findings of this research have been widely cited (e.g.
by BIS in their       submission to the Committee of Public Accounts (2010) on Post Office       Network Change, and by the National Federation of Sub- Postmasters (2011)       in their submission to the House of Commons Scottish Affairs Committee),       and influenced the introduction of subsequent separate post office       diversification funds for Wales in 2009 and Scotland in 2010.
Local Economic Assessments (LEAs): CEEDR's report (2008) was a key       background document circulated to all local authorities, regional       Government Offices and Regional Development Agencies as part of the       consultation process over what statutory requirement should be placed upon       local authorities to produce LEAs (9).
The statutory guidance issued to       local authorities in 2009 stated that: "local authorities are free to         decide what other issues they wish to address in their economic         assessments to reflect local circumstances and priorities" (CLG, 2009,         p.14); directly reflecting the report's findings concerning the       highly variable nature of existing practice and the need for local       economic assessments to form part of the wider local economic strategy       making process.
Local Area Agreements and Local Economic Development: The findings       of this DCLG commissioned research emphasised the limitation of existing       economic indicators at the local level and the constrained role of local       authorities in the economic development process.
CEEDR's report, published       by DCLG in 2009 (Syrett et al, 2009) was launched by the Rt Hon Rosie       Winter, Minister of State (10) and used to inform consultations for the Local         Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act (2009).
