     This Oxford based research has had a positive impact on people with CFS       in three important ways.
It has: [a] changed how the illness is viewed,       from untreatable to treatable; [b] provided an evidence-based treatment       that is recommended in current NICE and other guidelines; and [c] has       become a standard treatment delivered through NHS CFS/ME treatment       centres.
[a] Changed view of the illness     A key impact of this research has been to change professional and public       views of the illness (Section 5, Sources 1-3).
Previously regarded as an       untreatable medical condition best treated by rest, CFS/ME is now seen by       most informed professionals and patients as an at least partially       reversible illness which can be treated with the type of CBT developed in       Oxford.
The new idea of an effective treatment was recognised in medical       review articles as early as 1998 (see Levine, Source 1).
The resulting       change in the public understanding is evidenced in a House of Lords debate       in February 2013, in which one peer espoused the old view that CFS/ME was       an untreatable condition, whereas all seven other peers who spoke       disagreed, and spoke in support in the benefits of CBT (see Hansard,       Source 2).
[b] Influence on clinical guidelines     The second impact has been on clinical guidelines (see Sources 4-7).
The       current guideline for the treatment of CFS/ME in the UK (written by the       National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, NICE) was published       in 2007.
This guideline identified CBT as the most effective       evidence-based treatment for patients with CFS.
The NICE guideline was       based on a systematic review conducted by the Centre for NHS reviews and       dissemination at York University, which specifically cites the original       Oxford trial by Sharpe et al.
(1996).
[c] A standard, and cost-effective, evidence-based treatment     CBT has become a standard treatment for CFS.
If two percent of the UK       population have CFS (as has been estimated), then more than a million       people suffer from the condition.
As the number need to treat (NNT) in the       2009 Cochrane review of trials of CBT for CFS was 7 (using a conservative       estimate), well over 100,000 patients hypothetically could benefit from       this treatment.
In practice, there are specialist NHS treatment centres       for CFS (49 in England, 46 of which provide CBT).
These centres treat over       7,000 patients per year (Collin et al., 2012; Source 8), meaning that over         1,000 patients with CFS in England can be expected to benefit         substantially from CBT each year.
This benefit has been confirmed by       a national audit (Crawley et al., 2013; Source 9).
These numbers do not       take account of the many patients treated outside these centres in       England, nor in the rest of the UK and in other countries.
Subsequent research by Sharpe and colleagues has found that CBT is cost-effective       for CFS, and also leads to a reduction in the burden placed on family       members caring for a patient with CFS (see McCrone et al., 2012; cited in       section 3 above).
CBT is also recommended for CFS by the Centres for Disease Control in the       USA (Source 10).
The impact of this work has spread beyond CFS, and has influenced the       conceptualisation and treatment of fatigue in other conditions such as       multiple sclerosis (Van Kessel et al., Psychosomatic Medicine       2008; 70:205-213).
