     Many accounts of gay literature and film in Spanish now reference some of       Mira's works.
The books and articles have great prominence in key gay       publications and, very unusually for Spain, they have crossed over to       non-gay publications (newspapers like El Pa&#237;s or El Mundo,       film magazines like Fotogramas or national TV).
It is important to       note that such media tend to shy away from featuring items on gay activism       or gay culture, therefore Mira's work is unique in articulating theory and       presenting it to general audiences.
It also constitutes authoritative,       historically and theoretically informed, discourse on gay issues.
The       following is just an overview with some examples of how the impact of the       work has featured in different media.
At the time of its publication in 1999, Para entendernos was not       only ground-breaking but also controversial.
It was praised in the press       by writers and intellectuals (i) a positive review by Vicente Molina-Foix       in El Pa&#237;s (a) who saw this as a great tool to construct       non-homophobic and authoritative discourse on homosexuality.
Para         entendernos, which went through a revised edition in 2003, is still,       to date, a book that sells in gay bookshops, particularly to young gay       readers and those readers' parents, as the manager of Barcelona gay       bookshop Antinous will attest (ii) and it has gradually found its way in       Latin American gay cultures.
This was the first book on gay issues to be       stocked in the reference section of the Biblioteca Nacional in Spain(c).
This was followed by a more academic history of homosexual cultures in       Spain published in 2004, De Sodoma a Chueca.
Like its predecessor,       it was bought by libraries throughout Spain as an introduction to issues       on gay culture.
It is widely accessible in library catalogues as the main       reference book for gay culture.
When a gay activist became angered by       certain homophobic comments made by the Queen of Spain, she gave her a       copy of De Sodoma a Chueca (d).
Between 2005 and 2011, Dr Mira was       invited as speaker to several gay associations (in Madrid, Barcelona,       Valencia and Gij&#243;n) to discuss aspects of the book.
Talks were covered by       the local press.
The main ideas of a talk given in Gij&#243;n, Asturias, are       summarized in this item from the local newspaper La voz de Asturias       (e).
The three main inputs by Mira (1999, 2004 and 2008a) are accessible       through public libraries.
Para entendernos and De Sodoma a         Chueca were included in a leaflet published by the network of public       libraries of the Catalan government with recommendations on books on gay       and lesbian issues; they are both recommended in this bibliography (f).
Another example of Mira's work being promoted by public libraries when       selecting books on gay and lesbian issues can be found here (g).
The       following article on the situation of Gay and Lesbian writing in public       libraries makes several references to Mira's work and gives an idea of its       centrality in articulating gay culture for wide audiences (h).
Among the key objectives of Mira's research was to construct a historical       discourse not based on homophobic premises, therefore talks at gay       associations and on the radio was addressing its target audience.
Mira was       invited to award-winning novelist and essayist Luis Antonio de Villena's       radio show Las aceras de enfrente to discuss gay cinema and gay       icons (i).
Las aceras de enfrente is the only National Radio       programme focusing on gay issues.
The book was also the subject of a       section in a RTVE programme on gay issues.
The title of the programme was       Miradas 2 and the clip includes mention of the innovative aspects       in Mira's work as linking the notion of gay cinema to spectatorship and       appropriation (j).
This was complemented with a number of articles in gay       magazine Zero, and some contributions to a gay culture blog (k).
De         Sodoma a Chueca is a key reference in historical discussions of       homosexuality in Spain (referenced in the Wikipedia article on       "Homosexualidad en Espa&#241;a" (l), "Homosexuality in Spain"), quoted in       newspaper articles and magazine pieces as an authoritative source.
In       2008, Alberto Mira was invited to contribute to a bibliographical syllabus       to be used as reference in Catalonian libraries.
De Sodoma a Chueca       is still selling and has gone through a second edition with publishers       Egales.
The proprietor of Madrid gay bookshop Berkana has also       acknowledged the popularity of Mira's work among gay essays (m).
Publication of Miradas insumisas (2008) built on this pedagogical       task of providing journalists and the general public a repertoire of       perspectives into Film.
Divided into two sections, the first was about how       homosexual perspective was presented on film, the other dealt with gay       appropriations and perception of film.
This was covered in the press, film       magazines and on television and again has been quoted as a key reference       to discuss film and homosexuality.
Leading newspaper El Pa&#237;s was       interested in Mira's ideas and requested a special article shortly after       publication (n).
The article was based on one of Miradas insumisas       key ideas on how gay audiences actively read films in ways that match       their experience.
The book was awarded "Best Essay of 2008" (o) by the       popular gay website dosmanzanas.com.
This is still one of the main sources       for gay journalism and reviews in Spain.
