     Shortland has shaped the policy dialogue on Somali piracy through direct       presentations to policy-makers, practitioners and through wide media       coverage.
Many of her ideas and research results shaped the World Bank's       2013 policy report on Somali piracy.
Shortland regularly presents her research on piracy to commanding       officers of the Royal Navy, EU Atalanta and NATO.
She is frequently       invited to speak at conferences, workshops, VIP naval events and has been       engaged in dialogue with naval command since 2010.
Over this period the       naval leadership has increasingly referred to the Royal Navy's role as a       supporting force to the wider comprehensive approach towards a "desirable       and sustainable end state" in the Horn of Africa.
In public speeches naval       commanders no longer speak of seeking to "eradicate" Somali piracy but to       "contain" it until land-based policies gain traction.
Shortland obtained funding from the Royal Navy Hudson Trust to organise       two academic conferences on Maritime Security in April 2012 and January       2013.
Both conferences also had the personal endorsement as well as       financial and administrative support from the Director of Naval Staff.
The       second Hudson Trust conference was entitled "Maritime Security as a       Development Goal" underlining the shift in policy focus from sea-based law       enforcement towards comprehensive policy-solutions for organised maritime       crime.
Preparations for the 2014 conference indicate the value naval       commanders place on the continued policy dialogue between practitioners       and academics on maritime security.
Shortland presented her work on the community-level implications of       piracy at a cross-Whitehall meeting hosted by Cabinet Office in March       2011, to SAS commanders in April 2011, at Chatham House in January 2012,       to World Bank and UNODC staff in Nairobi in March 2012 and to MEPs and EU       Atalanta staff at the ALDE conference in June 2012.
She also presented her       work on ransoms the Institute of Strategic Studies in September 2012 and       at a Foreign Policy Centre event at the House of Commons in March 2013.
Shortland's research also received wide media coverage, for example in the       Financial Times, the Independent, New Scientist and Handelsblatt.
Shortland appeared on BBC Radio 4, CNN, Channel 4 News, the BBC World       Service, ARD (Tagesschau) and CBS News.
Her research was featured on the       front-page of the CNN and BBC News International websites.
In March 2012 Shortland joined an international team of specialists       writing the World Bank's flagship report on Somali piracy, led by the       Africa Region's Chief Economist's Office.
Shortland's research on the role       of coastal communities in providing security for pirates (published       jointly with Federico Varese as a European Security Economics (EUSECON)       working paper in September 2012) shaped the policy conclusions of this       report.
The World Bank report repeats the conclusions of Shortland and       Varese's work in calling for a "paradigm shift" in the approach to piracy:       rather than targeting the perpetrators of the crime, the international       community must engage with its enablers.
The report champions a policy solution based on a combination of law       enforcement and developmental initiatives in the coastal regions.
Sustainable counter-piracy is therefore closely linked to the success of       state-building in Somalia, requiring international financial and political       support.
Before the launch of the report Shortland was involved in       building such institutional support from the European External Action       Service (EEAS) at a joint meeting of the World Bank and EEAS in Brussels       in March 2013.
The World Bank launched the piracy report in Mogadishu in       April 2013 as the first public event of its re-engagement process with       Somalia, which was concurrently announced at the G8 summit.
