     In the past decade a great deal of interest has arisen in the field of       electronically active smart textiles.
A market growth in this sector is       estimated as 28.3% annually and in 2009 put the world market value at       &#8364;469million [Smart Fabrics, http://www.smartfabricsconference.com].
As       such there has been intense worldwide research interest in electronically       active textiles in the last few decades, but only a very few research       groups specialise in specific technical aspects of these structures.
The       broad scope of our research group and its focus on fusing scientific,       engineering and design disciplines to create novel and innovative       electronically active smart textiles makes our research unique       internationally.
Our resultant smart yarn technology has a profound effect       on the production and use of electronic textiles in clothing applications       by providing robust functionality that is resistant to wear, washing and       drying and can be produced at lower costs than the electronic textiles       available today where functionality is often added at the garment stage.
Our technology has a wide range of potential applications, in health,       sports, defence and fashion sectors.
The work has resulted in       commercialised products and processes, some of which have been patented       since 2010 demonstrating impact arising since Dias joined NTU as follows:     Health Monitoring Garments     Basic research on knitted transducers fed into the formation of a       spin-out company SmartLife Technology Ltd, applying the knowledge       described in patents (section 5, i, ii, iv and vi/), granted while       Dias has been employed at NTU.
SmartLife exploits the technology in a       range of sectors for remote condition monitoring of heart rate, breathing       patterns and skin temperature.
The devices developed from the research can       transmit the data wirelessly in real-time for analysis.
http://www.smartlifetech.com/       As the technical director of SmartLife put it of the contribution Dias'       work has made to the company: `...his original research is the centre of       our work'.
The company spent &#163;250,000 on R&amp;D in 2012 and projected a       spend of &#163;100,000 in 2013 and 2014 to generate innovations from Dias'       inventions.
Defence sector- Electrically conducting suit (MoD)     The Ministry of Defence conducted experimental trials on a seamless       knitted garment designed and made from electrically conducting yarns by       the Unit, applying the knowledge in patent (section 5, iv).
The       beneficiary is the MoD research establishment at Porton Down.
The details       and the outcome of the trials cannot be disclosed (see section 5 for       corroborating evidence).
Sports Sector- Heated Glove Liner     A knitted glove liner with five heating elements and conductive pathways       was designed for a UK SME, EXO2 Ltd.
The technology to manufacture the       knitted glove liner on a commercial scale was also developed, and a UK       knitwear manufacturer `Skinwear Ltd', who is capable of producing the       glove liner for EXO2 was identified, and the technology developed was       transferred to Skinwear.
Currently the EXO2 product is on the market as a       ski and motorcycle glove.
There has been recent adoption of the technology       by the Indian military.
Sales since 2010 have led EXO2 to acknowledge the       considerable potential of the technology.
Half have been sold to a       significant UK outdoor clothing brand which has its own retailers (Rohan       Design).
In addition, further products are being developed with EXO2, the       Clinical Sciences Centre of the University Hospital Aintree and the       Raynaud's &amp; Scleroderma Association for the management of Raynaud's       phenomenon.
The technology is also being developed by EXO2 in conjunction       with another company for use in automotive textiles and personal apparel.
Beneficiaries are EXO2, Rohan design, Skinwear, their investors and       purchasers of the products.
Health sector- 3D Spacer fabrics for use as hip protectors     Baltex Ltd approached us as they were developing 3D spacer fabrics for       use in hip protectors for the elderly.
We subsequently developed a test       method for screening the hip protectors.
The test method has now been       adopted by Baltex.
Beneficiaries are Baltex, their investors and their       customers.
