     The research carried out by Lowe and Todman has had three research       impacts upon the museums and exhibitions with which they have worked:       advising curators; shaping exhibitions and enhancing visitor experiences.
Advising curators: The Renaissance Europe and Curator of the       Waddesdon Bequest at the British Museum, and the Curator of Renaissance       and Baroque Art at the Walters Art Museum, Baltimore MD, called on Lowe to       join advisory boards to guide their curation.
The British Museum curator,       who had known of Lowe's research expertise for many years, thought       immediately of inviting her to join the British Museum's three-person       Academic Advisory Board for the BP-sponsored 190-object `Shakespeare:       Staging the World' exhibition (July to November 2012).
They have commented       that `Kate Lowe's expertise in the history of black Africans in       Renaissance Europe was of particular interest to me, as was her       scholarship in general'.
Consequently, they asked Lowe to advise on       representations of black Africans in Shakespeare's work and world and to       read and comment on parts of the draft book that she researched and wrote       (with Shakespeare scholar Jonathan Bate) ahead of the exhibition.
Similarly, the Walters Museum curator had identified Lowe as `one of the       two most important [scholars]' who could assist her in the 2012-13 $1m       exhibition entitled `Revealing the African Presence in Renaissance Europe'       (Walters Art Museum, October 2012-January 2013; Princeton University Art       Museum, February-June 2013).
They consulted Lowe because her `expertise       extended into some areas with which I was only superficially familiar'.
Todman was consulted by curators at the IWM for the same reason.
He became       one of the five members of the museum's advisory panel (the others were       Professors Deborah Thom, David Reynolds, David Stevenson and Hew       Strachan).
The IWM Principal Historian wrote that he and his colleagues       were `very conscious that the wide sweep of the [First World War]       galleries extends well beyond the areas of knowledge that any of us       possess in detail, and it has been both invaluable and reassuring to draw       upon Dan's far-reaching wisdom and expertise on a regular basis'.
His IWM       colleague, the Director of Learning and Interpretation, explained the link       between Todman's research and his recruitment at the museum: `We had been       really impressed with his Great War book, for its fresh approach to the       subject in tackling social and media perceptions of the war and its       meaning/significance, as this chimes very much with what we as a museum       do.'
They added: `Dan was writing so perceptively about the impact of TV       history for example on people's perceptions of the war &#8212; and doing so as       an academic &#8212; [and this] was what convinced me we needed him.'
The Head of       the IWM London First World War Galleries Content Team, wrote that Todman       `is noted for his work in challenging common understanding about the       conflict ... and also understands how to deliver complex, often sensitive       narratives and ideas in fresh, clear ways to non-academic audiences &#8212;       hugely important when we are dealing with visitors who know little, even       nothing'.
Shaping exhibition: The form of museum exhibitions is directed by       specialist curators at all times, however, they often seek opinion from       historians and other academics in the process of selecting and positioning       exhibits.
Lowe's specialist knowledge on representations of Black Africans       enabled her to advise curators at the British Museum in London and the       Walters Museum in Baltimore.
The British Museum curator took Lowe's       opinion on the selection of relevant objects and also on the drafts of the       exhibition catalogue, writing that `Choices of objects for the exhibition       and decisions about the content and shape of the catalogue remained mine       as curator but the expertise offered by Kate was of great use and assisted       me in making "Shakespeare: Staging the World" unique in its representation       of black Africans'.
Lowe's contribution to the exhibition in Baltimore was       not limited to advice on object selection and comments on the exhibition       catalogue but also to the writing of the exhibition catalogue (Lowe wrote       two of the five essays).
As the curator explained, Lowe's role was       critical to the catalogue's publication: `Her most valuable contribution       to the catalogue [beyond her essays] was not caving in when my director       tried to eviscerate the publication', a defence of the exhibition which       proved valuable as it became highly praised locally and nationally in the       United States.
The New York Times wrote on 8 November 2012 that       `The show is so interesting to look at and so fresh with historical news       as to override reservations.
It does what few museum shows ever do: It       takes a prized piece of art history, one polished to a glow by generations       of attention, and turns it in an unexpected direction, so it catches the       searching, scouring rays of new investigative light.'
At the IWM, Todman's       research has helped form the way curators have chosen exhibits and       designed their presentation for what will become from 1914 one of the       museum's most important representations of the past.
Examples included for       the First World War galleries, detailed written responses to outline       narratives during early stages of design, discussion of ongoing content       and layout and auditing of displayed text; and for the post-1918       galleries, discussion of and input into major content areas and themes,       notably the `meaning' of the Second World War and the conflict's place in       contemporary British history.
The Director of Learning and Interpretation       at IWM London explained the process of curation and Todman's role in it:       `What we have to do here is to really clearly and confidently decide what       the key turning points, ideas and concepts are for every subject we choose       to translate into an exhibition.
I think that Dan's contributions have       been the most helpful to us in clarifying these.'
The Principal Historian       at IWM London referred to Todman's contribution to `the underlying       platform of historical interpretation in these new displays', adding that       at `each level, from initial concept through the first draft texts to the       more developed version on which the interpretation now rests, Dan has       critiqued and strengthened our vision.
He has challenged our thinking,       questioned our statements and, where necessary, offered clear adjustments       and alternatives.
As a result of his input, the scope and depth of the       displays has been hugely improved'.
Enhanced visitor experiences: The translation of historical       scholarship, through collaboration between historians and curators and the       medium of museum exhibitions, has enhanced visitor experiences.
`Shakespeare: Staging the World' was both a critical and popular success       drawing sizeable public audiences from the UK and overseas during the       Olympic summer of 2012 (see reviews under 5 below).
`Revealing the African       Presence in Renaissance Europe' was noted by the New York Times as       one of the top ten exhibitions of 2012 in the United States.
Prominent       public figures attended (including congressmen, the mayor, and       representatives from the Congress of Black Catholics, the NAACP, the       National Museum of African Art and the National Museum for African       American Culture); over 40,000 people visited the exhibition (2000 in its       last two days); and the exhibition catalogue print run of 2100 copies sold       out (it will become freely available as an ebook).
The curator at the       Walters Museum stated that she `could only have made this rather audacious       project work with a colleague like Kate.
I was ready to take       responsibility for the larger sweep of the historical hypothesis,       interpretations of blackness, and for the challenges of racial politics,       but I had to have someone of the highest intellectual rigor, knowledge,       probity and profile to supply depth'.
The projected figures from the IWM       for centenary galleries are 1.3 million visitors in the first year, 80% of       whom are expected to view the First World War galleries.
The Director of       Learning and Interpretation at IWM London has described the museum's       expectations: `The significance of this project as a whole (we're calling       it Transforming IWM London) is huge as it is the first phase of a       masterplan that will reinvent and renew this branch of IWM for the next       generation (that's c.25 years or so, in our planning terms).
It's also       IWM's own centenary from 2017 onwards, and whilst we have remained true to       the vision of the founders to display the items donated to us by so many       veterans and eyewitnesses to war since then, we are translating that into       this century's world.
We are trying even harder to identify the things       that will make the past make sense to visitors today, that will be       familiar to them, or surprising or challenging &#8212; but above all will grab       their attention and make them think a little.'
Central to the success of       the IWM's plans from the perspective of visitor experiences and       understanding of the past is the content and form of the exhibitions       which, according to the IWM's Principal Historian, have `been       significantly boosted by Dan's support and interest'.
Todman has extended       his contribution to the future experiences of visitors to the IWM's       exhibition by leading the development at Queen Mary, with final year       undergraduates on his modules, of a smartphone app which will prepare       visitors for their trip by delivering information about the wartime       experiences of servicemen and their families from the streets they pass as       they walk from local underground stations to the Museum.
Consequently, his       research has contributed, and will contribute, to public appreciations of       the historical significance of the First and Second World Wars, thus       responding to the current government's policy, stated on 11 October 2012,       of prioritising the commemoration of the First World War for the nation.
