     Judd's, Newling's and Davey's research has had impacts on faith       communities, a philosophical       society, The Wellcome Trust and the general public.
Judd's work       facilitated the Swedenborg       society's reflection on its purposes, use of its premises and engagement       with its members and the       public.
By making the Wiccan community more visible, he has allowed       broader society to re-evaluate       the Wiccan religion.
Davey's research contributed to the Church of       England's guidelines       on commissioning art, helping the Church to think beyond object-based and       permanent art to value       temporary and performative works.
Newling's practice, is a prominent       instance of such art that has       also impacted on this change of perspective.
His works in the public       sphere, culminating in his       commission from The Wellcome Trust, have impacted the participants and the       commissioning       bodies, changing The Wellcome Trust's view of art as a component of its       public engagement on       well-being and health.
These impacts are evidenced by references to them in a number of       documents published by the       Church of England, local authorities, and public bodies and personal       testimony by commissioners       and participants that points to their significance for individual lives.
Judd's impact is based on a curated exhibition at the Swedenborg House,       London and a       performance developed with practicing Wiccans at the Barbican Art Gallery.
The former impacted       on the Society's ability to reflect on itself, altering its cultural       values by affecting the members'       perception of their relationship to Swedenborg &#8212; `the work positively       challenged people with an       orthodox Swedenborgian background to review their existing approach to the       material'.
It also       impacted the Society's public profile, helping it to be a site for       cultural exchange, evidenced in a       wider range of individuals contacting the Society.
Judd's work is a       `significant step' in transforming       Swedenborg into a `focal point for a range of cultural, literary and       artistic perspectives'(section 5,         i).
The Barbican performance helped represent paganism as a       positive, socially acceptable       practice by bringing it into a mainstream art venue as a `bridge' between       the religion and       mainstream society helping to make it `more understandable and acceptable'       (section 5, ii).
Davey's critical writing and Newling's art works have had specific       impacts on commissioning and       exhibiting art in churches.
The UK Church community re-evaluated and       promoted the value of       housing site specific artwork in Churches and places of worship as a       result of Newling's       commissions.
A 2010 book on art commissions in English churches,       highlighted Newling's       temporary installation, Chatham Vines (secion 5, iii).
Davey was an       expert witness to a national       panel of the Church of England that produced a good practice guide for       commissioning new works       of art in parish churches, providing `particularly insightful response to       the questions of how       churches can be encouraged to think beyond the obvious traditional object       based categories to a       broader interaction with creative artists' (section 5, iv).
His       testimony drew on his critical practice,       as well as his writing on art in the Church Times and on his role as art       adviser on the St       Edmundsbury and Ipswich Diocesan Advisory committee (1996-99).
His       particular input on       temporary exhibitions ensured its inclusion as section in the final       document (section 5, xi).
Impacting both on the participants and on the commissioning bodies       Newling's art caused       members of the public to consider what makes them happy, which has been       identified as a       component of well-being, their relationship to the environment and the       place of uncertainty in their       beliefs.
They engaged significant numbers of people directly as follows:       `Make a Piano in Spain,       2008', 500 participants, Euston station; `Noah Laboratory, 2009', 1000       newspapers and       participants; `Singing Uncertainty, 2010', 23 participants (section 5,         v, vi, vii).
Video       documentation recorded the personal impact that this work had on       participants, the impact being       evident their comments.
The Wellcome Trust's mission is to use innovative means to bring the       biomedical sciences to the       general public and working with Newling influenced the Wellcome       Collection's policy on the       potential in participatory art works.
According to the curator Newling's       work `...encouraged us to       carry on working with projects that involved a strong participatory       aspect' (section 5, x), straddling       the boundaries between art and science, and relevant to the relationship       between mental and       physical health, and culture.
The curator also noted that the work will       have `generated a lot of       discussion about how to answer the question, and about what `well-being'       means' (section 5, x)       because of the feature of Newling's projects, which he supports with       publications that collate the       collected evidence.
Information about the projects has also been disseminated via local press       and media through 19       articles in local newspapers each with a circulation of between 15,000 and       35,000 (Nottingham,       Lincoln, Preston, Peterborough), two national newspapers (Telegraph and       the Guardian) as well as       4 appearances on the BBC news.
since 2008.
Newling's Preston Market project has influenced Preston city council to       use the market more       frequently for cultural events (section 5, viii, ix).
