     Public understanding: The underpinning research has been communicated         to wide audiences through broadcast and other media and has thus had an         impact on public understanding of the emotions and their history.
Dixon's research has had wide impact through the media.
In 2010 the BBC       produced The End of God?
A Horizon Guide to Science and Religion       which arose directly from Dixon's book on the subject.
Dixon co-wrote and       presented this programme, in collaboration with Naomi Law at the BBC.
Viewing figures for its first broadcast on 21 September 2010 were 387,000;       subsequent hits on YouTube versions of the programme totalled over       100,000.
The programme was repeated three times in 2010 and again in       November 2011.
An accompanying piece written by Dixon for the BBC News       Magazine online received over 200,000 hits.
In 2011, Dixon gave a talk on       `Victorian Philosophies of Weeping' at a conference organised by the QMUL       Centre for the History of the Emotions.
One of the delegates at the       conference was assistant producer for Wingspan Productions, who was       currently in the early stages of research for what became Ian Hislop's       Stiff Upper Lip: An Emotional History of Britain, a major BBC Two       series.
After this initial meeting, Dixon became involved as the academic       series consultant, working with the series producer to provide material       and ideas from his own research (for example Dixon 2012) to help shape the       content and argument of the series.
Viewing figures for the three       episodes, when first broadcast in October 2012, were 2.3 million.
Dixon       was an on-screen expert interviewee in every episode, and credited as       series consultant.
The series was widely and generally very positively       reviewed in the national press, introducing many people for the first time       to the history of emotions as an area of historical enquiry.
Dixon was       also an academic consultant and on-screen interviewee for a TV       documentary, For Crying Out Loud, presented by the comedian Jo       Brand on BBC Four (total audience for first broadcast and first two       repeats, all in February 2011, c.750,000), and his research formed the       subject of an associated BBC News magazine online article (over 250,000       hits on the first day of its publication).
In November 2011, Dixon was       interviewed by one of the leading newspapers in the Netherlands, De       Volkskrant, about his keynote lecture on the history of emotions at       the Netherlands Historical Association annual conference.
During 2012       Dixon was interviewed about the history of emotions for articles published       in two Brazilian publications: the scientific and cultural magazine, Superinteressante       (monthly circulation c. 500,000) about the history of anger and the seven       deadly sins; and the science and technology magazine Revista Galileu       (monthly circulation c. 200,000) about the history of emotions and Auguste       Comte.
Rhodri Hayward supported the 2011 inter-generational `Threads and Yarns'       Project organised by Central St Martins and the Victoria and Albert Museum       in which Camden senior citizens explored their lifelong experience of       medicine through discussion and handicraft.
His work set these experiences       within the broader history of emotions in modern Britain.
Hayward was       interviewed about his work on the neuro-physiologist William Grey Walter       by BBC Radio Sheffield in 2009 and for a feature-length documentary, Flicker       in 2008.
Jones's research into the histories of the smile and laughter led to his       involvement as a consultant and contributor to the BBC Radio 4 programme       `Smile', first transmitted 2 June 2012, to coincide with Diamond Jubilee       celebrations, and repeated on 15 October 2012.
Fay Bound Alberti's book on the heart (2010) reached a wide audience and       was shortlisted and highly commended for a major national prize, the       Longman-History Today Book of the Year.
The Centre for the History of the       Emotions and its PGRs/PDRFs staged the first ever Carnival of the Emotions       in 2013 (emotionsblog.history.qmul.ac.uk/?p=2328)       as part of its public engagement.
It also continues to publish its History       of Emotions Blog, created in 2011, to disseminate its findings more       widely.
Google Analytics data show that the blog received 21,687 unique       visitors during the year to Oct. 2012, and a 50% increase in the following       12 months to 33,840.
The average monthly page-views currently range       between 5,000 and 7,000.
Information about the Centre's activities, and       other events nationally and internationally, are disseminated through an       international email list with over 1,300 subscribers (comprising of       academics from many disciplines and practitioners in education, health and       public policy.
The email list is the most subscribed to of any JISC email       list on a historical topic).
Arts and Culture: The underpinning research has been undertaken in         conversation with artists and performers and has had an impact on the         creative arts.
The AHRC-funded `Embodied Emotions' project was a creative collaboration       between an applied performance expert (Ali Campbell), a dancer and       choreographer (Clare Whistler), a historian (Thomas Dixon), and a local       school (Osmani Primary School).
One of the core activities of the project       was a series of interdisciplinary workshops in 2010 in which historians       (including Dixon, Jones, and Bound Alberti), educators and performance       theorists gave short talks, which were combined with specially created       dance performances by Whistler, accompanied by live music, in response to       the themes of the session.
Whistler's performance notes indicate how the       historical research presented at the workshops fed directly into her       creation of new solo pieces.
Whistler has explained that `Working with       academics has opened up a new area as I value the expertise and knowledge       in creating the work, as well as the writing that they do that brings a       deepening of the work with insights and intuition and knowledge that       leaves a lasting legacy of what is often an ephemeral art.
A big       difference is that I would always hope to have an academic on all my       projects either as collaborator, interpreter, critic and context-maker.
I       would not have considered this before working with Thomas.'
Also in 2010,       the performance artist Ron Athey held a series of talks as       Leverhulme-funded artist in residence at the Centre.
Over 100 people       attended each event on aspects of Athey's controversial work on bodily       modification et al.
Athey's period of residence at the Centre       allowed him to work, with Dominic Johnson (Drama, QMUL), on a       retrospective book on his work, Pleading in the Blood: The Art and         Performances of Ron Athey (ed.
D. Johnson, Intellect Books and Live       Art Development Agency, 2013) which was partly funded by a successful       `crowd-sourcing' campaign (100 individuals donated over $16,000).
Athey       commented: `These events helped me think through the intellectual       frameworks for my artistic practice.
I usually work intuitively with       emotions (my own and those of audiences), and carry out literary and other       kinds of research, but the Fellowship encouraged me to think in new ways       about intellectual contexts and histories.
Without the Fellowship and the       support of the Centre, the focused work on my book with Dominic Johnson       wouldn't have been possible.'
Education and Policy: The underpinning research has, through practical         activities in schools and discussions with think tanks, had an impact on         education and public policy.
Dixon's work on the AHRC-funded `Embodied Emotions' project involved       using historical research both into the history of expressions of emotion       and into the history of ideas about educating the emotions, to shape a new       set of activities piloted in Osmani primary school and involving c. 400       pupils in a whole-day event.
The project was designed in response to the       UK government's promotion of `Social and Emotional Aspects of Learning',       and to the 2009 report into the primary curriculum produced by Sir Jim       Rose, which put emphasis on emotional literacy and emotional learning.
Dixon designed a simple set of exercises using historical images to       promote discussion of emotions and expression among primary-school       children, and wrote a substantial report, published on the Centre's Blog       and website, documenting this work, and drawing conclusions for policy       debates.
Dixon has been invited to speak about the outreach and policy       aspects of this work at the universities of Birmingham (in 2010 and 2012)       and Exeter (in 2012).
At the Birmingham event in March 2010, other       contributors included senior figures from Birmingham City Council,       including the Head of Strategic Children's Services and the Director of       Professional Training in Educational Psychology.
In May 2013, Dixon spoke       about boys and emotional education at the International Boys' Schools       Coalition conference.
Ali Campbell (QMUL, Drama) has already presented the       findings of the project at several locations, nationally and       internationally, including at a workshop in Dirambarphur village in West       Bengal in which 100 children participated; and at a workshop at Swanlea       School, Whitechapel, as a pilot roll-out event facilitated by the E8       Schools Partnership.
There is ongoing interest in this material both       nationally (further schools in Tower Hamlets are investigating adopting       the model) and internationally (the Education and Outreach Officer at the       Australian Centre for the History of Emotions, Sydney, is working on an       adapted version of this project).
The Young Foundation is a centre for social innovation with interests in       a wide range of social issues including public health, resilience and       happiness.
In July 2010, Rhodri Hayward and Thomas Dixon were invited to       contribute to the Foundation's policy work by giving a presentation on the       significance of history of emotions for policy debates.
During 2010 and       2011 Hayward co-organised a series of Wellcome-funded talks and debates on       `The History of Mental Health Policy and Practice in Post-War Britain'       that were attended by representatives of the service-users movement;       mental health services (Prof. Hugh Freeman; Sir David Goldberg; David       Clark, IAPT); government agencies (Louis Appleby, Mental Health Tsar from       2000 to 2010; Baroness Murphy; Jim Symington, National Mental Health       Development Unit; Anthony Sheehan, chief executive National Institute for       Mental Health in England); third sector groups (Lord Adebowale, Turning       Point; and Prof. John Hall, Kings Fund).
