     Over a period of many years, Hennessy has shaped policy-making on the       civil service, national       security, and political transitions.
He has briefed opposition parties on       managing Whitehall; given       public evidence to House of Commons Select Committees; provided scanning       sessions for Ministry       of Defence Higher Command; and worked closely with the Institute of       Government (IfG) on civil       service/ministerial relations.
Most recently, having been raised to the       House of Lords (as Lord       Hennessy of Nympsfield) &#8212; the greatest impact that his research has had &#8212;       he is now a frequent       contributor to Lords debates, directly shaping the formation of new       legislation.
This is particularly       so with regards to proposals for reform of the House of Lords.
During the       Lords' hearing of the Bill       in 2011-12, Hennessy attended 28 of the 30 pre-legislative sessions and       Hansard records show       that his speeches (his maiden speech; on the second reading; and on the       report) called on his       historical knowledge, as did his input on the Joint House of Commons/House       of Lords Committee       on the Draft House of Lords Bill.
Beyond this particular committee,       Hennessy has also given       evidence born of his research to a number of Parliamentary Committees (see       corroborating       evidence below).
Hennessy's research on the secret state and nuclear policy of the United       Kingdom is widely       recognised.
Reviews for The Secret State exemplify the regard for       his research; for example, the       Daily Telegraph wrote: `Hidden away in the archives and unearthed       by the indefatigable Peter       Hennessy, the so-called war books provide a tantalising but chilling       glimpse of what might have       happened if history had unfolded differently'.
Similarly, The Guardian       said of the book: `From       among the documents which have been released, it brings to light some       chilling gems, rich in       human detail, supplemented by some riveting interviews with retired       officials.'
Hennessy's       expertise has been called upon by various arms of parliamentary government       related to defence       issues.
He is a member of the Chief of the Defence Staff's Strategic       Advisory Panel and in that role       he produced an assessment of the current security challenges facing the       UK.
He has advised the       government's Joint Intelligence Organisation Staff Horizon Planning by       providing a background       presentation (entitled `History of Horizon Scanning since 1902') which has       influenced the report       which will be published in 2013.
Hennessy is also a member of the Basic       Trident Commission on       Future Nuclear Weapons Policy along with former secretaries of state for       defence and foreign       secretaries.
Hennessy continues his long-standing campaign for freedom of public       access to government       documentation.
He began this campaign in 1992 by leading and supporting       the Waldegrave       initiative for openness in government records.
That led to a constant       stream of additional releases       from the National Archive which has enriched the public debate about       British history.
Hennessy       continued this activity from 2004 to 2011 as a member of the Cabinet       Office Advisory Group on       Security and Intelligence Records.
The Mile End Group has held 100 events (mainly lectures and seminars),       the vast majority of       which are publicly accessible (drawing up to 100 attendees from       government, parliament, press,       industry and academia), on a wide range of aspects related to the history       of the constitution and       governance in the United Kingdom.
The first, on 1 January 2004, saw Davis       debate with Sir Robin       Mountfield (former Permanent Secretary of the Cabinet Office) on Whitehall       Reform, 1970-74.
The       100th, on 28 October 2013, saw Tony Blair reflect upon Whitehall and       governance during his       premiership.
MEG's status as a leading and trusted forum where historians,       practitioners and       commentators debate a range of policy-relevant issues of contemporary and       historical relevance to       British governance results from the research carried out by members of the       MEG (academic staff       in the School of History including Hennessy and Davis, PGRs and MA       students), the events that it       has held, and the network of former and current politicians, officials,       parliamentarians, journalists       and industry figures that it has established over nine years.
For       instance, in 2006, MEG was asked       by MI5 to organise a lecture by its then director Elizabeth       Manningham-Buller; in 2010 this was       followed by a further lecture, generating global headlines.
MEG has also       hosted former defence       official Sir Kevin Tebbit, security co-ordinator Sir Richard Mottram and a       seminar on `The Ethics of       Intelligence' with leading security figures.
These lectures brought       together senior security       personnel, historians, and policy-makers in an academic environment which       Whitehall and SIS       officials have found consistently insightful and productive.
MEG has also focused especially on energy policy and contemporary issues       of governance,       hosting a series of policy-focused lectures from Sir Crispin Tickell,       Professor Sir Roger Williams       and Sir Mark Allen.
The latter resulted in a series of lectures from the       Baronesses Hayman, Jay       and James.
A critique of modern government practice included lectures from       Sir Michael Barber       (formerly of Downing Street) on Whitehall delivery and Gillian Shephard MP       on politicians and civil       servants.
Each event attracted a wide range of participants, allowing       influential engagement on       governance issues between historians, politicians and policy-makers.
The research carried out by MEG's members, and the Group's reputation as       a centre of       contemporary British governmental history, has led to its associations       with three departments of       government.
MEG was involved with the construction of No.
10 Downing       Street's new history       webpages with MEG members writing biographical descriptions of past prime       ministers (e.g.
Davis       on Blair: www.gov.uk/government/history/past-prime-ministers/tony-blair).
It also pioneered, with       No.
10 and the Cabinet Office, the online Cabinet Secretaries Project, a       video and textual oral       history of Cabinet Secretaries (www.cabinetsecretaries.com).
The current Cabinet Secretary, Sir       Jeremy Heywood, wrote that he `would like to thank the Mile End Group and       others within Queen       Mary for the fantastic job they have done.
...
This project is a great       example of how collaboration       between government, academia and business can help find innovative ways to       engage the public       in the work of Government.
I'm sure it will be a key resource for       historians for many years to come.'
Hennessy's and Davis's expertise in the history of the Treasury, and       MEG's ability to provide       historical research contemporary policy debates, led the Group to present       two `Learning the       Lessons of Past Spending Reviews' seminars inside the Treasury for       officials working on the 2013       spending review.
The current Permanent Secretary to the Treasury, Sir       Nicholas Macpherson,       explained MEG's contribution: `History tends to repeat itself with       unerring regularity in Whitehall.
And all too often the lack of institutional memory in the Civil Service       results in a failure to learn from       previous successes and failures: the wheel is reinvented unnecessarily.
The Mile End Group plays       a vital role in reconnecting Whitehall with its past.
The recent seminars       MEG organised in the       Treasury brought key ministers and civil servants together with serving       Treasury officials, the better       to prepare the department for the 2013 Spending Round.
The programme was       first rate.'
MEG is now widely recognised for doing what no other academic       organisation does.
As The         Guardian put it in a 2011 editorial, `By reconnecting present and       past, a group concerned with       Britain's hidden wiring is doubling up as a constitutional hard drive.'
(The         Guardian, `In praise of the       Mile End Group', 28 January 2011).
