     In the sphere of counter-terrorism, Frampton utilised his research into       radicalisation and the interplay between radical ideology and the use of       violence to consider the new security threat surrounding radical Islamism.
In 2009, he co-authored an extended 60,000 pamphlet for the leading       think-tank Policy Exchange, Choosing our Friends Wisely: Criteria for         engagement with Muslim groups (CFW), which analysed       counter-radicalisation policies and generated much debate in the       mainstream British media.
A former Chief of the Defence Staff praised the       report as a `remarkable' contribution (The Times, 24 March 2009).
And after its release, the Director-General of the Office for Security and       Counter-Terrorism (OSCT), sent a letter to Policy Exchange responding to       its arguments and stating: "we found much in the report of real value"       (Letter to Policy Exchange, 23 June 2009).
One of the authors also held a       private meeting with the Director-General to discuss the report and they       have been informed by civil servants that it is widely referenced within       the Home Office.
The publication's recommendations first helped inform the       `Contest 2' counter-terrorism strategy of 2009; and then it played a       critical role in shaping the intellectual environment that produced both       David Cameron's ground-breaking Munich speech in 2010 and the 2011 Prevent       Review.
The latter was described by one journalist as `a tribute to an       intellectual battle fought over the years by the modernising think-tank,       Policy Exchange' (D'Ancona, Evening Standard, 8 June 2011).
Frampton's broader research on the questions of how states respond to       terrorism and how terrorism ends, has also played an important role in       contemporary public debates about the applicability (or otherwise) of `the       lessons of Northern Ireland' &#8212; whether in the UK, Spain, Ireland, the       United States, Israel, or Afghanistan.
The book, Talking to Terrorists,       received extensive coverage in the national and international media (David       Trimble reviewed it positively and wrote of the lessons to be drawn from       its research: www.davidtrimble.org/latestnews_frampton.htm).
By way of follow up in the Israeli context in particular, Frampton also       co-authored a policy report for the Jerusalem Centre for Public Affairs &#8212;       the semi-official think tank headed by the former UN Ambassador Dore Gold       (Talking to Terrorists: The Myths, Misconceptions and Misapplication of         the Northern Ireland Peace Process, Jerusalem Viewpoints, 2008).
Most recently, he co-authored a report that considered whether Northern       Ireland's peace process might contain insights for those seeking to       negotiate an end to the conflict in Afghanistan (Talking to the         Taliban: Hope over History?
2013), which generated discussion in       both the British and American media.
In addition, he has produced a `primer' on the dissident Irish republican       threat, aimed at policy-makers and politicians (Return of the         Militants: Violent Dissident Irish Republicanism, 2010), which       generated significant public discussion.
It received private praise from       the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, as a valuable synopsis of the       current threat from dissident republicans and by a senior member of the       Home Office as a `superb piece of analysis' (private correspondence, 28       Sept. 2011).
The Chairman of the Police Federation of Northern Ireland has       also welcomed the report ("We in the Federation found the report a very       useful contribution to the public and political debate regarding the       nature, background and intensity of the campaign by Dissident Republicans,       in their campaign of violence against the Police, and other targets in       Northern Ireland, in a clear attempt to subvert democracy and the fragile       political institutions in this part of the United Kingdom.
In conclusion,       your pamphlet was a timely reminder of perhaps the most serious challenge       that still faces our entire community in Northern Ireland", private       correspondence, 26 July 2013), while it has been included in `information       packs' for members of the Northern Ireland Assembly (email from NIA       Librarian, 27 September 2011).
More broadly, Frampton has discussed the       threat posed by dissident Irish republicans in both national and       international media (including on the BBC's Newsnight (11 Nov. 2010) and       Today programme (11 Mar.
2009), as well as for ABC News (27 Apr.
2011) and       SBS Dateline (4 Sep. 2011)).
Catterall's research straddles the fields of history and public policy       allowing him to play a publicly active role in various settings.
Catterall's reputation as a historian who understands the interplay       between civic and political life led to him being appointed the Heritage       Champion for the London Borough of Bexley and a member of the London       Historical Environments Forum (LHEF).
Through his participation in the       LHEF, he is involved in advising local governments as to how they can       improve the location of history in the public realm.
At the national       level, meanwhile, in the run up to the 2010 British General Election,       Catterall was invited to join the Institute for Government in providing       expert advice and testimony (through private workshops and consultation       documents) on processes of governmental transition.
Elsewhere, as a member       of the Hansard Society he has both worked for the digitisation of the       Hansard archive, and sought to engage practitioners in a wider       understanding of policy formation.
Catterall also teaches future       policy-makers and thinkers from all over the world as part of the       Chevening Programme.
Established in 1983, and funded by the Foreign and       Commonwealth Office as part of the UK government's global scholarship       programme, the Chevening Programme is a prestigious international scheme       which supports scholars from 118 countries across the world (excluding the       USA and the EU) to study at postgraduate level in the UK and has an alumni       of 42,000.
Catterall also runs the Chevening Scholars `Democracy and       Public Policy' programme; participants included MPs and civil servants,       both domestic and foreign, and in some regards, the course can be viewed       as a form of "soft power" diplomacy.
Hunt's research on the 19th-century Victorian city has produced various       research impacts.
In the past he has been a conspicuous public speaker on       the characteristics of urban governance and he has worked with several       municipalities (Belfast, Glasgow, Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester) to       explore the ways in which history can be used to foster civic pride.
Hunt       has also advised the National Trust and the Campaign to Protect Rural       England (CPRE) on Britain's historic relationship with the urban-rural       divide.
Finally, he has exploited his research on social class and the       city to communicate it to a wide audience, as did his 2007 Radio 4 series,       Parkmasters, his 2009 Radio 3 series, Ideas: the British         Version, and his 2009 Radio 4 series Britain in their Sites,       2009.
In each of these broadcasts, Hunt extended his work on intellectual       and architectural history to a wide public audience.
This prominent       profile, not least since he became an MP in 2010, has allowed Hunt to make       a series of distinguished interventions into the debate surrounding the       reform of the national curriculum, especially on becoming the Shadow       Education Secretary in 2013.
