 Enhancement of public understanding of the crusades It was the transference of the authority and originality of the narrative and argument in Asbridge's 2004 and 2010 books to the small screen and online that created its success as a piece of public history, thus leading to very high viewing figures in the UK (watched by two million viewers) and overseas.
The impact of Asbridge's series in conveying his research and enhancing public understanding of the crusades rested on the central role he played in planning, structuring and researching the television series.
He wrote and presented each of the three episodes and was closely involved in the editing process.
In fact, the series was essentially an unfiltered expression of his research findings, analysis and views on crusading history drawing directly on his scholarly investigations.
Asbridge's involvement is best explained by the series producer and director of episode 1 who said: `Tom's research was invaluable in shaping every aspect of the filming process.
The shooting scripts were drawn almost entirely from material in the book.
Also &#8212; just as importantly &#8212; we took full advantage of Tom's personal local knowledge of particular locations, and his contacts with academics and specialists in the UK, the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
Thus, many of the locations featured were chosen because Tom had visited before, and many of the experts and academics featured in the series were Tom's own friends and colleagues.
Tom was involved throughout the editorial process &#8212; from agreeing the overall editorial shape, to detailed work on script during filming and editing.'
The Creative Director of 360 Productions, the company that produced The Crusades with Asbridge, confirms this judgement: `The show was closely based around Tom's book.
No book, no Tom, no show.'
With The Crusades, for the first time, a television audience was presented with a scholarly account and analysis grounded in original research and modern historiography.
The main impact on public understanding rested on Asbridge's key research argument and its presentation as the central argument of the series: that the crusades have to be understood not only from the Christian perspective, as they have been in the past, but from both the Christian and the Muslim, and that they were not only wars of religion, but also a period of Christian-Muslin interaction and accommodation.
This fundamental point, and the direct way that Asbridge's research formed the series, is best exemplified by examples of the connection in each episode between his research and the presentation of it to inform the audience of new findings: Episode 1, Holy War: one of the central and most novel arguments of the first episode of the series was drawn directly from Asbridge's work on the significance of the discovery of the Holy Lance in Antioch to Christian attitudes.
To demonstrate the textual evidence during the documentary, and reflect on the historical importance of the Holy Lance and its importance for Asbridge's overall argument about the nature of the crusades, he ensured that the episode included scenes in the archive of the island monastery of San Lazzaro degli Armeni (Venice) to examine the early manuscript of Matthew Edessa's chronicle and what it reveals about the Lance.
Episode 2, The Clash of Titans: critical to Asbridge's argument was his reinterpretation of Muslim leader Saladin's intentions on conquering Jerusalem on 2 October 1187 and the role and importance of negotiations between Saladin and Richard the Lionheart during the Third Crusade (all covered in The Crusades: the War for the Holy Land and Asbridge's Journal of Medieval History article).
Episode 2 of the series concentrated on documentary evidence at the Bodleian Library to demonstrate Asbridge's case, as did location filming in the Aqsa Mosque archive in Jerusalem to see one of the two earliest surviving manuscripts of Baha al-Din Ibn Shaddad's Life of Saladin.
Episode 3, Victory and Defeat: the final argument of Asbridge's 2010 book about the dangers in ahistorical `crusade parallelism' with present day relations between Islam and the West was transformed into the final ten minutes of the third episode of his series to make one of its two most important arguments (alongside the need to see the crusades from both perspectives).
The Crusades therefore enhanced the public understanding of this epochal event in medieval history principally by reframing them by considering Christian and Muslim perspectives and by communicating the latest academic research on the subject in a publicly engaging and digestible form.
With each of the three episodes watched by over two million viewers in the UK and by millions across the world, it was a highly successful piece of history programming.
Its reach and significance is corroborated by the series producer and director of episode 1: `The series was a huge success on many levels.
In terms of audience figures, and the quality of audience response, it exceeded expectation ...
It made a particularly strong impact in terms of i-player and digital download figures'.
These viewing figures are testament to the success of the series as are the positive notices that it received in the press on airing.
The Guardian described it as `storytelling of the highest quality' with Asbridge striking the `perfect balance between broad-brush and the personal'.
Similarly, The Telegraph noted that `Asbridge and his producers are confident enough to let the history tell the story' in a series of `proper, old-fashioned narrative history of the sort that TV has almost forgotten how to do'.
And The Times described the series `thrilling and revisionist' (see sources to corroborate the impact below).
Post-airing viewing figures of the series on YouTube also speak of its reach and significance.
In September 2013, episode 1 had been viewed 14,513 times; episode 2, 7,408 times and episode 3, 10,561 times.
Contribution to the creative industries Asbridge's series directly contributed to the employment and prosperity of the company which produced it.
The Creative Director of 360 Productions notes that Asbridge's research achieved the BBC television commission for a documentary on the crusades that he had been seeking for eight years (Asbridge's `vision won the impossible commission').
The result was that over the six months of the series' production, 15 staff were employed on it at 360 Productions, with an additional number (circa 10) of freelance staff, all at professional grade.
This employment was largely facilitated by the approximate BBC budget per episode of &#163;150,000.
The success of the series for 360 Productions was not only measured in the commission budget itself, but also in the sales of the series internationally (the Creative Director explained that the series was `sold to major broadcasters all over the world (literally)' as `360's best-selling international show [in 2012]').
Moreover, the success of the series led the BBC to commission a further medieval history documentary presented by Asbridge and produced by 360 Productions which was filmed in 2013.
Setting a benchmark for television history Asbridge has also impacted upon the way that the BBC produces television history.
According to the series producer, The Crusades was `a big success as a "reputational" piece, generating significant press interest and coverage (Tom did a number of radio and TV appearances)'.
The Creative Director at 360 productions added that the `BBC liked the shows a lot.
They were referred to in internal reports by the commissioner for History [...] and BBC2 controller [...] as positive models of historical programme making where the content not the style led the show.'
For the Creative Director, this was much to do with the way Asbridge presented his research on screen: `By taking a vexed issue and giving a detailed, perceptive and contra-intuitive sense of what actually happened and how long the Crusades' shadow really is, Tom set the benchmark for that [2013's] history programming'.
