     The reach of Diogenes is best demonstrated by the download       statistics.
As of 31 July 2013, version 3.1.6 of Diogenes       (released on 22 October 2007) has been downloaded from the official site       91,011 times.
This is certainly a considerable under-estimate of actual       use, because Diogenes is a redistributable open-source software.
Users are encouraged to pass it on to others freely in accordance with the       license (it is also included with several Linux distributions), so many       users of Diogenes will not have obtained it from the official       download site.
The download statistics do, however, reflect one particular       aspect of the impact population: its international character.
The UK is       merely in 7th place in the number of downloads, well behind USA, Spain,       Italy, Mexico, Brazil and Greece, in that order.
The user population of Diogenes       is mixed.
It includes many scholars; when the American Philological       Association, the professional body of North American classicists, withdrew       support for its obsolete Pandora programme, it officially endorsed       Diogenes as the replacement in its Newsletter (August 2005).
As one       Royal Holloway classicist said on a public e- mail list in 2008, `Diogenes       has emerged as far and away the best tool for the job while commercial and       funded rivals have fallen away.'
Diogenes is also used on a       considerable scale by students at all levels, and by members of the       non-academic public who read ancient Greek and Latin for their own       interest and pleasure.
It is not possible to quantify the relative size of       these segments of the mixed user population, but it is clear that the       order of magnitude of downloads, not to mention free distributions, dwarfs       the population of professional classical researchers worldwide.
The significance of Diogenes is threefold:     (a) Free access to classical texts.
For students and members of       the public without access to a university library or without an       institutional subscription to expensive on-line resources, Diogenes       provides free access to the massive extant corpus of ancient Greek and       Latin literature which was encoded on now-archaic databases that continue       to circulate widely via person-to-person copying and peer-to-peer network       file sharing.
Unsolicited e-mails indicate that Diogenes is used       by a variety of users who may have no other access to Greek and Latin       texts: `Diogenes I use outside of any formal educational       setting--it's just for my own use.
It is extremely useful for reading       Latin texts: to determine quickly word meanings, parse forms, or check       syllable length.
I'm taking up Greek (again), and it will surely be just       as useful for that, too' (9/9/2012).
`[Diogenes] has been very       helpful with some words that are hard to find in the Greek lexicons and       dictionaries that are available to someone who is not a scholar or a       theological student.
I've been teaching myself ancient Greek as I       translate the New Testament' (20/4/2012).
`I have been extensively using Diogenes       for 6 years, all through my undergraduate career at the University of       Chicago, into ... grad school ..., and now for private study outside of       any curriculum.
I firmly believe it is the best tool ... for studying       Greek ...
I cannot understate the value of such a resource' (11/3/2013).
Diogenes is widely used in countries where libraries may be poorly       stocked, and where classical editions and lexica are prohibitively       expensive.
It is notable that the top ten countries for downloads include       Mexico (4th place), Brazil (5th), Columbia (9th), and Argentina (10th),       ahead of European countries with more developed traditions of studying the       classics, such as France (11th).
Many users from developing countries have       expressed their gratitude: `Diogenes ... makes my Greek readings a       lot easier ...
I study and teach classical Greek here in Porto Alegre,       Brazil' (24/10/2009).
From Poland: `Diogenes has been my one and       only tool for working on classical texts ever since I first installed it       ...
I find it truly amazing' (11/03/2009).
(b) Morphology and lexica for language learners.
The morphological       analysis and lexical look- up tools in Diogenes support active,       self-directed, and independent engagement with the ancient languages on       the part of secondary school students, undergraduates, postgraduates and       non- academic users.
Clicking on a word in Diogenes instantly       generates a morphological analysis from Perseus, and corresponding       definitions from the standard Greek and Latin lexica of Liddell-Scott-       Jones and Lewis-Short.
This makes it much easier to look up a word in       these advanced tools than in even the smallest beginner's dictionary.
Diogenes       therefore helps students to appreciate that translating words from Latin       and Greek is not a simple matter of one-to-one mapping, but of negotiating       complex, non-congruent semantic boundaries.
Many language teachers use Diogenes       for the very easy and intuitive way in which it integrates advanced       lexicographical tools.
A language teaching officer in Classics at       Cambridge University writes: `At my induction meetings I recommend that       all my students &#8212; whether undergraduate or graduate &#8212; download and use the       programme as a matter of course; they routinely report: "it changed my       life!"
&#8212; as it has mine.
I imagine that a large proportion of our student       body here uses Diogenes regularly' (5/10/2012).
A professor in the USA       writes: `Diogenes is ... open all the time&#8212;it's a wonderful teaching tool       and I have all my students use it' (16/10/2011).
Not only beginners, but       students at all levels around the world use Diogenes: `I'm a       student from Catania University ... and I would thank you for developing       this fantastic open source program' (24/4/2009).
`[Diogenes is] a       great help for my studies in Classics at Munich university (LMU)!'
(25/10/2011).
`I'm a young Portuguese classicist, and just wish to say       thank you for your kind contribution to knowledge.
You developed a       wonderful tool that really helps those [who] seek to better understand the       ancient world and its literature.'
(28/05/2009).
Self-directed learners of       Latin and Greek rely on Diogenes for morphological tools and       lexica.
Hundreds of postings to TextKit, a public internet forum       frequented by independent learners of Greek and Latin, recommend it to       newcomers.
Some of these users even adapt it for their own purposes, for       example, setting up the browser Firefox so that a click will command Diogenes       to parse and define a Greek or Latin word found on any website on the       internet.
Another user, who describes himself as `a professional computer       geek who has been interested in classical languages his entire life' has       incorporated Diogenes into the website he created with a selection       of resources for `self-teaching amateur classicists'.
Students and       teachers of Latin and Greek at all levels rely on Diogenes.
(c) Influencing open access in digital classics.
Diogenes       was the first large open-source project in Classics, and other projects       have followed its example; this sharing of resources has benefitted the       common good.
It brought to light the undocumented structure of the CD-ROM       databases published by the Packard Humanities Institute (PHI) and the Thesaurus         Linguae Graecae (TLG).
Diogenes pioneered the advanced       functionality which is now also available via the on-line TLG,       such as integrated morphological analysis with lexicon look-up and       morphologically aware searching.
This means that even those who access       classical texts through other digital interfaces have benefitted from the       example set by Diogenes.
Of greater lasting significance, however, is the current movement to       create and release new digital resources under open access licenses which       will ensure that they remain perpetually free.
The Perseus project       at Tufts University followed Diogenes' example when it made its       texts and tools available under an open access license.
This in turn       permitted Diogenes to integrate Perseus' morphological       analysis data and digitized lexica.
PhiloLogic, at the University       of Chicago, has combined texts from Perseus and re-used some       source code from Diogenes.
More recently, Harvard's Center for       Hellenic Studies (CHS) has launched several open access initiatives, in       which they have acknowledged Diogenes as the trailblazing model.
The director of CHS writes: `Diogenes has embraced the concept of       open access for a tool that is exceptionally important and effective for       students at all levels of competence in Ancient Greek, and it has done so       in a way that has and will continue to inspire others to do the same.'
On       a more practical note, one of the collaborators on digital projects at the       CHS writes: `without your open-source tools, I can honestly say that       important parts of the Homer Multitext project would probably be a       decade behind where we are now.'
Diogenes has thus provided both a       model for other projects of the principles of open access for digital       classics, and freely available tools which those projects have been able       to use and build upon.
In June 2013 Heslin built an extension to Diogenes       to bring the CD-ROM databases into the modern era by converting them to an       easily understandable XML-based format.
The DigiLibLT project in Vercelli,       Italy, intends to distribute the PHI database of Latin texts, after being       converted to XML by Diogenes, from their website under an open       access, Creative- Commons license.
For the ways in which Diogenes       has been influencing other open access digital projects at Durham, see REF       3a.
