     A.
Broader and better informed public appreciation of Homeric poetry       Durham research on Homer informed the intellectual itinerary of a major       touring exhibition entitled       Homer: Der Mythos von Troia in Dichtung und Kunst (Antikenmuseum       Basel und Sammlung       Ludwig, from 16 March to 17 August 2008, and Reiss-Engelhorn-Museen,       Mannheim, from 13       September 2008 to 18 January 2009).
The exhibition treated the ancient       portraits of Homer as an       aspect of the reception of epic, placing them after artefacts illustrating       the contents of the Iliad and       the Odyssey.
The exhibition catalogue, pp.
20-34, acknowledged the       work of Graziosi and       Haubold as informing the thematic focus of the exhibition.
About       110,000 visitors in Mannheim and       41,000 in Basel were presented with portraits of Homer, after artefacts       illustrating the content of       the poems, and were thus invited to view them as early responses to epic       poetry (underpinning       research: 2.1 above).
Mainstream publishers consider Durham research on Homer relevant to       general readers, and       capable of enriching their understanding.
Graziosi set out Durham       research on Homeric       authorship, Near-Eastern and Greek oral epic traditions, Homeric society,       traditional epic       language, and reception history (2.1-5 above) in her Introduction and       Notes for a new translation of       the Iliad by Tony Verity for Oxford World Classics (OWC 2011).
Durham research also `lies behind       most pages' of the translation (Verity, p. xxix), which has now sold over       6,000 copies.
Strong       media endorsements include BBC Radio 3 Night Waves on 5 October       2011 (initial audience ca.
150,000, also available through the BBC website and YouTube) and The         Economist 15 October       2011 (circulation ca.
1.5 million).
A guide to the translation for       Podularity: Authors and Books in a         Pod, also available on Vimeo, offers free access to several strands       of Durham research on Homer       and its effect on Verity's translation.
Open Letters Monthly (17       November 2011) states of the       Introduction: `These pages... are the finest thing about Homer yet written       in the 21st century for a       popular audience.'
The success of the OWC Iliad has led to a       contract for a companion Odyssey;       and for Homer: A Very Short Introduction (OUP).
Durham research on       Homer reaches an even       broader audience with The Gods of Olympus: A History (Profile       Books, UK; Metropolitan/Holt,       USA; AmbosAnthos, the Netherlands; Patmos Verlag, Germany; De Agostini,       Italy; and       Pensamento, Brazil), with projected total sales of ca.
40,000.
B.
Enhanced learning and teaching of Homeric epic in secondary and         tertiary education       Publications 1-4 listed in section 3 above regularly feature on       undergraduate and MA reading lists       nationally and internationally, and have led to changes of syllabus and       curriculum developments.
Iliad 6 has been adopted as a new set text in several institutions,       nationally and internationally (e.g.
USA, Germany, Italy, Russia, Brazil, Australia, China), as a result of Graziosi's       and Haubold's       commentary (published in the influential `Green and Yellow' series); all       reviews to date emphasise       its usefulness in the classroom.
Publications 3 and 4 are also regularly       used in secondary       education, and 3 is recommended by the Association for Latin Teaching on       its blog.
School teachers and pupils benefit from Durham research on Homer not only       through the       publications mentioned above, but also through talks and teaching       materials.
Every year since       2003 Graziosi has been using her Homeric research when lecturing       for Sovereign Education,       reaching a yearly average of 300/400 secondary school students.
In 2010,       she delivered an       address to the annual meeting of the Joint Association of Classical       Teachers, and in 2012 she       lectured and produced a 12-page booklet of teaching materials for Keynote       Educational.
Sovereign       Education commented in an unsolicited e-mail on 2 April 2009 that Graziosi's       lecture was       `perfectly pitched, inspirational and exactly what they needed'.
Keynote       Educational reported on       teachers' feedback which described her guidance on teaching Homer as       `outstanding' (unsolicited       e-mail on 20 July 2012).
Continuing demand for school talks, teaching       materials, and articles for       Omnibus confirm that Durham research helps students to learn &#8212; and       teachers to enhance their       interest and understanding.
C. Homer in the local community       The Homeric research of Graziosi and Haubold has reached       beyond established partnerships       with schools, teacher associations, and private education, to engage new       audiences in local       communities in the North East of England.
Graziosi secured Durham       University seedcorn funding       (&#163;7,500) to support two innovative collaborations: with Changeling       Productions, a community arts       company working, with recognised effectiveness, in areas of social and       economic deprivation; and       Creative Communities, a not-for-profit association for cultural       regeneration in the North East.
Changeling Productions designed and delivered music and theatre workshops       based on Durham       research on Homer (see section 2.1 above), offering the following       intellectual trajectory:            participants read and discussed selections from the Odyssey;       they imagined who might have composed the poem, exploring ancient and         modern theories;       they contributed to the creation of a local, County Durham Homer which         is being used in a         professional theatre production conceived for two actors: a rhapsode         arriving in Durham,         determined to perform Homer's Odyssey, and an interjecting         member of the audience, demanding         to know who this great Homer was, and offering his own (locally         inflected) conjectures.
All workshops took place in March-July 2013, in or near Spennymoor &#8212; a       small former industrial       town in County Durham characterised by high unemployment, a large       percentage of social       housing, and a town centre in need substantial regeneration.
Changeling       Productions adopted a       three-pronged approach, offering sessions not only in local schools, but       also addressing members       of the public through street performances, and setting up workshops in the       local library and in the       Spennymoor Vacant Shop, managed by Creative Communities.
In this way they       reached a broad       demographic, often involving different members of the same families and       networks, and thus       creating `a Homeric vibe around town' (project report).
Five schools       hosted workshops: Whitworth       Academy (Secondary School), The Oaks (Special Needs Secondary School),       Kirk Merrington       Primary School, King Street Primary School, and Ox Close Primary School.
These were supported       through street performances and regular Saturday sessions at the Vacant       Shop, where `interest       increased week-by-week' (project report).
Workshops were inspired by &#8212; and in turn demonstrated &#8212; the main tenet of       Graziosi's research:       that imagining the author is a means of establishing a personal       relationship with the text.
The       project report by Changeling concludes: `When asked to describe a       contemporary Homer there       was a noticeable consistency, regardless of whether respondents were       school children in a       classroom, or senior citizens, unemployed youths or soldiers on leave       walking down the street &#8212; Homer       was imagined as homeless, walking about looking for inspiration, slightly       scruffy, intent on       telling and selling stories to make a living.
Homer was never cast as       alien, nor were his epics       considered irrelevant to present circumstances.
Indeed, one of the most       surprising results of the       project was the ease and wit with which participants related the Odyssey       and its imagined author       to local Spennymoor people and places.'
The benefits of this collaboration between Durham University, Changeling       Productions, and       Creative Communities are twofold.
1.
Educational: participants learn about       Homeric epic and how       Homeric authorship is approached at Durham University.
2.
Social and       cultural: arts projects       involving people who do not usually have occasion to meet and work       together (in this case:       university researchers, artists, musicians, teachers, school children,       charity workers, librarians and       members of the general public in Spennymoor) have demonstrable benefits in       the acquisition of       cultural and social capital: see Hampshire and Matthijsse (2010), quoted       below in section 5C.
D. Improved understanding, treatment and prevention of Post-Traumatic         Stress Disorder         (PTSD)       Dr Jonathan Shay, a clinical psychiatrist for the US Department of       Veteran Affairs for over twenty       years, is an international authority on the treatment of PTSD.
In his       clinical work he has       successfully treated some 200 US veterans, the majority of whom were       identified in previous       diagnoses as non-responsive to treatment.
As a result of his clinical       experience he has also       increasingly worked for the prevention of PTSD, opening a policy debate       about career progression       in the US army, in his capacity as Chair of Ethics, Leadership, and       Personnel Policy in the Office of       the U.S. Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel.
His chief contribution       to the understanding,       treatment and prevention of PTSD is the identification of `moral injury'       as a key factor inhibiting the       acquisition of successful treatment.
Moral injury, in Dr Shay's       definition, occurs when somebody in       a position of authority violates what is right (as defined within a       particular cultural and social       setting) in a high-stakes situation.
His understanding of moral injury       derives from his clinical work in       combination with a thorough investigation of Homeric epic which he has &#8212;       in the last ten years &#8212; developed       in dialogue with Haubold.
This dialogue was accompanied by a       broadening of focus       and a shift of emphasis, on the part of Shay, from treatment of individual       patients to general issues       of leadership and institutional hierarchies.
He first acknowledged the       impact of Haubold's research       on his own work in Amphora 2.2, 2003, p. 8: `I attribute a       fiduciary duty to ... military leaders.
Haubold meticulously documents textual evidence that the moral world of       the Homeric poems held       leaders to obligations of a fiduciary nature.'
Since that initial point of       contact, Shay and Haubold       have exchanged publications, met (at the invitation of Dr Shay) in       Washington DC in 2011, and       met again in Durham in 2013, to disseminate Shay's approach to the       treatment of PTSD to an       audience of about 80 NHS health professionals and classicists, through a       public lecture promoted       by the Durham Centre for the Medical Humanities and the Institute of       Advanced Study.
Over the last ten years, Shay has regularly used Durham research on       Homeric society and       language in order to substantiate his emphasis on `moral injury': in his       own acknowledgement,       Haubold is the Homeric scholar he quotes `most often' both in his       clinical and policy work.
Failures       of leadership, as articulated in the Homeric texts and analysed in the       underpinning research 2.3       and 2.4 above, are useful to Shay's approach, both therapeutically, as       patients compare       themselves, cross-culturally, to the Homeric heroes, and at the level of       policy, where Shay argues       that promotion to leadership positions in the US army should include       assessment by peers and       those of inferior rank in a 360&#176; approach, rather than depend exclusively       on the assessment of       one's own superiors, as it currently is.
That Shay's claims about Homeric       failures of leadership are       grounded in rigorous and up-to-date research is important, since trust is       a key aspect of his       approach to the treatment and prevention of PTSD: fiduciary care, in his       view, must include taking       care that statements about Homeric epic are correct, and not just       expedient.
This shows that       Durham research on Homer is not used here simply because it can have       impact on the treatment       and prevention of PTSD, but because it is considered to be of high quality       by its own academic       standards.
