     The emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria represents a constant       threat to world health.
A       headline in the Independent last year stated "Antibiotics crisis       will mean routine infections are       lethal" and Margaret Chan, head of the World Health Organization, warned       of a global crisis in       antibiotics7.
This problem is particularly relevant for people       living in close communities or who have       health-associated problems, for example HIV sufferers.
Examples of       antibiotic-resistant bacteria       include a multidrug-resistant tuberculosis that has been responsible for       at least 150,000 deaths7,       and methicillin-resistant or multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus       (MRSA) that has shown       resistance to vancomycin8, a compound considered to be the       antibiotic of last resort.
Each year in       the USA alone, MRSA infections are predicted to cost more than $3.2-$4.2       billion8.
The necessity       to develop more effective antibiotics is therefore of paramount       importance.
Professor Errington's       research, identifying and targeting cellular processes essential for       bacterial growth, represents a       timely approach to a rising emergency.
Clinical Value       The expertise generated within the University of Oxford and Prolysis Ltd       is at the vanguard of the       development of new, effective antibiotics.
Using novel methodology,       Professor Errington and       colleagues identified novel compounds that were effective at targeting and       killing a wide range of       bacteria, including MRSA9, 10.
These new classes of       broad-spectrum antibacterials, by their very       action of hitting pivotal cell division mechanisms, circumvent future       problems arising from antibiotic       resistance and thus represent real solutions to the emerging problem of       multidrug-resistant       bacteria.
The achievements of Prolysis Ltd were reflected in 2009 when the       company was acquired       by Biota Europe11.
This step facilitated further preclinical       development of the key research       programmes of Prolysis Ltd12 and accelerated their entry into       the clinic, providing new hope for the       effective treatment of antibiotic-resistant pathogens.
Commercialisation       The importance and commercial attractiveness of the research and       technology generated in       Oxford was recognised with Errington/Prolysis Ltd as runner-up in the       BBSRC Innovator of the       Year Competition in 200913, and with the acquisition of       Prolysis Ltd for &#163;6.4M (A$10.8M) by the       Australian ASX-listed biotechnology company Biota Holdings Ltd11,       a company based in Melbourne       and Oxford (Biota Europe Ltd).
Biota Holdings Ltd announced plans to       invest &#163;14.9M (A$25M)       between 2009 and 2012 to develop the key CDI and DNA gyrase (GYR)       programmes initiated in       Oxford11.
The CDI programme targeted staphylococcal infections,       including MRSA, while the GYR       programme, focused on DNA supercoiling inhibitors, to target the bacterial       enzymes DNA gyrase       and DNA topoisomerase, both of which are essential for bacterial survival.
The acquisition       therefore enabled the early stage development of antibacterial agents       performed by Prolysis Ltd, to       undergo further preclinical development and for the compounds to enter       clinical trials.
For example,       an important asset of Prolysis Ltd was its Clostridium difficile       programme; Biota Holdings Ltd.       obtained &#163;1.9M ($2.9M) from the National Institute of Health (ROI       A1094456) for the continued       preclinical development of a new candidate for treating virulent strains       of C. difficile14.
Since       hospital costs associated with this infection are estimated at more than       &#163;2.1 billion ($3.2 billion) per       annum in the USA, with treatment usually consisting of vancomycin or       metronidazole14, a       successful antibiotic would have enormous benefit to the patient and       reduce the cost of health       care.
Another important outcome of the acquisition by Biota Holdings Ltd       was the continued full-time       employment of all of the Prolysis Ltd staff and the maintenance of       research activities in       Oxford.
Prolysis Ltd also retained the rights to 15% of shares in all       milestones achieved, and in       royalties earned on commercialisation.
Professor Errington was elected to       the Board of Biota       Holdings Ltd on 1 February 2010.
Biota Holdings Ltd subsequently merged with Nabi Biopharmaceuticals in       November 2012 to       become the NASDAQ-listed group Biota Pharmaceuticals Inc. (worth &#163;165.4M       or $258M) with       headquarters in the USA15 and operations based in Melbourne and       Oxford.
Examples of Biota's       commercialised products include Relenza and Inavir (antivirals for       influenza).
Biota       Pharmaceuticals Inc. are continuing their broad-spectrum antibiotic       programmes15.
Indeed the       GYR programme is considered to be one of the key components of Biota's       strategy.
Professor       Errington continues to act as a Non-Executive Director at Biota       Pharmaceuticals Inc.
Effective broad-spectrum antibacterial agents that target even       antibiotic-resistant strains have       resulted from underpinning research originating at the University of       Oxford.
The estimated sales       potential of these products is &#163;200m &#8212; &#163;1 billion per year.
