     Research and development pioneered within the University of Oxford       revolutionised the laboratory production of viruses, enhancing the speed,       specificity, reliability and safety of vaccine production.
The innovative       reverse genetics technology resulted in the rapid production (within a few       days) of quantities of virus suitable for use as a vaccine6 and       was invaluable for the development of the FluMist vaccine formulation for       the 2008 flu season7.
A further crucial advantage of the reverse genetics technology pioneered       by Oxford is the ability to mutate any nucleotide in the plasmids used for       the expression of the viral RNA genome segments.
This enables the design       of new, ever more effective viruses.
The advantage of producing `custom'       viruses was highlighted when insertion of a mutation into the H1N1 vaccine       strain, proved to be critical for increasing the virus yield in the       commercial production of the successful vaccine used in the 2009 bird flu       outbreak6.
These achievements - optimising the yield of the       FluMist vaccine and genetically engineering the bird flu multibasic       sequence - would have been highly problematical using the old       `reassortant' technology.
Oxford's technology provides an essential tool       to combat future influenza pandemics.
The reverse genetics technology developed by the University of Oxford and       collaborators was licensed to AstraZeneca and MedImmune Inc. (later part       of AstraZeneca) for use in the preparation of FluMist vaccine8.
MedImmune later also non-exclusively licensed the technology to other       companies such as Novartis and Sanofi Pasteur.
FluMist was the first       intranasal vaccine, containing the highly attenuated live flu virus (A/Ann       Arbor/ 6/60), able to infect and successfully immunise people against       influenza A and B viruses without causing disease.
Later vaccine       developments using the Oxford technology included the cold-adapted LAIV       (tri-valent vaccine currently marketed as FluMist) and FluMist       Quadrivalent vaccines.
FluMist as an intra-nasal rather than an injectable vaccine has been       shown to be highly successful9,10 and is marketed worldwide.
Already       administered to immunocompetent children from the age of two in the USA,       FluMist (licensed under the name Fluenz in the EU) is to be offered to all       such children from the age of two to 17 in Europe in 2012/311.
Results from a clinical trial have shown the further promise of FluMist as       a vaccine for children from the ages of 5 to 17 years who are       immunocompromised with cancer12.
In 2012 a new vaccine, FluMist       Quadrivalent, prepared using reverse genetics technology, was licensed for       use in children, adolescents and adults (two to 49 years of age) in the       USA13.
This vaccine, which contains an additional attenuated       virus, should offer even broader protection against flu.
Over 5 years, several million people worldwide have been vaccinated with       the FluMist vaccine that uses the reverse genetics technology.
In the UK       alone, annual outbreaks of seasonal flu affect 5 to 20% of the population,       and flu-related deaths vary from 3,300 to 48,860 per annum.
Thus,       extrapolating from the UK figure of 562 people dying from flu in 2009 in a       UK population of 60 million, it is estimated that vaccination would       probably have saved the lives of hundreds of people.
Flu also has       particularly serious consequences for the elderly.
In excess of &#163;22M is       spent on hospital care for the elderly every winter and influenza also       results in more than 400,000 GP appointments annually in England and       Wales.
In addition to healthcare costs, flu also places a heavy burden on       productivity and the economy.
More than 6 million working days are       estimated to be lost in the UK due to seasonal influenza every year.
This       is even before the potential problems of global flu epidemics with the       attendant problems of increased virulence are taken into account.
The       "economic savings" made from vaccination are therefore significant,       although very difficult to estimate with any accuracy.
MedImmune announced FluMist sales of $104M in 2008, $145M in 2009 and       $174M in 2010, plus $389M in 2009 and $39M in 2010 of pandemic vaccine       against H1N1.
Total sales revenue is thus close to $1 billion since 200814.
Royalties arising from the University of Oxford patents, which were       jointly filed with the US collaborators (licensed by Isis, the Technology       Transfer Office of the University of Oxford, to Mount Sinai School of       Medicine, New York, who licenced it to MedImmune) have already provided       income of over &#163;3M to the University of Oxford.
