     The work of Ashcroft at Oxford, with Hattersley's team at Exeter, has       transformed therapy for people born with ND.
Until 2006, ND patients were       treated with insulin because their clinical characteristics suggested an       unusually early onset form of type 1 diabetes (in which insulin-secreting       beta cells are destroyed and exogenous insulin is essential).
As a direct       result of the research described above, the first patient was switched to       oral sulphonylurea treatment in August 2006, and since then at least 500       patients have transferred from insulin injections to the oral drugs, the       bulk of them from 2008 onwards.
Clinicians worldwide now routinely screen       infants presenting with ND, as well as adult patients who developed       diabetes at a young age, for KATP channel mutations.
Transfer to oral drugs has not only transformed the quality of life for       those with ND (and that of their families), it has also had marked       clinical benefits.
Fluctuations in blood glucose, a common problem in ND       patients, are substantially reduced, and potentially dangerous       hypoglycaemic episodes are less common.
Blood glucose control is       substantially improved, lowering the risk of diabetic complications, such       as blindness, kidney disease, heart disease and limb amputations.
Such       complications account for the majority of the morbidity and mortality       burden of diabetes, so this reduction results in life-time cost savings of       eventual healthcare needs.
Furthermore, daily insulin injections are       inconvenient, unpleasant, restrictive in terms of lifestyle, and       relatively expensive.
By contrast, sulphonylureas are cheap, off-patent,       drugs that have been in routine clinical use for treating type 2 diabetes       for more than 30 years.
In the first study into the use of sulphonylureas       to treat ND, 90% of the trial group successfully discontinued insulin       after receiving sulphonylureas7.
About 20% of ND patients with K ATP channel mutations also have       neurological symptoms8, 9.
Some have severe mental and motor       developmental delay and (in approximately 3% of cases) epilepsy in       addition to ND (named DEND syndrome by Ashcroft and Hattersley)8.
Most also have muscle hypotonia accompanied by delayed speech and walking.
These symptoms arise because KATP channels are found in brain       and muscle, as well as in pancreatic beta cells.
Sulphonylurea drugs       ameliorate the neurological problems in some of these patients8.
Importantly, some children who were started on sulphonylureas at diagnosis       have not yet developed obvious neurological complications, although it is       too early to be certain if this will be true for all patients.
Since 2008, sulphonylurea therapy has become the therapy of choice for       patients with KATP channel mutations.
Guidelines from the       International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes state that ND       patients should be treated with sulphonylurea drugs10.
The NHS       has also approved research showing that genetic testing for ND is cost       effective, since transfer to sulphonylurea drugs leads to significant cost       savings in the long term11.
Ashcroft and Hattersley have       disseminated the results of their research in seminars, lectures, media       interviews and other venues, which has been vital in reaching the greatest       number of clinicians and new families who might benefit from the drug       treatment; as a direct result there are now clinics worldwide offering       genetic testing for ND.
Ashcroft and Hattersley organised and ran the first `Families Day'       meeting for patients with ND and their families in July 2009 in London.
Several families remain in regular contact with one or both of the Oxford       and Exeter teams.
Through such contacts it has become apparent that apart       from the clinical benefits associated with sulphonylurea therapy, the       impact upon an individual's quality of life, and that of their family, has       been considerable.
One patient described switching from insulin therapy to       sulphonylureas as `like night and day'12, and another said the       new treatment had `given him his life back'13.
Numerous other       patient stories describe ways that sulphonylurea treatment has       revolutionised their lives with diabetes14-16; one mother       reports that thanks to sulphonylurea treatment her daughter `has now been       completely off insulin for seven years with the blood sugar control of a       non-diabetic.
A truly life-changing miracle'17.
The impact of       this research has resulted from an extremely effective collaborative       interaction between the researchers at Oxford and Exeter, clinicians,       patients, and their families.
