     Since 2008, the research conducted by Professors Stein and Aziz has had a       major impact on some long-term PD patients for whom treatment with       dopaminergic drugs no longer works.
The new form of deep brain stimulation       which Stein and Aziz have pioneered has led to very significant       improvements in symptoms and quality of life for this group of patients.
Parkinson's disease principally affects older people, although       early-onset Parkinson's also affects a significant number (15% of       sufferers will develop the disease before age 50).
As people in the       developing world live longer, many more are expected to develop PD in the       coming years.
The organisation Parkinson's UK reports that there are       currently 127,000 people with PD in the UK and that this figure is       expected to rise by 28% by 2020.
Symptoms of PD are both physical (tremor,       rigidity, freezing of movement, falls, speech problems, bladder and bowel       problems) and mental (depression, anxiety, hallucinations, insomnia).
Although patients with PD often initially respond well to treatment with       dopaminergic drugs such as levodopa, long-term drug treatment can       exacerbate the original problems and leave patients with severe       drug-resistant symptoms.
Of these, the symptoms affecting movement are       probably the most distressing; dyskinesia can cause patients to writhe       uncontrollably, while akinesia means they can suddenly `freeze' and be       unable to move at all, rendering them prone to loss of balance and       falling.
The desperation caused by advanced PD is evidenced by the fact       that prior to the development of effective drug treatments, patients were       prepared to undergo radical experimental brain surgery in an attempt to       curb the symptoms.
Around 60,000 patients with advanced PD who have drug-resistant       dyskinesia have had their lives transformed by deep brain stimulation of       the subthalamic nucleus, but this treatment does not work for the 10% of       patients who are severely disabled by drug-resistant gait freezing and       postural imbalance.
The work of Stein, Aziz and Nandi in establishing the       role of the PPN in controlling movement led very quickly to their       collaboration on a series of studies in humans.
These confirmed that the       effects demonstrated in macaque monkeys also occurred clinically, and that       PPN stimulation in human subjects led to significant improvements in gait       freezing, balance problems and falling7,8,9.
A multi-centre       clinical trial is in the process of being organised by the Movement       Disorders Society, convened by Dr Elena Moro of Grenoble, to investigate       the procedure further and to establish which targets in the PPN are most       effective for stimulation.
Since 2008, around 200 PD patients have been successfully treated using       PPN DBS, experiencing great improvements in their symptoms and quality of       life.
`Before and after' videos of patients show radical changes in gait       and balance.
Before surgery, people are shown unable to get up from a       chair unaided; walking with a slow, shuffling, stiff gait (often needing       help with balance to avoid falling); freezing completely when attempting       to turn a corner or go through a doorway; and losing balance when turning       round.
After surgery, patients are transformed, able to get up from a       chair, walk and turn with virtually normal movements10.
In       addition to surgery carried out by Professor Aziz, PPN DBS has been       successfully performed by a number of other neurosurgeons worldwide, for       example in France11.
The numbers undergoing PPN DBS are       expected to grow rapidly in line with those for other forms of DBS already       established, eventually extending the treatment to thousands of suitable       advanced PD patients.
The success of this technique in PD has led to PPN       DBS also being investigated as a treatment for progressive supranuclear       palsy, another difficult-to-treat condition in which patients suffer       severe dyskinesia12.
As well as alleviating severe gait problems, there is mounting evidence       that PPN stimulation also improves sleep in PD patients.
Chronic sleep       disturbance is a major cause of distress in PD; insomnia, excessive       daytime sleepiness, nightmares, sleep attacks (sudden involuntary episodes       of sleep) and REM sleep behaviour disorder are all common.
A 2011 review       confirmed that PPN DBS led to significant improvements in REM sleep       amongst PD patients13, and a 2012 study that investigated       patients before surgery, immediately after surgery and one year later       found that stimulation of the PPN produced a remarkable long-term       improvement of night-time sleep as well as a significant amelioration of       daytime sleepiness14.
The effectiveness of PPN stimulation has been described in neuroscience       and neurosurgical journals, at international meetings, through the       Parkinson's Disease Society and through the PPN task force, a group set up       by the Movement Disorders Society, upon which both Aziz and Stein serve.
