     In 2002, the expertise and methods developed by Professor Hale, Dr Steve       Cobbold and Mrs Peppy Rebello were used to form the Isis Innovation       spin-out company BioAnaLab.
The company was founded with approximately &#163;1M       of equity investment from business angels and venture capital funds.
The       success of this launch was demonstrated when BioAnaLab was awarded the       `Best New Laboratory Start-Up UK' at the Laboratory News Industry Awards       event in 2002.
BioAnaLab went on to achieve full membership of the UK Good       Laboratory Practice (GLP) Compliance Programme in 20065, and       subsequently to receive Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) accreditation       from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in       20085.
Professor Hale was appointed as Chief Executive Officer       in 2005.
The assessment of any new biopharmaceutical drug must include an accurate       correlation of its biological activity and levels in vivo.
Minimum       therapeutic levels of the drug must be determined; and it is important       that antibody responses produced by the patient to the drug (which may       neutralise its effect) are kept to a minimum.
These data are essential to       maximise the effectiveness of the treatment whilst minimising any       associated hazardous side effects6.
This is the area in which       BioAnaLab has proved itself to be indispensable, in developing the safety       and efficacy of biopharmaceutical drugs and vaccines6-10.
BioAnaLab has provided a broad range of services, including measurements       of the pharmacokinetics, toxicity and biological potency of       biopharmaceuticals such as antibodies, vaccines, growth factors and       hormones.
Its first contract was with Ilex, a US Biotech company marketing       therapeutic antibodies.
The outstanding success of the company was       demonstrated by its financial growth: its sales grew from &#163;65,038 in 2002       to more than &#163;2.2M in 2008 and &#163;3.12M in 2009, 75% of which was earned       from abroad.
The success of BioAnaLab with its strong pipeline of orders resulted in       its acquisition by Millipore Corporation for &#163;7.7M in 2009.
The teaming up       of the resources of BioAnaLab with Millipore Corporation11,       which is a leader in the provision of cutting edge technologies and       services to research and biopharmaceutical communities, resulted in the       establishment of Millipore's BioPharma Services at Milton Park,       Oxfordshire, UK.
BioPharma Services was the first global contract research       organisation (CRO) in the world dedicated exclusively to large molecule       bioanalytical work12.
The subsequent merging of Millipore and       Merck KGaA in 2010 resulted in the launch of EMD Millipore, and has       extended the reach of the company in the Life Sciences sector13,       14.
Professor Hale continued as the Managing Director and       Director of BioPharma services in the Europe Division until 2010 and now       serves as a consultant, whilst retaining professorial status at Oxford       University.
The technology and expertise developed and used by BioAnaLab continues to       exert a major impact on the translational advancement of drugs from       `laboratory bench' to the patient.
By 2009, BioAnaLab had already       collaborated on the clinical development of approximately 120 new       biological drugs.
The company also developed innovative solutions to       analytical problems and participated in international clinical trials,       workshops and conferences6-10.
Within the REF2014 period, the company played an important role in the       career development of several talented Oxford graduates.
By 2009,       BioAnaLab employed 50 staff providing analytical services to the       pharmaceutical industry and was the first employer for 39 members of       staff, mostly new graduates, but also including some students on paid work       experience.
These young people entered a training programme that provided       the practical skills and understanding to follow a career in the       pharmaceutical industry.
At the time of this report, and to the best of       our knowledge, all of them continue in employment with promotion of the       majority to more senior positions.
