     Since 2008, the new findings that emerged from Professor Thomas' research       at the University of Oxford have had a major beneficial impact on the       global conservation of M. arion.
In the UK, where links were       already established, the rapid communication of emerging results provided       the essential foundation for new large-scale reintroduction programmes,       which have made significant progress towards restoring the butterfly's       former (19th century) range.
Crucially, the strength of the       scientific underpinning for the conservation programme has made funding       more forthcoming for these efforts 7,8.
As a result of the new information       on the precise criteria for optimum M. arion habitat, the       management of all current and potential new UK Large Blue sites has been       modified by the interested conservation bodies (National Trust (NT),       Natural England, Clarke Trust, Network Rail, Somerset Wildlife Trust       (SWT), Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust (GWT), and Butterfly Conservation)       to meet Thomas' specifications7-9.
This resulted in the UK       Large Blue population more than doubling from 128,000 eggs in 2007 to       272,000 in 2012, with huge increases on some key sites, e.g.
the NT's       Collard Hill, where a previously stabilised population of c.230       adults has grown ten-fold since 20099.
The research into M. arion's adaptation to warmer microclimates       has enabled the design and creation of new areas of high-quality habitat       adjacent to established sites, providing optimum conditions for       meta-population expansion and the evolution of more dispersive races.
In       major constructions by Network Rail10, two new Origanum-using       sites have been built from scratch &#8212; a level of habitat manipulation never       previously attempted for an insect in any country.
These and two other       newly managed Origanum sites supported around 20% of the UK Large       Blue numbers in 2012-13.
In addition, management elsewhere (by Natural       England, SWT, GWT and the NT) has been modified to extend the breeding       area on eight Thymus-using sites to encompass Origanum.
This has enlarged the available habitat for Large Blues (and hence       increasing population size) and, equally importantly has dampened the       fluctuations of populations in years of extreme weather7,8.
Selection for a race of Large Blue adapted to use Origanum       anticipates a time in coming decades when all sites supporting Thymus       are predicted to become too hot to support the ant host, M. sabuleti,       and hence M. arion.
The experimental selection6,10 for early-emerging races       adapted to thyme-flowering on cooler sites was crucial to the       reintroduction of M. arion to the Cotswold hills, where all       previous attempts at reintroduction in the 1980s and 1990s had failed.
It       also showed that the sites selected previously had microclimates too cool       for the UK populations.
As a result, Natural England, GWT and the NT       switched management to sites with warmer terrains and used the       early-emerging races for new introductions in 2010.
These coincide       precisely with the flowering of local thyme, and the butterfly already       thrives on two sites8.
This provided the rationale for an       ambitious restoration programme (led by Butterfly Conservation and Natural       England, funded by Biffa through landfill taxes) on a further nine       Cotswold sites7.
Two more introductions were made in 2013, and       it is predicted that the butterfly will now spread across the landscape       after an absence of 50 years.
Within landscapes, Thomas' research on adult Large Blue dispersal has       guided conservation bodies' decisions about which new sites to develop.
For example, it prompted the NT and Clarke Trust in 2009 to embark on       creating a new visitor site within range of the existing one at Collard       Hill7.
By clearing secondary woodland from a potentially       suitable hillside and imposing a targeted grazing regime the site was       colonised by the butterfly within four years7.
The research       also provided the rationale for a consortium of conservation bodies, led       by Butterfly Conservation, to bid successfully for a SITA (landfill) award       in 2011-14.
The award funded the restoration of former sites, and the       creation of new ones in the West Polden Hills, adjacent to the East       Poldens landscape where the butterfly already thrives7.
Thomas' demonstration that targeted management of a single species leads       to collateral gains in other declining wildlife enabled conservation       bodies to argue that management for the Large Blue would benefit entire       communities of threatened species, attracting funding that would not       otherwise be forthcoming.
Thus, the NT have imposed `Large Blue       management' on four Dartmoor sites, with the prime aim now being to       promote habitat for four declining species of violet-feeding fritillary       butterfly (capitalising on Thomas' discovery that the Pale Heath Violet       thrives in M. arion habitat due to seed dispersal by Myrmica       ants).
This strategy has been highly successful9, with some of       the largest known UK populations of High Brown and Pearl-bordered       Fritillary breeding in 2012-13 on all four sites.
In comparison, both       experienced c.80% extinctions elsewhere, making the High Brown the       most endangered UK butterfly species.
These sites have also been colonised       by other UK Biodiversity Action Plan species, including other butterflies       and rare insects7, 9.
A new programme is currently underway on       the Atlantic coast of Cornwall, with the same aim9.
Since 2008, grant funding for the development of new Large Blue sites has       totalled over &#163;200,000, excluding local economic impacts (&#163;13,000 to       nurseries to propagate thyme plants; &#163;50,000 to contractors to undertake       practical management and surveys).
The new programmes have resulted in       significant local engagement of the community (for example involving       volunteers in programmes clearing scrub, planting thyme and monitoring       butterflies).
The support of major national charities such as the NT,       Natural England, Wildlife Trusts and Butterfly Conservation underlines the       breadth of impact of Thomas' research.
There are today more than 100 sites       across the UK being carefully prepared for M. arion - at least       double the number in 2008 &#8212; of which 40 already support the butterfly,       making the UK a European and global stronghold of this iconic species.
Indeed, the Large Blue is one of just three UK butterflies to meet the       Convention of Biological Diversity's target to reverse species' declines       by 201011,12.
Notably, the successful conservation of the other       two also derives directly from Thomas' research4,12.
Natural       England states that Oxford based research `has provided essential         knowledge that has enabled Natural England to fulfil its statutory         duties in reversing the decline of the EU Habitats Directive Species       Maculinea arion'8.
The impact has been felt across Europe too,       with several M. arion (and other species') sites in other nations       having implemented Thomas' findings and achieved significant growth in       numbers10.
As a consequence, M. arion's global IUCN       listing has changed from `Vulnerable to `Near-threatened'.
The NT's site at Collard Hill (with a busy web-site and blog) now       attracts over 1000 visitors in June-July when Large Blues are on the wing,       making it one of NT's prime public sites for wildlife watching8,13.
Widespread media coverage of the reintroduction of the large blue       butterfly has reached a very large audience within the UK via a range of       media, including BBC's The One Show (4.48 million viewers) and Countryfile       (over 6 million viewers) in 2012, documentaries on local and national TV       and radio (e.g.
Radio 4's Nature August 2009 and Saving         Species 201014), and many articles in the national       broadsheets11.
