     From 2010, following the successful University of Oxford field trials,       farmers and wildlife managers in Kenya and other parts of Africa have been       quick to show interest in this innovative but simple idea which provides a       practical solution to an Africa-wide problem.
Building on field trials in       several countries, beehive fences have been implemented widely across       swathes of Southern and Eastern Africa.
The field trials developed a model       of how to build an effective beehive fence using low-tech, straightforward       methods and materials that can be obtained locally; the fence is easy both       to maintain and to mend in the event of damage by elephants.
Low-income       farmers benefit from better crop production through reduced damage from       raids, thus improving their own food security and helping to provide       surpluses that they can sell.
They also benefit from sales of       `elephant-friendly' honey and other bee products such as beeswax candles;       sales of this kind can offset the costs of building a fence.
There is also       some evidence that bees may help to improve crop yield through increased       pollination.
Bees are kept in many parts of Africa, so the necessary       beekeeping expertise is readily available.
Dr Lucy King, now working for       `Save the Elephants', has written a comprehensive Beehive Fence         Construction Manual which has been in production since July 2011 and       is freely available for download from the project website7.
The       manual is crucial for promoting the idea of using beehive fences and,       because it is free, the beehive fence concept has been taken up, often       spontaneously, in several African countries.
The following examples       provide evidence of the impact across the continent.
A beehive fence in Kenya (Dr Lucy E. King, Beehive Fence Construction Manual, 2nd edition, 2012)         Kenya.
The influential Kenyan Wildlife Service (KWS) has been       particularly interested in adopting the beehive fence idea, and it has       influenced their long-term planning.
The successful Kenyan trials led       directly to the adoption of beehive fences being included in the 2012-2022         Conservation and Management Strategy for the Elephant in Kenya8.
This publication outlined the first comprehensive, independent, strategy       for elephant conservation for Kenya for two decades, and was endorsed by       the United Nations Environment Programme.
Beehive fences are listed as a       proactive mitigation strategy to help reduce human-elephant conflict,       requiring on-going action from KWS, communities, landowners, and       researchers.
Many photos from the beehive fence project appear in the       document, also indicating how highly regarded it is by the KWS.
There are       now at least 29 farms in three districts in Kenya using the fences.
Elephants are extremely destructive to property as well as to crops; raids       often happen at night while families are sleeping in the same hut as the       crops they have harvested, leading to a high risk of being trampled when       the elephant knocks down the building.
A 2010 account from a farmer near       Tsavo West National Park gives a description of the trauma caused by raids       and also confirms that the part of his farm that has a beehive fence is       the only area that elephants will not enter9.
Botswana.
In Botswana, the World Bank has made a donation through       the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to the Northern Botswana         Human-Wildlife Co-Existence Project run by the Government's       Department for Wildlife and National Parks10.
Within this five       year programme, a budget of US $90,000 has been set aside to test beehive       fences as one human-elephant conflict mitigation strategy for 40 farmers       living with elephants in three districts.
Dr King provided training for       all three districts at the end of 2012 and at least half the proposed       fences have already been built.
The project has required, and obtained,       cooperation between the two different government departments responsible       for agriculture and wildlife.
Tanzania.
In Tanzania, beehive fences are used in at least three       localities.
UNESCO has funded a project in the Udzungwa Mountains, in       response to increased human-elephant conflict and a rise in elephant       deaths11.
On another site in the Western Serengeti, one       subsistence farmer reports that in 2013 he achieved his first proper       surplus for 18 years as a result of the beehive fence built around his       farm.
He is using the profits to build a brick house to replace his       traditional grass-covered hut, and aims to transform his subsistence       farming to business farming12.
Mozambique and Uganda.
The simplicity of the beehive fence design       lends itself to local innovation and adaptation; in Mozambique, the Niassa       Carnivore Project have redesigned the fence to use rope made from old       tyres because wire is locally prone to theft for hunting snares.
In an       area of very high risk for elephant raids, two farms protected by fences       have experienced only one raid in 2013, in contrast to 32 successful raids       on six neighbouring farms13.
In Uganda, a well-established       beekeeping project, Malaika Honey, is supporting local farmers to build       beehive fences and also training them in beekeeping skills14.
Farmers who live on the edge of the Ugandan Queen Elizabeth National Park       have suffered from serious crop-raiding by elephants; one farmer is quoted       as saying that after a series of raids `we had nothing to eat and nothing       to sell &#8212; they ate or destroyed all we had'.
Installing beehive fences is       at an early stage but has already made a major difference to a number of       farms that have built them.
The Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund has funded Dr King's work since       2008; their Conservation Programs Manager confirms that throughout the       funding period they `have seen this project grow and expand, creating       tangible conservation impacts that benefit both communities and wildlife,       with numerous high-profile publications and communications as a result of       the project'15.
