     Professor Brading and colleagues' research has led directly to the       development of new NO-based treatments for anal fissure.
NO donor       treatments were available before the start of the impact period, but since       2008 they have repeatedly been confirmed as the most effective       non-surgical treatment available by leading bodies including the NHS and       British Medical Journal (BMJ).
Route to impact     Dissemination of the original research results, through publications in       peer-reviewed literature, and through the clinical contacts of Professor       Mortensen, gave the impetus needed for a move to clinical trials of NO       donors such as glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) for the topical treatment of anal       fissure.
These included the first randomised controlled trials of GTN from       1994-99.
The results were extremely encouraging; Lund &amp; Scholefield,       for example, showed that two-thirds of patients treated with topical GTN       avoided surgery that would otherwise have been required for fissure       healing.
They suggested that GTN should become the first-line treatment       for anal fissures, with surgery reserved for those not responding to       pharmacological treatment7.
An independent study in 2004       provided evidence that the pain associated with anal fissure can affect       health-related quality of life, and confirmed that successful non-surgical       interventions such as GTN treatment can lead to a lessening of pain and       improvements in vitality, physical functioning and general health8.
In addition to the investigation of nitric oxide donors, in 2001 Brading       and Mortensen were also responsible for early characterisation of another       set of agents that they showed could potentially relax the anal sphincter,       including botulinum toxin and calcium channel blockers9.
However, they found that nitric oxide donors were the pharmacological       treatment for which there was most evidence of effectiveness.
Subsequent       clinical trials have largely confirmed that other agents are less       effective than the nitric oxide donors.
Impact since 2008     The fundamental research of Brading and Mortensen means that nitric oxide       donors are now in routine clinical use as a principal first-line treatment       for anal fissure, and remain the best available medical therapy apart from       surgery.
Use is by topical application to the anus 3-4 times a day for a       period of several weeks, which removes or delays the need for surgical       intervention.
Nitric oxide donors (in particular GTN) offer an effective       and inexpensive (off patent and cheap to produce) therapy compared with       the medical and surgical alternatives.
The BMJ's Best Practice site       currently recommends GTN as an initial treatment for anal fissure10,       as does the NHS Choices website11, demonstrating that NO donor       treatment has become standard in the UK.
In 2012, a Cochrane systematic       review on the treatment of anal fissure identified nitric oxide donors as       the only effective non-surgical treatment12, indicating the       lasting and effective clinical translation that has arisen from the       pioneering work of Brading and Mortensen on the role of nitric oxide in       the human anal sphincter.
A BMJ review in 2009 drew similar conclusions;       of the available non-surgical treatments, only nitric oxide donors were       deemed `likely to be beneficial'13.
Since 2008, the increasing       use of GTN in developing countries as a cheap and effective alternative to       surgery is evidenced by papers such as those published by researchers at       the Suez Canal Hospital in Egypt14 and in India15,       both of which recommend that GTN be used as a first-line treatment.
The impact of these therapies is particularly important as a bridge to       surgery and in developing countries where access to surgical treatment is       limited.
In the UK, with a hospitalisation rate of 1.56 per 10,000       inhabitants per year, surgical intervention for anal fissure represents a       significant financial burden, so the provision of medical alternatives has       significant financial advantages.
The age profile of the patients with       anal fissures overlaps with their period of strong economic activity, so       time missed from work owing to surgery is a significant consideration, and       thus there is also a strong economic impact of treatment.
