 Since 2008 Professor Dawkins' research into the factors affecting the welfare of commercially-reared chickens and ducks has strongly influenced both legislation and practice in the poultry industry, as well as leading to improvements in the health and welfare of poultry.
Impact on policy and consequently on animal welfare Broilers: Dawkins' 2004 research1 concluded with a clear recommendation to the industry: `Legislation to limit stocking density that does not consider the environment that the birds experience could thus have major repercussions for European poultry producers without the hoped-for improvements in animal welfare'.
This led to significant changes in policy and practice.
SCAHAW 2000, the EU's review of broiler welfare, took the position that `when stocking densities exceed approximately 30 kg/m2, it appears that welfare problems are likely to emerge' regardless of other factors such as indoor climactic conditions.
Dawkins' experimental work challenged this position, and provided a significant evidence base for the EU Broiler Directive4,5 that was published in 2007 and in force from June 2010.
Although setting a relatively low maximum stocking density of 33 kg/m2, the Directive made a derogation: higher stocking densities of up to 39 kg/m2 were legal provided that farm owners provided detailed documentation of chicken houses and met targets for maintenance of correct temperature, relative humidity and litter quality.
Strict limits were also placed on air concentrations of ammonia and CO2.
(A further derogation allowed owners who were able to demonstrate consistently high standards and keep mortality rates very low to increase stocking density up to 42 kg/m2).
These derogations were influenced by Dawkins' conclusion that higher stocking densities will not necessarily adversely affect broiler chicken welfare provided the quality of their environment is good5.
The 6 billion broiler chickens raised each year in Europe have benefited from these improvements.
Defra's Impact Assessment of the likely effects of the Directive6 referred explicitly to Dawkins' research findings and used them to assist in the decision as to how the Directive would be implemented in the UK.
Specifically, Defra decided not to adopt the derogation to allow the use of a higher stocking density (over 39 kg/m2 and up to 42 kg/m2) `in the light of the Oxford University research which indicated that welfare problems increased as stocking densities of 40 kg/m2 and higher were approached'6.
Defra adopted the EU Broiler Directive with these amendments in 2010.
All UK broiler producers have to comply with Defra's implementation of the Directive, which has led to a direct improvement in the welfare standards of the 800 million broiler chickens produced in the UK every year6.
The research has also had an impact on standards for broiler chickens in New Zealand.
A 2011 government report cites Dawkins' research and uses it to support the conclusion that `New Zealand standards regarding stocking density (i.e.
up to 38 kg/m2) are appropriate as long as environmental conditions are taken into consideration'7.
These standards subsequently became law in the 2012 Animal Welfare (Meat Chickens) Code of Welfare8.
Ducks: Dawkins' 2009 paper2 showed that shallow troughs or showers could support the same level of duck welfare as water deep enough to swim in, thus providing a safe and hygienic solution for duck producers.
The research was again supported `unreservedly' by the British Poultry Council5, whose voluntary Duck Assurance Scheme (launched in 2010) has subsequently ensured that their standards with regard to provision of water for ducks reflect the research5,9,10.
In addition, Dawkins' research into the environment and management factors affecting duck production and welfare3 has been used by the RSPCA to support its recommendations for the commercial farming of ducks11.
As a result, duck welfare standards have been raised.
Impacts on the economy and commerce Dawkins' research is judged by British poultry producers to have had a major beneficial impact on the industry.
The Chief Executive of the British Poultry Council praises Dawkins' `scientific rigour and ... disciplined and wholly objective approach' which `shifted the focus of debate on welfare improvement from stocking density per se to the wider context of husbandry and management factors'5.
This has assisted the industry by helping to protect producers from more stringent measures that could have had significant economic implications for them without necessarily improving bird welfare.
Two of the largest poultry companies have also corroborated the way in which Dawkins' research has helped the industry.
The Agricultural Director of Cargill Meats Europe, a leading supplier of poultry products to retail, food service and food manufacturing customers, states that Dawkins has `contributed to and shaped standards in the industry assurance scheme' and has helped `shape our views on how we take the business (and industry) forward, balancing the needs for growth, productivity and efficiency with welfare, food safety and environmental considerations'12.
The General Manager of Cobb Europe states that `prior to [Dawkins'] study [on stocking densities] the industry was being driven down a road of ever-reducing stocking density because it was believed stocking density was the most important factor contributing to adverse broiler welfare.
[Marian's research] led the broiler industry to refocus on factors within their control with a proven ability to improve broiler welfare outcomes.
Without this study I do not believe the broiler sector would have made the progress it has'13.
Cobb is one of the world's largest chicken breeding companies and a subsidiary of Tyson Food Inc. Gressingham, one of the UK's major duck producers, has changed practice as a result of Dawkins' research.
The Technical Director (Agriculture) at Gressingham states that `the industry has changed their production protocols in light of Marian's work as they are more aware of the needs of the bird, how to assess welfare, and the wider implications on the environment and food safety.
This has helped Gressingham to deliver transparency and consumer confidence that the products are reared in the best possible way based on peer reviewed science'14.
The willingness of major companies to both acknowledge the importance of Dawkins' research, and to be guided by its conclusions, is evidence of the reach her work has had throughout the UK poultry industry.
