     By the end of the 1990s, the Human Genome Project and associated       large-scale projects were fuelling the expanding worldwide demand for       antibodies that recognised relevant target proteins.
The development of       extensive new methodology for the production and characterisation of       conformationally accurate mammalian proteins, which had evolved during       work on the role of leukocyte cell membranes in immunity, placed Barclay's       group in an ideal situation to establish a pipeline for the large-scale       production of high quality and reliable polyclonal antibodies.
This       commercial opportunity was exploited and has had wide-reaching impacts.
Professor Neil Barclay and Dr Nick Hutchings, assisted by Mr Ravindra       Sapkota and Dr Raju Adhikari (Nepalese graduates from the Department of       Biochemistry at the University of Oxford), developed a business plan to       produce polyclonal antibodies on a high-throughput basis utilising the       combination of competitive production facilities and locally-farmed goats       in Nepal.
A Business Angel provided &#163;350,000 and the spin-out company       Everest Biotech Ltd7 and its Nepalese subsidiary Everest       Biotech Pvt.
Ltd, were successfully launched in 2000.
Hutchings became the       Chief Executive of Everest Biotech Ltd and the Chairman of Everest Biotech       Pvt.
Ltd in 2001.
Antibodies went on sale in 2002 through a variety of       companies including Abcam and Serotec.
More than 6,000 products have now       been produced and marketed with approximately 60 more antibodies being       produced every month.
Everest Biotech Ltd also works in collaboration with       researchers to produce custom made antibodies for individual research       projects and more than 200 custom antibodies have been made in this way.
Importantly, the company also provides technical support to its customers.
In 2005, Everest Biotech Ltd began selling antibodies under its own brand       name to customers in the USA, an event that was facilitated by outsourcing       with LifeScience Logistics8.
Sales grew steadily without       further external investment to reach &#163;0.49M in the year to 31st       May 20089.
Since 2008, Everest Biotech Ltd has become an important commercial       company, not only making a significant contribution to scientific and       medical communities, but also benefiting the small Nepalese community it       sustains through agricultural support and employment.
The success of       Everest Biotech also led Barclay and Hutchings to establish the company       Absolute Antibody in 2012, to provide monoclonal antibodies made by       recombinant DNA technology to the scientific and medical communities10.
Commercial engagement     Everest Biotech Ltd has up to five full-time staff in the UK involved in       product design and distribution with Hutchings as Chief Executive, and 25       Nepalese employed full-time in the antibody production facility at Everest       Biotech Pvt.
Ltd.
The Nepalese subsidiary has been described as one of the       ten key institutional stakeholders in the medical biotechnology sector in       Nepal11.
Everest Biotech has been a major supplier to Abcam       Ltd, one of the most successful UK companies selling antibodies, and       recently began supplying antibodies to Sigma-Aldrich.
Everest Biotech       antibodies are now distributed throughout the world under the Everest       brand via companies such as Abcore (USA), Sanbio       (Netherlands), Funakoshi (Japan) and Sapphire Bioscience (Australia and       New Zealand)12.
This commercial success has also enabled       Everest Biotech to open a branch in California13.
Everest Biotech is now a profitable company with approximately 75% of its       products being exported.
Since 2008, over &#163;7.5 million of Everest Biotech       antibodies have been sold worldwide and turnover in the year to 31 May       2012 exceeded &#163;1 million9.
An important role of Everest Biotech       Pvt.
Ltd is as an export industry, bringing in approximately &#163;250,000 per       annum to Nepal, an economy that is greatly unbalanced towards the import       of goods14.
Community engagement (social, cultural and economic impact)     As the only biotech company in Nepal providing employment within the       poorer rural communities, Everest Biotech Pvt.
Ltd has had an important       social and economic impact on the lives of many Nepalese workers and       farmers.
Everest Biotech Ltd uses several hundred goats per year purchased       from local breeders to make its antibodies.
These goats are then       distributed to approximately 100 individual farmers in the villages around       Kathmandu who are paid a premium for looking after them, a situation akin       to the establishment of a large number of small animal facilities.
One       very important aspect of this support has been that owing to the farmers'       increased income, many children now attend school in these villages rather       than remain at home to help with farm work.
The company also promotes       animal welfare at the village level by providing veterinary care and       vaccines for all goats in the community, including those owned by the       farmers as well as those being used for antibody production14.
The employment of 25 Nepalese staff at Everest Biotech Pvt.
Ltd in       Kathmandu further promotes the local economy.
Many of the staff, after       obtaining excellent training within an industrial setting, progress on to       obtain higher qualifications either in Nepal or overseas.
Additionally,       the company provides expertise to the life science community of Nepalese       universities14.
Furthermore, Everest Biotech Ltd is the major       benefactor to a number of good causes in Nepal such as The Esther       Benjamins Trust15, which is a UK based charity supporting the       rescue of trafficked children in Nepal.
