     Within the Internet control is end-to-end rather than hidden in the       network, and the algorithms concerned had been outstandingly successful,       as the Internet evolved from a small-scale research network to an       interconnection of tens of millions of endpoints and links.
However, by       the turn of the millennium there were several developments that posed       challenges.
The huge capacity of the links being deployed together with       the desire to carry delay-sensitive traffic was causing an evolution       towards a network with much smaller queueing delays, and it was unclear if       end-to-end congestion control would remain feasible in such a network.
And       our demands for reliability and robustness were increasing as the Internet       came to be a critical part of the infrastructure of a modern society and       economy.
The telephony network provided reliability and robustness through       the simultaneous use of parallel paths, but would such a development       compromise the stability of the Internet, much as "route-flap" had in the       Internet's early years?The research of Professor Kelly and his       collaborators provided a mathematical framework that allowed these       challenges to be addressed in systematic and principled manner.
The       framework allowed congestion control and routing algorithms to be       interpreted as a distributed mechanism solving a global optimization       problem.
The form of the optimization problem made explicit the       equilibrium resource allocation policy of the algorithms, which could       often be restated in terms of a fairness criterion.
And the dynamics of       the models allowed the machinery of control theory to be used to study       stability, and to develop algorithms that scale to arbitrary capacities.
The impact on protocol development and on network architectures has been       significant.
Detailed evidence is provided by use of the framework and       acknowledgements of the research papers in section 3 in standardization       documents for protocols (e.g.
[7]), technical reports in companies, and       patent applications (a Google search for "patent" within the more than       four thousand citations of [2] gives over eighty results including over       twenty patents or patent applications).
An indicative summary is given in       [8], and we quote from this paper:     "After a decade of work by many researchers, there is now a substantial       set of theory, algorithms, applications and even commercialization based       on the NUM model of networks."
"An analogy can be drawn with Shannon's seminal work in 1948.
By turning       the focus from the design of finite-block length codes to the regime of       infinite-block length codes, thus enabling the Law of Large Numbers to       take effect, Shannon's work provided architectural principles (e.g.
source-channel-separation) and established fundamental limits (e.g.
channel capacity) in his mathematical theory of communication.
....."A       similar development has happened in networking over the past decade.
By       turning the focus from coupled queuing dynamics to an optimization problem       based on deterministic fluid models, thus enabling the views of       decomposition and distributed control, Kelly's work [1,2] leads to our       current study on architectural principles in networks and a mathematical       foundation for network protocol design."
The comparison with the work of Shannon is clearly an exaggeration, but       the quotation accurately reflects the fundamental change in conceptual       framework from a microscopic queueing view to a macroscopic optimization       view.
A former executive at multinational telecommunications equipment company       Lucent (and then Lucent-Alcatel) states that Kelly's research within the       period "established the global stability and fairness of TCP/IP, the basic       rate control mechanism of the Internet.
It is fair to say that Prof.       Kelly's work established the framework in which almost all subsequent work       concerning these issues was done.
The nature of the impact may be       characterized thus: &#8212; it rendered unnecessary other mechanisms, which       might have had a deleterious effect on the Internet, &#8212; it rendered       unnecessary other research programs, &#8212; it gave confidence to service       providers and users that the Internet would remain stable despite rapid       growth as long as certain conditions were met, and this was essential for       continued investment in the Internet infrastructure".
[13]     A senior Microsoft researcher writes "MultiPath TCP is being standardised       by the IETF, and Kelly's work is one of the fundamental pieces of work       used in its architectural design, particularly with regard to the control       loop.
This has been implemented in the Linux kernel, in FreeBSD and       recently saw its first large scale deployment on September 18th 2013 when       it was part of Apple's IoS7 release &#8212; hence it will be used on 10s of       millions of devices.
For cloud computing, Data Center TCP (DCTCP)       developed by Stanford and Microsoft has been implemented in Linux,       prototyped by Microsoft, and also uses insight from Kelly and Voice [6] to       design the feedback controller."
[14]     In 2008 Kelly was awarded the John von Neumann Theory Prize of INFORMS       for "his profound contributions to the mathematical theory of stochastic       networks, and for applications of these theories to the understanding,       performance evaluation, and design of telecommunications networks"[9].
For       other awards citing the impact of this research see [10].
In 2012       Professor Kelly was elected a Foreign Associate of the National Academy of       Engineering "for contributions to the theory and optimization of       communication networks"[11].
Several of the insights on large scale system behaviour developed in the       study of communication networks transfer to help understand cascading       failures in other large scale systems, such as transport infrastructures       [12].
