     The effect of the Warner-McIntyre (hereafter WM) gravity wave scheme was       carefully considered       by the Met Office during the period in which the desirability of using       `vertically extended' models,       including a detailed representation of the stratosphere, for operational       purposes was established       and a robust, high-quality version of the extended model developed.
Since       2006 the UK Met Office       has used such `vertically extended' models, including the WM gravity-wave       scheme, for operational       purposes, for numerical weather prediction (implemented in 2006), for       seasonal forecasting       (implemented in 2010, Fereday et al 2012) and for climate prediction       simulations used for the 5th       IPCC Assessment report (implemented in 2011, Hardiman et al 2012).
Improvement of Short-Term Weather Prediction and Seasonal Forecasting     On the short time scales of a few days accessible to conventional       numerical weather prediction       extending the model to include the stratosphere, including use of the WM       scheme, provides       significant advantages for data assimilation in the stratospheric levels       of the model.
On longer       seasonal forecast time scales, e.g.
months, the WM scheme gives skill in       prediction of the       evolution of the equatorial Quasi Biennial Oscillation (QBO) which has       significant implications for       the extratropical circulation, including the low-level circulation in the       North Atlantic/European       region.
(Marshall and Scaife 2009).
The advantages of using the extended model for seasonal forecasting are       discussed in detail by       Fereday et al (2012) who show that the severe 2009/10 winter was better       predicted by an       extended version of the Met Office Glosea 4 seasonal forecast system which       included the WM       scheme than by the standard version that was in operational use in that       winter.
Fereday et al       (2012) argue that the better representation of the QBO in the extended       model, for which the WM       scheme is absolutely essential, together with improved representation of       the stratospheric aspects       of the communication of a tropical El Nino signal to the extratropics were       important in giving the       improved prediction.
For the 2010/11 and 2011/12 winters the Met Office       implemented the       vertically extended version of the seasonal forecast system and their       seasonal predictions for       these winters were correct insofar that the correct phase of the North       Atlantic Oscillation pattern       (which has a major controlling effect over UK and European weather) was       predicted.
Seasonal forecasts are passed by the Met Office to UK government       Departments such as the       Cabinet Office, the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC),       Department for Transport       (DfT) and DEFRA where they are used for resilience planning purposes.
Impact on Climate Modelling     The Met Office Hadley Centre currently uses the HadGEM2 family of models       for climate prediction       (Met Office news item 2010).
The vertically extended version of this model       is one of the three       models being used by the Hadley Centre in their contribution to the 5th       Assessment Report of the       Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC).
This contribution is       through the Coupled       Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP5) which is an internationally       coordinated activity to perform       climate model simulations to a common set of specifications across all the       world's major climate       modelling centres.
(Hardiman et al 2012, Met Office news item November       2012).
By comparing simulations with standard and extended versions of the       climate model Hardiman et       al (2012) show that the inclusion of a well-resolved stratosphere does       improve the impact of       atmospheric teleconnections on surface climate, in particular the response       to El Nino-Southern       Oscillation, the quasi-biennial oscillation, and midwinter stratospheric       sudden warmings (i.e., zonal       mean wind reversals in the middle stratosphere).
Thus, including a       well-represented stratosphere       is expected to improve climate simulation on intraseasonal to interannual       time scales.
Scaife et al (2012) show by considering several models, including the Met       Office model, that the       inclusion of a well-resolved stratosphere changes predictions for Northern       Hemisphere winter       regional climate change.
In the models with a well-resolved stratosphere       there is a weakening and       equatorward shift of the stratospheric polar vortex and a corresponding       equatorward shift of the       typical path of tropospheric weather systems.
There are corresponding       differences in the predicted       changes in low-level circulation, storminess and rainfall, with these       differences being particularly       large in western Europe.
Scaife et al (2012) conclude, for example, that       the increase in frequency       under CO2 increase of 1 in 50 daily heavy winter rainfall events in       western Europe (10 W-20 E       and 40-55 N) is predicted, by the extended Met Office model to be twice as       great as predicted by       the standard model.
Detailed representation of the stratosphere and the       associated implementation       of the WM scheme has, therefore, had a first order impact on European       climate projections.
Participation in the IPCC as described above is the primary way in which       the UK contributes to       formulation of international policy on climate change and the WM scheme is       an important       component of the model used for these projections.
The Met Office is also       the primary source of       climate information to UK government to advise on national policy       formulation.
For example, Met       Office climate predictions are provided to the UK Climate Projections       database.
The WM scheme is regarded by the Met Office as an essential component of       this extended model.
The Head of Monthly to Decadal Prediction at the Met Office Hadley Centre       states, "The Met Office         regards the Warner-McIntyre gravity-wave parametrization as an essential         part of the improved         representation of the stratosphere in weather and climate prediction         models which has given direct         benefits for seasonal forecasting and climate prediction."
