     The public impact of the exhibition was immense both in Spain and France       and was registered by       the high attendance figures &#8212; much higher than anticipated &#8212; and by       reviewers in virtually the       entire spectrum of the Spanish and French press.
The exhibition provoked a       good deal of       discussion both about the relevance of the old masters, in this case       Raphael, to modern life; and       this was particularly pronounced in the religious press since Raphael is       one of the most strongly       influential of all painters of Christian themes.
The exhibition also       attracted the attention of the       international press (e.g.
The Financial Times (20 Oct 2012), The Wall       Street Journal (23 Jun 2012)       and the New York Review of Books (13 Jan 2013)) and the professional press       (e.g.
The Burlington       Magazine, Vol.
CLIV, Nov 2012, pp.
811-813 and Apollo: D. Ekserdjian,       'Raphael Revised', August       2012, pp.
109-11).
In Madrid the exhibition was accompanied by a two-day conference, held in       June 2012, at which       papers were given by a group of international scholars; it was attended by       a wide public and       considerable discussion ensued.
Professor Joannides was also asked to a       give talk: Afterthoughts       on the Late Raphael Exhibition to the National Gallery's research seminar       on 28th January, 2013.
With the general public, the exhibition was extremely successful: the       total number of visitors who       saw the exhibition in Madrid between 12 June and 16 September totalled       just over 307,095, that is       3,031 visitors per day, about 41 % of the daily total of visitors to the       Prado.
The economic       consequences for the Prado are not easy to calculate, because the Museum's       policy is not       separately to price exhibition-admission but to open exhibitions to all       visitors who pay for general       entrance.
However, the Prado's exhibition service has calculated that 80%       of the visitors to Late       Raphael came to the Prado specifically to see it; that is about 33% of the       daily total of visitors to       the Prado as a whole would not have come there had the exhibition not been       on.
Thus the Prado's       income from entrance charges was raised by about 50% during the period of       the exhibition.
The       English and Spanish editions of the catalogue were reprinted during the       run in Madrid and       according to the Prado, some 9,000 copies were sold, 5,500 from the first       printing and 3,500 from       the second.
The daily attendance at the Louvre during the exhibition's run was rather       higher, averaging 4,317,       one of the highest on record and exceeding by several hundred visitors per       day the numbers       reached by the recent exhibition devoted to Leonardo da Vinci's St         Anne and surpassing the       projected total by 20%.
The final total of visitors was 358,000.
By the 25th       November, 6,304 copies       of the catalogue (priced at 35 euros paperback and 45 euros hardback) had       been sold.
An       introductory album was published to coincide with the exhibition and this       sold 16,284 copies.
One of the items in the exhibition, but shown only in the Prado, an       auxiliary cartoon of a head for       the Transfiguration, was sold on December 7th 2012 by       the Trustees of the Chatsworth Settlement       and made over 30 million pounds, a world record price for an Old Master       drawing.
The exhibition       catalogue and other publications by Professor Joannides were quoted       extensively in the sale       catalogue and thus did contribute to one significant economic consequence,       even if this was       unforeseen and unintended     The exhibition also had the knock-on effect in the Louvre of inspiring a       small parallel exhibition       devoted to later paintings and drawings by Giulio Romano in the Museum's       collection, which was       mounted specifically to complement our exhibition and by a second       exhibition, which also ran       concurrently, devoted to Gian Francesco's Penni's younger brother Luca.
There was also a       subsidiary exhibition in the Narodni Museum in Warsaw, at which the       version of Gianfrancesco       Penni's Holy Family with St Catherine privately owned in the United States       was exhibited beside       Warsaw's version of the painting, which could not be included in the       Madrid-Paris exhibition.
A       well-researched wall-display, making use of new technical information, was       created by the curators       at Warsaw, and Professor Joannides and Professor Jozef Grabski, one of the       leading Polish Art       Historians, were invited to speak about the relation between the two at       the Narodni Museum on 4th       February 2013.
The confrontation between the two paintings was effectively       publicised by the       Museum and the talk was very well-attended.
