     Research output has led to improvements of assessment of language       learning (through language       test development and validation) and informing of teaching materials.
Given that the project is set       up in cooperation with Cambridge Assessment and Cambridge University       Press, impact is       worldwide, including students taking exams, teachers preparing the       students for their exams, and       more generally, teachers of English.
Exam candidature has grown from 2       million in 2007 to over 4       million in 2013; something that Cambridge Assessment feel is partly       attributable to the cooperation       in the EPP project with researchers in DTAL [1].
Also, accreditation of       the Cambridge suite of       exams has been helped as the qualities of the tests can be better       communicated to agencies such       as OFQUAL, UKBS and equivalent overseas agencies such as DIAC in Australia       and CIC in       Canada based on the research by DTAL.
Impact of the project can also be measured through the participation in       the EPP network events       and the use of the EPP website.
Both were set up to promote increased       engagement of       stakeholders (governments, teachers, language learners) with the research       projects.
The website       informs of future and recent network events, has a link to the Cambridge       Learner Corpus, but also       provides useful resources for researchers, teachers, testers, ministries       of education and other       English Profile network partners.
Visits on the website show active       collaboration with practitioners.
Resources include, amongst others, the English Vocabulary Profile       and the Guide to the CEFR for         English Language Teachers [2].
The former can be used by teachers,       exam writers, materials       developers and researchers to identify the words or phrases a learner can       be expected to know at       each level; to view words and phrases within a specific topic area; and to       search for additional       aspects of language, such as which uncountable nouns learners can be       expected to know at A1,       which verbs are frequently used in the passive at B2 and which words are       used in which registers       at different levels.
The Vocabulary Profile is accompanied by webinars by       the author (Annette       Capel).
The latter clarifies to teachers how the CEFR can be useful to       them in terms of seeing what       learners need to work on to attain a certain level; of creating their own       assessment grids; and       working out curriculum plans.
The website has been up and running since       approximately August       2008 and gets 1500-2000 visits per week.
Since January 2010 there have       been 138,928 unique       visitors with 33,249 unique visitors since January 1 2013, of whom 70% are       new and 30% are       returning visitors.
2028Furthermore, currently 2496 people subscribed to       the EPP newsletter, and       11,000 are registered users of English Vocabulary Profile.
An ever-growing number of government advisors and educationists make up the     English Profile     Network.
Included in the non-academic collaborators are the     Bosnia-Herzegovina Ministry of     Education, Vietnamese National Institute for Educational Strategy, and the     Bahrain's Bahraini     Petroleum Company.
Regular network meetings are held (twice per year) in     which stakeholders     are invited to be updated on the research, and interact with researchers on     the application of     results for their specific needs (for example, teaching plans, national     curricula development,     assessment and exam planning).
Some of the stakeholders also participate as     data collaborators     to create a new database, the Cambridge English Profile Corpus.
That     is, schools (mostly     secondary), language schools and universities provide data for the database.
The schools are     spread all over the world (Croatia, Argentina, Austria, the Netherlands,     France, Russia, Vietnam),     and have benefits when they participate.
For example, they 1) gain on-line     access to a subset of     the English Profile Dataset (including the contributor's own data) in an     accessible and easily     searchable format.
This can help the teachers understand their own students'     needs better, and to     develop teaching materials catering for their needs.
For example, if they     have been concentrating     on the teaching of particular forms, they can measure how successful their     teaching was (using the     database), and if they find in the data that some forms are not actually     acquired, they can adjust     their teaching program accordingly.
Presentations on how to use the database     in the classroom for     other purposes (show students examples of words with multiple meanings,     collocations, etc.)
are     also available.
2) They receive free tickets to English Profile network     workshops, which will further     include training relevant to teachers, such as how to rate a student's work     by CEFR level, and free     access to the eBook versions of John Trim and Jan van Ek's Council of Europe     volumes (the T-series:     Waystage, Threshold and Vantage).
3) Schools finally also     receive a 'certificate of     participation', and listing of the school's name, with thanks, on the     website's corpus       collection       participants page, thereby potentially improving / strengthening their     profile.
Interest from language schools is also evident.
EF Education First is one       of the largest international       education organisations in the world, with 400 offices and language       schools, exchange       programmes, and degree courses in over 50 countries world-wide.
They teach       students and       professionals.
EF Education First has funded a large research project in       the Research Centre for       English and Applied Linguistics, now DTAL (launch February 2010) and is       now using 'big data'       from a corpus jointly designed by EF Education First and the funded EF       Research Unit at DTAL to       further the understanding of criterial features related to CEFR language       stages of fluency.
This       understanding of course also leads to improved learner directed teaching.
EF Education First has       furthermore aligned all their teaching with the CEFR, collaborating with       framers of the EPP to do       so.
Recently (linked to their 20th anniversary teaching in       China), it has also started to engage       press, teachers and parents in issues regarding the best age to teach /       learn a second language       [3, 4, 5, 6], and the best ways to motivate learners.
Work within the EF       Research Unit feeds back       directly into those issues, and the teaching material and assessment of       language students' work       [7].
