     The research undertaken on labour markets and the detailed studies of the       local labour market of Port Elizabeth was, through the support of British       Council funding, used to develop a set of development programmes for job       seekers, a programme of support for employers and briefings for Trade       Unions, NGOs and policy makers.
Development for job seekers       The main focus of activities was delivering development workshops to       unemployed job seekers in the most disadvantaged areas, seeking to equip       participants with job search, employability and entrepreneurial skills and       enabling the job seekers to more effectively align themselves with the       needs of employers.
Development programmes were delivered by local NGOs       working in close collaboration with Brookes for the development of the       content.
To address the supply-side failures identified in the research,       the development programmes included a focus upon employer expectations,       self-esteem, ethics in the workplace and alignment to employers' needs.
The unemployed were supported to access the skills necessary to gain       permanent employment, self- employment or further development.
On       completion of the workshop programme evaluation showed that each       individual had an awareness of the institutional help available, the       skills and understanding required to gain employment and an understanding       of how to retain a job and develop a thriving career.
The development workshops started in 2009 following British Council       funding for a pilot project.
In the four years since over 3,000 unemployed       people have graduated from these workshops (1).
An independent evaluation       found that over 80% of participants had progressed within 3 months either       to employment, officially accredited training or had started their own       business enterprise (2).
The workshops were delivered to people from the       most disadvantaged districts where unemployment rates were on average       between 70 and 75% with around 20-25% being unemployed for more than 5       years.
The evaluation found 53% of participants had never had a job and       25% had only held temporary posts.
The programme was successful in       reaching a large number of people who had very little prospect of finding       a job without support.
A major element of the development programme focused upon advancing any       employment opportunity into a career with an upward progression; hence the       quality of the jobs was better than would have been expected in the       absence of this intervention.
The successes of the project have been       widely publicised.
In addition to the final report for the British Council       (3), articles have appeared in the press in South Africa (4) and the       project was selected as one of 5 out of 72 for a promotional brochure,       produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (5) to       showcase the impact of the Education Partnerships Africa funding       initiative.
Supporting employers to recruit and retain       Prior research indicated a failure by employers, both large and small, to       respond to problems in the recruitment and retention of those previously       unemployed.
In response to these issues the project fostered close links       with 35 local employers, and worked with them to improve their policies in       these areas, and sought new links with other local employers.
As a result,       employers have frequently refined their recruitment and selection       procedures in accordance with our guidance.
Independent evaluation of the       programme, using a sample of 12 of these 35 employers, confirmed that all       now recruit staff directly from the development workshops and, as a       result, have seen an improvement in the quality of their recruited       employees (2).
In addition this evaluation also found that two nationwide       retailers Shoprite/Checkers (6)), Mr Price (7) as well as a       multinational fast food chain (KFC) (8), have all integrated the guidance       emanating from the project into their recruitment and selection procedures       and regularly use the pool of job seekers resulting from the development       programme as their first point of call when looking to fill their       vacancies.
Influencing trade unions, NGOs, civil society and policy     Given the key role of trade unions in improving the functioning of the     labour market, the project involved working closely with the National Union     of Metalworkers in South Africa, the National Health and Allied Workers'     Union, and the South African Democratic Teachers' Union, through the     provision of specialist development for their workplace representatives.
This resulted in a significant improvement in the effectiveness of these     representatives and there has been a positive impact upon both employers and     their employees (2; 9, 10).
The work undertaken with the unions in     collaboration with NMMU formed the basis for the partnership used by the     provincial government of the Eastern Cape to support their Provincial       Growth and Development Plan (itself funded as part of the 30 million     euro EU funded Thina Sinako project to support a programme of local economic     development within South Africa).
This provincial plan directly responded to     our research findings which highlighted the constraints that arose from a     lack of coordination within labour markets in South Africa generally and     specifically in Port Elizabeth and the rest of the Eastern Cape.
This     research, combined with the experiences gained from the earlier     partnerships, ensured that the focus of the plan was to support local     economic development through local sustainable partnerships between     educational institutions, community groups, local employers, trade unions as     well as local government.
The progress of these development programmes has generated considerable       interest among local NGOs and policy makers within Port Elizabeth and the       Eastern Cape.
Middlesex University hosted two well attended conferences in       Port Elizabeth (2010, 2011), to disseminate research findings and       encourage other organisations to participate as training providers in       delivering the employability workshops.
The success of the conferences       provided the basis to roll-out this programme nationally, with a target of       putting in place 72 training providers nationwide by the end of 2015.
By       September 2013, 10 new development centres had been opened up in       partnership with community organisations and NGOs who are delivering the       workshop programme to job seekers in their local community.
This programme       roll-out will extend the reach of impact not only to the unemployed in the       communities where the development centres are located, but also through       building the capacity of the providers to expand the scope of their       operations and meet their community objectives more effectively.
