     The Bangor marine turbulence research allowed a fundamental validation       and improved representation of vertical exchange processes in numerical       models of shelf seas.
Through close collaboration with numerical modellers       Burchard and Bolding, the results were incorporated into the General Ocean       Turbulence Model (GOTM), the vertical exchange scheme used within       the main UK and international-community oceanographic models including       GETM (General Estuarine Transport Model), POLCOMS (Proudman Oceanography       Lab Community Ocean Model), FVCOM (Finite Volume Coastal Ocean Model),       SHYFEM (Shallow Water Hydrodynamic Finite Element Model) and NEMO (Nucleus       for European Modelling of the Ocean).
By providing the essential test bed       for model validation, the Bangor research allowed for the first time       accurate representation of mixing processes in shelf-sea models, resulting       in significant improvements to their capacity to provide predictions for       specific policy and ocean management decisions [1].
Through the numerous applications of these models, and the ADCP       turbulence measurement techniques, this research has had direct impacts on       policy formulation, European law enforcement, off-shore renewable energy       development and the sustainable exploitation of shelf sea environments, as       evidenced by the examples provided below.
1.
Economic impacts of novel Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler         applications in marine renewables industry developments     The application of ADCPs to measure turbulence, as pioneered by Rippeth       et al., has been applied widely in marine infrastructure programmes and in       particular the development of tidal energy projects, including the       world's largest tidal array (2011) currently being built in Scotland (total         cost &#163;40M).
The turbulence data collected using the Bangor method       fed directly into the Environmental Impact Assessment on the effect of the       current turbines on the environment &#8212;; crucial in the authorisation of the       project [9].
The techniques are further applied by environmental survey       companies to select the optimum position for tidal energy devices for       maximised power output and minimised risk [3, 4], providing direct       economic benefits to these companies whilst helping reduce costs       for the tidal energy industry.
For example the technique reported in (vii)       directly facilitates commercial surveys by Titan Environmental Surveys       Ltd, contributing significantly to its &#163;3M turnover and employment of 37       FTE members of staff [3].
Additionally, the research (ii, iv) directly       enables Partrac, one of the largest UK marine survey companies,       commissioned by (amongst others) Scottish Power Renewables, to regularly       collect water column turbulence data for commercial projects of &#163;150-350k       in value [4].
Additionally, the techniques were deployed for understanding       the distribution of matter in the ocean for Charting Progress 2; the         improved UK framework for advances towards clean, healthy, safe,         productive and biologically diverse oceans and seas [8], which       "provides a solid foundation for policy-makers to make the strategic and       far reaching decisions needed to meet our legislative obligations and to       protect our marine resources".
The report highlights how this work       facilitated a "major advance" and "has provided previously unavailable       information on how SPM (suspended particulate matter) responds to physical       processes and new data on the reasons for variations in turbidity in UK       shelf waters" [8].
2.
Economic and policy impacts through applications of the General         Ocean Turbulence Model and General Estuarine Transport Model to public         services     Models incorporating the GOTM vertical exchange scheme have been used for       a variety of applications across Europe.
These include environmental       impact assessments for power plants, predictions for the sustainable       management of shelf seas and short-term forecast and warning systems.
In the UK, GETM is used, for example, by the UK Nuclear Inspectorate       for modelling thermal plumes in shallow water and has contributed to a       decision on permissions to build new marine infrastructure with a value of       &#163;10Bn [5].
Within the Defra centre, Cefas, GETM is central to the coupled       physical-biogeochemical model used to estimate carbon and nutrient flows       in shelf seas [5].
This has been instrumental in tracking the distribution       of plankton as part of the Marine Ecosystems Connections programme, which       provides essential indicators of healthy, productive and       biologically-diverse European shelf seas for compliance with international       targets for reducing rate of biodiversity loss in ecosystems susceptible       to change.
Moreover GETM predictions have been used to define       ecohydrodynamic regions in UK shelf seas that underpin the application of       the UK Government Marine Strategy Framework Directive [5].
POLCOMS       has, for example, been used to develop short-term storm flood warning         systems as part of the 2008-2011 EU Program Mi-Core.
The Danish Defence Centre for Operational Oceanography (DCOO) applies       GETM for its ocean forecasts around Denmark which, for example, play a       crucial role in search and rescue activities, daily sailing forecasts and       ice forecast warnings [7].
In Germany, GETM has, for example, been used to       assess the impact of cooling plumes from new coal-fired power stations.
GETM predictions were used by German government regulatory authorities to       require alterations in cooling water discharge plans and to estimate the       potential nature and fisheries compensations.
Many other examples of       applications of GETM, including direct referencing to research by Simpson       et al.
at Bangor, can be found on the GETM website [6].
3.
Impact on second generation ocean model applications     The vertical exchange algorithms originally tested and implemented into       GOTM (i), have now been applied to the development of new models.
Although       the new models are superior in computing architecture and power, the       turbulence parameterisations underpinned by the Bangor measurements remain       central to them.
In NEMO, GOTM was superseded by a generic length scale       model (GLS) in 2010, and it is used by the UK Met Office for their       short-range ocean and climate forecasting and to provide the daily coastal       seas and ecosystem forecasts.
According to the Lead Scientist in the Ocean       Modelling group at the Met Office, GOTM is regarded as "the absolute gold       standard in turbulence modelling" [2].
