     Public outreach and education: Astronomy's           New Messengers     In 2009 the Education and Public Outreach Group of the LSC was awarded       $950,000 by the US National Science Foundation for a project called       Astronomy's New Messengers.
Hendry was co-Principal Investigator and the       only PI from Europe, working with colleagues from Columbia, Florida,       Michigan and Mississippi.
The team successfully designed and built a       20-metre2touring exhibition on gravitational-wave astronomy,       which premiered at the 2009 World Science Festival in New York, together       with a 100-metre2 version that subsequently premiered at the       2010 World Science Festival.
The exhibits combined state-of-the-art       multimedia, a working table-top Michelson interferometer and Black Hole       Hunter: a `Citizen Science'-style interactive computer game.
The larger       exhibit also featured an innovative, interactive light sculpture &#8212; created       by the award-winning New York lighting designer Leni Schwendinger &#8212; that       represented the signals from different types of gravitational wave       sources.
These combined elements aimed to engage informal learners,       conveying the enormous scientific potential of opening a new window on the       Universe, together with the huge technological challenges addressed by       gravitational wave astronomy.
Hendry was responsible for the initial       design concept for the National Science Foundation exhibit and for key       aspects of its construction.
Drawing directly upon his cosmology and       gravitational astrophysics research expertise, and IGR's experience in       building "Can you hear black holes?"
for the 2008 Royal Society       Exhibition, Hendry wrote text for the exhibition panels (including       material on the Big Bang and the scale of the cosmos), assisted with       designing the table-top Michelson interferometer, edited and installed the       Black Hole Hunter game and helped design the multimedia displays.
He also       established the partnership with Leni Schwendinger.
The gravitational-wave astronomy exhibition (both 20-metre2       and 100-metre2 versions) has been displayed in over 20       locations across 15 US states to date.
In addition to the World Science       Festivals in New York, they featured in the 2010 and 2012 US National       Science and Engineering Expos in Washington DC.
Total participation at       each World Science Festival and each National Science and Engineering Expo       was estimated by their organisers at 150,000 and 500,000 respectively -       indicating the scale of the events in which the exhibits have been       showcased.
Exact numbers of visitors to our exhibit have not been recorded       at every venue.
For example at the US National Science and Engineering       Expos our exhibit was part of an open-plan exhibition space on the       National Mall (2010) and the Washington Convention Center (2012).
At the       2010 World Science Festival in New York, however, the large exhibit was       displayed at its own venue on Wall St where exact audience figures could       be recorded.
It was visited by nearly 6,000 people.
The touring exhibit       was estimated to have been seen by around 40,000 people at the Adler       Planetarium (Chicago) in 2009, when it was located in the entrance foyer       of the Planetarium.
A parallel version of the exhibit has also been       displayed at venues in the UK, including at the 2012 Gravity Fields       Festival in Grantham (where Hendry was interviewed by 'The Material World'       on Radio 4) and most recently at the flagship BBC Scotland event for 2013       Stargazing Live at Glasgow's Botanical Gardens, attended by 4,500 people.
The aim of Astronomy's New Messengers was to engage adolescents and young       adults, increasing their interest in, and understanding of,       gravitational-wave astronomy and LIGO science.
The effectiveness of the       exhibits was evaluated via visitor surveys designed by the Center for       Educational Research and Evaluation at the University of Mississippi.
Key       results include:            80% of respondents indicated that the touring exhibit had helped them         understand LIGO;       Over 70% of respondents indicated that the touring exhibit had         increased their interest in science, while 89% indicated that the large         exhibit had increased their interest in science.
A new physics curriculum in Scottish schools     Combined with the IGR's world-leading reputation in gravitational       physics, Hendry's international research reputation in cosmology has       positioned the University of Glasgow as a key consultant for the       development of the Physics syllabus for the Curriculum for Excellence in       Scotland.
This role was formalised in 2010 when Hendry was invited by the       Royal Society of Edinburgh to join the Physics Qualifications Design Team       and the Mathematics Excellence Group - a strategic advisory group set up       by the Cabinet Secretary.
Through this membership, Hendry has:            Provided technical advice and scientific oversight for the creation of         new astrophysics, cosmology and relativity content for the revised         Higher and Advanced Higher Physics courses.
Topics now featured in the         syllabus include: the Big Bang, Hubble expansion and the CMBR; evidence         for dark matter and dark energy; stellar evolution; special and general         relativity.
Hendry has provided CPD sessions for teachers and edited         teacher support materials commissioned by Education Scotland;       Overseen the introduction of a new 20-hour module on 'Researching         Physics' for the Higher, which aims to showcase cutting-edge physics         research in Scotland via direct pupil participation in open-ended         investigation.
Hendry played a key role in developing an exemplar &#8212; on         gravitational astrophysics and extra-solar planets &#8212; for this module,         which has been very successful.
Over the next three years, the revised Curriculum for Excellence Higher       and Advanced Higher syllabus will be adopted by all Scottish schools.
In       2012 and 2013 the first 'early adopter' schools presented pupils for the       revised Higher and Advanced Higher respectively.
The impact of the new       courses has been evaluated by the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA)       as significant, both in terms of pupil engagement and examination results.
In 2012 the revised Higher Physics pass rate was 4% above that for the       non-revised Higher.
The SQA Qualifications Manager confirmed that these       results exceeded their expectations "even allowing for the history of high       achievement in many of the centres presenting for the revised Higher       Physics course" and stated that "the curriculum support Professor Martin       Hendry and colleagues has given to schools has played a significant role       in this outcome".
Furthermore he reported that during the 2011-12 and       2012-13 sessions "feedback from the early adopter schools indicates that       the engagement by pupils with the cosmology and astrophysics content of       the revised courses for Higher and Advanced Higher Physics has been very       positive".
