     Significance and reach: Professor McAuslan sets the       standard for land law in areas such as customary tenure, women's access to       land and resettlement.
He converts his research into practical guidance,       policy advice, or actual legislation via his many consultancies for the       World Bank, the UN and others.
This case study focuses on a few       representative assignments but McAuslan's reach extends beyond those.
During 2008-1013 he also advised on, and drafted new legislation for       Albania, Maldives, Somaliland, Cambodia, Ghana and Bangladesh.
Impact on land law legislation: Tanzania, Kenya, Laos       McAuslan's Tanzanian land laws (3.4) were established as a benchmark for       good practice in lawmaking for customary land rights by the FAO's       Development Law Service in a 2010 review of best practices in legislation       (see 5.5).
It commended the laws as "good examples for future laws in       other nations" specifically for governance issues (pg.
224); and for       safeguards against discrimination/abuses of power (pp.
225-6).
Significant parts from the Tanzanian Land Act can be found unchanged in       the Kenyan Land Act 2012, demonstrating that although he had no personal       involvement in the land reform process in Kenya, McAuslan's principles and       approach were influential.
McAuslan discussed his experiences of drafting Tanzania's forestry       legislation in 2002 at a conference in 2009, which led directly to his       appointment in 2012 as a UNDP-funded policy and law advisor to the       President of the Economic Planning and Finance Committee of the Laos       National Assembly.
McAuslan's role was to support the President of the       Committee in making amendments to the national land policy then being       drafted by the government, about which she had significant concerns.
McAuslan's intervention was successful in preventing further progress with       that draft; and (drawing once again on the principles framework published       in 3.1 and 3.2) he prescribed how to strengthen and improve future drafts       (see 5.4).
Impact on development policy       McAuslan's research on customary land tenure (3.3, 3.4) has had a       significant influence on development policy, establishing that the       importance of customary land tenure must be recognised, as must the need       to accept the plurality of legal systems in many parts of the world (see       5.8, 5.1).
5.1 comments that McAuslan directly influenced the drafting of       several sections of the FAO's Voluntary Guidelines on Land Tenure (2012)       which he advises are now considered among the most important international       statements on land governance.
McAuslan's views on decentralisation and his FAO proposals (3.1) inform       the land reform policies in an important 2013 report by key stakeholders,       produced to spearhead the preparation and implementation of the framework       and guidelines of land policy for Africa.
(See 5.9, the authors of which       are the FAO; the Land Policy Institute of the African Union Commission;       the UN Economic Commission for Africa; and the African Development Bank.)
Impact on policy and practices relating to resettlement &#8212;           Afghanistan       McAuslan's research (especially 3.1) was instrumental in the World Bank's       decision to devise and impose regulatory impact assessments and action       plans as necessary conditions for receipt of World Bank funds for projects       involving resettlement.
In 2007 the World Bank asked McAuslan for his opinion on Afghanistan's       legal framework on land acquisition and resettlement required for proposed       WB-funded infrastructure projects.
This led in 2010 to its request for       McAuslan to advise the Afghan Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW) on       resettlement practices.
Subsequently, he drafted a Resettlement Policy       Framework (RPF) for the MEW's submission to the World Bank for a $140m       project to repair and expand small scale water and irrigation works in       Afghanistan.
This RPF was approved by World Bank and is now used to       determine compensation for locals.
McAuslan has drafted further RPFs for       the Ministry of Mines (mining development project) and again for MEW       (major transnational electricity transmission project stretching from       Kyrgyzstan to Pakistan).
These RPFs have been used by those Ministries to       prepare action plans to required World Bank standards (see 5.3).
Not only have these RPFs enabled the Afghan government to fulfil the       conditions for World Bank funding for those projects, but the RPFs       themselves have helped build expertise and good practice amongst       Afghanistan officials involved in land acquisition with respect to       compensation for displaced locals.
Other work in Afghanistan met with some resistance to change the status       quo.
For example, McAuslan's work to review Land Acquisition Law and Land       Management Law for the Afghanistan Land Authority (AZARI) was accepted by       the World Bank, but met with local resistance.
However, AZARI's continued       use of his expertise suggests that opportunities for influence persist,       and 5.2 can confirm McAuslan's recent and ongoing engagement with the       Afghan government, advising it on revisions to its Land Acquisition law.
McAuslan's contribution during the impact period laid the groundwork by       presenting model solutions and effecting debate amongst stakeholders on       actions which might be implemented at a more conducive time.
Impact on women's access to land       McAuslan's research on women's access to land (3.5) was the basis for a       key checklist in a FAO guide (5.7) on how to ensure gender-equitable legal       drafting.
The FAO guide was the first in a series of technical guides on       governance of tenure, to provide advice on "mechanisms, strategies and       actions that can be adopted to improve gender equity in the processes,       institutions and activities of land tenure governance".
McAuslan's       research was also the source of information on the disadvantages of appeal       mechanisms involving courts or tribunals (pg.
35); and of the principle       adopted by the guide that land and family law should be reformed together       (pg.
29).
