     The significance of Moran's work is that it has contributed to promoting       attitude change in relation to sexual diversity in the legal profession.
Attitudes to diversity, and diversity itself had both suffered enduring       effects from the criminalisation (until 1967) of consensual same sex       relations.
Until 1991 it was the Lord Chancellor's policy to appoint only       married people to the judiciary, to avoid potential scandal arising from       the appointment of homosexuals.
Consequently, the private lives of       barristers eligible for judicial appointment used to be vigorously vetted;       and (as shown by the results of a 2009 Law Society survey of LGB       solicitors) such practices and attitudes are still remembered by those who       have been in the legal profession for 30-40 years.
Moran has both promoted       the need to incorporate sexual diversity in all aspects of the legal       profession, and stimulated changes in practices of monitoring and       publishing data on diversity.
Impact on Judicial Appointments Committee (JAC)     Moran contacted the JAC after the 2009 publication of the JAC's first Barriers         to Judicial Appointment research, suggesting he re-run the research       to survey the `missing' voices of legal practitioners who identified       themselves as LGBT about their perceptions of barriers to applying for       judicial roles.
Moran published this research as 3.4, and subsequently       discussed JAC's approach to gathering diversity data with its Chairman Sir       Christopher Stephens.
The impact of Moran's research was to lead JAC to:     a) Widen its definition of diversity to include sexual orientation.
JAC       states that it gives diversity significant priority, but until Moran's       research had only analysed and reported on the diversity of selections for       judicial appointment by gender and ethnicity (source: JAC evidence to       select committee pg.
356, see 5.5 below).
b) Introduce sexual orientation as a category of demographic data       collected during the applications process.
From autumn 2011, JAC has       monitored the sexual orientation of candidates, to facilitate the       statutory goal of ensuring diversity in the pool of eligible candidates       and promote awareness of the composition of those newly appointed to the       judiciary.
JAC made this policy announcement at the launch of 3.4,       directly crediting the report with influencing JAC's decision (see 5.7       below).
c) Work more closely with LGBT groups to improve the perception of JAC       appointments process.
CEO of JAC agreed to work more closely with Interlaw       to achieve its outreach goals [source: foreword to 3.4; example of       outreach event held on 21 Sept 2011 (see 5.8)]     Moran's continued involvement in JAC activities suggests he has succeeded       in permanently changing policy.
In April 2013 he was invited by the Chief       Executive and Assistant Director to advise how JAC should implement new       "tipping point" provisions in the Crime and Courts Act 2013 that promote       the appointment of a candidate from an under represented group where       otherwise two candidates are of equal merit.
Impact on Lords Select Committee on Judicial Appointments Process     Moran submitted a copy of 3.4 and written evidence (as part of two       different respondent groups) to this select committee in 2011 (pp.
186-195; pp.
309-314, see 5.5).
He recommended measures which could be       easily incorporated to have a positive impact on judicial diversity,       specifically a requirement for diverse shortlists for all judicial       appointments; and the better collection of statistical information       (including sexual orientation).
Moran's evidence also emphasised that       diversity in the judiciary leads to better decision-making; and criticised       the JAC assumption that diversification of entry level positions would       eventually lead to diversity at upper levels of the judiciary, as       inadequate because of the length of time (20-30 years) that it would take       for such "trickle up" effects to take effect.
Certain conclusions         of the Select Committee (in its report for the House of Lords       published March 2012, see 5.6) aligned with Moran's evidence which suggest       it at least provided support for the committee's views, or may have       influenced them more strongly.
Those conclusions were:             a more diverse judiciary would not undermine the quality of judges;        judicial diversity needs to be increased to increase public trust and         confidence in the judiciary, and current measures are not sufficient;         and        there has not been sufficient commitment to removing barriers to         applications from under- represented groups.
Impact on the judiciary     Moran utilised his membership of the Equal Justices Initiative, to       discuss 3.4 and 3.5:             with the Chief Executive of the Supreme Court in October 2010 with         respect to the Supreme Court appointments review; and        with the Chair of the Tribunals Judicial Diversity Group in March         2011.
Moran's research on judicial portraits, and the mention or representation       of sexual orientation has stimulated debate and led to two specific       impacts on judicial image making.
a) [text removed for publication]     b) Following a blog co-authored by Professor Moran and Professor Villez,       `YouTube justice UK style' the UK Supreme Court changed the editing       of its YouTube videos of judges delivering summaries of their judgments.
Drawing upon his research on visual culture and judicial images (3.1)       Moran's blog criticised the videos as little more than `primitive       television' that would fail to attract a public that lives in a culture       saturated with sophisticated video imagery.
Ben Wilson, Head of       Communications at UKSC credited the blog as the trigger for specific       editorial changes to address that criticism, these being the use of a       wider range of shots and different camera angles which change the visual       dynamic of image (see 5.4).
Impact on the Law Society     Professor Moran provided advice and support (5.1) to the Law Society for       its 2009 survey of LGB solicitors, leading the society to develop its `Careers         Barriers Action plan', and to start collecting and publishing data       on the sexual diversity of the legal profession.
Moran's research       contributed to Law Society's policy on widening diversity, with consequent       impacts on the support it offers to both member firms and individual       members.
Two specific examples identified by the Law Society (see 5.1 and       5.3) are that Moran's research informed the advice it gives to firms on       how to meet their new regulatory obligations to collect and publish data       on sexual orientation; and also helped the Law Society improve the fit of       its offering to individual members in relation to the development of       diversity training.
Moran has presented his research several times at the       Law Society (e.g.
giving the 9th Stonewall Lecture in June 2010       to over 120 delegates) and to the Law Society's Equality and Diversity       Committee.
The latter led to his invitation to join the Law Society's       strategic LGB steering group.
Moran was a member 2007-2013, during which       he played a key role in recommending initiatives to support the Law       Society's delivery of its Equality and Diversity vision and strategy (see       5.1).
Moran also utilised the Law Society's magazine Solutions, as a       channel to a wider practitioner audience, by summarising his findings (of       3.5) and recommendations for reform of the judicial appointments process       in an article "Diversity Challenge" in October 2010 (see 5.9).
