     Wills' research has played a crucial role in persuading 400 accredited       employers to support the living wage campaign and ensuring that up to       45,000 workers across the UK are paid a living wage.
Her research has       provided intelligence highlighting the growth, extent and impact of       low-paying employment in London; evidence outlining the business case for       the living wage in London, which has played a key role in persuading       employers to support the campaign; support for the new Living Wage         Foundation; calculations of the impact of the living wage campaign       across the UK; and arguments to support the promotion of the living wage       as a public policy response to the growing problem of in-work poverty in       the UK and beyond.
i.
Intelligence underpinning the campaign for the living wage       The first wave of London Citizens' living wage campaign was underpinned by       Mapping Low Pay (2001).
The research provided London Citizens with       evidence about the dynamics of low pay and the potential impact of the       living wage on office cleaners at Canary Wharf and hospital workers in       east London.
The subsequent campaign secured increased wages for an       estimated 4,000 cleaning and catering workers by 2005.
A more in-depth       account of the London labour market was provided by Global Cities at         Work (2005-07), and the data collected extended the focus of the       campaign towards higher education, local authorities and the hospitality       sector.
ii.
Establishing the business case for the living wage       The data collected for Global Cities at Work was used by Wills and       London Citizens to make the case for the living wage at QMUL.
Since 2008,       more than 200 cleaners have moved back in-house, gaining increased wages,       holiday entitlement, access to sick pay and a pension.
This case was       documented in The Business Case for the Living Wage: the story of the         cleaning service at Queen Mary and London Citizens used this report       to campaign for other HEIs to become living wage employers.
As a result,       almost all HEIs in London now pay the living wage, benefiting more than       1,000 workers.
The research has been cited by the Greater London Authority       in its efforts to promote the living wage to the sector, and led to QMUL       winning a Green Gown award (2009) for sustainable employment practices.
As       an example of the impact of Wills' research on other HEIs, Dr Tim Hall       (University of East London) writes: "[this work] was vital to the campaign       team because it enabled us to present a rigorous business case to       university managers and convince them of the benefits of paying a living       wage.
Recent research by Prof. Wills on the impact of the living wage has       enabled us to share best practice on its implementation.
The work of Prof.       Wills has therefore led directly to better jobs for approximately 250       externally contracted staff at UEL."
This research laid the foundations for the larger project, The costs         and benefits of the London living wage (2010-2), which further       explored the business case for the living wage.
The results have been used       to make the case to potential living wage adopters, as the Managing       Director of Enhance Office Cleaning, explains: "[We] use the abbreviated       version of QMUL's research report to send to our clients in support of our       costs, which include the Living Wage.
The university's findings give       considerable added weight to our own argument for paying the Living Wage       and this has worked well for us in achieving the Living Wage for our       staff."
Likewise, the Head of Facilities at KPMG, says: "The Living Wage       research by the School of Geography at Queen Mary has been extremely       important in persuading key business and political stakeholders on the       merits and affordability of the Living Wage.
Businesses appreciate the       fact that the research quantifies both the direct and indirect benefits of       going Living Wage.
Arguably the Living Wage Foundation which now accredits       decent organisations would not have existed without the research."
Wills actively promotes her research findings to industry (eg to the       annual conference of the British Association of Cleaning in HE, 2011; as       an invited speaker at a FairPensions event for living wage week held at       Aviva in the City of London, 2012; and to the British Institute of       Facilities Management, 2013).
The CEO at ShareAction (formerly       FairPensions), says: "Prof. Jane Wills' well-received presentation of her       research on Living Wages to a group of institutional investors and major       listed companies in the FTSE 100 in late 2012 demonstrated the relevance       of her work to major actors in our economy.
It is a credit to her work       that it should influence these types of corporate and financial sector       decision makers."
iii.
Support for the new Living Wage Foundation       In 2010 the research and related experience of supporting the living wage       prompted QMUL to become a founding partner in the new Living Wage       Foundation (along with Save the Children, the Resolution Foundation, Trust       for London, Linklaters and KPMG), which supports, recognizes and       celebrates the leadership shown by living wage employers in the UK.
The       Foundation uses the research to encourage greater adoption of the living       wage.
The Director of the Living Wage Foundation says: "Queen Mary has       made &#8212; and continues to make &#8212; a profound and unique contribution to the       growth and development of the Living Wage in the UK.
As the first HEI to       adopt the Living Wage; as the leading source of original and impactful       research into the benefits of the Living Wage; as a champion for the       Living Wage within the HE sector; and more recently as one of the founding       Partners of the Living Wage Foundation."
iv.
Calculating the impact of the campaign on employers, jobs and         redistribution of money       The research projects Work, identity and new forms of political         mobilisation (2005-8), The costs and benefits of the London         living wage (2010-12) and Living wage week 2013 have       provided the resources to update records of the number of employers and       workers covered by the living wage, and to create a bespoke living wage       research website (www.geog.qmul.ac.uk/livingwage; 38,162 hits and 16,212       pdf report hits, 2006-13).
The website is widely used by organisations       like the GLA, IPPR, Resolution Foundation, New Economy (Manchester), the       Scottish Assembly, the Welsh Assembly, The Fair Pay Network, Save the       Children and the Centre for Social Inclusion.
v. Influencing public policy in relation to working poverty in the UK         and beyond       Wills' research has been pivotal in promoting the living wage as a       solution to in-work poverty in the UK and further afield.
The research has       been presented at meetings in the House of Commons (2009, 2012) and the       Marmot Enquiry (2009).
Wills has spoken alongside Ed Miliband to support       the living wage during his leadership election campaign (2010) and to a       meeting of Labour Council leaders, chaired by Rachel Reeves MP (2012).
The       Labour Party supports the living wage as its policy response to in-work       poverty and it will feature in the Party Manifesto before the general       election in 2015.
Wills also gave evidence to the Economy Committee of the       London Assembly when it considered low pay and the living wage in London       (2013).
Wills' research has had a significant impact on policy debate on working       poverty, and has been covered in the media on Press TV (2010), BBC London       (various radio and TV), in a Guardian podcast (2010), The         Observer (2012) and by Reuters (2013).
Wills is regularly contacted       by campaigners outside the UK and has featured in media outlets in Canada,       Switzerland, New Zealand (2012), Sweden (2013), and was a guest of the       Irish Trades Union Congress (2013).
The research outputs from Work,         identity and new forms of political mobilisation (2005-8) also       included a photography exhibition in Brick Lane and a leaflet prepared by       the ESRC (www.geog.qmul.ac.uk/livingwage/pdf/Wills.pdf).
The Chief Executive of Trust for London said in a press release to       publicise Costs and Benefits: "This piece of research conclusively       shows that paying the Living Wage benefits employers, workers and       government.
Government can save nearly &#163;1 billion a year in London if       companies in the capital pay the Living Wage; workers receive thousands       more in wages and employers can reap HR, reputational and efficiency       benefits.
This means there is no reason for large numbers of companies to       pay poverty wages in the capital.
Paying the Living Wage gives people fair       reward for the work they do and helps to tackle poverty and inequality in       one of the most unequal cities in the developed world."
