     From 2000, Middlesex University provided advice that contributed to       shaping policy on social enterprise at a national and local level, as well       as shaping the wider environment on social enterprise, with research       quoted widely in national and sector specialist media (1;2;3).
There have       been impacts on practice, with social enterprises themselves and support       organisations drawing on MU research in developing strategies and growing       their organisations.
This has been based on a number of Knowledge Transfer       Partnerships as well as other funded consultancy and training events.
Policy influence     Evidence on social enterprise support needs fed into key policy documents       with Lyon and Ramsden (2006) referenced in Briefing Paper (unpublished,       2009) for the Prime Minister's Office on `Staff Led Enterprises and the       NHS' and in `Scottish Government Social Research Support for Social       Enterprise Start-ups' (4).
Lyon was invited to speak at the Houses of       Parliament to Ministers and senior MPs in the All Parliamentary Party       Group on Social Enterprise.
Research on the scale of the social enterprise       sector in the UK (initially a 2010 briefing paper and later published as       Teasdale et al, 2013) challenged figures widely used in policy documents       and ministerial speeches.
Following our briefings and coverage in a range       of media and influential blogs (1; 5), these figures were removed from       government documents.
MU is now advising policy makers in the Cabinet       Office and Office of National Statistics on future measurement.
Policy influence was developed through a series of invitations to brief       policy makers and presentations at the Cabinet Office's Office for Civil       Society (6 events), Department of Health (2 events), Communities and Local       Government (6) (3 events), Business Innovation and Skills with Office of       National Statistics, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Embassy in       China), Big Lottery Fund, and European Commission (DG Employment, Social       Affairs and Inclusion).
MU research influenced the development of the       social investment infrastructure, particularly Big Society Capital, and       the associated policy makers in the Cabinet Office who have referenced MU       research (7).
There has also been interaction with Local Authorities, with       training courses to over 160 local authority officials and councilors and       specific advice to councilors in Stevenage (2010- 13) and to commissioners       in Camden (2013).
Impact was evident through requests to undertake research on social       enterprise by government Departments.
Middlesex University (in       collaboration with Universities of Birmingham and Oxford) was invited to       evaluate the largest loan fund for social enterprises, the Social       Enterprise Investment Fund, set up by the Department of Health.
Results       showed difficulties in dispersing funding and identified a lack of demand       for loan finance by social enterprises not previously recognized.
This led       to development of the &#163;10m Investment Readiness Fund from the Cabinet       Office and contributed to debates about the actual demand for such finance       compared to traditional grant funding.
MU research subsequently shaped       policy review related to social investment.
The Cabinet Office review       leader stated: `The consultation began with an interview with the         Middlesex University Business School.
The discussion was useful in         defining the context for the review, highlighting other research on the         funding and role of social enterprises, and identifying lines of inquiry         to take in subsequent interviews' (7).
Advice on social investment       was also provided to DCLG (6) and MU researchers were asked to talk at       events on the subject hosted by NESTA (organised by Director of Impact       Investments) and Social Enterprise Coalition, now Social Enterprise UK       (8).
Impact on social enterprises     Research on the operations, management and governance of social enterprises     gave insights into the strategies for growth (Vickers and Lyon, 2013; Lyon     and Humbert, 2012).
Previous research had focused on conventional concepts     of economic growth but the MU work showed how social and environmental value     had to be integrated with economic conceptions of growth in the strategies     of social enterprises.
This has been widely cited in the media and a podcast     on the Guardian website (1; 2; 3).
The impact of this work was developed     through four Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) with social enterprises     (competitively funded to a total of &#163;340,000), led by Vickers and Lyon.
The frameworks for understanding approaches to growth developed in MU       research were used by organisations when deciding on their strategy.
Existing and ongoing social enterprise research led to a KTP with the       London Early Years Foundation (LEYF), looking at social enterprise models       for early years provision (2010-2011) (9).
This KTP activity led to the       development of a growth, social franchising and networking strategy.
LEYF       has related this research to their growth of 30% (to 24 nurseries and an       extra 200 places with a focus in deprived areas) and the raising of over       &#163;100,000 investment.
LEYF stated that the system put in place by the KTP       allowed the growth to take place at a faster scale while ensuring quality       was not affected (9).
A further KTP with the Holy Cross Centre Trust developed a new delivery       model and used MU research to influence the commissioning system in Camden       (8).
Impact on practice came through nine, day-long events for over 450       social enterprises and third sector organisations, drawing on our research       findings concerning the growth of social enterprise activity.
These       include the events organised by ESRC Festival of Social Science Seminar in       Edinburgh (2010) and in Glasgow (2012), Westminster Briefing (2009, 2010,       2011), British Library (2010 and 2013), and Cumberland Lodge (2011).
Other impacts of MU research on social enterprises have come through       working with SE support bodies.
This has included the use of MU research       by Lyon, Sepulveda and Stumbitz in the design of larger surveys and policy       reports by SEUK, and collaboration with UnLtd, (an organisation supporting       over 3,000 social entrepreneurs), which has assisted them in developing       their services, grow with new funding, and influence policy (10).
