     McIlwaine's research has had a significant impact on improving the       visibility of the Latin American community in London and meeting its needs       via the work of 3rd sector organisations, lobbyists, consulates       and embassies.
It has also inspired creative work about Latin Americans in       London.
i.
The NLI report has been used by the 3rd         sector and lobbyists (a) to establish the Coalition of Latin Americans         UK and (b) to provide evidence about the Latin American community in         London in consultations and funding applications     (a) McIlwaine's NLI research led directly to the first formal coalition       of Latin American organizations in the UK: Coalition of Latin Americans UK       (CLAUK &#8212; www.clauk.org.uk), which       brings together 11 non-governmental organisations of the community with       the main purpose of ensuring that the recommendations of the research are       implemented in London and across the UK.
The first objective under the       Terms of Reference for the Coalition is `To work together to pursue the       implementation of the recommendations contained in No Longer         Invisible'.
CLAUK, the Latin American Women's Rights Service (LAWRS)       and the Latin American Recognition Campaign (LARC) use the NLI       report extensively in their work (see http://www.larcuk.org/index.php/our-objectives.html).
the Director of LAWRS writes, `as a result of the publication of the       report we have been more united as a community and have been better able       to advocate for the issues that are important to us' (25/10/12).
(b) The NLI research has been used widely in other work by 3rd       sector organisations.
As the Director of Policy and Grants at Trust for       London writes, `It is the most comprehensive research undertaken on the       community and we have cited it in a number of consultation responses to       government, including to the Cabinet Office, Ministry of Justice,       Department of Work and Pensions and Greater London Authority (16/10/13).
NLI has been used as a core resource to allow 3rd sector       organisations to apply for funding for projects as noted by the Director       of the Indo-American Refugee and Migrant Organisation (1/7/13): `It has       always been very difficult to evidence the demand for our services and       reveal the numbers of Latin Americans who struggle to get the support they       need.
The "NLI" report has helped us to show that our work is important       and how it changes the lives of our community members.
This ... has made       it possible for us to lobby decision makers, receive funding, get exposure       and enhance integration.'
ii.
The recommendations of the NLI report have been implemented by         local authorities to formally recognise Latin Americans as an ethnic         group     The NLI research outlined a series of recommendations that included       lobbying for ethnic monitoring to include a `Latin American' category, the       need to increase awareness of employment rights and provide access to       health services given the large number of Latin Americans experiencing       labour rights infringements and ill-health.
Ethnic recognition is at the       heart of these recommendations to ensure that local mainstream services       are available to the Latin American community.
The Director of Policy and       Grants at Trust for London explains that evidence provided in McIlwaine's       research has been `central to ... policy changes such as the recognition       of Latin Americans as an ethnic category by Southwark Council,' and in       ongoing campaigns for recognition with other local authorities including       Lambeth and Islington.
The London Borough of Southwark was the first council to formally       recognise Latin Americans (14/9/12;       www.southwark.gov.uk/news/article/953).
Haringey, Hackney and Newham now       also use the category Latin/South American in their ethnic monitoring       forms.
The Councillor and Cabinet Member for Communities and Economic       Development, London Borough of Southwark, writes: `The report NLI has been       crucial in providing us with information about the Latin American       community in Southwark and in London more widely.
Given the concentrations       of this community in Southwark, the report has allowed us to inform our       policy work more effectively.
In particular, the report was very important       in informing our official recognition of the Latin American population as       an ethnic group in our monitoring efforts.'
The NLI report is the core       text used by the Latin American Recognition Campaign (LARC).
As noted by       the Argentinean Consul General (26/6/13), `The research has become an       extremely valuable source to try to understand the Latin American       community, its status, its contribution to UK society and its aspirations.
I have participated in various meetings concerning the campaign for       recognition of the Latin Americans in the UK.
All of those meetings have       referred to No Longer Invisible'.
iii.
McIlwaine's research recommendations have been implemented via         two posts.
(a) LAWRS employed an 'Outreach Development Coordinator' in 2010 to lobby       local councils to improve the access of Latin Americans to services.
The       NLI report has been used as a tool for training meetings including with       five departments in Southwark Council, as well as Southwark Legal Advice       Network and Southwark Citizen Advice Bureau.
An additional 675 Latin       American women not previously known to social services have accessed       support locally through LAWRS as a result of this work.
(b) Trust for London funded an Advocacy and Campaign Coordinator based at       LAWRS for the Coalition of Latin Americans in the UK (&#163;90,000) for two       years from 2012 to `take forward the recommendations of the [NLI] report       in relation to labour rights, access to health care and ethnic       recognition' (Director of Policy and Grants, Trust for London).
This       coordinator works closely with local councils, advocacy groups and migrant       organisations to raise the profile of Latin Americans in London and to       highlight their needs as an important ethnic minority group.
iv.
The NLI report has been used by Latin American consulates and         embassies to provide evidence about the number and nature of their         communities in London.
McIlwaine has conducted outreach work with consulates and related forums       providing information about the community and highlighting policy       recommendations such as at the Chilean Embassy (2010), the Casa       Ecuatoriana (linked with the Ecuadorian Embassy) (2012), the Brazilian       Embassy (2012), the Argentinean Embassy (2013) and Canning House (2011,       2012).
The Argentinean Consul General (26/6/13) notes: `As Consul, one of       the most frequent questions you receive is how many of your nationals live       in the UK?
It is very hard to tell because there are no official records       ... Now we have NLI which answers these questions'.
v. The NLI report has been a key source and inspiration for the play       Juana in a million by Vicky Araico Casas and other         creative work     This award-winning play highlights the experiences of Latin American       migrants in the UK and has been performed to over 7,000 people in the UK       and Mexico, and was directly inspired by McIlwaine's research (see www.juanainamillion.com/about-1).
As Casas writes about McIlwaine's research, `Not only does it provide the       first ever comprehensive information on the growing importance of the       Latin American community in the city, but it also outlines the range of       exclusions and hardships experienced by Latin Americans.
This proved to be       invaluable in making decisions about the storyline.'
Four pages of the       programme focused on the NLI research, and stated that `As well as the       real life experiences of Latin American migrants living in London, Juana       in a Million was inspired by the report No Longer Invisible.'
The play was performed 23 times at the Edinburgh Festival in 2012 (to       1,840 people) and won a Fringe First Award.
The play has also been       performed in Southampton, Belfast, Oxford, Mexico City and New York (to       1500 people) with a London run at the Southwark Playhouse in 2013 for 28       shows (to 2,800 people).
This also entailed a Q&amp;A and a one-day       symposium led by McIlwaine (funded by the Arts Council and Queen Mary's       Centre for Public Engagement).
The reviews note: `The plight of       South American women is one that vitally needs to be raised, and Juana in       a Million is a dazzling way to do it' (The Stage); `this is a       beautiful piece of physical theatre, featuring a remarkable performance       from Araico Casas ... A must-see' (The Telegraph).
McIlwaine's research has also inspired other creative work, as shown by       the photographic collaboration between Roxana and Pablo Allison on       `Uncovering the invisible: a portrait of Latin Americans in the UK.'
This       photographic project `is in response to the research project No longer         invisible: the Latin American community in London conducted by Cathy       McIlwaine' (www.uncoveringtheinvisible.co.uk/about-the-project)       and will be exhibited in Manchester and London in 2014.     v. The NLI report has improved public awareness of the Latin American         community in London     McIlwaine's research has been widely disseminated via a dedicated       website: www.geog.qmul.ac.uk/latinamericansinlondon       (20,141 page hits and 11,777 pdf report hits since May 2011).
The NLI       research findings have been widely disseminated to policy makers through a       launch event at the Greater London Authority led by Deputy Mayor Richard       Barnes (May 2011) and at a Spanish/Portuguese language launch at Bol&#237;var       Hall, London (June 2011).
They have also been widely disseminated in the       British and Latin American media, including coverage in The         Independent (19.5.11), The Guardian (4.3.12: http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2012/mar/04/uk-latin-american-community";       22.6.12 www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2012/jun/22/london-latin-americans),       The Prisma: the multicultural newspaper (10.3.13: "http://www.theprisma.co.uk/2013/03/10/cathy-mcilwaine-more-latin-americans-but-more-vulnerability";       24.3.13: www.theprisma.co.uk/2013/03/24/clauk-a-latin-american-coalition-in-the-united-kingdom"); the       cultural magazine Ventana Latina (Oct. 2013: http://issuu.com/ventanalatina/docs/ventana_latina_octubre_2013);       BBC World (May 2011), in Spanish on BBC Mundo and in Portuguese on BBC       Brazil (May 2011).
