     PROCESSES LEADING TO IMPACT     Practical implementation of the research commenced from 2002, when       Gurnell moved to London (and to QMUL in 2009) and built contacts within       London's river management agencies, benefitting from active collaboration       between the Environment Agency (EA), Natural England (NE), the Greater       London Authority (GLA) and local NGOs in relation to London's river       conservation and restoration.
An additional crucial driver was the       implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive from 2000, which       requires the ecological potential of `Heavily Modified Water Bodies' to be       assessed, and so provides a clear practical niche for the URS.
Communication of the URS methodology was pursued by Gurnell through       presentations at conferences and workshops and meeting with potential       users.
Uptake of the work by the EA, NE, Naturalist and London River       Conservation Trusts resulted from:     (i) 2008 to 2011: Involvement of researchers from QMUL Geography       with river restoration in London led to application of the URS in the high       profile Mayes Brook Park restoration scheme (EA and QMUL, 2010) as a pre-       and post-project appraisal tool, and component of an ecosystem services       assessment (Everard et al., 2011).
(ii) 2011 to 2012:     a.
Following a free training day in 2011, for NGO, Local Authority, EA       and University users (20 attendees), the URS was adopted by the Wandle       Trust and Natural England (NE) and the EA Thames area started to promote       the survey.
b.
Significant development of a prototype URS web-based information       system, funded by NE (&#163;13k), transformed it into a training, data       management, and communication tool (www.urbanriversurvey.org)       with key URS indices output to the Greenspace Information for Greater       London (GIGL) GIS.
c. Further workshops, funded by NE (&#163;2k), trained 70 river managers (eg       BAA; Environment Agency, Conservation Trusts: Bristol, BTCV, GIGL, London       Wildlife, QWAG, Thames21, WWT; London Boroughs &#8212; Brent, Bromley,       Harringay, Hillingdon, Lewisham, Richmond; NE, River Restoration Centre,       Royal Parks, Zoological Society of London, Universities &#8212; Cranfield,       King's College London, Plymouth, Roehampton, Sheffield) and delivered       c.450 URS surveys.
(iii) 2012 to present:     a.
In the first year of full implementation, the URS web-based       information system attracted 3,189 visits from 1,530 unique visitors.
b.
The Wandle Trust used URS data to develop their catchment management       plan, evaluate river biophysical condition, and demonstrate the benefits       of restoration.
This was seen by the EA as a demonstration of the utility       of URS data in assessing GEP for the WFD.
c. The EA's National Environment Assessment Service (NEAS) then       commissioned re-surveys of 15 stretches of the River Tame (Shuker et al.,       2011; &#163;5k), demonstrating decadal scale improvements in the structure of       almost all reaches and significant improvements in a `restored' reach.
NEAS then commissioned the design of landscape, amenity and heritage       extensions to the URS (&#163;29k) to produce a fully integrated ecosystem       services tool (ECOSTATUS) for conducting pre- and post-project appraisal       of river schemes and setting targets for ecosystem improvements.
This       project is close to completion: the first set of five surveyors have been       trained and have tested the methodology and the supporting software is       anticipated by early 2014.     d. The six million euro REFORM project is developing guidance and tools       to make river restoration and mitigation measures more cost-effective.
Gurnell leads the workpackage developing a `process-based European       framework for hydromorphology' which is incorporating elements of the URS.
NATURE OF IMPACT     (i) Delivery of river quality indicators for rivers across London as a       data layer in iGIGL (Geographical Information for Greater London), a       resource for many users in London, particularly the GLA and EA.
A       Biodiversity Technical Specialist at the EA confirms: `The survey and its       associated indicators provide an incredibly useful summary of the       condition of London's rivers, particularly now that the data are       assimilated into iGiGL, enabling URS data to be integrated with other       green-space information.'
(22.3.13)     (ii) Application of the URS survey to project appraisal and ecosystem       services assessment of the Mayes Brook park restoration scheme, East       London.
An Environment Monitoring Officer at the EA confirms: `the high       utility of the URS and the indicators derived from it for the work of the       Environment Agency.
... [T]he survey is contributing significantly to the       appraisal of river restoration and rehabilitation schemes following the       very successful application of the URS in both the pre-project biophysical       assessment and ecosystem services assessment of the Mayes Brook Park       restoration' (11.3.13).
(iii) Analysis of URS data for the assessment of GEP and the design of a       catchment management plan for the River Wandle, London.
The data were       particularly useful for habitat assessment and for indicating the relative       quality status of different segments of the river.
The Director of The       Wandle Trust writes: `The URS data were crucial for characterising the       river along the main stem and both of the headwater tributaries and the       data also underpinned our proposals for achieving Good Ecological       Potential in response to the requirements of the Water Framework       Directive' (9.3.13).
(iv) Analysis of repeat URS surveys to assess biophysical change in       restored and unrestored reaches of the river Tame, Birmingham (2002-2012)       for the EA, showed a gradual improvement in all reaches following       reduction in `maintenance' of reinforcement, with marked improvement at       restored sites where reinforcement had been removed.
The Head of the       National Environmental Assessment Service at the EA writes: `[t]his work       has clearly demonstrated how the URS provides an important high-level       assessment tool that is well-suited to the work of the Environment Agency'       (11.3.13).
(v) Incorporation of the URS into EA routine practice via the National       Environment Assessment Service (NEAS).
Following completion in November       2013, the ECOSTATUS methodology will allow NEAS (a) to describe and       quantify the impact of river improvement schemes on river ecosystem       services within affected river reaches (b) to assess the aggregate impact       of schemes on the ecosystem services provided by entire urban river       systems.
The Head of the National Environmental Assessment Service writes:       `This will provide a methodology for the integrated pre- and post-project       assessment of river improvement schemes in urban areas in line with       developing Agency and Defra policy' (11.3.13).
