     Parry was appointed as a lead author for the Nuffield Council on       Bioethics' report on The Forensic Uses of Bioinformation: Ethical         Issues (published September 2007).
The report was prompted by       concern over the progressive enlargement of the UK's National DNA Database       (UKNDNAD) and the perceived lack of adequate regulation and ethical       oversight of its operation which had extended from domestic policing       operations to counter-terrorism initiatives.
The Council's published terms       of reference state that it produces its reports with `a view to promoting       public understanding and discussion; this may lead, where needed, to the       formulation of new guidelines by the appropriate regulatory or other       body.'
Parry's work was central to the production of the report.
She       co-authored several sections, including taking primary responsibility for       the sections in the first and second chapters that specifically relate to       the nature of bioinformation.
Here she furthered the thesis developed in       her research that DNA must be understood as both a corporeal and an       informational resource.
This contention was key to a series of       recommendations that followed in the Report regarding the policy and       protocols that should attend the use of both the biological samples of DNA       drawn from offenders and the DNA profile/digitally rendered sequence later       derived from them.
The two resources should, Parry argued, be subject to       different regimes of regulation as the biological samples, which have       historically been retained for long periods of time, remain sources of       highly personalised medical and/or genealogical information, access to       which should be strictly delimited.
This particular argument was taken up       as a central tenet of the Report (see Executive Summary paragraphs 9 and       10).
In addition to this Parry co-authored what proved to be the most       sensitive and politically charged section of the Report, chapter six,       which discussed the most contentious uses of the samples and profiles       accumulated on the UKNDNAD.
These include research dedicated to familial       searching (identifying offenders through their relatives), ethnic       inferencing and potential behavioural genetic research designed to       establish a pre-conceived `genetic predisposition to crime' amongst racial       groups currently over-represented on the Database.
The report has had significant impacts on UK public policy:     i.
Dissemination and discussion of the Report's recommendations     The Forensic Uses of Bioinformation report was very widely       disseminated and discussed in the public domain and with relevant       government agencies.
This includes: An event at the Labour Party       Conference, Bournemouth (25/9/07); Capita National Forensics Conference,       London (31/3/08); Public discussion events at Manchester Science Museum       ("Towards a Universal DNA Database", 8/4/08), Lewisham Community Police       Group (13/5/08) and the Dana Centre, London (`Crime Scene Crackdown',       26/6/08).
Parry has also given workshops on the limits to the use of DNA       in court to the following agencies: The Bar Council, Bar Standards Board,       Criminal Bar Association, Law Society, Solicitors Regulation Authority,       Criminal Law Solicitors Association, Judicial Studies Board, Forensic       Science Society and the British Academy of Forensic Sciences.
In addition,       the Report was downloaded from the Nuffield Council's website more than       40,000 times from September 2007 to the end of 2008.     ii.
Case of S and Marper v UK     In December 2008, the European Court of Human Rights ruled on the case of       two applicants Mr. S. (who requested that his name not be disclosed) and       Mr. Marper who complained under the Convention for the Protection of Human       Rights that the authorities had continued to retain their fingerprints and       cellular samples and DNA profiles after the criminal proceedings against       them had ended in an acquittal or had been discontinued.
In finding for       the applicants that the blanket policy in the UK of indefinitely retaining       DNA profiles/samples and fingerprints, regardless of the outcome of       arrest, was disproportionate the Court cited the Nuffield Council's       Report.
In doing so, the Court explicitly referred to Parry's argument       that `the retention of fingerprints, DNA profiles and biological samples       is generally more controversial than the taking of such bioinformation,       and the retention of biological samples raises greater ethical concerns       than digitised DNA profiles and fingerprints, given the differences in the       level of information that could be revealed' (Case of S and Marper v. UK       para 38) and noted the Report's `concerns at the increasing use of the DNA       data for familial searching, inferring ethnicity and non-operational       research' which had been co-authored by Parry.
iii.
Crime and Security Act 2010     This European Court of Human Rights judgement has resulted in a       significant revision of the way the UK government constructs, maintains       and employs the UKNDNAD, resulting in a total reformation of the UK's       relevant legislation and policy.
The recommendations of the Report were       employed by the Director of Forensic Services for the Metropolitan Police       and the Home Office in the drafting of the Crime and Security Bill       (2009).
The Report was also referred to on several occasions in debates       and reports relating to the Bill: Paul Holmes MP, National DNA Database       Westminster Hall debate, 9/12/09 (www.theyworkforyou.com/whall/?gid=2009-12-09a.117.1)       ; Andrew Dismore MP, House of Commons Crime &amp; Security Bill Report       Stage, 8/3/10 (www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200910/cmhansrd/cm100308/debtext/100308-0009.htm); Parliament's       Joint Committee on Human Rights Report on Scrutiny of the Crime &amp;       Security Bill, 8/3/10 (www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200910/jtselect/jtrights/67/67.pdf);       and The Commons Home Affairs Committee report on the National DNA       Database, 8/3/10 http://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-archive/home-affairs-committee/10308/       which included evidence submitted by the Council.
The passage of the Crime and Security Act (April 2010) amended the       operation of the UKNDNAD in significant ways which responded to the       differences between corporeal and informational biotechnologies as       identified by Parry.
Thus, DNA profiles of non-convicted individuals were       to be kept for a maximum of 6 years (3 years for under 18s); all       biological samples were to be destroyed; and DNA profiles of volunteers       and children under 10 were no longer to be held on the database.
iv.
Protection of Freedoms Act (2012)     More recently, the Coalition Government announced that it intended to       "adopt the protections of the Scottish model for the DNA database" in its       Protections of Freedom Act (2012) which became law in May 2012.
The law       changed to reflect many recommendations of the Nuffield Council's report,       in particular: all biological samples to be destroyed within six months;       those convicted of an offence - indefinite retention; those arrested /       charged but not convicted of minor offences &#8212; no retention; those arrested       / charged but not convicted of serious offences &#8212; three year retention;       and separate provision for minors.
The significance and scope of this impact relates directly to all those       whose DNA samples are, or would have been, held on the DNA database and,       more broadly, all UK citizens whose relationships to authority are       increasingly defined through regimes for the storage and use of       bioinformation.
