     Lastra's work has global reach and significance: it has informed       financial legislative reforms, policy debates and deliberations amongst       legal practitioners in the United Kingdom and further afield.
National impact       Lastra has influenced UK government policy in response to the financial       crisis.
In 2009 the European Union Committee (Subcommittee A) of the House       of Lords conducted an inquiry into the future of EU financial regulation       and supervision and appointed Lastra as Specialist Adviser.
Lastra wrote       many of the questions put by the Committee to expert witnesses and       contributed to the writing of the final report.
The Committee chair       specially thanked her contribution: "My thanks and those of the committee       are due to our special adviser, Professor Rosa Lastra, without whom I do       not think we would have found our way through the complications of the       subject..." (see [2] in section 5 below).
In 2011 Lastra was invited to give oral evidence to the Treasury       Committee of the House of Commons on the accountability of the Bank of       England.
The Committee's report, published in November 2011, acknowledges       her input.
In 2012, she was asked to give written and oral evidence to the House of       Lords European Union Committee, Subcommittee A, with regard its inquiry       into the Banking Union proposals.
She was also asked to give written and       oral evidence to the joint Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards,       appointed by both Houses of Parliament to report on professional standards       and culture of the UK banking sector, and their implications for       regulation and for Government policy and to make recommendations for       legislative and other action.
The report of the Parliamentary Commission       on Banking Standards and the report of the House of Lords European Union       Committee, both acknowledging Lastra's input, were published in December       2012.     International impact       Lastra has also contributed to the design of international financial soft       law.
In 2009-10 she acted as Technical Assistance Advisor to the IMF to       perform research and writing for a Board paper dealing with legal and       policy issues associated with cross-border bank insolvency following the       G20 mandate to the IMF in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
This drew upon her published research (2003, 2007, 2008, 2009).
The Board       approved the paper with a proposed framework for enhanced cooperation in       this area in July 2010.
Her work is recognized in the first footnote of       the paper (see [5] in section 3 below) and in a letter (see [3] in section       5 below) acknowledging Lastra's "important contribution to the IMF's work       on cross border banking resolution", which "has played a large role in       shaping the set of recommendations that have been adopted by the FSB" (www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_111104cc.pdf).
European impact       Lastra's work has helped shape the development of EU law.
In 2011, Lastra       provided legal consultancy services to the European Central Bank at the       request of the ECB General Counsel on issues pertaining to the eurozone       crisis.
She was invited to contribute on the basis of her published       research (2006).
Lastra has argued (1996, 2003, 2006 and 2012) that the       ECB should adopt a supervisory role, which has become a cornerstone of the       Banking Union.
In April 2012, Lastra was invited &#8212; on the basis of her 2011 book and       earlier publications &#8212; to provide an expert legal view to the European       Commission (DG Markt) as part of the Commission's proposals for a European       framework to resolve cross border banking crises.
Lastra took part in a       workshop of experts in banking and insolvency law on 19 April 2012 in       Brussels.
The consultation process culminated in the publication of a       Draft Directive on Recovery and Resolution on 6 June 2012.
The Head of       Financial Stability Unit at DGMarkt acknowledged Lastra's contribution in       a letter dated 19 June 2012 thanking her for her "very valuable and       pertinent contributions" to the process [See [1] in Section 5 below].
Informing judicial decisions in high-profile international cases       Lastra's Central Banking and Banking Regulation was referred to in       a brief of the United States of America, (p.14, amicus curiae in Case No       10-1487-cv(L) US Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit NML Capital Ltd         v Banco Central de la Republica Argentina [5 July 2011]).
The       implications for the theory of sovereign immunity are at stake as       subsequent litigation has evidenced.
Enhancing public understanding of complex financial issues       Lastra has provided expert commentary in the media on issues related to       the financial crisis contributing to improving public understanding of       complex financial matters.
She has been interviewed by Hugh Dixon       (Reuters), Bloomberg, Deutsche Welle, and Wall Street Journal among       others.
In December 2012, Lastra was invited to appear BBC World Service's       programme `In the Balance' which dealt with the banking black hole of debt       in Europe.
