     We can demonstrate impact in: advising parliamentary and executive policy       makers in diversity initiatives and legislative provisions; influencing       the work of the statutory advisory body of England and Wales on judicial       appointments; providing input to the development of new processes for       selecting judges at international level and informing the wider debate on       equality.
In 2009 Malleson and Barmes established the Equal Justices Initiative       (see www.law.qmul.ac.uk/eji).
The EJI `brings together academics, practitioners, judges and       policy-makers to work towards gender parity on the bench'.
Its work has       influenced policy development in the UK, ensuring that sound evidence,       ideas and argument are communicated to a broad range of policy makers in       this area.
The ultimate beneficiaries are, however, the citizenry as a       whole, as more informed decision-making should lead to the UK having a       more legitimate and effective judiciary that draws on the talents of the       whole population.
Around 100 people have signed up to the EJI as       supporters.
Building on research by members of its Executive Committee,       including that of Malleson and Barmes described above, the EJI prepared a       submission to the House of Lords Constitution Committee Inquiry on       Judicial Appointments in 2011/2012.
The Committee report referred       extensively to that submission, as well as to Malleson's individual       evidence.
It proposed changes designed to increase diversity in judicial       appointments including a number argued for in the EJI submission, such as       applying the "tipping provision" in the Equality Act 2010, extending the       remit of the Judicial Appointments Commission ('JAC') to Deputy High Court       Judges and removing the President from Supreme Court Appointments       Commissions when selecting a successor.
All three are in the Crime and       Courts Act 2013.
Advising Policy Makers on Diversity Initiatives     Malleson's work on merit and specifically her 2009 proposals about       positive action were drawn on by the Advisory Panel on Judicial Diversity       set up by the Ministry of Justice (`MoJ').
The Panel's 2010 report       commented on the need to use the professions to encourage people into the       judiciary, particularly those from under-represented groups, and advocated       Malleson's proposal for `taps on the under-represented shoulder'.
Malleson, Barmes and other members of the EJI met with key policy makers       about developing diversity initiatives.
For example, in March 2010 they       met the new chair of the JAC; in October 2010 they met with senior       officials from the MoJ with responsibility for taking forward the report       of the Advisory Panel; in May 2011 they met five of the six most senior       female judges in England and Wales.
Malleson and Barmes have since had       ongoing informal e- mail and other contact with individuals in public life       working on judicial diversity in different ways.
Members of the judiciary       (including the Head of the Judicial College) and governmental bodies       (including, indirectly the Irish MoJ) have requested copies of Malleson       and Barmes' work.
Direct Impact on new guidelines for the appointment of judges     Malleson's research on international court appointments has also had a       direct impact on reforms to the process by which judges are appointed to       the CJEU.
In 2009 Malleson and Philippe Sands, Professor of International       Law at UCL, were invited to meet with Lord Mance at the Supreme Court to       share the findings of their research, given Lord Mance's appointment to       the advisory panel on the selection of CJEU judges under the Lisbon       Treaty.
Their input fed into the rules and guidelines for the operation of       the panel which Lord Mance helped to draft.
In April 2011 Malleson was       contacted by the Legal Adviser to the CICC, requesting copies of her 2010       book for each of the members of the CICC's informal advisory panel on       appointments to the ICC.
The request said: `We have followed your work       closely over the past few years and we are sure that the Panel will       benefit from your research and insights.'
The ICC has now established its       own advisory committee on nominations, a development which was in part       influenced by this research.
Informing the wider equality debate     Barmes and Malleson's work has also informed wider equality debate and       action.
From 2010 to 2012 they ran (with Queen Mary colleagues from       Business and Geography) the AHRC-funded research network, PEDEC (see www.geog.qmul.ac.uk/pedec).
This has a website, email list and held four workshops with participation       from a notably wide range of non-academic organizations (including the       Equality and Human Rights Commission, the Runnymede Trust and the       Disability Alliance).
Over 200 people signed up to the network, around 120       attended the workshops and to 19 March 2013 the website had generated       24,683 page views.
The network brought together individuals and groups       from different regions within the UK and internationally.
In 2011/2012       Barmes and Malleson were several times consulted by the Government       Equalities Office and Business Innovation and Skills on the design (and       peer review) of government research on equality and to connect       policy-makers to relevant research and researchers.
The legacy of PEDEC       has been assured by the work of the Equality and Diversity Forum Research       Network (`EDFRN'), of which Barmes is a steering group member and in 2012       became co-chair.
Barmes' 2010 research informed the Joint Committee on       Human Rights' analysis of the positive action provisions in the Equality       Bill (see HL Paper 169 HC 736, paras 286-290).
The December 2009 version       of the Equality Bill was amended before enactment to insert a       proportionality requirement into sub- section 159(4).
This reduced some of       the risk of UK law on positive action, and organizational measures based       on this, being de-railed by EU law challenges.
