     Mulheron's work has had direct impacts on the ongoing process of       reforming civil procedure in England in a number of areas, in ways which       will make civil litigation cheaper and more accessible for individual       consumers and small-to-medium size businesses seeking redress from large       corporations.
In an era of high legal costs, the significance of her work       is considerable.
The introduction of class actions and contingency fees,       and the appropriate regulation of third party funding, will make a big       financial difference to individual consumers and small businesses.
Mulheron's work has also had a very wide reach; her work has influenced       both judges and law reform bodies in a number of other jurisdictions       worldwide.
Shaping policy on class actions     Mulheron has argued for a comprehensive, generic opt-out system to be       developed for England and Wales where there is currently no generic class       action regime.
Her published work, described above, has engaged directly       in the debates over how to reform civil procedure, and has set the agenda       for policy making in governmental circles.
Influenced by her research and       reports, the last government undertook to introduce a limited `opt-out'       system, which only failed thanks to sudden calling of a general election.
At present, the coalition government is continuing to explore the options       for reform.
As a result of her research, Mulheron was commissioned by the Civil       Justice Council of England and Wales (CJC) to produce a report giving       evidence of the need for a new class action regime.
Her Reform of         Collective Redress in England and Wales: a Perspective of Need (Feb       2008) informed the CJC's influential report Improving Access to         Justice Through Collective Actions: Developing a More Efficient and         Effective Procedure for Collective Actions: Final Report (November       2008).
Mulheron was a contributing author of the report.
As the Ministry       of Justice (MOJ) noted in its response dated July 2009, the `main evidence       of a need for reform in the report is extracted from a paper written by       Rachael Mulheron'.
Although the MOJ rejected the overall recommendation of the CJC (which       had adopted Mulheron's proposals for a generic opt-out system), it       accepted the need for a sectional opt-out system, as and where a       specific need was proven.
This was highly significant, since it was the       first occasion on which there has been a clear political commitment to       enacting an opt-out class action: previous efforts at reform had favoured       the opt-in approach, rather than the opt-out approach advocate by       Mulheron.
This consultation process was followed by the drafting of the       Financial Services Bill 2010, cl.
18-25, which contained a collective       actions regime for financial services claims in which actions could       proceed either on an opt-in or an opt-out basis.
In October 2009 &#8212; March       2010, Mulheron was a member of the rules-drafting committee, to draft       court rules underpinning the newly-proposed opt-out regime.
The Bill       proceeded through the House of Commons and through two readings in the       Lords, but the 2010 general election put a stop to further progress.
However, reform in this area of civil procedure is continuing, and       Mulheron is at the heart of the process.
The rules she helped draft &#8212;       which are suitable for any sectoral opt-out system &#8212; have been completed,       tabled before the Civil Procedure Rules Committee, and will be introduced,       once a legislative regime containing an opt-out class action is enacted.
Mulheron also exerts an influence on policy making through membership of       the CJC, (appointed May 2009 for three years, re-appointed May 2012 for       another three years).
As a result of her comparative analysis of class actions in overseas       jurisdictions, Mulheron was commissioned by the Department of Business,       Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR) in 2008 to write a report on Competition         Law Cases under the Opt-out regimes of Australia, Canada and Portugal.
The report was described by the Chief executive of the Civil Justice       Council as an `amazing piece of work'.
In September 2011, she was       contacted by BERR's successor Department, the Department of Business,       Innovation and Skills to discuss how to take forward the reforms discussed       in her 2008 paper.
She met with BIS policy officials on numerous occasions       during the drafting of a consultation paper, Private Actions in         Competition Law: A Consultation on Options for Reform.
Her work was       repeatedly cited in the paper, and in the accompanying Impact Assessment.
In anticipation that the proposals will become law, she was asked to lead       a seminar at the Competition Appeal Tribunal designed to inform judges of       the key certification criteria in competition law opt-out class actions.
Her formal response to the Consultation has been referred by BIS to       Parliamentary Counsel, and BIS has commissioned further memos of advice       for assistance with drafting of the relevant legislation.
The reach of Mulheron's work on the evolving law of class actions is not       limited to England and Wales, but has influenced judges and official law       reform bodies in Canada, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong,       Ireland and Belgium.
She advised the Hong Kong Law Commission, and her       work has been cited both in its consultation paper on Class Actions       (November 2009) and in its final report (May 2012).
Her work has also been       cited by the Victorian Law Reform Commission (Civil Justice Review,       2008) and the New Zealand Rules Committee's October 2008 paper, Class         Actions for New Zealand (Second Consultation Paper).
Her work on       class actions has also been cited by judges in a number of jurisdictions       (see section 5 for citations).
Mulheron has also acted as an expert       witness in the Worldwide Air Cargo Cartel Class Action litigation       in Toronto (on the issue whether an Ontario court can bind a foreign class       member who has not opted out of the Ontario class action).
Counsel's       questions during her three-hour cross-examination focused primarily on her       publications.
Shaping policy on costs regimes and the funding of litigation     Mulheron's work on class actions reform in England has also focused on       the costs regime that ought to apply to class actions litigation, and how       such litigation could, and should, be funded, were an opt-out action to be       introduced.
Her work in this area has been cited by Sir Rupert Jackson in       the interim and final report of his Review of Civil Litigation Costs       (2009-10).
She was commissioned by the EU-funded European Consumers' Assn,       BEUC, to produce a report, Costs and Funding of Collective Actions:         Realities and Possibilities (February 2011), to assist with that       organisation's lobbying of the European Parliament in taking forward the       2011 consultation, `Towards a more coherent European approach to       collective redress'.
Mulheron's 2008 article `Third Party Funding of Litigation: A Changing       Landscape' has also had a measurable impact on policy.
In July 2011, she       was appointed to the CJC's working group on litigation funding.
It       developed a Code for Litigation Funding whose recommendation for       `soft regulation' was based, in part, on her published work.
Her defence       of that Code, at the Westminster Third Party Forum in November 2012,       attracted media interest (eg, `CJC Member Rules out Mandatory Litigation       Funding Code' (Law Society Gazette, 29/11/12); `Pressure Groups and       Litigation Funders Clash over State Regulation' (Solicitors' Journal,       29/11/12).
In September 2013, Professor Mulheron was nominated as the CJC       'peer reviewer' to discuss and review a series of proposed amendments to       the Code for Litigation Funding.
