     Dr Murray's research has been used to influence decision-makers and       activists from several countries through expert consultancy and policy       advice, and to enhance public understanding of the role of women in       politics through media appearances and public talks.
Influencing Decision-makers and Activists     Murray's expertise on gender quotas allowed her to contribute to and       enhance parliamentary and public debates over legislative reform in Israel       and Ireland.
In March 2008, the Israeli parliament (the Knesset)       commissioned her to write a report for its Constitution, Law and Justice       Committee.
This report informed deliberation over amending the Israeli       Parties Financing Act to incorporate financial rewards to parties       selecting at least 30 percent women candidates.
The Knesset consulted       Murray again in July 2009 when examining the issue of women's       representation at the municipal level.
Murray's work informed committee       deliberations which resulted in existing policies being maintained.
In       2012, after Ireland adopted quota legislation along French lines, Murray       addressed a conference in Derry on Women Into Public Life funded by the       EU.
She used the research published in Parties, Gender Quotas and         Candidate Selection in France and her French Politics       article to advise gender quota activists, local politicians and community       groups on working with the new laws.
Murray also shaped policy debates in Eastern Europe.
In June 2009, she       attended a two-day summit in Warsaw on increasing women's representation       in the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe, organised by the       Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe's Office for       Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR).
The meeting was attended       by parliamentarians, party officials, NGO leaders and academics, primarily       from Eastern Europe.
Murray presented expert evidence, based on Parties,         Gender Quotas and Candidate Selection, on the difficulties parties       face in implementing gender quotas.
This informed the participants about       the kinds of quotas that might be feasible in their countries, what       pitfalls to avoid, what problems to anticipate and how to overcome them.
The summit also generated a public report on gender equality and political       parties which cites Dr Murray's work.
Murray has also contributed to public policy debates on women's rights       and political participation more broadly.
In 2012, she gave evidence to a       Chinese Academy of Social Sciences workshop on women's rights, attended by       academics and policymakers.
Her written and oral contributions, which were       translated into Chinese, explained how women's rights have been approached       in Europe and offered policy recommendations for China.
In Britain, Murray testified to the House of Commons Speaker's Conference       on Parliamentary Representation in 2009.
The Conference explored why       certain groups are less well represented within Parliament and methods to       secure more balanced representation.
Based on the evidence presented, all       three main parties pledged to enhance their efforts to select more women       candidates.
These commitments are documented in the official report (see       reference below), which acknowledges Murray's contribution.
Parliament was       dissolved before they could be implemented, so the impact of this work       will be felt as the selection procedures commence for the 2015 general       election.
Enhancing Public Understanding of Women in Politics     In addition to shaping policy debates and outcomes, Murray has also       worked to enhance wider public understanding of women's representation in       politics through the media and work with professional associations.
As       convenor of the Political Studies Association's Women and Politics Group,       Murray was a prominent critic of the shortage of women in the British       cabinet after the 2010 elections.
She wrote a lead letter in The Times,       co-signed by prominent scholars and activists, and appeared on BBC Radio       London and BBC Radio 5 Live to raise public awareness and spur debate over       the causes and consequences of women's political under-representation (14       May 2010).
Murray has also appeared several times on Radio 4's Woman's       Hour to discuss: female executive candidates, using her research in Parliamentary         Affairs and Cracking the Highest Glass Ceiling (December       2010); a report highlighting women's absence from positions of power in       Britain (February 2012); and the impact of the French presidential       elections on women (April 2012).
Murray has appeared on national radio and       television in France, Britain, Australia, Canada and Russia.
Murray has also used her research in public talks to encourage women to       enter politics.
She spoke alongside MPs at a House of Commons event to       inspire women to become parliamentary candidates (January 2010).
She       addressed a similar meeting of the French Socialist Party in March 2010;       one woman present subsequently contested and won a seat in the French       parliament.
