     DTV4All was specifically driven by the `e-ethos' to provide comprehensive       access services for TV viewers (both vulnerable and general) who require       or use subtitles or any other audio-visual aids in watching digital TV       programmes; subtitle users are not limited to those with hearing problems       and people with disabilities and older people may encounter barriers when       using ICT products and services.
The European Broadcasting Union (EBU)       stated that one of the roles of public service media was to empower       citizenship through media literacy (EBU         Viewpoint 2011) and that it `actively supports the DTV4All project',       `which facilitates access to digital television for people with       disabilities' (p3).
[A]     DTV4All has not only contributed to raising awareness for the need for       standardised access services across Europe, but also devised technical       solutions to deliver the most optimal standards that it identified.
This       was demonstrated at two critical workshops &#8212; one for the European       Commission and the other as part of a joint workshop in Geneva.
The Brunel research team led `The DTV4All Workshop on Barrier-Free       Digital Television' at the European Parliament on 28 October 2010; the       workshop was hosted by the members of the European Parliament &#8212; Ms Adriana       Ticau (Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats) and       Dr Adam Kosa (Group of the European People's Party [Christian Democrats])       - and was webcast with a sign language interpreter provided by the Brunel       team.
They presented the BBC's then-current accessibility services (audio       description and subtitles) and demonstrated that a TV programme with a       sign language translator could be delivered via two network systems - the       main content via a conventional broadcast network and the additional       content with a sign language translator via the IP network.
These two       streams were then synchronised at viewers' set- top-box, providing an       option to use a sign language translator for those who require the       service.
The specification to enable this set-up is reported in DTV4All       report D3.3.
This workshop was in response to the European Commission's `Audiovisual       Media Services Directive' which governs EU-wide coordination of national       legislation on all audiovisual media, not just on TV, but also via the       internet and on mobile phones.
It states that `like other goods and       services, the audiovisual media are subject to the rules of the single       European market' and sets out `common rules' whose areas include       `accessibility for people with disabilities'.
Another workshop was held in Geneva on 23-24 November 2010 &#8212;       International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and EBU Joint Workshop on       Accessibility to Broadcasting and IPTV ACCESS for ALL.
The ITU       Telecommunication Standardization Sector develops international standards       which act as defining elements in the global infrastructure of information       and communication technologies (ICTs).
The participants of this workshop agreed that there was a `clear need to       coordinate the technologies that can be used to aid those viewers and       listeners with disabilities to gain maximum benefit from media delivered       by broadcast, cable, IPTV and Internet.
The target is to make access       service requirements independent of the delivery platform'.
[B]     This led ITU to set up a Focus         Group on Audiovisual Media Accessibility chaired by Mr Peter Olaf       Looms (Danish Broadcasting Corporation, a DTV4All participant), and to       produce a report, `Making         Television Accessible' (2011).
The document specifically quotes two       reports from DTV4All &#8212; D2.5 Final Report on Pilot Services I and II (para       6.4 on p46) &#8212; and the Focus Group used another report from DTV4All, `D4.6       Descriptions of the Mature Access Services and Guidelines for their       Implementation throughout Europe', as a base document for their       discussions on how the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with       Disabilities could be implemented in the Digital TV domain.
[C]     Among the 10 different sub-areas that the Focus Group covers, the       `Emerging Access Services' area is coordinated by Deputy Director of the       EBU (Technology and Development) and Dr Itagaki.
The Focus Group aims to       produce recommendations by the end of 2013, which will act as the       guidelines for the implementation of the UN convention.
Such       recommendations are regulations within the ITU and are enforceable on ITU       member countries (193 nations).
In recognition of these efforts, Dr       Itagaki received a Certificate of Appreciation from ITU in 2013.
[D]     EBU uploaded the joint workshop on YouTube with subtitles and the       Director of IRT in the video acknowledges DTV4All as `one of the important       projects' that demonstrated `optimisation' choices for all users including       those with disabilities to specify sound, subtitles or viewing of texts.
[E]     In December 2010, Dr Itagaki (as the DTV4All Project Coordinator) gave a       demonstration at the European Day of People with Disabilities 2010       Conference) in Brussels which was visited by HRH Princess Astrid of       Belgium who is the head of Belgian Red Cross and who showed her interest       in access services on TV, reflecting the importance of the work of       DTV4All.
Recommendations regarding the digital subtitling standard from DTV4All       were implemented by its broadcasting company, RBB, who is the regional       broadcaster for Berlin and Brandenburg in Germany.
Since January 2011, RBB       has broadcast the digital TV subtitles through the terrestrial Channel 1       across the country.
This subtitling service was further enhanced by RBB       who made additional investment and offered a backup technology for their       channels.
The design of the broadcast DVB-subtitles was the exact outcome       of the DTV4All user field test, using Tiresias Screenfont sized 45 points       with the background style &#8212; normal box with average transparency 60 (FAB       Subtitler XCD).
A licence for Tiresias Screenfont was purchased from the       Royal National Institute of Blind People as part of their additional       investment.
[F]     This has influenced other regional and national broadcasters in Germany       to introduce digital TV subtitles, allowing users to increase the size of       subtitles for hearing impaired elderly who may also have sight impairment.
