     The impact of this research on the development of policy and       implementation procedures has been greatly facilitated by the fact that       the key researcher, Jane Ireland, remains employed part-time in clinical       services, with a career founded in HM Prison Service and continued in high       secure NHS services.
This has led to the development of realistic       implementation strategies which have thus received considerable attention       by practitioners in the UK and internationally.
The first major contribution of this was the development in 1998 of a       behavioural checklist used to measure bullying behaviour (the Direct and       Indirect Prisoner Behaviour Checklist: DIPC).
The DIPC is being used       widely by national and international researchers to measure and monitor       bullying, with a revised version made available in 2004 and a scaled       version in 2005.
It has also been supplemented further with an attitudinal       scale to explore the range of myths and normative beliefs underpinning       bullying behaviour.
The development and use of the DIPC is such that it       now appears as a keyword in publication searches.
It has been used on a       regular basis throughout the prison service during the past 10 years.
In 2001, Jane Ireland wrote a policy and strategy, based on her research,       for dealing with bullying and aggression.
This has subsequently been       adopted by the NHS and the Canadian Correctional Service.
Ireland has       returned to the Canadian Correctional Service on two occasions since 2008       to evaluate its implementation.
It has also been adopted by Rampton High       Secure Hospital, Broadmoor High Secure Hospital and Ashworth High Secure       Hospital.
Ireland has worked with all these services in developing and       implementing the policy further.
The policy has also been disseminated to       other services worldwide who have adapted it, including Finland,       Australia, Croatia, Iceland and New Zealand.
The policy and strategy       incorporates all of the key findings indicated in section 2.
Other services that have benefited directly from the bullying policy and       strategy include HM Prison Service and Romania Prison Services.
Ireland       has trained over 1,000 prison officers nationally and internationally in       approaches to bullying, with this extending to include other professional       groups such as psychologists, prison governors, psychiatric nurses and       hospital managers.
Following a direct request from the Romania government,       in 2010 Ireland trained all 65 psychologists from the Romania Prison       Service in the management of bullying and aggression.
One example of the practical implications of the work comes from the       recent Government Homicide Inquiry at Broadmoor High Secure Hospital       (Chaired by Robert Francis, QC) in 2009.
As part of the management of the       inquiry, the NHS invited Jane Ireland to conduct research into the nature       of patient-to-patient aggression and how this was informed by staff views       and the environment.
This led to a research and consultancy grant to UCLan       (ended in February 2011 but with implementation ongoing).
Ireland       continues to work with this Trust to develop their strategies to manage       patient bullying since this was a pivotal feature of the homicide inquiry.
Indeed, CQUINN (Commissioning Quality) NHS targets in Broadmoor, Rampton       and Ashworth High Secure hospitals have included those focusing on       developing `Healthy Ward Communities' which have been based on the work of       Professor Ireland.
A second example concerns consultancy work with the HM Inspectorate of       Prisons: Ireland has worked as a consultant for the Inspectorate since       2001 and has advised on their report recommendations and provided detail       on the background to prison bullying.
The work has also been used by the       Prison Reform Trust and the Home Office more broadly to develop       anti-bullying strategies for prisoners.
Requested research into the       prevalence of bullying within individual establishments has been regularly       undertaken.
Since 2005 prisons have had to conduct twice-yearly surveys       into the nature and extent of the problem: Professor Ireland and her group       commonly assist with this, frequently using the DIPC.
