     Cranfield's research on the ground vortex formed when jets hit the ground       in a cross-flow [P1, P4] fed into the development of the Joint Strike       Fighter (JSF) Our results showed that the ground vortex was 20% further       away from the aircraft when a moving ground plane was used, simulating a       rolling vertical landing vs hover in a head wind, simulated with a fixed       ground plane.
The wind-tunnel test programme for the JSF jet effects,       involving over 4000 hours in a large multi-national facility, used a fixed       ground plane.
This programme alone is estimated to have cost some &#163;5       million; a moving ground plane for such a facility would have cost an       additional &#163;4 million.
Our findings allowed the fixed-ground results to be       corrected by engineers in BAE Systems and Lockheed Martin, without the       need for an expensive moving-ground simulation, [C1].
Similarly, BAE Systems used our work on wall-jet development [P2] to       predict safe operating conditions for ground personnel working in the       vicinity of a V/STOL aircraft [C2].
Wall jets, produced by propulsion jets       hitting the ground, grow in thickness radially and with increasing nozzle       height above the ground.
Our work showed that the rate of growth with       nozzle height is not linear, contrary to extrapolations from       previously-published data, and that above about 10 nozzle diameters the       growth rate of the wall jet reduces significantly.
This allowed much more       accurate predictions of the thickness of the wall jet produced by a       landing aircraft.
This, in turn, allows smaller exclusion zones for ground       personnel and, hence, allows a less restrictive operating envelope for the       aircraft.
Our research on jet/intake interactions showed that there was a mutual       aerodynamic interference which would not have been accounted for by       separate powered wind-tunnel model and independent intake tests.
Nevertheless, this effect was shown to be sufficiently small that it did       not require the expense and complexity of fully-powered wind-tunnel models       with simulated jets and intakes to be mounted on force balances [C1].
These results fed into the development of the JSF to provide confidence in       the separate testing of jets and intakes.
A combined model, with both       powered jets and powered intakes, would have been impractical and would       have cost more than &#163;1M.
Our research saved this expense and gave       designers increased confidence in the validity of their design, mitigating       the risk of an overly restrictive operating envelope for the aircraft.
Overall, an improved, more accurate design process allows for a shortened       flight-test programme.
For a complex V/STOL aircraft like the JSF, even a       straightforward flight-test programme costs more than &#163;100M; many times       more if poor design decisions have been taken.
Cranfield's work on co-annular jet flows led to the conclusion that a       gas-driven lift fan, producing a jet with a high-speed outer stream and a       lower-speed inner stream, was not a viable solution for a V/STOL aircraft       because of thrust loss when close to the ground.
This allowed government       and industry to drop this as a design possibility, saving many &#163;billions       in wasted development costs, [C3].
The impact of Cranfield's research was enhanced by the delivery of a       series of continuing professional development courses to engineers and       project managers from industry and government agencies.
The course,       "Fundamentals of V/STOL Aircraft Design with Joint Strike Fighter       Applications", has so far been delivered by international experts eight       times in the UK and the US, with Cranfield staff delivering lectures on       V/STOL jet effects.
The most recent courses ran in Fort Worth, Texas       (2009), home of Lockheed Martin's Joint Strike Fighter engineering and       assembly facility, and in Patuxent River Naval Air Station, Maryland (2010       [C4]), where the Joint Strike Fighter is undergoing flight testing.
More       than 300 delegates, primarily from industry and government agencies,       attended these courses, which provided both broad and deep knowledge of       the varied technical aspects of V/STOL jet aircraft design.
The courses       raised the competence levels of the design teams and helped them to ensure       the validity of their designs [C1].
