     Composites are now widely used in aircraft &#8212; the Boeing 787 Dreamliner       uses 50% composites [C1].
The tufted composite braces, based on       technologies developed at Cranfield, are the first use of structural       composites in the landing gear of a commercial aircraft (figure 2).
The       use of Cranfield's tufting technology to assemble and reinforce the       sub-components of the 3D woven preform has enabled Aircelle and MBD to       achieve their goals in terms of material performance [C2, 7].
Figure 2: Detail of the landing gear of the Boeing 787 (the composite         braces are shown in black).
The advantages of composites over the traditional steel components are:       weight saving due to improved strength-to-weight ratio of the constituent       material, which become significant considering that each Boeing 787 is       equipped with eight such braces; higher resistance to corrosion, reducing       maintenance work and servicing costs; higher resistance to fatigue;       greater in-service reliability; and longer service time between overhauls.
Ultimately the weight saving gives benefits in reduced fuel burn and CO2       emissions, and better competitiveness for the manufacturer.
A traditional laminated composite could not bear the complex axial and       shear loading pattern expected in such a critical structure, or withstand       impact from potential bird strikes or debris flying from a runway.
The       adoption of a composite structure with a 3D fibre architecture was,       therefore, an essential requirement in the material selection for the       composite brace.
Three-dimensional weaving technologies allow the production of preforms       with fibres arranged along three main directions, however, complex shapes       are difficult to produce in a single step.
The preform for the brace had       to be manufactured as two subcomponents, subsequently tufted together.
The       option of using tufting within such an innovative manufacturing process       had never been attempted before.
Cranfield had to conduct several       preliminary trials and tests on simple preforms to assess the tufting unit       ability to produce the required result.
(Figure 3 shows an example of the       use of tufting in a complex aerospace component.)
Figure 3: Tufting robot at Cranfield inserting tufts in a         double-curvature surface.
The preformed part was manufactured at Aircelle as two subsections of 3D       woven carbon-fibre tows around a core of aluminium honeycomb.
However, the       designers required extra fibre reinforcement to be inserted       through-the-thickness of the preform to join the two subsections and to       enhance its damage tolerance.
Cranfield's research showed that it could       meet these requirements, demonstrating the improvement in terms of       delamination resistance provided by tufting.
This was established with the       investigation of the influence of tufting incorporation on interlaminar       behaviour, showing improvements in delamination toughness in the range of       60%-400%, whilst preserving in-plane properties, and the development of       validated predictive models enabling consideration of property       modification to be integrated within the design phase [C6].
The prototypes have gone into full production by Messier-Bugatti-Dowty       and are currently flying on the world's fleet of Boeing 787s [C7].
The       value to business can be appreciated by considering that landing gear       typically comprises 2% of the cost of wide body jets.
The price of the 787       is estimated at $200M and the current (2013) cumulative orders are circa       930 aircraft.
The contract to supply Boeing Commercial aircraft was a       first for Safran / Messier-Bugatti-Dowty and secures workshare for up to       20 years.
The extensive use of composite materials for the airframe of       this the new aircraft has brought benefits of weight reduction and       consequent fuel economy.
The Cranfield work has now extended the use of       these materials into critical landing gear systems giving Messier-       Bugatti-Dowty access to similar weight reducing advantages to their       products [C3-5, 7].
