     Between 2008 and 2013, 77 HEFAs, devised and run by Dr Lewis, have raised       academic       aspirations and developed transferrable skills in thousands of young       people.
In each HEFA,       around 40 pupils complete their own test-pit excavation in mentored,       mixed-school teams over       two days before spending a third day at the University of Cambridge       analysing their results and       learning about university.
Pupils each subsequently write a unique formal       report on their       excavation which is assessed and returned to them with feedback.
HEFA is targeted at secondary school pupils (mostly aged 13-15) in state       education who need       encouragement in order to fulfil their educational potential.
Most pupils       are from lower socio-economic       groups; and/or from families with little or no university experience;       and/or attend       schools which send few pupils to university; and/or where pupils fail to       aim appropriately high       or wide when applying to university.
HEFA 2008-2013 is not intended to       recruit students       specifically to archaeology HE courses, nor specifically to Cambridge, but       to develop wider       learning skills and aspirations, especially in students previously less       likely to attend any       university.
The focus on the archaeology of villages &#8212; places familiar and       accessible to       participants &#8212; is crucial to making the educational aims of the programme       work and Dr Lewis'       career combining academic research and media archaeology has opened unique       avenues for       engaging the young.
Since 2008, c. 9000 HEFA learning days have been provided to c.       3000 pupils from c. 200       schools.
Pupils' confidence and knowledge have been boosted and their       aspirations raised       through making new discoveries, learning new skills, learning about       university life and       assimilating detailed feedback on their practical and written work.
The       skills learned on HEFA       have been formally elicited as follows: (1) Data collection, analysis and       evaluation; (2) Learning       and thinking (including verbal communication, structured working, creative       thinking, reflective       learning, team working, effort and persistence); (3) Report writing       (including report structuring       and data presentation, writing skills and IT skills); (4) Citizenship       (including working within local       communities, contributing to community knowledge, investigating local       environments and       conserving local heritage).
HEFA's impact on pupils is assiduously monitored: (1) Written feedback is       collected before and       after each HEFA from pupils and school staff; (2) Formative and summative       assessment of       pupils' performance uses rigorous and objective frameworks developed by Dr       Lewis in       collaboration with assessment professionals and published in the Journal         of Vocational         Education &amp; Training; (3) Pupils self-assess their learning and       thinking skills; (4) Pupils' written       reports are trawled for comments about their HEFA experience; (5)       Individual reports are       returned to each pupil detailing and explaining their achievements to use       when preparing CVs       and personal UCAS statements; (6) Pupils' onward educational pathways are       tracked for at       least 2 years to assess longer-term impacts.
More impact data on HEFA are available than can be presented here, but       highlights are that       after completing HEFA, c. 80% of all pupils report raised       performance in transferable skills and       a similar percentage report raised academic aspirations.
80-90% of all       participants rate HEFA       as excellent or good and nearly 90% of participants plan to attend       university (an increase of       between 30% and 60% compared to beforehand in any given year); HEFA has       been       particularly effective at engaging boys, with a 50/50 gender balance,       unlike other Aimhigher       summer schools which often attracted many more girls than boys (Contact       1).
Teaching staff       are equally enthusiastic, which leads schools to sustain their involvement       (Contact 2).
Two       have produced reports on the impact of HEFA on their students (e.g.
`Fakenham         High School         and College: Higher Education Field Academy 2012 Feedback/Impact Summary').
The impact       of the HEFA programme is also evident in its financial support from       organizations including       The European Social Fund (2008-2009), Aimhigher (2008-2011), HEFCE       (2009-2010) and       English Heritage (2008-2011).
Dr Lewis' HEFA-related research has also impacted on teaching within       schools.
In consultation       with exam boards and history teachers she developed a new module for GCSE       History (usable       within all three English exam boards) enabling pupils to study a historic       settlement near to their       school for the History Around Us module of SHP (School History       Project) GCSE.
This entails       in-class and outdoor learning, followed by a written assessment under exam       conditions, which       currently accounts for c. 25% of the total GCSE mark.
The new       module has been successfully       completed by 244 pupils.
Feedback shows that student "enjoyment of their       study of history has       been increased", while marking shows that "across all attainment levels,       student's Controlled       Assessment was their highest scoring unit within the GCSE" (Contact 3).
The HEFA model is also being expanded beyond schools.
Collaboration with       Cambridgeshire       charity Red2Green in 2012, for example, has enabled adults disadvantaged       by autistic       spectrum conditions to develop new skills while working in mixed groups       designed to       encourage improved community integration.
The success of HEFA has enabled       Dr Lewis to       expand her commitment to involving the public in medieval archaeological       research to other       contexts via her Access Cambridge Archaeology (ACA) archaeological       outreach unit (e.g.
the       Heritage Lottery funded Managing a Masterpiece project regarding       the heritage of the Stour       Valley) which is helping residents of many rural settlements enrich their       communities by       exploring the past together (Contact 4).
