     Discovering the existence of an almost totally unexplored archaeological       record of the history of the early settlement of Santiago Island has had       impact of clear reach and significance.
As all prior attention had focused       on the standing ruins in Cidade Velha, this discovery greatly influenced       the thinking of the Ministry of Culture of Cape Verde and resulted in the       overturning (in 2009) of a previous decision (in 1992) by the Bureau of       the World Heritage Committee to deny Cidade Velha inscription on UNESCO's       World Heritage List.
Discovery of the earliest church and other early       remains at Cidade Velha, as a result of S&#248;rensen and Evans' archaeological       excavations, was used in supporting documentation for the Ministry's new       and successful World Heritage Site bid, with the International Council on       Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) noting that "there is no doubt about the       authenticity of the monumental ruins and archaeological remains of Ribeira       Grande".
The impact of the Cambridge research is both implicitly and       explicitly acknowledged by UNESCO in their emphasis on continued       international cooperation and mention by the ICOMOS Advisory Body of       "Archaeological research ... inside the property, particularly in the       cathedral, in cooperation with the United Kingdom".
Archaeological training by Cambridge (from 2007 onward) also figured in       the initial WHS bid document, and two trainees have gone on to work in the       newly established World Heritage Office in Cidade Velha.
Given the success       of this initiative ICOMOS have recommended that the Management Committee       for the Cidade Velha site continue to "pay particular attention to the       competencies and training of the personnel directly in charge of the       property" - a priority which the Cambridge archaeologists are continuing       to support with on-going provision of training.
The Cambridge discoveries of buried ruins of important buildings have       significantly influenced the shape of the 2013-2017 Management Plan for       the Cidade Velha WHS drawn up by the Ministry of Culture, and they have       asked S&#248;rensen and Evans to act as advisers on its implementation.
Their       archaeological research and professional involvement have contributed       importantly to satisfying UNESCO's expectation of care for the       archaeological resource, as well as demonstrating the potential for       further enhancement of the town's historical significance and added value       in terms of tourism.
Thus the archaeological research and management plan       together offer the potential of sustainable local socio-economic       development.
As Cape Verde is an extremely poor country, the importance of developing       high-revenue, but low-impact, tourism is obvious.
Recognizing this       imperative, the mayor of Cidade Velha has now purchased land including the       earliest church with a view to full excavation and public display.
As a       direct result of Cidade Velha gaining World Heritage status, the town has       become a much more attractive tourism destination, and will thus be a       source of local employment and increased tourist revenues.
The value of       Cambridge's archaeological work for tourism is unambiguous, one example       being its inclusion in the 2011 edition of the Brandt Travel Guide       for Cape Verde.
