     David Beresford-Jones' postdoctoral research on the archaeology of the       south coast of Peru       informed and provided part of the scientific basis for a Defra-funded,       Darwin Initiative Project       (assisting countries rich in biodiversity but poor in financial resources       - like Peru - to meet       their biodiversity objectives) led by RBG: Habitat Restoration and         Sustainable Management of         Southern Peruvian Dry Forest.
This project (2006-2009), in which       Beresford-Jones was the       archaeobotanical collaborator, has had impact of major reach and       significance in the Ica       province (c. 300,000 population) in the areas of education,       environmental conservation and       habitat restoration between 2008 and the present.
In the area of education the natural heritage of the Ica Valley and its       intimate relation to the       long cultural heritage of the region are now part of the school curriculum       in Ica.
Policy 27.5 of       Peruvian government decree Resoluci&#243;n Supremo N&#186; 001-2007-ED       (January 2007) regarding       the National Education Project to 2021 calls for the "making [of]       permanent activities of       environmental education in the communities", with the objective of the       "promotion of healthy       ecosystems viable in the long term and sustainable development of the       community through       prevention, protection and restoration of the environment".
This policy       has been implemented       in the REF period with, for example, use of the school textbook Sembrando         un Futuro (co-       published in 2010 by the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and Borrador of Lima,       Peru) and the       initiation of annual huarango (Prosopis) festivals.
The latter,       attended annually by several       thousand people, include exhibitions about sustainable products, desert       ecology, local natural       history and biodiversity - in addition to music, theatre, storytelling and       competitions for poetry       and drawing.
In the campaign against deforestation, the work of Beresford-Jones on the       ecology and       cultural importance of the genus Prosopis contributed to the       latter's inclusion on the list of       endangered wild tree flora given statutory protection by the Peruvian       government in 2007       (Decreto Supremo N&#186; 043-2006-AG Annex 1).
It revokes all       permissions to make charcoal       from Prosopis trees, and explicitly prohibits their felling       for any purpose.
The long-term       impacts of the Cambridge research are becoming increasingly apparent in       conservation and       habitat restoration, particularly reforestation.
For example, a 513 ha       dry-forest reserve       (National Conservation Area) in Tunga, Nazca has been established enabled       by the       Resoluci&#243;n de Intendencia N&#186; 199-2007-INRENA-IFFS (5 September       2007), and tree-nursery       and habitat-restoration areas have been established under management       agreements with       major landowners (e.g.
Agrokasa S.A. fundo, 2008; Usaca, Nazca, 2008;       Lanchas, Pisco,       2010; Samaca, Ica, 2006-2010 with 3000 huarangos planted).
Authorization to conserve the 513 ha reserve was granted by the Peruvian       Government to the       NGO Asociaci&#243;n Civil Grupo Aves del Per&#250;.
The NGO is, together       with RBG, planting       huarango trees in the area and educating local families regarding the       negative environmental       and economic consequences derived from the felling of these trees.
Changes       in locals'       attitudes towards huarango-cutting are already being felt, as illustrated       by (1) an article in the       New York Times in November 2009 about these conservation and       education initiatives and       their underlying research, (2) a report in Correo in April 2011       that the Ica Tourism Police took       a coordinated response to stop charcoal production from huarango trees       around Villacuri, and       (3) the decision by a major local landowner to donate &#163;376,460 to match       the       French/Beresford-Jones Leverhulme Grant (2012-2015) so that they can       expand their work       on deforestation and aridification in the Ica River Valley system.
Changing local attitudes to deforestation remains an ongoing challenge,       but the growing local       awareness of the effects of reforestation is allowing many of the newly       planted trees to grow       undisturbed, giving rise to ever more visible evidence for the local       population of the long-term       economic benefits for them of significant dry-forest habitat restoration.
