     Dr Frowd's research has provided police with (i) a new facial-composite       system (EvoFIT), (ii) a new interview (H-CI) and (iii) two methods to       enhance recognition of finished composites (animated caricature and       stretched composite).
The research underlying this impact is       collaborative, in particular with Peter Hancock at Stirling (also       submitting an Impact Case Study to this UOA).
The contribution of research       underpinning the impact is roughly equal between UCLan and Stirling.
Commercial applications of EvoFIT       EvoFIT has been in regular police use since August 2007, first via police       field trials and then from 2009 as a commercial product managed by UCLan       Business Services Ltd. EvoFIT has been deployed for a range of crimes,       mostly serious (e.g., rape, burglary, murder), and there are many       documented cases of successc-g,j with two described below.
During the REF audit period, EvoFIT training has been delivered to 59       personnel in 13 police forces in the UK, Europe (Romania), the US (Boston       Police Department) and the Middle East (Israel)f. Biannual       workshops are run to provide police users with on-going training and       software updates.
Since the business started at UCLan in 2009, total       income from EvoFIT is &#163;106kf.
Frowd has orchestrated field trials of EvoFIT involving five police       forces and 29 police personnelj.
This involved Lancashire       (2007-2008) and Derbyshire (2008-2009) forces, and indicated that EvoFIT       directly led to the arrest of an offender in 26 out of 111 cases (23%)d.       In 2009-2010, using a research-improved version of EvoFIT for       Devon-and-Cornwall and Romania forces, the arrest rate was 36%d.
In 2010, the arrest rate was 60% in Humberside police using a       further-improved version of EvoFIT; in this audit, also involving involved       H-CI and caricature animation, the conviction rate was 29% of arrests, or       17% of all composites constructedj,k.
Since 2008, EvoFIT has       been used in 14 police forces and over 3,000 times in total with witnesses       and victims of crimef.
The first commercial version of EvoFIT was used in August 2007 (we       acknowledge that this case study straddles the assessment period, but       essentially relates to the current one).
EvoFIT was used to locate an       offender who attempted to indecently assault an 11 year old girl in       Blackpool.
In spite of an extensive search, seven days after the offence,       Lancashire police could not locate the offender and so an EvoFIT was       constructed by the victim.
The police took the composite to the park where       the crime occurred and two members of the public identified the face as a       local person, Ross Gleave.
In June 2008, Gleave received a seven-year       custodial sentence for the offenced.
In 2010, Greater Manchester Police were unable to locate a rapist who had       attacked at least two women in the south of the city.
An EvoFIT was       constructed with the most recent victim seven days after the attack.
The       composite was published in the media, and online using animated       caricature, and the face was identified by members of the public as local       shop- worker, Asim Javed.
He confessed to the crimes and was sentenced to       seven years in prisong.
Public appeals and Police training       Composites are shown to police officers and members of the public to       identifyg,h.
The research has shown that naming is       substantially improved when composites are seen with animated caricature       or as stretched images.
The former technique has been incorporated into       three commercial composite systems: PRO-fit, EFIT-V and EvoFITb,c,i.
Frowd has trained 40 composite-officers in nine police forces in the UK       and US on how to use caricaturing for PRO-fit, and 59 officers (14 forces)       for EvoFIT.
Instruction in the composite- stretch techniques have been       given to EvoFIT police users, plus officers from 13 forces attending a       forensic workshop in January 2013 at Leeds University.
Initial interview       Eyewitnesses are interviewed by police composite-officers, initially to       obtain a description of an offender's face, and then as part of face       construction.
The research indicates that the H- CI substantially improves       recognisability of a constructor's composite.
Dr Frowd has trained the       same police personnel as for animated caricature (above) to use the H-CIf.
Expertise       During the assessment period, and previously, Dr Frowd has been invited to       disseminate composite research findings at meetings of the expert network       group on facial identification (formerly, a working party of the       Association of Chief Police Officers).
He regularly appears in the media       to disseminate composite research and results of case studies (newspapers,       TV, local and national radio) - most recently on the One Show, Quest TV,       BBC Crimewatch and BBC Radio 4.
