     The research helped alleviate human-elephant conflict and promoted       tolerance of elephants in Laikipia, with long-term benefits for       biodiversity conservation.
Significant impacts transcend the project area.
Policies derived from the research have been adopted at national level in       Kenya; and impacts have reached internationally into other countries in       the region.
Specific impacts include:     1) Changed farm-based conservation practice and reduced incidence           of crop-raiding     The farm-based methods to reduce crop raiding on smallholder farms,       identified and trialled by the research, were promoted by the Laikipia       Elephant Project and adopted widely in Laikipia (Section 5, Source 1).
The       effectiveness of the research was shown by a reduction in elephant crop       raiding from its previous level (3640 incidents, October 2006 - September       2007) to 1646 incidents (October 2008 &#8212; September 2009) (see 3 (ii) and       (iii)).
The Wildlife Conservation Strategy for Laikipia County         2012&#8212;2030 (see 5.2) states that `these methods [chilli fences, loud       noise makers, watchtowers with spotlights, chilli smoke] are likely to       grow in importance in Laikipia in areas not supported by the presence of       an effective electric fence' (p. 49).
2) New strategies for community engagement     The Vice Chairman of the Laikipia Wildlife Forum (LWF) has confirmed that       the research `was critical in showing that community engagement is the       secret of success to lowering human/elephant conflict' (see 5.6).
The       team's development of community drama proved highly effective as a means       of maximising research impact.
The Wildlife Conservation Strategy for         Laikipia County 2012-2030 (see 5.2) states that: `[e]xperience of       the use of plays in human-wildlife conflict management efforts in Laikipia       has been extremely promising' (pp.
49-50); and that `Laikipia could       benefit from its continued use, both in assisting with community       involvement in human-wildlife management and with broader conservation       challenges' (p. 50).
The interactive character of the drama is central to       its success: one actor commented `the drama has a lot of influence,       because it is just like talking in action' (see 5.8, 1:40).
Other ways of       involving the community, such as good information flow, joint data       collection, rapid response teams, and the `particularly innovative' use of       mobile phones were also noted for their effectiveness by the Vice Chairman       of LWF (see 5.6).
a.
Making a chilli fence to deter elephants   b. Banger Stick Training      3) New approaches to human-elephant conflict mitigation -           the West Laikipia Fence      The research (see 3 (iv, v and vi)) was directly employed by the       Laikipia Wildlife Forum in the design and implementation of the 84km       electric fence constructed in 2009 to separate the elephant range from       areas of intensive smallholder agriculture.
According to the Vice Chairman       of LWF, the research `was fundamental to the approaches LWF now takes in       relation to the West Laikipia Fence' (see 5.6).
Innovations flowing from       its findings since 2008 include:     i.
Local adoption of methods (developed and tested by the research) for       the effective design, maintenance and management of electrified fences to       deter elephants;     ii.
Creation of a network of community scouts to collect systematic data       on fence breakages and voltage;     iii.
Adoption among local scouts and wildlife managers of a protocol for       using mobile phone text messages for early warning of incidents of       human-elephant conflict;     iv.
Deployment of mobile rapid response teams to scare elephants away       from electrified fences and/or crops in response to early warning text       messages;     v. Identification and monitoring of persistent fence-breaking elephants       by a trained elephant researcher to enable informed management action to       take place;     vi.
Enhancement of local capacity to manage fences through creation of       local fence management committees (comprising farmers, government       officials and ranch managers) and a human-elephant conflict management       committee comprised of the Kenya Wildlife Service, the Laikipia Wildlife       Forum and the Ol Pejeta Conservancy.
The nature and success of the work of the Laikipia Wildlife Forum and the       Laikipia Elephant Project are shown in sources 5.3 and 5.5.
4) Creation and subsequent work of a non-governmental           organisation, Space for Giants     After completion of the research, Graham founded Space for Giants       (2010), a charity registered in Kenya and the UK (no: 1139771), and       governed by a volunteer Board of Trustees (see 5.3).
The current Chairman       writes that the charity, "tackle[s] elephant conservation by directly       applying the findings of the research done by the Cambridge team" (see       5.9).
Applications include:     i. mitigating conflict &#8212; working with stakeholder communities along the       West Laikipia Fence to identify and solve problems of fence and elephant       management;     ii.
securing space &#8212; working with large landholders on innovative       collaborative land management institutions;     iii.
training, using the grassroots drama pioneered during the research;     iv.
preventing the illegal killing of elephants through a network of       community scouts, organised and collecting data using the protocols       developed during the research.
5) Adoption of research findings nationally and           internationally     The reach of the research impact has been secured and extended in a       number of ways, e.g:     i.
In 2009, the project team contributed to a national workshop run by       the Kenya Wildlife Service, a government agency, to discuss a new Conservation         and Management Strategy for the Elephant in Kenya 2012-2021 (see       5.4).
The Workshop fed the research on elephant movement, crop raiding and       conflict management into strategic thinking by the Wildlife Service about       the survival of elephants outside protected areas.
The Strategy       adopted the project's findings on crop deterrence in proposing Action       4.2.4 &#8212; `[t]rial deterrents (disturbance methods, watch towers, fires,       chilli fences, beehive fences, innovative technologies) to determine       potential effectiveness in different sites' &#8212; to address Target 4.2:       `Protection from elephant damage of crops and property on the boundaries       of elephant distribution range significantly improved'.
It also took up       the recommendations on training in adopting action 4.5.1: `Develop and       implement HEC [human-elephant conflict] training program (including       conflict resolution, community engagement and [problem animal control])'.
ii.
As well as adopting its findings in Laikipia, the Kenyan Wildlife       Service `has applied the results of [the] research ... nationally and       internationally' (Assistant Director, Mountain Conservation Area, Kenya       Wildlife Service &#8212; see 5.7).
This wider reach was facilitated, for       example, by a training workshop on human-elephant conflict mitigation in       East Africa (2009) run by Graham for the Kenya Wildlife Service.
The Workshop brought wildlife managers from across East Africa &#8212; Kenya,       Tanzania, Uganda and Southern Sudan &#8212; to review the experiences of the       Darwin Project team and consider applications of the research in different       contexts.
Delegates heard scientific presentations from Graham, Ochieng       and Adams and took part in a performance of a play written by the project       team and performed widely within local communities.
The Kenyan         Conservation and Management Strategy for the Elephant reflected the       importance of this international outreach, especially in relation to       transfrontier arrangements.
It noted, for example, the need to work with       neighbouring countries in pursuit of `coordinated approaches' on human-       elephant conflict and community-based natural resource management:       `Inter-governmental organisations should promote more inter-regional       dialogue and collaboration' (see 5.4, p. 18).
