     The Ukwazana HIV-prevention scheme was the first programme of its kind in       Africa, and the first to commit to long-term engagement with township MSM,       whereby the men themselves helped steer the course of HIV community       interventions.
Tucker's Fellowship and Anova Research Project had direct       impact on the ways in which the Anova Health Institute, through their       Health4Men subsidiary project in the Cape Town townships, designed,       structured and implemented the Ukwazana Programme.
Tucker's involvement as       a Consultant for the Anova Health Project enabled his research findings to       directly shape how the Ukwazana programme developed and functioned.
In       particular, it was as a result of the projects outlined in Section 2, that       Ukwazana focused heavily on MSM community engagement and empowerment, and       on the need to address social and psycho- social factors associated with       sexual risk-taking behaviour among township MSM.
The Ukwazana Programme's       interventions, exemplified below, clearly illustrate the impact of Dr       Tucker's research:     1.
Reflexive engagement.
Research during the Fellowship       had highlighted the need to move away from more traditional and       unsuccessful didactic methods of interfacing with township MSM, which did       not consider the specific needs of this group.
The Ukwazana programme       therefore had to involve continual evaluation of the programme itself by       township MSM.
As such the programme was focused on a reflexive engagement       with those it was tasked to assist.
This established a nuanced means of       engaging with outreach volunteers and those who attended various       activities associated with the programme.
In showing how volunteers came       to understand their engagement with Ukwazana, research in the Anova       Project helped shape the approach of programme facilitators in working       with the community.
It led directly, for example, to the decision to       implement specific training and workshops for volunteers and the wider       township community of MSM.
Glenn de Swardt, Programme Manager Health4Men       writes `the way the program engaged with and developed collaborative       working relationships with volunteer outreach workers was impacted upon by       the research Dr Tucker undertook' (see 5.1, and Plate 1).
Plate 1.
Tucker with Ukwazana Volunteer outreach workers at Shebeen event 		       2.
Psycho-social intervention.
Ukwazana also broke new       ground in Africa in attempting to engage directly with the social and       psycho-social issues that affected the likelihood of MSM engaging in       safer-sexual practices.
This approach was adopted as a direct result of       Tucker's research for the Fellowship and the Anova Project, which       highlighted the under-appreciation of such factors in HIV prevention for       black African MSM.
As confirmed by the Manager of the Health Project: `the       decision to focus on challenging factors such as depression, homoprejudice       and a lack of self-efficacy through the programme emerged from Dr Tucker's       research' (see 5.1).
Ukwazana targeted venues such as township `shebeens'       (informal taverns), which, although frequented by township MSM, were also       known as spaces of sporadic homophobic violence.
Ukwazana identified 30       such shebeens and targeted these to make them more `MSM friendly'.
Key       activities included Ukwazana `launch events' where outreach workers from       Health4Men presented the Ukwazana programme to the community through an       evening of engagement activities.
The outreach coordinator at Health4Men       estimated that approximately 1,700 community members participated in these       launches.
Additionally, in an attempt to increase MSM community solidarity       &#8212; a form of social capital - and promote a positive image of MSM to the       wider community to help mitigate against homophobia, MSM were involved in       a number of `good causes' events termed `Men of Action'.
These included       cleaning up areas of the townships and distributing food to other       disadvantaged groups (see Plate 2).
A series of workshops also took place,       offering a safe space where township MSM would not simply be informed of       the need to engage in safer-sex but would also be able to discuss issues       such as homophobia, depression and a lack of self-efficacy in terms of       safer-sex.
All of this constituted a significant, novel approach, derived       directly from the underpinning research.
Plate 2 Men of Action event 	     3.
Innovative messaging products.
In addition to the       community activities outlined above, Ukwazana developed diverse messaging       products specifically as a result of the Anova Project.
Issues addressed       in this context included homophobic discrimination, low self-efficacy       (linked for example, to alcohol use and transactional sex) and the need to       engage in safer-sex.
Eighteen posters were designed in collaboration with       volunteer outreach workers and displayed in locations such as shebeens,       police stations and clinics across the townships of the city.
Similar       messaging regarding psycho-social concerns was also designed into drinks       coasters, 10,000 of which were disseminated to shebeens and placed on       trains.
Patrons and passengers were encouraged to take coasters home.
Adverts also appeared regularly in the two main community newspapers (Vukani       and City Vision &#8212; combined distribution 500,000 per week),       highlighting forthcoming events such as Men of Action events and       workshops, and including a poster from the poster campaign.
Posters were       also used as the basis for billboards (see Plate 3).
Health4Men's paid       outreach workers periodically featured on the main local township radio       station, Radio Zibonele, highlighting the core aims of the       Ukwazana programme (weekly listenership of 50,000).
Plate 3.
Ukwazana billboard (6m x 3m) placed at the main Khayelitsha       taxi-rank (July 2012 &#8212; to date).
Khayelitsha is the largest township in       Cape Town, population 400,000.
Source: Glenn de Swardt, Manager,       Health4Men.
It is indicative of the efficacy of the programme, and of the       significance and reach of the impact of the research, that the Anova       Health Institute subsequently duplicated it in four other provinces across       South Africa (Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Limpopo and North West), starting in       2011.
Given the recent timing of the interventions in Cape Town and other       provinces, it is premature to measure the impact of the Ukwazana       programme in terms of the number of lives saved or transformed sexual       practices, but the very fact that Anova decided to replicate the programme       is an indicator of the social receptivity and relevance of the       interventions.
In summary, as Helen Struthers, Chief Operating Officer of Anova,       observes, `Over several years Dr Tucker, in conjunction with the       Health4Men team in Cape Town, helped to create a variety of ways to       positively and sustainably impact on the lives of MSM.
Dr Tucker's       research also influenced the ways in which Health4Men engaged with and       worked with volunteer outreach workers' (see 5.2).
These interventions,       sensitively fashioned through iterative collaborations between a       researcher, practitioners, and activists, helped shape the development of       an innovative and unique approach to HIV prevention for one of the most at       risk groups in Africa.
