     A major impact of the Dowdeswell group's unique depth measurements is       through their incorporation into new, widely used navigational charts.
These swath-bathymetric data were calibrated and processed in Cambridge       after each geophysical cruise (e.g.
Dowdeswell et al., 2006), released to       the UK Hydrographic Office, and incorporated in their official       navigational charts of the polar oceans.
These bathymetric data have had a       particularly significant navigational impact in isolated parts of the       polar seas, where the lack of depth data is a serious hazard to shipping       (see 5.1).
The wide reach of the data is through its use for safe       navigation by ships operating in the polar seas (e.g.
c. 30,000       international cruise-ship visitors to Antarctica each year).
In addition,       the Arctic bathymetric data have been incorporated into the International       Bathymetric Chart of the Arctic Ocean (with Dowdeswell invited as       editorial board member - see 5.2).
This is the definitive regional       bathymetry for the Arctic Ocean and is used widely by governments (e.g.
for questions concerning the Law of the Sea and associated economic zone       claims) and industry (e.g.
for exploration of these hostile waters and       regional base maps for detailed seismic surveys).
The UK National       Hydrographer commented (see 5.1): `Many of the areas you have surveyed,       especially around the Antarctic and Greenland, were hitherto unknown or       very poorly mapped.
Your data are, therefore, a vital contribution to the       safety of navigation.'
A major hazard to navigation in the polar seas is presented by icebergs.
In addition, the below-water keels of the largest icebergs from the       Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets can extend downward about 500 m       (Dowdeswell and Bamber, 2007), implying that sea-floor engineering       structures (cables, pipelines) are also at risk when these keels contact       and plough through the soft sediments of the sea floor.
Dowdeswell has       been commissioned by industry to assess iceberg hazard in the Arctic seas       because of his unique previous observational work on the dimensions and       keel depths of icebergs (Dowdeswell and Bamber, 2007).
This has included a       series of quantitative reports on modern iceberg size-frequency       distributions using digital satellite data and numerical-model predictions       of iceberg delivery rates and how the flux of icebergs may change over the       coming century.
These reports (e.g.
see 5.3) have been delivered to Eni       and to a consortium of hydrocarbons companies.
Industry has used these       reports to assess the hazards and viability of exploration for, and       extraction of, hydrocarbons from the Arctic seas, and as part of their       decision-making process in terms of whether to bid for specific blocks in       ice-infested waters.
The Vice-President for Exploration of Eni (9th       largest oil producer in the World) commented: `Your work on iceberg flux       and drift has been particularly critical given its tremendous impact on       our ability to conduct offshore operations safely in this remote Arctic       area' (see 5.4).
Dowdeswell's unique high-latitude work, on the internal architecture and       sedimentology of continental shelves across which major Quaternary ice       sheets have grown and decayed (e.g.
Dowdeswell et al., 2004, 2006, 2007),       is distinctive and important to the hydrocarbons industry, because       traditional industry models of sedimentary basins are derived from       fluvial/deltaic systems and not from glacial systems.
Industry is using       these basin-scale models of polar continental shelves, derived from the       bathymetric, acoustic and sedimentary evidence acquired from shipborne       work in the Arctic and Antarctic (Section 2).
These models, of both       glacial landforms and landform assemblages, indicate the process       environment under which debris was deposited, and also the geometry and       structure of specific sedimentary landforms (Dowdeswell et al., 2008;       Dowdeswell and Fugelli, 2012).
The detailed description and understanding       of, for example, glacial depositional features such as grounding-zone       wedges, from modern and Quaternary Arctic shelves, has led directly to       applications to ancient glacial sediments proven to contain large       quantities of oil and gas.
These ancient rocks are the subject of continuing exploration and       exploitation by the hydrocarbons industry.
Industry needs to know the       sedimentary and seismic geometry, or architecture, of these ice-sheet       influenced rocks so that companies can understand, model and then drill       into the most productive oil and gas traps, which are generally associated       with sorted sand and gravel sediments.
Typical examples are the 450       million year old rocks of Northern Africa and Arabia, deposited when the       area was in a polar position due to plate wandering.
The Quaternary work       by Dowdeswell and colleagues (e.g.
Dowdeswell et al., 2004, 2007, 2008;       Dowdeswell and Fugelli, 2012) has led directly to: i) the identification       of features of similar dimensions and internal structure in the Late       Ordovician glacial rocks of BP's Algerian blocks and Eni's Libyan assets;       ii) the location of high-amplitude seismic reflectors in industry's 3-D       seismic data; iii) the interpretation of these reflectors as likely sandy       sediments by analogy with our Quaternary examples from the Greenland shelf       and, significantly, iv) to specific decisions on the choice of drilling       sites for wells.
Eni's Vice-President for Exploration commented (see 5.4)       that this work: `has been used to understand glacial depositional systems       and, specifically, to identify sorted sandy sediments (significant as oil       and gas traps) in the hydrocarbon-bearing 450 Myr old glacial rocks of       North Africa' (see 5.4).
The impact of our research has been secured through: i) a series of       confidential reports to industry (e.g.
see 5.3); ii) workshops and       seminars on, for example, the interpretation of sediment cores from       glacial environments (e.g.
see 5.5), delivered to groups of       hydrocarbons-industry personnel at research centres such as BP Sunbury       (8/10, 10/10, 8/12, 3/13), Calgary (6/11) and Stavanger (7/11), and       through visits to Cambridge University by, for example, the Arctic group       of Eni (3/10, 10/10, 10/11, 3/12, 4/13, 10/13); iii) working directly with       industry in their seismic-processing laboratories in London, Norway and       Canada in order to investigate and analyse specific seismic interpretation       problems involving the Canadian Beaufort, Greenland and Norwegian       continental shelves; iv) papers in the scientific literature which,       published after a contractually agreed period in confidence to specific       industrial sponsors with whom we have worked (and often co-written with       industry scientists; e.g.
Dowdeswell et al., 2007; Dowdeswell and Fugelli,       2012), are a further important means of dissemination to the wider       industrial community (Section 3).
The extensive knowledge-base derived by Dowdeswell and co-workers from       data acquired on modern and Quaternary polar shelves, where the processes       of sediment delivery and deposition from ice sheets can be best       understood, is therefore of key significance to industry.
The Norwegian       margin group at BP (6th largest oil producer in the World)       noted (see 5.6) the potential for `an important transfer of knowledge to       BP, in that the Scott Polar Research Institute has detailed expertise in       modern and Quaternary patterns and processes of glacial deposition in       marine settings which is important to BP's evolving understanding of       ice-sheet sedimentary systems.'
More recently, the Vice-President for       Exploration of Eni wrote (see 5.4): `Your work has been of particular       value in reducing exploration risk and in improving hydrocarbon recovery       in some of our largest North African oilfields.'
