     The Polar Museum, which reopened in 2010 after a &#163;1.8M refurbishment       supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund and charitable trusts, has been       redesigned around the range of SPRI research activities to communicate       both the distinctiveness and the holism of the polar regions (e.g.
the       symbiotic relationship between indigenous Arctic peoples and the       ecosystems they live in).
Since then it has welcomed about 50,000 visitors       each year (recorded by calibrated foot-fall counter according to standard       museum practice), compared with 6-7,000 annual visits before the redesign.
The museum's interpretation plan has at its core the use of the Museum to       deliver SPRI's research findings to a general audience in ways that are       accessible and engaging.
Impact has been achieved through use of       research-based material in museum displays and interactive resources and       by direct engagement with the public.
To make SPRI's academic work accessible to a general audience,       researchers contributed material to the redesigned Museum as physical       exhibits and captions, as text and illustrations for interactive touch       screens in the Ice and Climate gallery, and verbally for audio-guides.
Within the redesigned spaces, artefacts and text panels illustrate the       significance of shamanism for Arctic reindeer herders and also show       materials and techniques used to make clothing, food containers, reindeer       harnesses and sleds; such techniques have been observed and documented       through the detailed field research of Vitebsky (Section 2A).
Museum displays show radar equipment and explain how the method works, and       interactive screens provide explanations of the significance of ice-sheet       mass loss for global sea level (Section 2B).
The methods used to acquire       sediment cores, ocean temperature and salinity data are shown on       interactive screens: e.g., coring and water sampling and the deployment of       autonomous underwater vehicles (Section 2C).
The wider significance of       such evidence for understanding ice-sheet history, iceberg melt rates and       sea-level change is explained in displays (Section 2C).
Ships' logs from       19thC exploration of the Canadian Arctic provide key scientific       context for the notorious failure of Sir John Franklin's search for the       Northwest Passage (1845-47) (Section 2D).
The Head of the Polar Regions       Dept.
at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) comments (see 5.1):       `one area where the new museum is very strong, and innovatively so, is the       use of primary research in the well thought-out displays on ice and the       polar environment in a warming world'.
The Polar Museum was shortlisted for the prestigious Art Fund Prize for       Museum of the Year in 2011 and for European Museum of the Year in 2012.
Michael Portillo, Chair of Judges for the Art Fund Prize, comments (see       5.2): `The imaginative and comprehensive renovation has transformed both       the way the unique collections are presented, and the museum's       relationship with its audiences.'
The formal citation of the European       Award Committee states (see 5.3): `The innovative approach is to link       displays on polar exploration with climate-change issues.'
Positive visitor feedback, both written and informal, is indicative of       the impact of the museum's research-based displays (see 5.4).
Comments       include: `Excellent presentation.
Attention to modern research very       interesting'; `I think the museum gave me a good insight into climate       change.'
The interactive screens have proved popular across a wide age       range, and are particularly well used by one of our main target audiences;       young people aged 12-16.
Books written for an informed general audience       and based on staff research are also sold in the Museum Shop (e.g.
Reindeer         People (2005) by Vitebsky and Islands of the Arctic       (2002) by Dowdeswell and Hambrey; global sales of 27,100 and       5,300, respectively, and translation of Reindeer People into       several languages, indicate wide international reach).
School visits are a major strand of learning provision for the museum.
There were 138 formal school visits during 2012 across all key stages,       with a total of over 4,500 children.
Nearly 1,500 of these pupils received       dedicated outreach sessions.
Feedback from teachers demonstrates that the       museum, through the research it projects, has developed a reputation for       high-quality communication of research to school groups.
In addition,       `Cool Club' holiday sessions (ten in 2012) enable children aged 7-12 to       interact directly with researchers and to learn about their work; Hogan,         Mugford and Rees have taken part.
Projecting this innovation       widely to other educators, Cool Club was the subject of a recent article       by SPRI's Education Officer (Weeks, S., 2012.
Polar science is cool.
Primary         Science, 125, 27-29).
The Chair of the UK Antarctic Heritage Trust       comments (see 5.5): `The way that you have integrated the contemporary       scientific work of the Institute into your education programme and museum       displays provides a compelling link that clearly captures the imagination       of young people.
The return visits from a number of schools are a clear       demonstration of the impact of your educational programme and its value to       teachers'.
Science Week and Festival of Science are also a key part       of Museum activity.
Over 1,100 visitors came to the museum on the Saturday       of 2012 Science Week alone.
SPRI scientists communicated their research       directly; demonstrations included melting of ice and water-level rise, and       the operation of low-power radars.
In addition, 290 further and higher       education students visited in the year from 6/2011, and University of the       Third Age (U3A) activities also take place regularly (see 5.4),       demonstrating that the impact of SPRI research through the museum has       considerable reach across the generations.
The Director of the British       Antarctic Survey writes (see 5.6): `The very varied groups, from UK and       abroad, which comprise the 40-50,000 visitors to the museum each year       enable wide reach for your research findings'.
The comprehensive documentary collection in the SPRI Library and Archive       is used to inform and illustrate SPRI research and museum exhibits.
It is       also utilised by Institute staff and is open freely to allow its research       outputs to inform the work of external scholars writing more generally on       the history and scientific findings of polar exploration (e.g.
Dowdeswell et al., 2012, Scott of the Antarctic, Raintree,       for Key Stage 1 children; 3,422 sold by June 2013).
SPRI research projected through the Museum.
EC President Barroso and HRH       the Duke of Edinburgh hear about ice and climate change from Dowdeswell.
Right: a member of SPRI's `Cool Club' holds up a model he has made of       Antarctica's bedrock after learning about ice-penetrating radar.
Dowdeswell as SPRI Director also uses the research-based displays       in the Polar Museum to inform distinguished and influential visitors about       the wider environmental significance of the polar regions during private       tours, including: politicians (President Barroso of the European       Commission, UK ministers David Willets and Henry Bellingham); members of       the UK and other Royal Families (HRHs the Duke of Edinburgh, the Princess       Royal, Prince William and Prince Harry, HSH the Prince of Monaco); and       leaders of industry in the UK and internationally (through the Judge       Business School).
Dowdeswell has twice spoken by invitation to MPs       and Peers in the Westminster on these issues (3/08 and 11/12).
The Head of       the Polar Regions Dept, FCO, writes (see 5.1): `I note, too, how you have       used the museum displays to engage, and indeed educate, important national       and international figures about the significance of environmental changes       at the Poles for the policies of lower-latitude countries'.
Secondary outreach for SPRI research staff includes substantial media       coverage in UK and overseas broadsheet newspapers (e.g.
Guardian,       Telegraph, Independent, NYT; see 5.7), BBC Online, television and radio       (e.g.
Dowdeswell on Radio 4 In Our Time (6/10) about his       Antarctic research).
The Polar Museum is a regular venue for filming and       recording of news items about polar history and significant contemporary       polar science issues, providing further international reach for the       research of SPRI staff.
