     The path to impact has throughout involved a form of Mode 2 research (cf       Re-thinking Science by Nowotny et al.
2001, Polity) in which       researchers work with stakeholders to address 'real-world problems'.
In       this mode, relationships of knowledge, policy and practice involve       iteration amongst user communities and scientists, so that 'impact'       becomes intimately bound up with research.
Richards and Hughes       worked iteratively with stakeholders throughout.
The EA member of the       Workshop group (Section 2) helped embed restoration objectives in UK flood       risk policy (2004-9; see sub-section (ii) below); and Richards       (2000-11) and Hughes (2004-09) participated in institutions       responsible for enacting and implementing related policy (sub-section (ii)       below), promoting the science leading to enhancement of river and       floodplain environments.
This form of engagement has occurred at regional, national and       international scales, leading to impacts with varying reach and       significance.
(i) Guidance for policy makers and river managers     The Flooded Forest, the guidance document produced through WP1 of       the FLOBAR2 project (Section 3e) was co-designed with Workshop stakeholder       participants (section 2), and written by the research team.
The pdf       version has been downloaded over 9,000 times since 2004, and almost 3,000       times since 2008 (web-site data), with printed copies also distributed to       the EA, SEPA and SNH, and many conservation bodies in the UK and Europe,       at their request.
FLOBAR2 and The Flooded Forest were designed to support       implementation of the WFD (and Dr H. Barth, the project's EC DGXII Senior       Scientific Officer, confirms this intention).
Mark Diamond (Ecosystems       Manager, EA) found FLOBAR2 "inspirational", and EA staff distributed The         Flooded Forest to those involved in WFD compliance and restoration;       Ann Skinner (EA Senior Conservation Advisor), has stated: "I found The         Flooded Forest to be an enormously interesting and helpful       publication and I made sure all our Area teams were aware of it in support       of the ongoing Wetland Vision project".
Section 5(i) provides evidence of       the pathway to impact resulting from the guidance document and its       dissemination by the EA, in one subsequent example.
First, Fran Southgate       (Sussex Wildife Trust) notes "its value in supporting a variety of work on       the restoration of floodplain woodlands in Sussex"; and Sandra       Manning-Jones (Trees on the River Uck Project Officer) then provides       evidence of its use in a project to plant trees on and adjacent to the       floodplain of the River Uck in Sussex to create wet woodland for joint       benefits of biodiversity and flood alleviation.
This began in May 2012,       and is on-going.
(ii) Flood risk management and the Catchment Flood           Management Plan (CFMP)     The "win-win" potential of floodplain restoration for flood risk and       biodiversity management, in suitable locations, is evident in the       strategic Policy Option "6" (PO6) enshrined in EA CFMPs.
This policy is       adopted: "..where we [EA] will take action with others to store water or       manage run-off in locations that provide overall flood risk reduction         or environmental benefits."
Richards was appointed successively to the EA Great Ouse Local       Flood Defence Committee (FDC), the Anglian (Central) Regional FDC, and the       Anglian Central Regional Flood &amp; Coastal Committee (2000-11).
Over       this period he actively supported the joint benefit of restoring natural       floodplain function for flood risk management and biodiversity gain,       through selection of PO6 where possible in the Great Ouse CFMP (published       in 2011), and as the Regional FDC's representative on the CFMP Steering       Group.
PO6 is adopted along the Great Ouse River Corridor from Buckingham       to Godmanchester, excluding the urban area of Bedford.
This impact is       validated in Section 5(ii) by Stephen Wheatley, the Regional FDC Chair,       who observes: "..you were able to draw upon your research.. to       successfully influence the adoption of a policy to restore floodplain and       improve habitats for a large part of the Great Ouse River Corridor."
This direct engagement was matched by Hughes, who Chaired the       National Trust's Wicken Fen Management Committee (2004-09) when its vision       for expansion began to be realised through acquisition of land to       re-naturalise a large area of the southern Fenland.
This work was an       impact of the research in section 2, and has generated additional,       co-produced research and impact reported in an impact case study in an       Anglia Ruskin University REF submission.
(iii) Common approaches to river quality assessment           (NS-Share)     Richards and Horn acted as consultants to the NS-Share       project (2004-2008) that developed common standards for implementing the       WFD in the trans-boundary rivers of Northern Ireland and the Republic.
Their proposed methodology for monitoring the hydro-morphology of rivers       and floodplains adapted aspects of the US EPA Rapid BioAssessment       Protocols, and field methods complementary to those of the River Habitats       Survey, to create a novel rapid assessment protocol (see Section 5(iii)).
A continuing co-production of scientific impact then led to field testing       and refinement of this "River Hydromorphology Assessment Technique", which       still follows the framework proposed in the NS-Share project, and       underpins the all-Ireland assessment methodology currently used for WFD       compliance both pre- and post-restoration.
Mary Toland, Hydromorphologist at the NI Environment Agency states:       "..the method you developed in the NS-Share project provides the framework       for the all-Ireland assessment method for river hydromorphology for (WFD)       reporting, and for both pre- and post-restoration monitoring... it is a       recognised method also by Rivers Agency and the Office of Public Works who       carry out flood prevention works in both the North and the South of       Ireland."
(see Section 5(iii).)
(iv) International learning: Europe and China     Richards has run four international workshops on River Basin       Governance (RiBaGo; 2009-12), with a diverse range of academic and       practitioner partners from Europe and China.
This has acted as a forum for       discussion of European (WFD) policies and practices for monitoring the       hydromorphology and water quality of freshwater bodies, particularly in       the context of Chinese interest in developing similar methods.
Workshops       have brought together members of European River Basin Commissions with       counterparts in China (the Pearl and Yellow River Commission) to exchange       views.
These have complemented the activities of the EU-China River Basin       Management Programme (RBMP), an EU-funded exchange programme; and a       researcher (Andre Silveira; Cambridge, Geography) supervised by Richards       has acted as rapporteur for the formal international exchanges.
The       contribution of the RiBaGo project to the EU-China RBMP is formalised in       three of the Programme's internal papers, two of which are Reports on EU       Missions to Chinese River Basin Commissions (see Section 5(iv)).
China's Ministry of Water Resources has developed guidelines on       "Indicators, Standards and Methods for River Health Assessment" (2010),       and is now testing these.
Richards supervises participation in       these tests by Mao Feng (Cambridge, Geography).
An international learning       process has thus developed from FLOBAR2, and continues its interaction of       research, policy and impact.
Simon Spooner, Technical Director, EU-China       RBMP states that: "..ecological surveying in river health assessments has       now been adopted as national policy in China to be implemented in all       river basins by 2016, RBMP and RiBaGo were a part of building the momentum       behind this decision."
There has been "..direct influence to the policy       and international cooperation process so enabling the research to have       real and positive impact."
(see Section 5(iv)).
