     EPPE has influenced government policy on pre-school education and has       informed policy efforts to improve pre-school quality, including staff       training.
Early years provision has increased dramatically in the last       thirteen years, and funding for the most disadvantaged children has become       a priority.
The government commitment in 2004 to provide all 3 and 4 year       olds with free entitlement to nursery education for up to six terms       (doubling the annual cost of nursery provision to &#163;2.6b) was heavily       influenced by multiple EPPE reports for DfE, which showed that pre-school       education had sustained impact on attainment.
This policy change has       continued to affect over 600,000 children in each year group during the       current assessment period.
Since 2008, results from EPPE have directly influenced policy decisions       on poverty, early years and primary education.
Melhuish gave evidence on       early years provision to Treasury Minister Danny Alexander (August, 2010),       when the Treasury were undertaking a comprehensive spending review.
Early       years provision was relatively protected from cuts, with the free early       education offer to 3-year-olds being maintained.
Melhuish also gave       evidence on the benefits of extending the free early education offer to       2-year-olds in disadvantaged families to Nick Clegg (Deputy PM), Michael       Gove, and Sarah Teather (DfE) in May 2012.
He provided input to government       reviews, featuring prominently in the Field (2010), Allen (2011), and       Tickell (2011) reviews (sources S1-S3).
In these government reviews, the       skills gap between rich and poor children in the early years was       identified as a key problem.
The finding from EPPE research that early       education starting from 2 years of age can have long term benefits was       cited as empirical evidence that early years provision can help to reduce       this gap.
Results from EPPE also featured prominently in another       government report `Opening Doors, Breaking Barriers' (2011, source S4).
In       this report, EPPE's findings that good quality early education is       particularly beneficial for the most disadvantaged children, with benefits       still visible at age 11, was discussed as demonstrating that long-term       outcomes are obtainable from investment in pre-school.
As a consequence of the EPPE findings of long-term benefits of very early       educational provisions described in these government reviews, government       policy was changed to extend free early years provision for disadvantaged       children.
In 2012, the government announced free early education for the       20% most disadvantaged 2 year olds from September 2013 (around 120,000       children in England) and this will be extended to the 40% most       disadvantaged (240,000 in England) from September 2014.
EPPE's findings that increasing the number of higher qualified degree       level staff results in a richer learning environment and produces       sustained beneficial effects, in particular for the most disadvantaged       children, also affected government policy.
These findings featured       prominently in the Early Years Evidence Pack (2008, source S5) published       by DfE on training staff to a higher level, in order to improve child       outcomes, highlighting early years staff qualifications as a driver of       quality.
Referring to EPPE, a guidance document by OFSTED (`The impact of       the Early Years Foundation Stage', 2011, source S6) underlined the       importance of good staff qualifications, and recommended that local       authorities should target staff training to improve the quality of       provision.
This finding featured in the Nutbrown Review of early education       and childcare qualifications (2012, source S7), which made 19       recommendations towards improving quality of care and training for staff       in early years, including having a qualified teacher working with       pre-school children as a curriculum lead (found to be particularly useful       in EPPE).
In a recent speech (January 2013, source S8), Children's       Minister Elizabeth Truss recommended a Nursery Nurse Diploma with improved       level 3 qualifications.
She supported this view by referring to EPPE       findings that children make better progress where trained teachers were       present.
Melhuish is a regular contributor to international reports.
A World       Health Organisation (WHO) report on mental health, resilience, and       inequalities (2009, source S9) underlined the importance of EPPE's finding       that the quality of the home learning environment is more influential than       traditional measures of disadvantage such as parental socioeconomic status       and education.
An OECD report on early childhood education and care (2009,       source S10) referred to EPPE as a good example of longitudinal large-scale       programme evaluation research.
Melhuish gave a keynote address on early       intervention at the European Union conference (2011).
He was the research       advisor to the EU Delegation on Early Years Policy (2011), and is a       consultant for the OECD, WHO, European Commission, and the European Social       Network.
