     Policy development for clinical trials     The portfolio of sustained research activity has facilitated the building       of relationships with regulatory bodies, professional societies, user       groups and industry (e.g.
European Medicines Agency, European Cystic       Fibrosis Society, UK Cystic Fibrosis Advocacy Service, Corporate       Translations Inc.).
This has led to Abbott's expertise in quality of life       measurement being in demand.
Abbott has been invited to participate in       continuous contributions to the UK Cystic Fibrosis Trust (Clinical Trials       Advisory Group) and the European Cystic Fibrosis Society (Scientific       committee 2009-date).
Programmes of longitudinal research have       subsequently highlighted the importance of HRQoL measurement and allowing       service users a voice in their healthcare5,6,a.
This research       has aided the development of European policy in relation to the use and       interpretation of quality of life data in clinical trials.
In 2007, Abbott       contributed to the European Cystic Fibrosis Society consensus report       concerning clinical trials in cystic fibrosis.
Subsequently, as part of       the European Framework 6 programme (LSHM-CT-2005-018932, EuroCareCF),       Abbott led the European quality of life group to produce the guidelines       for the measurement of quality of life in clinical trials in cystic       fibrosisb.
Currently, Abbott is a member of an International       multidisciplinary group (invited by the US Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and       European Cystic Fibrosis Society) to develop and implement guidelines for       the assessment and management of anxiety and depression in cystic       fibrosis.
Additionally, Abbott was invited, by the European Cystic Fibrosis       Society, to join an interdisciplinary group of nine world experts on       Cystic Fibrosis to work with the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
The EMA       is the body that regulates licences and constantly monitors the safety of       medicines across the European Union.
Together with European drug       regulators, representatives from international pharmaceutical companies,       and patient representatives, Abbott discussed and compiled current       scientific evidence on outcome measures for evaluating medicines targeting       CF lung disease.
She provided expert advice concerning patient-reported       outcome measures in clinical trials and contributed to the revision of the       EMA guidelines on `the clinical development of medicinal products for the       treatment of cystic fibrosis'.
The proceedings were observed globally by       the US Food and Drugs Administration, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices       Agency, Japan and Health Canada via broadcastingc.
This EMA       policy development has informed further research given the impetus to       develop a brief global instrument to measure patient-reported improvement       and treatment burden in cystic fibrosis clinical trials.
Hence, impact is       a reciprocal two-way process.
Commercial applications outside academia     The LupusQoL has attracted global interest from the pharmaceutical       sector.
Inclusion of a patient-reported quality of life instrument in       clinical trials is essential and will enable a pharmaceutical company to       gain approval to market a drug and make licensing claims as to the       effectiveness of the drug from the patient perspective.
Driven by demand       from pharmaceutical companies to translate the LupusQoL into numerous       languages so that the instrument could be used in multinational drug       trials, a US translation company, Corporate Translations Incd,e,       have developed a new business opportunity by translating and culturally       validating the LupusQoL.
This involves a lengthy and rigorous       harmonisation process and cognitive debriefing with patients to assess the       clarity and acceptability of each translation.
They report the instrument       has been used successfully in 51 countries in 77 different languagesf.
UCLan's licensing agreement is for Corporate Translations Inc. to be the       sole worldwide distributor of the LupusQoL and as such they have developed       and maintain the websitee.
The LupusQoL is currently being used       in several phase 111 clinical trials (predominantly in North America) to       evaluate whether a specific drug can improve a patient's quality of lifeg.
If the products are shown to be effective the pharmaceutical company will       be able to generate new and increased revenue streams (and patients will       benefit from a drug that can improve their quality of life).
Commercial exploitation of the LupusQoL by the University     Through UCLan's Innovation and Enterprise Unit and Strategic Development       Services a new business model was identified and negotiated with partners       (East Lancashire NHS Trust, Corporate Translations Inc.) to allow the       sharing of Intellectual Property incomeh.
The LupusQoL is free       to non-commercially funded research projects and for use in clinical       practice, but there is a charge of &#163;5.00 per patient entered into a       commercially funded research study.
The licence income received from       pharmaceutical companies is approximately &#163;32K; from the administration of       approximately 6400 LupusQol questionnaires in various international       clinical trials.
Education and Capacity building     The research programmes have contributed to individual career development       and the delivery of highly skilled people to the NHS and society.
Dr Gee       (PhD student and Research Fellow involved in the CFQoL) operates a       clinical psychology consultancy service and Dr. McElhone (PhD student and       Research Associate involved in the LupusQoL) is employed as a Specialist       Lupus Research Nurse (East Lancashire NHS Trust) and Senior Research       Fellow (University of Manchester).
They have acquired specialist knowledge       in quality of life measurement and patient-reported outcomesi.
