     O'Neill research has had an impact via a variety of routes.
Drawing on       her expertise in moral       philosophy and bioethics, O'Neill served on House of Lords select       committees on genomic       medicine (2008-2009) [5.1], nanotechnology and food (2009) [5.2]       and Behavioural Change (2011)       [5.3].
She was elected as Chair of the Nuffield Foundation       (1998-2010) and on 19 May 2011 she       gave the Foundation's annual public lecture, on the topic `Broadening       bioethics: clinical ethics,       public health and global health' [5.4].
Since 2012, she has been       Chair of the Equality and Human       Rights Commission [5.5] and also an expert lay member on the       Medical Research Council [5.6],       and she chairs the MRC's Ethics, Regulation and Public Involvement       Committee, whose role is `to       advise Council on policy concerning the conduct of research involving       human participants       (including personal information and human biological material) and       animals, with respect to ethics,       legislation and regulation' [5.7].
In 2008, she was awarded an       honorary degree from the University       of Newcastle.
On the occasion of this award, it was said that `she has a       knack for making rigorous       analysis highly accessible to non-specialists.
Few can match the flair       with which she successfully       marries lucidity to conciseness,' and that her `work has been key to the       creation of an enabling       environment' in stem cell research in the UK [5.8].
However, the focus of this case study is the impact on policy debate       achieved via her contribution       to the Commission on Assisted Dying in 2011.
The Commission's brief was to       consider the current       state of the law on assisted dying, assisted suicide and voluntary       euthanasia.
O'Neill gave       evidence to the Commission on 19 January 2011 [5.9].
In her       submission, she discussed three       different conceptions of autonomy: an idealized Kantian conception       (choosing according to       universalisable principles, something which she argued has little       relevance to medical ethics), a       simple conception of autonomy as `mere sheer choice', and a       non-individualistic conception of the       autonomous agent (also inspired by Kant) who balances their own needs with       the needs and       desires of others.
Individual freedom of choice can be limited by the       circumstances of choice, and       the fully autonomous agent will recognize this.
She then argued that such       abstract conceptions of       autonomy should not be applied slavishly in these discussions and that a       more practical approach       was needed.
Based on the views developed in the research cited above, she expressed       some skepticism about       the need for the law to be changed to allow assisted dying in any       straightforward way.
Safeguards       are needed, and even as it currently is, the law will not provide a simple       decision procedure for       when various real cases of assisted dying should be the basis of       prosecution.
Ranging more broadly, O'Neill argued that a full discussion of this       question requires us to think       more openly about how we approach dying in general, in a society like       ours.
She argued forcefully       for a more thought-out approach to, and more support for, palliative care       and hospice care.
Although the Commission concluded that the current state of the law on       assisted dying was       unsustainable, O'Neill's views were noted by the Commission:     `Baroness Onora O'Neill's evidence also highlighted the philosophical and       practical limits to the       concept of autonomy.
She began by identifying three very different       conceptions of autonomy       employed in public and political debate: "Kantian autonomy",       "existentialist autonomy" and       "rationalist autonomy", and went on to explore their social and legal       implications...She said that the       more precise Kantian conception of autonomy "plays almost no part in       contemporary debate on       medical ethics".
Instead, the more contemporary "existentialist" and       "rationalist" conceptions of       individual autonomy predominate public conceptions of autonomy... Baroness       O'Neill then       contrasted these "endlessly complicated" theoretical conceptions of       autonomy with a more       practical approach to the concept of autonomy, which she said was inspired       by the many letters       she received from members of the public when Lord Joffe's Assisted Dying       for the Terminally Ill Bill       was being debated... She commented finally in her evidence to us: "I do       not believe that it is       possible to draft adequate safeguards without invoking misleading and       unrealisable fantasies       about individual autonomy... Whatever one thinks about the legitimacy of       assisted suicide it's not       legislatable; not safely legislatable".'
[5.10]     In addition, her argument that more adequate care needs to be provided in       general at the end of       life was endorsed in one of the Report's main conclusions:     `The issue of assisted dying cannot be viewed in isolation from the need       for adequate health and       social care or from the need to protect terminally ill people from the       risk of abuse or indirect social       pressure to end their lives, if such an option were to become available.
Therefore if an assisted       dying framework is to be implemented in the future, it must have these       concerns at its heart and its       purpose must be viewed as providing all people with access to high quality       end of life care.'
[5.11]
