     The research had immediate impacts on major government policy decisions       to introduce and expand the FNP programmes, and contributed directly to       official guidance on early years intervention.
Barnes' finding that       Home-Start showed very limited benefits was integral to NICE guidance       "Social and economic wellbeing: Early years" (2012, source S1), which       informs commissioners of services, health visitors, practioners and early       years staff.
This guidance stated that volunteer support may not be       effective, and also recommended the implementation of professionally       delivered programmes with strong evidence, such as FNP.
As part of NICE       guidance on early interventions to promote the social and emotional       wellbeing of vulnerable children under 5 years, Barnes also provided an       in-depth expert review paper on Home-Start (2011, source S2).
The FNP evaluation extended over four years.
Even before it was       concluded, the strength of the evidence and the quality of delivery       identified by Barnes' research was sufficient for policy to be changed.
In       2010, Health Secretary Andrew Lansley announced that the programme was       successful enough to warrant launching a randomized trial in England and       to more than double its provision from 6,000 to 13,000 families by 2015.
In direct reference to Barnes' report, Lansley stated "We know that         early intervention &#8212; as provided by the Family Nurse Partnership         programme &#8212; can help young parents to look after their children better,         and can help break inter-generational patterns of disadvantage.
And it         can improve the health and wellbeing of the parents themselves &#8212; they         are reducing smoking during pregnancy, are coping better with pregnancy,         labour and parenthood and are improving their confidence and         self-esteem.
The evidence base for expanding this programme is clear.
That's why I want to see the numbers of families who get this intensive         support to double by 2015.
This, together with our plans to put 4,200         new health visitors into the workforce, will ensure that more and more         young families &#8212; particularly those living in disadvantaged areas &#8212; get         the help they need."
(source S3).
In 2013, a second expansion of FNP       to 16,000 mothers was announced by Health Secretary Dr Dan Poulter, again       citing Barnes' findings as justification (source S4).
The main findings of Barnes' FNP evaluation were made publicly available       in a press release by the Department of Health (May 2011, source S5), and       in a DoH information pack for NHS Trust CEs, directors of nursing and       children's support services, other health and educational professionals,       and local authority CEs (April 2012, source S6).
Based on this evidence,       the government's evidence-based commitment to expand FNP was reinforced in       the Cabinet Office's policy paper `Breaking Barriers, Opening Doors'       (2011, source S7), and by a statement of Public Health Minister Anne       Milton on 11 May 2012.
The evidence basis for the successful       implementation of FNP was also highlighted in a recent independent       government review (Allen review: Early intervention: the next steps, 2011;       source S8), which refers extensively to the results of Barnes'       implementation evaluation.
FNP is one of a small number of programmes that       are recommended for early intervention by this review.
In addition to providing the evidence basis for government policy       decisions to expand the FNP programme, results from the FNP evaluation       study at Birkbeck also have direct implications on how FNP will be       implemented in subsequent waves of programmes.
In a recent DoH report       aimed at directors of public health, nursing, and children's support       services (source S9), Ailsa Swarbrick (FNP Project Director at the DoH)       stressed the importance of the evaluation for expansion of the programme       and for informing implementation of subsequent phases.
According to       Swarbrick, key points highlighted by the evaluation were the need to       improve practitioners' use of data to monitor their delivery of FNP       services, to identify the organisational support necessary for good       implementation, and to prepare local health organisations for FNP before       its arrival.
Barnes has disseminated her research findings on the effectiveness of       preventive interventions to a wide range of practitioners, including those       delivering or planning to deliver the FNP programme.
Audiences included       Primary Care Trust (PCT) members, local authority staff, government       officials, and parenting charities such as the Fatherhood Institute.
For       example, she was the keynote speaker at the Healthy Development Adelaide       meeting (2011) that was attended by over 200 delegates from government,       health care and clinicians, and gave a grand rounds at the Women's and       Children's hospital in Adelaide.
Research design and methods have also       been shared with the evaluators looking at introducing FNP in Scotland,       Northern Ireland and in Australia.
