     Sex, Culture and Justice has had an unusually significant impact       on public discourse, perhaps because, as one reviewer put it, `Plenty of       feminists have tried to write books that have an impact on &#8212; in the sense       of altering &#8212; mainstream, androcentric, liberal theory.
But they have       sometimes failed, perhaps because they are too dependent on jargon       peculiar to gender studies, or because they do not engage enough with       liberal theorists' recent debates and preoccupations.
Chambers's book       deftly avoids both of these problems, so there is real potential here for       this book to alter mainstream liberal thinking' Faith Armitage Feminist         Review (2009) 91: 200-203 [5.1].
Two examples in particular illustrate how the book has had an impact on       public discourse: 	        Adoption of Chamber's work by the UK Feminista         campaign in 2012 and subsequent media appearances  	       The Feminista campaign argued for a legal ban on the advertising       of certain cosmetic surgery practices.
Chambers was an invited signatory       to the campaign's launch [5.2, 5.3] and an excerpt from her work       was chosen to be Feminista's first `thinkpiece' on its website [5.4,         5.5].
This was a result of the fact that one of the Feminista       organisers had read her work some time before: `I read some of your work       as a masters student a few years ago and now coming to run this campaign I       think that you would bring brilliant insight to the discussion with regard       to notions of choice and women's autonomy in the context of cosmetic       surgery as a harmful practice and gender inequalities in the UK' (Policy       and Campaigns Manager, UK Feminista) [5.6].
On the basis of the Feminista piece, Chambers was invited onto       BBC Woman's Hour [5.7]: `Having recently read some extracts from       your book Sex, Culture, and Justice on the UK Feminista       website, you sprung to mind as someone who could give us a really great       insight into how ideas of social norms are bringing more and more women to       have invasive surgery' (Producer, BBC Radio 4 Woman's Hour) [5.8].
The context was a debate on cosmetic surgery and the concept of what is       `normal'.
Woman's Hour has an audience of 3 million broadcast       listeners, plus listen again and podcast audiences and social media       shares.
Dr Chambers's item was also discussed in the phone-in the next       day.
Keynote speech at the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR)         event on Gender Justice, Society and the State       In December 2011 Chambers was invited to be a Keynote Speaker at the       Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) event on Gender Justice,         Society and the State [5.9, 5.10].
Audience members included       MPs, ministers, members of think tanks, pressure groups and journalists.
About 100 people attended this event.
This invitation was made on the basis of Sex, Culture and Justice.
A visiting fellow at the IPPR, wrote to her as follows: `My IPPR       colleague, Tess Lanning, and I were wondering whether you would be able to       give a 10 minute opening talk on the second of the workshop's panels based       on your research for Sex, Culture, and Justice and other works' [5.11].
Chambers received positive feedback on her contribution to the       discussion.
The General Secretary of the Fabian Society (one of the       participants in the IPPR event) wrote that `Clare Chambers's presentation       combined the rigour of academic political theory with a focus on       real-world dilemmas relevant to her audience of political practitioners.
In highlighting the paradox of freely-chosen and enjoyed activities which       are also harmful, Chambers brought a new dimension to the Fabian Society's       on-going thinking on the limits of choice and markets in social democratic       politics.
The questions of how to approach choice is critical to the       Society's efforts to promote new thinking within the British left that       moves beyond the conceptual and policy toolkit of new Labour's version of       liberalism.
The presentation had immediate practical value in helping the       Fabian Women's Network define its 2012/13 work programme, including a       recent event on the sexualisation of women in popular culture which       received wide coverage in the national media' [5.12].
Chambers's IPPR talk (and her underlying research) was also discussed by       Rahila Gupta, in a post on the Open Democracy blog on 4th       January 2012 [5.13].
Chambers herself discussed these views on a       Philosophy Bites podcast, `Justifying Intervention' [5.14].
