     Lewens' research into risk, trust and bioethics has had broad impact       across government, industry and the policy sector more generally.
Lewens' work on risk and precaution (Lewens 2008) was cited in the       Nuffield Council on Bioethics' recent (2011) report on Human Bodies:       Donation for Treatment and Research [1, p. 146].
As a Council member, and       working party member, Lewens took a leading role in writing the report's       ethical framework for donation, and that framework drew in important ways       on his own background work on altruism (outlined in Lewens (2007b)).
An       official at the Nuffield Council clarified Lewens' involvement as follows:       "The ethical framework in the Council's 2011 report Human Bodies: donation       for medicine and research derived substantially from the original ethical       analysis undertaken by Tim Lewens (a member both of the Working Party and       of the Council itself): in particular his detailed analysis of the       different claims associated with 'altruism', and his subsequent       categorisation of particular forms of encouragement to donate bodily       material as either 'altruist-focused' (interventions that act through       encouraging altruistic motivations) or 'non-altruist-focused'       (interventions that may act to encourage donation, regardless of whether       or not the potential donor may experience altruistic motivations).
This       consideration of altruism was fundamental in shaping the Working Party's       consideration of the role of incentives in the context of donation.
In the       additional contested area of consent for donation ('opt-in' vs. 'opt-out'       arguments for organ donation in particular), Tim's analysis of the       justifications offered for non-health opt-out schemes (such as those used       for occupational pensions) was vital in leading the working party to       conclude that the key ethical requirement in this area should be to ensure       that the taking of bodily materials after death should be based on the       clearest possible information as to the person's wishes."
[2]     The report's recommendation for increasing payment to egg donors was       taken up by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA).
[3]       Lewens' own involvement in working on the Human Bodies report, especially       with respect to its discussion of `opt-in' and `opt-out' consent schemes       for donation, resulted in an invitation to give oral evidence to the Welsh       National Assembly in January 2013, in connection with its new Human       Transplantation (Wales) Bill [4].
His comments during the evidence session       on the need for clarity in communication associated with the proposed       changes to an `opt-out' system of consent, on the ethical defensibility of       a system of `presumed consent', and on the need to ensure suitable       donation of materials for research purposes were all translated into       recommendations in the National Assembly's Stage 1 Committee Report,       published in March 2013 [5].
Lewens was named several times in this report       as the source for these recommendations.
He was subsequently invited (in       April 2013) by the Human Tissue Authority (HTA)&#8212;the official regulatory       body responsible for overseeing uses of human tissues&#8212;to offer advice and       comment on its draft Code of Conduct applying to the new Welsh Legislation       [6].
The Director of Strategy and Quality at the HTA has explained that       "Dr Lewens was keen to work with us and his input on stressing the       legislation was permissive rather than prescriptive, that Specialist       Nurses for Organ Donation do have discretion and this should be       highlighted and that there should be no inference that deemed consent was       a lesser form of consent, all added significantly to the second draft of       the document.
Dr Lewens also suggested drafting amendments to change the       tone of the document, which were a great help and we believe make the       redraft more accessible.
The draft document would not be either as well       drafted or well thought through without the input of Dr Lewens, and we are       grateful for his support."
[6]     Lewens' work on trust, precaution, human nature and genetic enhancement       (Lewens 2004, Lewens 2009, Lewens and John 2010, Lewens 2012) has been       cited by two further Nuffield Council reports: one entitled Emerging       Biotechnologies (2012), another entitled Novel Techniques for the       Prevention of Mitochondrial DNA Disorders (2012) [7, pp.
54, 60, 61].
Again, Lewens was centrally involved in formulating the ethical arguments       relating to identity and germ-line interventions which underpinned the       Mitochondrial Disorders report [8].
The Director of the Nuffield Council,       has stated that "The role that Tim Lewens played in the preparation and       drafting of this important report was particularly notable.
His work in       developing the ethical considerations, and especially in addressing issues       around identity in relation to genetic therapies, formed a very       substantial part of the arguments that sit at the heart of the report.
His       further contribution in applying these ethical discussions to the novel       case of potential treatments for mitochondrial disorders was also critical       to the success of this report" [8].
Lewens presented results of that       report at a launch event in the Palace of Westminster (June 2012), and at       the Trilateral Meeting of the French, German and UK National Ethics       Committees (November 2012).
The report has been discussed in a recent       (March 2013) Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology (POST) report       on Preventing Mitochondrial Disease [9].
The Nuffield Council's       conclusions regarding the ethical permissibility of mitochondrial       donation, the recommendation that gamete donors need not be mandatorily       identifiable to children in this particular context, and the requirement       of follow-up studies, were all echoed in the (March 2013) advice to       Ministers from the HFEA [10].
Both the HFEA advice and the Nuffield       Council Report aim to inform future parliamentary deliberations on whether       to make these novel mitochondrial techniques legal.
Lewens and John's 2010 commissioned report to the Department of Business,       Innovation and Skills titled The Universal Ethical Code for Scientists and       the `Crisis of Trust in Science' provided a definition of trust and an       analysis of the `crisis of trust' in science, that was discussed and       endorsed by the Science and Trust expert group in their final (March 2010)       report to the then-Science Minister Lord Drayson [11].
The report's action       plan recommended numerous initiatives aimed at improving trust in science,       and in 2012 an assessment of progress towards these goals was published       [11-12].
More generally, Lewens' work on science and trust, and his earlier       articles on the ethics of bioethics, have led to invitations to consult to       large pharmaceutical companies.
In 2008, for example, Lewens was invited       to overhaul AstraZeneca's (AZ's) global policy on bioethics and in 2010 he       was asked to advise AZ on the ethical standing of research involving the       use of foetal tissue.
AZ's Director of Science Policy explains that `Dr       Lewens' report...has resulted in a change of perception and understanding       of the ethical and moral issues surrounding human foetal tissue usage       maintained by the relevant team [at AZ].'
[13] AZ's Director of Science       Policy has relied on Lewens' report when the issue has been raised at       several policy meetings, the most recent of which took place in May 2013.
[13]
