     The research has had impact on the development of museum displays and       interpretation of the       material culture and instrumentation of the period of the Scientific       Revolution and the       Enlightenment.
Schaffer was a Trustee of the National Museum of Science       and Industry 2007-       2011 and is a member of the Science Museum Advisory Board.
His studies of       the best ways of       interpreting and displaying scientific instruments from the enlightenment       led to his appointment to       lead the committee that drafted the National Museum's policies on research       into the material       culture of scientific instrumentation.
He was lead consultant on a Science       Museum gallery on       making of modern sciences since the period of the enlightenment, which       depends directly on       expertise in the roles such devices played in research sciences of the       seventeenth and eighteenth       centuries.
The Science Museum's head of research and public history       confirms that Schaffer `led       on the production of research policy', and adds that Schaffer's `guidance       in shaping plans for       galleries on science, mathematics and their history have enabled the       development of plans for the       next generation of displays' [5.1].
Schaffer's research on the Board of Longitude and its material culture       (as PI in the AHRC project)       delivered immediate impact on outreach and exhibition programming at the       National Maritime       Museum [5.2].
The research on instrumentation in British navigation has       been used to deliver       public lectures on the development of observatories and on the Board of       Longitude, as well as       designing a major international exhibition on Longitude and instruments       for measurement and       navigation.
The senior curator and head of science and technology at the       Museum states that       Schaffer's research on early modern instruments in the physical sciences       `has had an important       influence' on these projects [5.3].
A direct output of the research was a       JISC programme to release       the entire manuscript archive of the Board in a digitized edition of more       than 65000 images       available online through free public access, together with links through       to images and       documentation of each instrument and measurement device mentioned in the       archive, released       worldwide in July 2013.
This material is officially described as `a       wonderful resource for research       and education in many spheres' and of very wide `public interest' [5.4].
Schaffer's research project       has provided selection, thematic commentaries, and much of the metadata of       the JISC digital       edition to aid the preservation of extremely fragile and sensitive papers.
Schaffer's research has       attracted significant press coverage of the digitized longitude archive       [5.5] and the production of a       BBC audio slideshow [5.6].
This research has also underpinned programming in BBC radio interviews       with Schaffer about the       interpretation of the material culture of early modern and eighteenth       century sciences.
Broadcast       series on the Royal Society in the period between the presidencies of       Isaac Newton and Joseph       Banks used this research on the global significance of the early modern       sciences.
Audiences for       these broadcasts were estimated at 1.5 million [5.7, 5.8].
Schaffer       researched, wrote and       presented a new programme for broadcast on BBC4 television on early modern       automata and       clockwork machinery with a first-night live audience of 550,000.
Schaffer's `expertise drawn from       his research on the history of science, especially instruments, makes his       contribution an invaluable       and crucial part of all these programmes' [5.9].
The broadcast on automata       has been praised as `a       beautifully made and consistently fascinating account' and as `a precisely       calibrated treat' [5.10].
These broadcasts followed a series of interviews on the public       understanding of sciences,       especially a radio interview for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in       2008-9 on the popular       image of the past of the sciences and its material culture [5.11].
