     The research listed above is widely used in teaching art and archaeology       and museology in HEIs       other than Cambridge (the references cited above give some evidence of       that).
The particular       impact explored here is the impact a) on, and b) by means of, the       re-display of the Greek and       Roman gallery in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge (re-opened 20 January       2010).
Through this       re-display the research impacts on cultural life, education and public       discourse, attracting more       visitors to the Fitzwilliam and to Cambridge and improving the quality of       visitor experience (from       schoolchild to tourist).
The re-designed galleries are significantly different from all other       museum displays of Greek and       Roman antiquities.
Beard, Osborne and Vout had an input into all aspects       of the display, including       its physical arrangement and philosophy, individual labels, interpretative       panels, hand-held       information boards for use in the gallery and parallel web resources,       exploiting their past research       to give these a distinctive form and content.
The stress throughout is on       a much richer range of       object histories than is customary in museums where one story (of history,       art history or ancient       life) is normally privileged.
The new display draws the visitor's       attention repeatedly to the functions       of objects displayed; the importance of findspots; the circumstances and       date of discovery; the       information to be gained from technical analysis; and the key role played       by collectors in       determining the appearance, nature and meaning of these objects and in       shaping museum       collections.
For example, the display of the Pashley Sarcophagus explains not only its       Dionysiac iconography       but also its allusion to the Roman triumph and its collecting and       restoration history; that of the       Foundry Painter's Lewis Collection cup draws attention to iconographic       details to stress the       questions raised for ancient drinkers; that of the Flaxman Apollo points       both to John Flaxman's       late-eighteenth-century restorations and the way Victorian collectors such       as John Disney (who       gifted his collection to the Fitzwilliam) responded to such restorations.
The overriding aim was both to engage visitors with the Fitzwilliam's       collection, and to help them       understand how museums arrive at the range of objects on show and the       claims in their labels,       why different museum collections vary, and why all of them offer only       partial views of (the remains       of) the Greek and Roman world.
The new display was to be an object lesson       in museology, as well       as antiquity.
This aspect was particularly noted in the Museums         Journal (May 2010, 52-53): `In       terms of the way the objects are organised and the narratives constructed       by the displays there is       a clear engagement with new scholarship... the redisplay attempts to       construct a biography of each       object or group by highlighting the role of people in the creation of       meaning.
The redisplay also       focuses on making the processes of the museum transparent....'     "I feel much more enthused about Greece and Rome."
There is clear       evidence, both from such       reactions and from a statistical survey, that this emphasis has made an       impact on visitors.
An       evaluation exercise in 2010 by the Project's Curatorial Research Associate       demonstrated the high       level of use and appreciation of the information in the new Greek and       Roman gallery.
Almost all       visitors (96%) claimed to have looked at one or more of the types of       information on offer.
Most       indicated that the amount of information given was just right (87%),       commenting that the labels       "were well done" and "cater for both the lay person and the intellectual",       providing "just the right       amount of detail to inform me but not bore me!"
while they "did not talk       down to the reader" and       proved "Interactive &#8212; engaging labels made me think".
But had the new display impacted on visitors' understanding?
86% of       visitors surveyed indicated       that the gallery had affected their views, 30% reckoning that they had a       better understanding of the       ancient world as a result of their gallery visit.
74% demonstrated that       they had gained an       understanding of issues such as the function of objects, and/or could       remember particular       information about a range of objects &#8212; and the comments of 19% of visitors       showed that they had       assimilated such complex themes as cross-cultural influences or the       survival, collection history and       afterlife of the objects.
Study days and other events in Cambridge and outside (e.g.
Dr Burn       talking at the Metropolitan       Museum in New York) during 2009-12 acquainted the public more closely with       the aims of the re-display.
In September 2011, a major conference, attracting a large number of museum       professionals from the UK and abroad, explored issues of the public       display of antiquities.
The       Universities of Leicester, Newcastle upon Tyne and Reading have       incorporated the display into       their professional training programmes, bringing their Museum Studies       students to study the       galleries, which have also been the subject of MA dissertations at the       Universities of Bournemouth       (Lauren Papworth), Leicester (Helen Parkin), and St Andrew's (Sophie       Caie).
A special number of       the Journal of the History of Collections (2012) about the Greek       and Roman antiquities in the       Fitzwilliam Museum, included contributions from Beard and Vout.
