     Following the publication of his first book on Jerusalem, Goldhill was       invited to act as a peer-reviewer and active participant in PUSH [5.1],       funded by the EU and, in its latter stages, also by the Norwegian       Government.
Goldhill was officially involved in the project between 2006       and 2010.
The UNESCO chief representative for the region stated, `the       contribution of all the peer reviewers was critical in establishing trust       between the partners; and especially the initial presentation by Professor       Goldhill was a major contribution in setting the scene' [5.2].
This       project brought together Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian public policy       officials, academics, and participants in ecological and cultural heritage       industries, for a series of meetings in 2008, 2009 and 2010.
For political       and security reasons, the meetings were initially private and secret, but       subsequently became public, and led to policy decisions with regard both       to the management of sites of cultural heritage and to strategies with       regard to natural resources and their importance to the region.
Perhaps       the most significant result of such long-term activity is the return of a       flow of fresh water to the river Jordan for the first time in 40 years       (summer 2013); prior to the control of the sewage and salt water flow that       currently still pollutes it [5.3].
As well as acting as a remote       peer-reviewer throughout the programme, Goldhill also attended four       meetings at both the private and the public stages of the programme as       peer-reviewer and "neutral" academic adviser.
In this capacity Goldhill       gave three key-note addresses (2008, 2009, 2010) to this group on issues       of shared and sharing cultural heritage (including the now public lecture       April 2008 [5.4]).
Goldhill's involvement with PUSH between 2008-2010 also gave him the       opportunity to be influential through private meetings with leadership of       the Waqf, the Palestinian officials of the Jordanian authorities who run       the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount, with planning department officials in       Jerusalem, and with Jordanian officials &#8212; particularly from the water       authorities (2008-2012).
Goldhill's involvement took him to Jerusalem on       numerous occasions, especially in 2008-2012.
When the project produced a       book, Our Shared Heritage, published in Arabic, English and       Hebrew, Goldhill contributed the afterword (2008) [5.5].
This book       presented the schedule of sites and the rationale for their treatment.
It       was part of the programme that was instrumental in changing the policy and       producing new signage for sites in the region: for some highly contested       sites, three parallel signs were produced with different but interrelated       histories with wording agreed between the different communities.
Other       sites (e.g.
pilgrimage sites for one of the three Abrahamic faiths) were       linked by a single story, pointing out similar cultural practices across       the region.
It is a measure of the importance and success of the       programme, and particularly of the neutrality established not least by       Goldhill's involvement, that the programme continued to meet after the       Palestinian official ban on meetings in response to the Gaza incursion.
The programme was presented as a success story by UNESCO at the 40th       Anniversary of the World Heritage Convention in November 2012 in Kyoto.
The discussion of the programme in an article in the UNESCO magazine Museum         International cited Goldhill's research-led contribution as       instrumental for the programme's success [5.6].
Because of his research and his part in the EU programme, Goldhill was       asked (2009) to meet and debate political and cultural issues with tour       guides and the trainers of tour guides in Jerusalem, in order to produce       more nuanced accounts of the sites visited.
Goldhill was also invited to       meetings with leading Israeli and Palestinian archaeologists (2008, 2009).
More broadly, Goldhill's work has come to public attention in the UK and       USA.
Goldhill presented his research in a Distinguished Lecture series as       the Schaffner Professor in Chicago in 2009; at Jewish Book Week in London       in 2011; at the 92nd Y at New York (a major educational and cultural       centre) in 2012; and at the British Museum (2012); and he has given over       thirty public talks on the Temple and its management since the publication       of his first book on the subject.
These public events regularly attract       audiences of up to 500.
Goldhill was also invited to give a master class       for UNESCO on urban planning in Jerusalem in 2010, to celebrate the UNESCO       international year of cultural rapprochement, and the inaugural address       for the new MA programme on urban design at the Bezalel Institute in       Jerusalem (Israel's premier art, architecture and design school) in 2009.
Since the close of his formal engagement with the project in 2010,       Goldhill has continued to be used as a reviewer for UNESCO projects in the       region, especially on potential museum and other cultural heritage areas.
In 2013, he was asked by the Deputy Director General for Culture, UNESCO       [5.7] to act as an independent reviewer for, and then to help       negotiate a redesign of, an exhibition on "The Jews and the Land of       Israel": this involved high-level negotiations with international       institute directors and public officials at UNESCO headquarters in Paris,       as well as remote reviewing and active engagement with the exhibition       designers.
The exhibition, significantly altered following Goldhill's       criticisms, is scheduled to open in Paris in December 2013.
He has also continued to meet with relevant UNESCO and government       officials in an informal capacity.
Sites of shared cultural heritage have       the potential to be major sources of conflict in this highly conflicted       region, and to be a cause of major misunderstanding.
By taking his       research into the areas of policy, practice and public awareness Goldhill       has aimed to make a contribution to lowering levels of conflict and       increasing mutual understanding not just of the sites themselves but also       of the difficult and complex processes of sharing cultural heritage.
As       the UNESCO chief representative for the region including Israel stated:       `His contribution was instrumental in moving towards achieving the goals       of the action in general and an innovative approach for new signs and       manuals of sites of shared cultural heritage, in particular.
This also       strengthened the ongoing process of dialogue between different groups in       the process of the management of these sites.'
[5.2]
