     Cambridge Greek and Latin Classics has become the recognised leader in       the field of text commentary all over the world; the prescribed reading       and set texts in schools and colleges is often determined by the       availability of a volume in the `Green and Yellow' series.
The series       offers reasonably priced, authoritative editions, which are always readily       available (volumes in the series do not go out of print).
To meet the       needs of both individuals and libraries, they appear simultaneously in       both paper and hardback editions.
Over the life of the series, some       312,000 volumes have been sold for c. &#163;3.6 million, of which c. &#163;2 m. is       export revenue for the British economy; in the current REF period, some       50,000 volumes have been sold, making at least &#163;500k in export revenue.
Sales are divided roughly equally between UK/Europe and the USA/Rest of       World, with particularly strong reach (apart from UK) in USA, Germany and       the Netherlands (Section 5.1).
The series has helped to change ideas about the `canon' of texts that are       central to the study of the ancient world and also available to readers at       all levels &#8212; major works of Hellenistic poetry and Plutarch, for example,       are now readily accessible, and in Latin, Lucan and Statius are examples       of poets now easily available to students, whereas before they were either       ignored or treated as marginal.
Even major authors have enjoyed       reappraisal through appearing in the series: e.g.
Kenney's Lucretius       3 (second edition, 2014) put that poet firmly on the student map.
The       anthology format is used to allow readers to sample texts of great       interest (and at a suitable level) which are often ignored through       difficulty of access: e.g.
Lucian (2008), Greek and Latin         Letters (2003).
The series has also broken down the traditional division between       `commentary' and `literary interpretation', both through the style of       commentary and through the choice of works precisely for their literary       interest and continuing significance, including their afterlife in western       culture: recently published examples include Homer, Iliad 6;       Sophocles, Antigone; Virgil, Aeneid 12 and Horace, Satires       1.
The principal stated aim of the series is, `to provide the guidance       that the reader needs for the interpretation and understanding of the book       as a work of literature'.
Readers come to see that linguistic and literary       interpretation are intimately inter-related.
Public recognition of the value and innovativeness of the series ranges       from a celebratory rap video on YouTube (5.2) to remarks by       Professor Denis Feeney (Princeton) in Times Literary Supplement       for 15 February, 2013, reviewing Horace, Satires 1 (Gowers &#8212;       submitted in REF2) and Virgil, Aeneid 12 (Tarrant), which he       describes as `outstanding commentaries ... remarkable standards of       scholarship and criticism ... Cambridge University Press's splendid Greek       and Latin Classics series, known in the trade as the "Green and Yellows",       is now in its fifth decade ... Publications such as this are real events       in the world of Classics, because their appearance will immediately result       in the texts they discuss being put on curricula and reading lists.
Texts       suddenly come in from the cold when they have this sort of passport, and       take their places in undergraduate classes and graduate seminars'.
Already       in 1995, Professor Jasper Griffin (Oxford) had noted in TLS for       April 14 that `the commentaries [in this series] are one of the success       stories of the subject' (5.3).
The value of the series is warmly acknowledged by teachers in schools,       colleges, and Universities.
a) overseas Universities     A Professor at Berkeley writes: `In my own teaching of undergraduate       Greek courses, the availability of a Green and Yellow is an important       consideration in what I decide to read in the course.'
(5.4) A       Professor at Princeton has commented on the way in which: `the expansion       of the series with such volumes as "Greek and Latin Letters", which has       made it feasible (and affordable!)
to teach new courses on subjects like       ancient epistolography and social history to undergraduates.
I do not know       any other series with the wherewithal to support the Classics curriculum       in this way' (5.5).
The dominance of the Green and Yellows in U.S.
Classics Majors' lives is indicated by an image provided by Brown       University (5.9).
b) UK Universities     A Professor in the UK (University of Reading, but remarking of her       experience teaching at the University of Exeter) writes: `I have been       using Donna Hurley's Green and Yellow of Suetonius' Divus Claudius       this past term, and I just want to say that that is one TERRIFIC       commentary, one of the very best I've ever used in terms of answering the       questions that students actually have while also being useful to the       teacher.
My Latin students have done significantly better this year than       last year ...' (5.6).
Schools in UK     In secondary schools in the UK, in both independent and maintained       sectors, the Green and Yellows have become the mainstay of teacher       support:     A teacher at an independent school notes: `I always use a Green and       Yellow if there is one: I think they are getting better and better.
OT       is the A level play at the moment [there is a CGLC edition], and I'm using       the editions of Philoctetes and Phaedo for Pre-U this       year.
I use them to prepare teaching GCSE set texts as well' (5.7).
A teacher at a state school writes: `I use the Green and Yellows       for my A level teaching.
I've just been looking at Cicero's Philippics       I-II, which I happened to have at hand, and what I really like about the       commentary is the balance between clarification of obscure grammatical       constructions, stylistic comments (which by the way avoid the more obscure       terminology) and sufficient background to give the text a wider meaning'       (5.8).
