     There are 11,445 enrolled Kiowa tribal members but fewer than 30 fluent       Kiowa speakers, and they are in the last decades of their lives.
The tribe       is committed to preserving its language; language loss has a huge impact       on cultural identity.
Because of this, the research team established a       steering group during the research (from 2004) and engaged with the tribe       after the research (from 2009), leading to the creation of useful cultural       and linguistic materials, primarily booklets of stories (distributed from       June 2012; 1,395 so far) and sound files on YouTube, digitized and edited       by the research team.
These are being used to help preserve and revitalise       Kiowa.
The Director of the Kiowa Tribe Museum says: `There is a great need       for language tools such as booklets, guides, CDs, apps ... the booklets       ... will assist us in our fight to preserve and reclaim our language.'
(letter 26/4/13).
The research findings led to an understanding of the recorded stories       that allowed the researchers to present them in a way that makes the Kiowa       language and Kiowa cultural memory accessible to the younger tribal       members whose own control of the language is dysfluent or highly       restricted, as well as to Kiowas with a stronger grasp on their language.
The booklets are presented in a layout allowing multipurpose usage,       combining Kiowa text for fluent speakers, word-by-word glosses for       learners, and idiomatic English translations for non-speakers.
They are       structured in a `flippable' fashion, allowing use of the two most common       Kiowa writing systems.
The booklets are distributed by key tribal contacts and by agencies of       tribal government, culture, media and education, including the Kiowa Tribe       Museum, the Kiowa Elders' Center, the Anadarko Daily News (connected to       the National Hall of Fame for Famous American Indians) and Jacobson House,       a non-profit Native American centre.
They are also downloadable from a       Facebook group, established in 2012 by the researchers to engage the       community in a sustainable fashion       (www.facebook.com/groups/290180151091518).
Harbour gave a talk on how the       texts were to be made accessible to Museum and Elders' Center employees       and was interviewed about this on Kiowa Voices Radio (4/13).
This work has impacted on four beneficiaries:     (1) Elders.
The elders (aged over 70) are central to tribal       identity as custodians of cultural memory and linguistic knowledge.
Individual elders, as well as those responsible for their welfare, report       personal and community benefits.
The Director of the Kiowa Elders' Center       says: `All this work is appreciated by the leadership of the Kiowa tribe       as well as by those of us who are working to learn our language', (letter       29/4/13).
An elder says: `You gave me the inspiration to learn my Kiowa       language and to teach my half-Kiowa children our language.'
(Facebook       6/7/13).
(2) Language classes.
Life-long-learning, grass-roots language       classes running weekly at Jacobson House, at Chickasha (taught by Dorothy       Delaune, over 270 booklets distributed), and at Oklahoma University (Dane       Poolaw) now have Listen-Read-Repeat resources, featuring whole stretches       of discourse on culturally significant topics.
Ms Neely, assisting Mrs       Delaune in Chickasha, says: `I love the booklets &#8212; you all did a great       job!
I'm so glad you're distributing them and getting them out into the       community.'
(Facebook 17/3/13).
Mr Poolaw says: `This is great!
... keep       it up, this will be very useful ... help[ing] students and learners get to       read and hear Kiowa and get used to pronunciation.'
(Facebook 15/02/13).
(3) Self-learners.
Grass-roots self-learners benefitted via a       online community set up via the Kiowa Stories Facebook group (over 200       members including adult learners, organizations and students from local       high schools), which distributes electronic materials and YouTube       recordings (A Kind Man &#8212; 84 downloads; Captive Woman &#8212; 57,       Olden Times &#8212; 30).
One member of the group, who lives away from the main Kiowa area, says:       `It is very helpful ... being able to hear the audio of the speaker and       also reading along with them.
I have downloaded the stories booklets to my       phone and have also made recordings of the audio ...
It is very important       to me as a Kiowa to keep this language alive, I have also been helping my       family on learning the Kiowa language.
The Kiowa Stories Facebook page is       also a great room, I know if I have a question on a word or phrase that       would be the first place I would check ...' (email 22/06/13).
(4) Kiowa Tribal Museum.
The Museum is a cultural resource and       tourist attraction, featuring art, artefacts, and, audio(visual)       recordings.
Its mission includes preserving and providing access to       cultural/linguistic heritage.
The materials produced aid in this, making       previously inaccessible cultural heritage available to speakers,       non-speakers and learners.
The Museum's Director says: `One of the most       frequent requests here at the Museum is for language materials.
...
Currently, we do not have any language texts (apart from the booklets       ...).'
The researchers' sustained engagement with the museum, before,       during and after the project, has led the museum to act as a hub, hosting       sound files and distributing booklets.
She continues: `One of our long       term goals [is] to create a language center ... the books that you sent       will fit in well with that goal.'
(email 18/4/13).
