     This research has led to impact in many forms and media:     1) The book itself has been widely read, reviewed and cited, and won the       Wolfson Prize for History (2009) (section 5:1).
2) BBC2 programme, Pompeii: Life and Death in a Roman Town (first       broadcast, December 2010).
This programme, for which Beard was presenter       and script consultant, gained a UK audience on first broadcast of 3.4       million viewers (making it the top-rating BBC2 history programme of the       year); the consolidated audience with two repeats amounted to 6 million       viewers (5:2).
It was reviewed very positively: `Here at last was a       history presenter who knew her subject inside out and couldn't wait to       share it.
The antithesis of the TV-trained academic ... her uncluttered       enthusiasm shone like a beacon across the centuries' (Metro; 5:3).
The programme was short-listed for a BAFTA (specialist factual), has been       reissued as a DVD and has been sold to (and broadcast in) over 100       countries overseas (from Australia to Thailand, Finland to Egypt and Papua       New Guinea) (5:2).
3) BBC2 three-part series, Meet the Romans, first broadcast in       April 2012 (audience averaged at over 2 million per programme in the UK),       with repeated, dubbed or subtitled versions sold to over 60 countries       worldwide, in five continents (export fees for Australia, Canada &amp;       Sweden alone amounting to c &#163;86,000, 5:4).
In addition to the       overall viewing figures, there were very positive reviews (`Wherever she       went, Beard broke a site apart and let knowledge flood out.'
L. Mangan, Guardian;       5:5) and the series was shortlisted for a Broadcasting Press Guild       Award, 2013 (for the best documentary series).
Beard has received hundreds       of emails and letters that confirm the impact of the programmes on the       learning of Latin; for example: `I am a first-year sixth-form student...       and I absolutely love Classics.
I felt incredibly inspired [by the       programmes]...' (5:6).
A recent letter confirms that a UK prisoner       has been brought to learn Latin thanks to the programmes.
Beard's article       for the Daily Telegraph on visiting ancient Rome tied into the       series, won an ENIT (Italian Tourist Board) award for the best travel       article on Italy in a newspaper, 2012 (5:7).
Beard has been       nominated for a 2013 Grierson award ("the Oscars of the documentary       world") for Meet the Romans (5:8).
4) Various digital versions of outreach material: including BBC website       "tie-in" discussion of a featured inscription (372,614 page-views on first       day; 5:9), BBC blog discussing Meet the Romans (`Mary, if I       had my time again, I would wish to come back as one of your classics       students'; 5.10); and British Museum blogs relating to BM objects       in the programme, directing people to them (`Fascinating!
I will       definitely go along and look for this'; 5:11).
5) Later spin-off materials, including BBC Radio 4 broadcast "A Point of       View", on rich and poor in ancient Rome (first broadcast 9 November, 2012,       but also 64,200 page views on first full day of web-posting, 11 November,       2012; 5:12), and, in the same series, on Pompeian "dead bodies"       (broadcast 23 November 2012, and 521,000 pages views on first two days on       BBC website).
6) The research led directly to Beard's involvement with exhibitions of       Pompeian material at the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, for which       she wrote a catalogue essay and recorded part of the audio guide, and at       the J Paul Getty Museum California, for which she wrote a catalogue essay       (section 3:3), recorded part of the audio guide and was involved in       planning.
For the 2013 British Museum exhibition, Life and Death in         Pompeii and Herculaneum, she was co-curator of outreach events (all       of them sold out), contributed to the multimedia guide, and was a lead       contributor to the first ever live-streaming to cinemas of a BM exhibition       (over 280 in the UK, and over 1000 worldwide; section 5:13).
7) This work has led directly to other forms of impact, including       appearances teaching Latin on Jamie Oliver's Channel 4 series Dream         School (2011).
This had its own effect: e.g.
`I have always loved       studying Classical Greek and Rome but family and work have left me with       little free time to pursue my interest.
However, that all changed when I       saw you on the television series about Jamie Oliver and his Dream School.
I signed up with the Open University to complete my BA History and have       also taken the plunge to start my MA in Classics' (5:14).
It was       also followed by an appearance at the House of Commons Education Select       Committee, in which the impact of Latin in the curriculum was discussed       (5:15).
