     The department's strategic aims in its relation to film festivals have       been to engage audiences in historical accounts of cinema-going, to       exploit the potential of public cultural debate provided by film       festivals, and to expand the audience demographic attending festivals.
The       involvement of academics as co-founders of and advisers to festivals, is       supplemented by further contributions as interlocutors, co-curators, and       mediators to enrich the understanding, knowledge and constitution of       festival audiences.
Through close collaboration with cultural partners,       the public understanding of film outside of the mainstream and a regional       history of cinema-going have been significantly extended.
A variety of       approaches have been used to translate scholarship into popular discourse,       including on-stage interviews of those involved in film production,       curation of film programmes and participatory memory-based events       recalling cinema-going in the East End.
Through collaborations and the       adoption of formal roles&#8212;Evans as an advisor to the London Spanish Film       Festival (LSFF), Toffell as an AHRC Public Engagement Researcher in       Residence with the East End Film Festival (EEFF)&#8212;along with the College's       financial support of the LSFF, the relationship between researchers and       cultural institutions has been defined by a mutual shaping of agendas.
Evans' work, crossing popular and surrealist Spanish filmmakers of the       1920-1990s, was formative in `supporting this festival since the       conception of the very first edition' (Joana Granero, Director LSFF).
Evans continues to influence the decisions of contemporary and       retrospective film programming in the festival's eighth year.
The LSFF is       held at the Cin&#233; Lumi&#232;re and Instituto Cervantes, West London, for a       period of two weeks during July, and assessment data shows that it       attracts approximately 75% of new audiences each year (Tristana Media).
In       2012, it attracted over 4000 people, its success leading to an extension       of the festival as `Spring Weekend' events.
As a member of the advisory       group, Evans continues to work with the programming team to determine the       focus of each festival, to ensure the programming of contemporary and       archive film, and during the festival, to introduce programmes and conduct       interviews with key film production personnel.
In 2009, Evans' interview       with Angela Molina sold out a venue of 226 seats, a success that was       repeated in 2011 when Evans interviewed actress Geraldine Chapman.
Evans'       analysis of Pedro Almodovar was highly influential in planning and       commissioning a sell-out special series of events examining the acting       registers developed by the director.
Evans' psychoanalytic approach       connecting acting styles to national culture, has a further dimension       through his participation in the International Psychoanalytic Film       Festival, a forum for dialogue between psychoanalysts, filmmakers,       academics and the public.
Evans' work paved the way for a second tier of scholarship on film       festivals and cinema history with particular attention to extending the       audience for film festival events.
The question of how to engage a       spectrum of generations to festivals, specifically the post-retirement and       youth audiences, was addressed through the appointment of Dr Gil Toffell       as a Leverhulme funded postdoctoral fellow (2009-2011).
Toffell's research       on generations of film-goers in the East End was of interest to       programmers at the EEFF, and during the following two years he worked with       the East End Film Festival to present the history of East End cinema-going       in the festival's programme.
Securing funding from the London Centre for       Arts and Cultural Exchange (LCACE), Toffell was invited to create an event       on the history of Jewish East End cinema-going in summer 2011, `The Sights       and Sounds of the Jewish East End', involving a screening of a rarely seen       documentary made in the East End, The Vanishing Street, and a       presentation of Toffell's research.
The playwright and novelist Bernard       Kops gave the keynote introduction for the sell-out event (venue capacity       220).
The audience was notably local, with some members having appeared in       the documentary, and for whom this event provided the first opportunity to       reflect on their involvement.
Toffell's ability to unearth and interpret       cultural heritage led to the issue of an invitation to develop future       events.
In 2012, Toffell's engagement with East End film culture was consolidated       with the EEFF screening of a Yiddish film, A Kid for Two Farthings       (Reed, 1955), and a workshop for young people exploring film and the East       End (supported by Queen Mary Public Engagement Fund).
In November 2012, an       AHRC Cultural Engagement Award facilitated further collaboration between       the EEFF, the London Borough of Tower Hamlets (LBTH), youth community       organizations (Hi8tus, Mile End Community Project) and Queen Mary       researchers to develop a semi-autonomous film festival with young people       in East London.
The project brought together Toffell's historical       knowledge of migration and cinema in East London with contemporary       diasporic culture to inform film festival decision making, and to help       young people realise their own cultural aspirations.
Toffell, with Harbord       and Rai, worked with these organizations to recruit and train young people       outside of HEI to develop the semi-autonomous `Cutting East Youth Film       Festival'.
Cutting East ran from 28-30 June 2013 at Rich Mix cinema,       attracting 553 people, 60% of whom were aged 19 or younger, and 42% were       Bangladeshi and non-white minority ethnicities (LBTH monitoring report).
In developing a new channel of involvement for local youth, the       collaboration also sensitized the EEFF to local needs.
Academic research       methods aided the focus of the festival, with young people researching the       views of their diasporic communities about the EEFF in filmed interviews,       which in turn were screened at the event in July 2013.
A further AHRC       award (an international network grant) has been secured to debate the       cultural rights of young people in their re-purposing of media,       interfacing community groups in East London and Mumbai, partnering with       the EEFF.
These recent awards provide for a sustained enhancement of       public film culture through the collaboration of Queen Mary film       scholarship and film festivals.
