     Cranfield's bioaerosols researchers have worked in collaboration with       Environment Agency scientists and advisory groups to:     - set the research agenda;     - oversee research implementation;     - discuss how findings should inform policy and practice [C1].
The principal driver for the bioaerosols research that Cranfield has       conducted over the past 10 years has been the need to inform UK regulatory       policy and practice.
The Environment Agency (EA) based its first position       statement on bioaerosols from composting in 2001 upon the limited       bioaerosols database available at the time.
In its position statement,       published at a time of unprecedented growth in the UK composting industry,       the EA had to strike an appropriate balance between: the precautionary       principle (in the absence of a strong evidence base); the commercial needs       of a burgeoning industry; and the national requirement to divert organic       waste from landfill.
Cranfield's research has informed the latest version of the EA's position       statement [C2] in several ways.
Our research has shown that whilst       bioaerosol concentrations decline rapidly after emission, there are       infrequent occasions when acceptable levels are exceeded.
Evidence from       our work suggests that such occasional excursions are typical of open       composting and hard to control, even at very well managed sites.
Cranfield's research informed the EA's decision (2010) to take a more       precautionary approach to permitting sites where sensitive receptors are       close to composting operations [C2].
The EA's position statement requires       the completion of risk assessments for site specific bioaerosols under       specified higher risk circumstances [C2].
The EA-funded Fellowship [G3]       developed the 2009 guidance document [C3] for the evaluation of these risk       assessments, drawing upon collaborative investigations of the quality of       assessments submitted by facility operators.
In 2010-11, Cranfield staff       delivered a series of training courses for EA regulatory staff (&gt;100       attendees) on risk assessment of site specific bioaerosols [C4].
The development of source sampling close to emissions, using the IOM       sampler1, led to the inclusion of filtration sampling in the       most recent revision of the Standard Protocol for the Monitoring of       Bioaerosols at Open Composting Facilities [C5] and to Cranfield joining       the advisory group for the development of the protocol [C6].
Tyrrel is an       advisor to the EA on the development of its new M9 protocol [C6].
Tyrrel       was nominated by the Environment Agency [C1] to be the UK Principal Expert       on CEN2 TC264 Working Group 28 on bioaerosols in ambient air.
On the basis of Cranfield's research, this group has developed the first       CEN Technical Specification for the measurement of bioaerosols in ambient       air [C7] and has completed a new standard on sampling strategies for       biowaste facilities [C8].
Standardisation benefits industry and regulators       by removing uncertainty with respect to methods choice and by creating       comparable datasets.
Whilst the evidence base has been significantly strengthened in the past       ten years, there is some way to go before regulatory policy on bioaerosols       in ambient air could be considered stable.
The fact that the current       position statement [C2] is referred to as "interim" guidance emphasises       the fact that the regulatory position is expected to change as new       information becomes available.
Defra project WR 1121 [G4] (a consortium       project including Cranfield, Imperial College, Open University and NPL) is       already influencing the shape and direction of upcoming editions of the EA       Position Statement [C2], the Standard Protocol [C5], and EA/Defra research       priorities as they feed into the emerging Environmental Microbiology and       Human Health call (part of the NERC Environment, Pollution and Human       Health Theme).
