     Our toolkit developed through this work, for characterising organic       matter and flocs, is now routinely used by a number of UK water companies,       as evidenced from testimonials from Severn Trent Water [C1], United       Utilities [C2] and Yorkshire Water [C3].
The fundamental process       understanding underpins significant operational activity related to NOM       removal.
Our work helped shape the operational policy relating to the scheduling       of the blending of water of different sources based on their       characterisation [C3].
The use of fractionation has been central to a       recent study looking at water intake contributions from different input       sources into two drinking water treatment works in the Yorkshire Water       region.
The work on the role of zeta potential as a universal guide to       optimisation of coagulation now forms the basis of routine monitoring in       operating the largest drinking water works within the Severn Trent region       [C1].
The research findings have been embedded into operational practice       and have resulted in significant savings in chemicals and energy       consumption.
Scottish Water recently adopted the combination of both sets       of techniques as standard tests as part of a detailed investigation       programme of its existing coagulation sites for process optimisation,       works audits and to guide investment decisions [C4].
Additionally, United       Utilities now routinely uses the tools as part of their coagulation       diagnostics in relation to problematic operational sites [C2]     The diagnostic tools have also been central to the assessment of new       technologies, such as novel magnetic ion exchange processes.
This work       informed Yorkshire Water's decision in 2009 to invest &#163;50M in the       technology at three drinking water treatment sites, including the first       example of the technology to be implemented in Europe.
More recent work       has been utilised by the water companies to assess a number of other       technologies such as nanofiltration, electro coagulation and novel       adsorbents where the tools and approaches developed by Cranfield are used       to understand the potential of the technoloy and shape future       investment plans [C1, C3].
The application of the tools is being developed through industrially       funded projects related to catchment management [C5] so that the impact of       the research in terms of the drinking water treatment works can be       properly understood [C1, C3].
These projects represent some of the first       examples of such an approach: the findings of these studies are changing       the water companies' understanding of catchment management and shaping       future policy [C1].
The team's research has resulted in two novel technologies, marketed by       Water Innovate limited, part of the Bluewater Bio group [C6].
- The first is PosiDAF&#174;, a novel adaption of the dissolved air flotation       process that utilises positively charged bubbles by coating them with       either surfactants or polymers.
In Australia, there is a demonstration of       the potential for Cranfield's invention for algae removal from both       drinking water sources and final effluent lagoons for wastewater       treatment.
The work has industrial support from five water companies and       the Australian Research council [C7].
Cranfield continues to collaborate       through a transfer of staff to the University of New South Wales.
- The second technology is the membrane chemical reactor (MC-RTM).
This is a photocatalytic reactor linked to a membrane to ensure the       containment and reuse of nano     particulate titanium dioxide catalyst particles.
The technology, patented in     2005 [C8], is under further development as part of a programme of work     funded by Severn Trent Water for the removal of a recalcitrant pesticide     (metaldehyde) from river waters.
Funding has now been secured for a     demonstration of a photocatalytic pilot plant to refine the business case a     full-scale version of the technology in the next asset investment plan [C9].
Our work has helped to shape investment programmes, and assist utilities       in meeting future risks from new legislation related DBPs that are       currently unregulated such as haloacetic acids.
Work for the Scottish       Government on use of alternative disinfectants led to a report published       by the water quality regulator for Scotland that has influenced policy on       water compliance for Scotland [C10].
The work on emerging DBPs was funded by a consortium of UK water       companies to understand the risks.
