     United Kingdom     The UK Government's consultation document, A Competition Regime for         Growth, recommended that dishonesty be dropped and that a new cartel       offence be adopted.
In justifying this recommendation it drew particular       attention to Stephan's survey study (reference 3.1), summarising and       discussing its key findings in one paragraph, stating that Stephan's 2007       working paper had found that only around six in ten people in Britain       believe that price-fixing is dishonest and two in ten people believe that       it is not.
The consultation endorsed the conclusion that juries may not be       as ready to convict for an offence based on dishonesty as originally       hoped.
(source 5(a) at para 6.14).
This change in policy was supported by       the Office of Fair Trading.
The Senior Director of the OFT's Cartels and       Criminal Enforcement Group, Ali Nikpay, made reference to Stephan's survey       paper in a policy speech setting out the reasons why the OFT supported       abandoning the dishonesty requirement, and explaining (source 5(c) at p       21) that Stephan's survey data demonstrated that most people did not see       price fixing as inherently dishonest.
Ali Nikpay has subsequently       indicated (source 5(d)) that the survey was "hugely influential in terms       of informing a change in UK competition policy" and that it "was relied       upon in making the case for reform in the Office of Fair Trading and the       Department of Business, Innovation and Skills... despite significant       opposition from business groups and practitioners."
The final reform is contained in the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act       2013 which amends the current cartel offence in section 41(2) (see source       5(b)) by removing the requirement of dishonesty.
Australia and New Zealand     In 2007, the Australian government proposed draft legislation       criminalising cartel behaviour.
It drew inspiration from the UK's offence       and included the same requirement of dishonesty.
Stephan's public survey       study (in its CCP working paper form) was picked up by a number of       Australian academics and practitioners, notably Caron Beaton-Wells       (University of Melbourne) and Brent Fisse (Brent Fisse Lawyers, New South       Wales).
In a submission made to the Australian government in March 2008       (commenting on the criminal offence proposed in the Exposure Draft Bill),       they cited the survey as lending empirical backing to their criticisms of       the proposed dishonesty element (source 5(e).
pp 29 and 31), where they       say that "even serious cartel misconduct may not be regarded as dishonest       by jurors" and that this is in part due to jurors' lack of familiarity       with cartels, a point also made by Stephan.
A subsequent Australian Senate Standing Committee report on the       criminalisation of cartel behaviour (source 5(f).
pp 22-23) supported a       move by the Australian government to omit dishonesty from their cartel       offence.
In doing so, they quoted the main argument from the second study       (reference 3.2) to lend support to this move:     "As Andreas Stephan from the University of East Anglia has observed:       `...[the dishonesty element has failed to harden attitudes] in the absence       of regular convictions and may be problematic because dishonesty       necessitates a contemporary moral judgement on the part of the jury and       therefore relies on attitudes being sufficiently hardened in the first       place'"     The Trade Practices Amendment (Cartel Conduct and Other Measures) Bill       was ultimately enacted as the Competition and Consumer Act 2010,       introducing two cartel offences in sections 44ZZRD and 44ZZRE which are       not based on a standard of dishonesty, but place importance on       demonstrating knowledge or belief.
In July 2012, a reference to the survey work (references 3.1) was made       during a debate in the Parliament of New Zealand.
There Raymond Huo MP       said (source 5(h), "...the results of a 2008 survey of public attitudes in       the United Kingdom precisely mirrored the results of a similar survey       recently conducted in Australia - that is, there is substantial majority       support for the view that cartel conduct is unacceptable, but a minority       of that think that cartel conduct should be a criminal offence, and less       than a quarter think that individuals should be jailed for it.
It is       difficult to see why public attitudes would differ greatly in New       Zealand."
The debate was in the context of the passage of the New Zealand       Commerce (Cartels and Other Matters) Amendment Bill, which when enacted       will criminalise cartel behaviour.
The Rt Hon.
Lord Justice Gross' Review of Disclosure in Criminal       Proceedings (September 2011) cited the paper published in the Criminal Law       Review (references 3.2), in his discussion of cartel cases (source 5(i)).
