     The NSO is a web-based resource set up by LJMU to exploit the educational       and engagement potential of the Liverpool Telescope (LT) [Source 2].
The target audiences are pupils in UK and Irish schools of ages 8 to 18       and their teachers, and since its launch in 2004 has reached more than       4,000 registered UK and Irish teachers, with 60,000 sets of observations       requested by schools (growing from 2,700 requests in 2004/5, to around       1,500 per month in 2013) and around 1.5 - 2 million webpages served each       year (the majority within the UK, but with a growing usage       internationally) [Source 3].
This growth has resulted in the       doubling in the amount of time that LT provides to the NSO from 5% to 10%,       to support the increased reach of the NSO.
In 2013, there has been a       significant expansion of both research and NSO staff funded by LJMU, and       this will lead to further projects.
The NSO has three overlapping components: a system to allow pupils and       teachers to make their own observations alongside researchers on the LT; a       range of projects that they can take part in, many of which have a strong       research element; and a wide selection of support materials for those       teaching astronomy or wanting to use astronomy and space science to       support the teaching of other subjects, especially STEM.
In addition, the       ARI offers face-to-face support, work-placements and a wide range of       talks, workshops and other events (in the 2012/13 academic year, NSO staff       delivered over 200 hours of school activities and teacher CPD to a total       of more than 10,000 pupils and teachers).
This combination gives the       maximum scope not just to motivate teachers and improve curriculum       teaching, but to inspire pupils of all abilities, who can work inside or       outside the curriculum at their own pace and in areas that particularly       attract and interest them.
Oversight of the NSO is provided by       the NSO Board, whose broad range of educational, astronomical, commercial       and management experience from external organisations is supported by the       ARI.
A recent (2013) independent evaluation on the NSO by the Centre for       Science Education at Sheffield Hallam University examined the effect of       the NSO on attitudes to STEM education and careers, identified the       strengths and weaknesses of the NSO (to inform future developments) and       created a framework against which longer-term impact can be assessed in       the future.
Using a mixture of online questionnaires and visits to       schools, the evaluation showed that both pupils and teachers are "highly       positive" of all aspects of the NSO and, in particular, that as well as       enhancing astronomy and science education, use of the NSO has given pupils       "more insight into the work of scientists" (68% of teachers agree or       strongly agree, with &lt; 6% disagreeing) and made them "more interested       in science" (&gt;80% agree or strongly agree, with only 4% disagreeing).
In summary, the Sheffield Hallam academics concluded that the NSO "has       unprecedented reach, and is one of the most significant educational       initiatives in the STEM field linked to an HEI" [Source 4].
These results are supported by internal evaluations and feedback from       users: "It is much more involving than just using images that come from       the internet" (Bethanie, age 16), "[It] gave me a real insight into       physics and made me decide on what I wanted to do at degree level.
Now I       will be studying a Physics and Astronomy degree" (Simon, age 17), "[The       NSO] gives us a powerful platform from which to proceed with inspiring       students in science through astronomy."
(Sarah, teacher).
As is clearly highlighted by this evaluation and feedback, the links with       research are invaluable for achieving the impact.
We have, therefore, an       ongoing programme of developing research-led projects that are open to       anyone and pupil-focussed, but which derive from and support LJMU       research.
These include the extra-galactic novae [Refs 4,5] and       exoplanet search [Ref 6] projects mentioned in Section 2.
Other       projects include following and measuring the light curves of supernovae       and measuring the positions and orbits of asteroids that as Near-Earth       Objects might in future collide with Earth.
Recognition that the NSO's activities have had an important impact comes       from a variety of sources beyond academic studies.
Following advice from       NSO Director Newsam, the Controlled Assessment (i.e.
assessed coursework)       of the GCSE in Astronomy was redesigned to enable students to use       robotic telescopes, with the NSO cited as an exemplar in support material       produced by the exam board Edexcel (now Pearsons).
Working with partners       across Europe (e.g.
CERN, The European Physical Society and the Austrian       Ministry of Education) the NSO has been actively engaged in several       European projects looking at innovative use of technology in       research-driven education (e.g.
the SkyWatch, Discover the         Cosmos and Open Discovery Space projects).
The NSO also       forms a key part of a recommendation by the House of Commons Science and       Technology Select Committee to develop collaboration between BIS and DfE,       recognising the importance of linking scientific research and education at       the highest level.
Finally, LJMU was awarded a Queen's Anniversary Prize       in 2005 in recognition of the educational impact of the Liverpool       Telescope [Source 5].
In summary, the NSO is a research-led project that, to quote the Royal       Anniversary Trust in their announcement of the 2005 Queen's Anniversary       Prize, "is opening [astronomy] up to schools and enthusing large numbers       of young people about the study of science and technology".
