     The key findings in the articles above had three types of national and       international impact.
They       are discussed below and corroborated by evidence (Ref a- i) details for       which are in section 5.
Impact on UK public debate, UK and European journalists:     Key finding 1 had an impact on public debate.
While the academic article       that contains it was still       under review, Uberoi used this finding to write an article for the Independent       that received 143       responses on the newspaper's website (Ref a).
The prominent UK       journalist, David Goodhart,       discusses the Political Studies article in which key finding 1       appears twice in his new book (Ref b).
Indeed, the Huffington Post and www.politics.co.uk       wanted follow up pieces as soon as this finding       appeared in Political Studies (Ref c).
Similarly, European       journalists in the Austrian network of 80       journals, Eurozine, requested permission to reprint the Soundings       article containing key finding 2       as soon as it was published; Le Monde followed suit and reprinted       the entire article as a blog for       their readership too (Ref d).
Impact on UK Home Office civil servants, UK Parliamentarians and         Labour Party officials:     Key finding 1 also impacted on Home Office civil servants attending an       ESRC funded House of       Lords seminar devoted to discussing it.
The Home Office Chief Scientist       said `this research `had       been able to uncover and articulate conclusions which not many years ago       would have been       considered almost inconceivable' and that it had helped to show how the       `major political parties...       have shifted their positions profoundly' (Ref e).
Lord Parekh noted       how the research made people       `think along unfamiliar lines' and had `an obvious impact, hopefully of       lasting value, on those in       charge of taking decisions' (Ref f).
Similarly, the office of Jon       Cruddas MP, who is leading the       Labour Party Policy Review, invited Uberoi to participate in Review       meetings; and noted how the       findings in his Political Studies and Soundings articles       `helped to shape policy making discussions       around... immigration, integration and multiculturalism' (Ref g).
Impact on civil servants in the Canadian Department of Citizenship and         Immigration:     Key findings 1, 3 and 4 all had an impact on Canadian Department of       Citizenship and Immigration       officials who `tracked' Uberoi's work `from his doctoral research' onwards       (Ref h).
Uberoi was flown       to Ottawa on the 7 May 2011 to discuss with Director and Director Generals       in this Department       whether they should emulate the UK government and reject policies of       multiculturalism (Ref h).
Uberoi used key finding 1 to question whether the UK government was really       rejecting such       policies; and to ask why emulating the UK was necessary when it was       emulating Canada by       introducing policies of multiculturalism that promote inclusive       understandings of a nation.
On 9 May       2011, Uberoi then discussed with some of the same officials and others in       the Department of       Heritage why rejecting these policies for undermining understandings of a       nation was harder in       Canada as key findings 3 and 4 suggest such policies are used to shape       such understandings       instead.
The special advisor to the Director General of the Department's       Integration Branch said       that he and his colleagues found this research `instrumental...in       assisting them in their       consideration of various policy options for future directions of the       Canadian Multiculturalism       Program' and it had `significantly influenced how they think about their       own work' (Ref h and i).
Between 2011 and 2013 Uberoi's findings provoked debate in the Independent       and follow up       media pieces.
UK journalists referred to his research which also changed       the views of UK Home       Office officials and shaped discussions in the Labour Party.
Internationally, his findings were       reprinted in European media outlets as soon as they appeared and were used       by Canadian federal       government officials.
