     The new nozzle design is capable of producing much smaller bubbles of a       more uniform size that (a) increased the effectiveness of the air       introduced, (b) allowed the air to be introduced at a lower pressure, and       (c) substantially reduced the breakup of the flocculated particles in the       water supply.
The indirect benefits of this include reductions in the       energy requirements for the production of dissolved air, a reduction in       the concentration of chemical additives required to achieve flocculation,       an improvement in the quality of the treated water, and an increase in the       throughput of existing dissolved air flotation systems.
Additionally, as       an indirect consequence of the improved water quality produced by the DAF       system, the costs of subsequent filtration and maintenance/cleaning       requirements of downstream systems were reduced.
Such was the success of this new nozzle design that Yorkshire Water       immediately instigated plans to roll it out across its dissolved air       flotation.
This roll out has be prioritised on water works that (with       their original nozzles) would not meet water quality requirements if       operated at designed throughput.
As of December 2012, Yorkshire Water have       retrofitted the nozzles at six sites, with installation at four further       sites operated by their sister company, Kelda Water Services.
These       nozzles have also been installed at two new treatment works, the more       recent commissioned at the end of 2012.
The initial field trials suggested that 20% more raw water could be       treated whilst maintaining an improved water quality (Zhang et al.
2009).
The potential saving in capital investment through avoiding the       need to construct new or additional flotation systems is substantial.
Earlier work had shown that reducing the pressure at which water was       saturated with dissolved gases led to fewer, larger bubbles, thus       requiring very high saturation pressures to be used.
The energy cost in       achieving this is substantial.
However, the new nozzle is able to operate       successfully at significantly lower saturation pressures.
Yorkshire Water       estimates energy savings at pumping sites in the region of 10-15% due to       nozzle use (more accurate disaggregation of benefit is difficult since       nozzle installation has been part of a refurbishment programme.)
(Commercial Optimisation Manager, Yorkshire Water)     Patent protection in the UK and USA has been gained for these nozzles       with Dalziel, Leppinen and Zhang listed as inventors and the rights       assigned to Yorkshire Water Services.
Under this Yorkshire Water have       licensed the use of the new nozzles to three further water companies:       United Utilities, Anglian Water and Northern Ireland Water.
