     Spaceport is an Astronomy and Space visitor centre based adjacent to one       of the three terminals for the Mersey Ferry (which is the top paid-for       tourist attraction in the Liverpool area).
It is a joint venture between       Merseytravel, the mass-transit authority for Merseyside, and LJMU.
Spaceport grew from a merger of the aims of the two entities: LJMU desired       to enhance the public engagement with its research, the Liverpool       Telescope project, and astronomy and space exploration in general.
Merseytravel wished to exploit a historic asset and develop education and       tourism in the area.
Merseytravel was an ideal partner for us as they are       a leading organisation in the region for tourism ventures, sharing a       similar educational vision.
Spaceport has the aim of enhancing the regeneration of the Seacombe and       Birkenhead areas on the banks of the Mersey.
The Spaceport business plan       was based originally on predicted visitor numbers of 90,000 in the first       year (2005/06), dropping gradually to 50,000 (as seen in comparable       attractions).
However, numbers have remained high, stabilising at around       70,000 per year (2012/13) [Source 1].
This attests both to the       quality of the centre and the appeal of the subject area.
Using a standard       model for measuring the economic activity of tourism (STEAM model 2010, [Source         2]), this equates to a net gain of more than &#163;2M per year.
Spaceport       also contributed towards the success of Mersey Ferries being ranked 1st in       the City Region in 2008, when Liverpool was European Capital of Culture.
Because of this success, the original targets for the regeneration have       been met or exceeded.
These included the creation of an estimated 50 new       jobs, both direct and indirect, which equates to a gross value added of       &#163;1.4M p.a.
to the City Region [Source 3].
LJMU research has had a significant impact on all areas of Spaceport from       its conception.
Prior to the opening of the centre in 2005, astronomers       from the ARI were involved in all stages of the design process for the       attraction, from the tender process through to final "signing off".
That       relationship has been maintained, with continuing impact deriving from       access to the combined skills, knowledge and experience of a broad-based       research-active department that feeds into the centre to make it relevant,       current and exciting.
Most importantly, Spaceport is designed (through its exhibits and       activities) specifically to allow the staff at ARI to engage with a range       of different audiences.
For example, the annual Merseyside Astronomy Day       combines a series of talks by professional astronomers with a day-out at       Spaceport.
As well as organising the event, which has run near Easter       every year since 2006, LJMU provides the majority of the speakers.
Subjects have included stellar evolution (Salaris, May 2012), supernovae       (Davies, April 2013), telescope development (Steele, March 2009), active       galaxies (Mundell, April 2013) and cosmology (Collins, April 2008).
The       event has sold out every year and receives consistently excellent feedback       (100% would recommend friends to come to the next event).
As part of its continuing commitment to public engagement, the University       recently (2012-13) invested &#163;75k in developing a new interactive exhibit:       The Observatory.
This was developed during 2012-2013 and was devised by       LJMU researchers.
It brings the latest research and educational data from       the LT into Spaceport where visitors can explore and interact with it.
The       exhibit was launched in July 2013, and will be constantly refreshed by the       ARI with ongoing research, including immediate access to time-critical       observations from the LT (such as discovery and follow-up of Gamma Ray       Bursts and supernovae - Mundell, Bersier) and their interpretation and       importance.
Initial evaluation of The Observatory (immediately pre-launch)       shows that this immediacy and connection to current research is an       important factor in its appeal.
We will be continuing the evaluation as       the exhibit is enhanced to ensure that this impact is maintained.
In addition to the economic benefits, Spaceport forms a key strand of our       schools' outreach programme, and is a recognised `public face' of the       National Schools' Observatory.
Input from LJMU has led to a good mixture       of cutting-edge astronomy and curriculum-centred content, both in the       exhibits themselves, and in the teacher packs and support material.
This       has ensured that Spaceport is now a prime destination for school trips       from across North West England and North Wales - more than half of its       visitors in 2011/12 were school children.
Further development of the       centre is coordinated by a joint Merseytravel/LJMU development team, led       by LJMU astronomers.
Spaceport, therefore, is a showcase for our ongoing       research into the universe that provides public engagement, education and       a stimulus for economic regeneration.
