     The research and collaboration undertaken by the O'Nions group at Oxford       led to the development of a new generation of MC-ICP-MS and of other mass       spectrometers.
The resulting new UK company, Nu Instruments [7] saw       significant growth and sales between 2008 and 2013.
The initial collaborative venture with PAF Consultants was driven by the       research requirements of the O'Nions group at Oxford.
The need for an       instrument that could simultaneously measure isotopes of many different       elements quickly and accurately resulted directly in the prototype Nu       Plasma machine, which was co-designed and built by the two organisations.
To quote the founder and director of Nu Instruments, "Without Oxford,         Nu Instruments wouldn't exist."
[8].
The 1997 Nu Plasma instrument had a number of completely new features       which made it attractive to those needing high-functioning mass       spectrometers in academia and industry.
It was the first MC-ICP-MS that       was fully double focusing with a Nier-Johnson geometry and a laminated       magnet, and included the use of ion pumps.
Critically, it made use of zoom       optics, allowing the deployment of fixed-position collectors and switching       between different elements instantaneously.
These design innovations,       coupled to proof of the instruments capabilities provided by Oxford       University research, allowed Nu Instruments to flourish so that, by the       beginning of the REF impact period, they had a turnover of &#163;5.2M [9].
The design of the Nu Plasma was updated in 2007, to include modifications       that had arisen from discussion between Oxford University and Nu       researchers.
For example, this generation of instrument featured       adjustable slits, allowing higher resolution measurement and the more       accurate analysis of some important stable isotope systems such as Fe, Ca,       and Si.
These design improvements led to a marked increase in sales of the       Nu Plasma, from an average of 6 per year in the previous five years to an       average of 9 per year in the period 2008-2012 [9].
The Nu Plasma remains a major-selling product for Nu instruments and has       contributed to the continued success of the company since 2008.
High sales       are aided by the demonstration, by Oxford University scientists, of the       successful research application of the instrument to a wide range of       isotope systems.
This research also helped Nu Instruments sell the Nu       Plasma into new analytical markets beyond geochemistry (for example, the       nuclear industry; [9]).
Nu Instruments subsequently developed four further mass spectrometer       designs, two with the active involvement of Oxford University scientists.
The Astrum is a new glow-discharge mass spectrometer developed using the       expertise of Karla Newman, who initially worked for Oxford University's       Department of Earth Sciences and collaborated in several research areas       with Nu Instruments.
In October 2007 she transferred to Nu to work on the       Astrum instrument, the first of which was shipped in 2010.
This instrument       has enabled Nu to enter a new customer base in industrial materials       characterisation [9].
Nu Instruments have thus benefited by drawing on the       highly-specialised research and development skills of staff from Oxford       University.
Oxford University staff (Belshaw) also contributed to software       development for the AttoM instrument, launched in 2005 and sold to more       than 24 customers in academia and industry during the REF period [9].
Belshaw now provides consultancy services to the company on software and       product design [10].
Between 2008 and 2012 Nu Instruments sold a total of 157 instruments       around the world (including Europe, Australasia, China and the USA).
Oxford University contributed to the development of 55% of these.
Nu has       grown significantly since 2008 and has a thriving company base in Wrexham,       North Wales, as well as being serviced by offices in five countries.
Its       turnover has nearly trebled from &#163;5.2 million in 2008 to &#163;14.7 million in       2012, and it has more than doubled its number of employees from 45 in 2008       to 105 in 2013.
The success of the company, and its importance to the       local economy, was recognized by the local MP, who selected Nu Instruments       as the best company to represent manufacturing innovation within their       constituency [11].
Aside from commercial success, the development of their products has       revolutionized inorganic mass spectrometry and enabled new discovery in a       wide range of academic and commercial disciplines.
Nu Instruments has       become an internationally leading mass spectrometry company, having       started through collaboration with Oxford University, and now continuing       to benefit from research undertaken at Oxford University.
