     Globally, ill-health attributable to physical inactivity is economically       costly.
Physical inactivity has been estimated to cost the National Health       Service more than &#163;1.06 billion per year with physical inactivity being       responsible for more than 35,000 deaths each year in the UK.
In America,       direct medical costs associated with physical inactivity were $76.6       billion in 2000.
Emerging estimates from European studies suggest that       physical inactivity costs &#8364;300 per citizen per year.
Consequently, many       countries advocate the development of national activity guidelines as part       of public policy and health services with a view to saving public money by       avoiding health care costs and increasing productivity through a healthier       population.
The research carried out by Professor Murphy and colleagues at Ulster       between 1998 and 2013 has unequivocally contributed to the scientific       evidence base underpinning the development of such national activity       guidelines (Sources 2, 3, 5 and 6).
Individually, Professor Murphy has       been directly involved in drafting the physical activity guidelines for       the UK and Ireland (Sources 7 and 8); additionally, she is an invited       expert on two international advisory panels convened by the World Health       Organisation.
(Source 1)     The significance of establishing that walking is a suitable physical       activity from which to derive health benefits should not be       underestimated.
Public health policy guidelines are necessarily directed       at a considerable portion of the population who may be obese, sedentary,       at risk of cardiovascular disease and for whom more strenuous forms of       exercise may be unsuitable.
Prior to Murphy's 1998 study the research       evidence for the health benefits of accumulated bouts of walking was       inconclusive.
A key finding of this seminal research was to establish that       previously sedentary individuals who participate in short bouts of brisk       walking improve cardiovascular fitness and several other known risk       factors of cardiovascular disease.
The discovery by Murphy and colleagues that accumulated bouts of exercise       are as beneficial as one longer continuous bout has had an impact on       public policy initiatives by making physical activity more amenable to the       population as a whole by allowing it to fit more easily into busy lives.
A concomitant and complementary impact is evident by Murphy's direct       involvement in various international, national and local scientific and       advisory panels responsible for drafting public policy documents and       initiatives:     &#8212; Invited member of the scientific advisory group for the Department of       Health review of the current UK physical activity guidelines and a member       of the small editorial team which produced the 2011 guidelines issued by       the 4 Chief Medical Officers (DoH 2011 Start Active Stay Active - Murphy       responsible for writing adult guidelines).
(Source 7)     &#8212; Invited member of the British Association of Sport and Exercise       Sciences expert panel which reviewed the scientific evidence and provided       a widely cited consensus statement on the health benefits of physical       activity (The ABC of Physical Activity)     &#8212; The World Health Organisation has invited Murphy onto two different       European scientific panels: i) the International Advisory Group       responsible for developing a Health Economic Assessment Tool (HEAT) for       walking (Source 1) which agreed a tool to be used in assessing the cost       effectiveness of the development of walking paths for the European       population; ii) the Physical Activity Networking (PHAN) group which was       responsible for writing the case studies and reviewing available evidence       on the promotion of physical activity in socially disadvantaged groups     &#8212; As a direct result of her research Murphy was the only member from NI       invited onto the UK Government's Department of Health Obesity Review Group       chaired by the Parliamentary Undersecretary for Public Health.
The group's       role is to advise on policy and practice for tackling obesity in England.
&#8212; Invited member of a pressure group of experts responsible for       convincing Ireland's Department of Health of the need for a National       Physical Activity Plan and subsequently for advising and writing the       Physical Activity Guidelines for Ireland (DHC, Get Ireland Active).
(Sources 6, 7 and 8)     The research and policy documents contributed to by Professor Murphy and       colleagues are frequently cited as impacting on other worldwide       initiatives relating to physical activity guidelines for adults in USA,       Canada, and Australia.
