     There are two key areas of impact: (1) providing specialist expertise to       policy makers and legislators in the UK, Europe, China and the United       Nations to help them inform their thinking and decisions; and (2)       influencing the actual wording of ODR legislation at EU and UK level.
In 2011, Prof H&#246;rnle provided advice, based on her extensive research, to       the European Commission, in conjunction with Pablo Cortes from the       University of Leicester.
This enabled the Commission to develop common       criteria for ODR.
Prof H&#246;rnle was subsequently involved in drafting the       relevant proposals for EU legislation (the Directive and Regulation), at       the stage of the European Commission Proposals in 2011.
The Proposals have       now been passed as the Directive 2013/11/EU on ADR for Consumer Disputes       and Regulation EU/524/2013 on Consumer ODR.
Prof H&#246;rnle's research has had       a significant impact on this legislation in several specific areas.
For       example, H&#246;rnle's idea, articulated in her 2013 research, that the ODR       platform is not just an information tool, but should include various       functions enabled by IT (such as the facility to transfer a dispute       directly from the consumer to the ADR provider in another member state) is       reflected in Article 5 of the Regulation.
H&#246;rnle also suggested to the       Commission, based on findings in her research, that a way of imposing       pressure on traders to use ODR is to ensure that they have to inform       consumers at the outset of the transaction, before a dispute arises,       whether or not they engage with ODR; this is reflected in Article 14 of       the Regulation and Article 13 of the Directive.
Prof H&#246;rnle also had       substantive input in the Commission's deliberation on the scope of the ADR       Directive.
As a result, ideas from her research can be seen in Article 2       of the Directive.
Articles 7 of the Directive (relating to transparency) and Article 9       (fairness) also show the significant influence from H&#246;rnle's 2009       research, in particular the ways which due process and fairness can be       implemented in a wide-range of cross-border disputes.
Article 17 of the       Directive reflects H&#246;rnle's thinking of the need for co-operation between       law enforcement and ADR, as many consumer disputes related to fraud and       scammers.
The Draft Proposals were originally issued by the European Commission in       November 2011 and have been adopted by the EU in May 2013.
They are       expected to be implemented into UK law thereafter under the lead of the       Department of Business, Innovation and Skills.
Prof H04e7rnle has been       invited to the stakeholder meetings at the Department of Business       Innovation and Skills for the implementation of the Directive in September       2013 and a roundtable with the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Jo Swinson       in October 2013.
Work carried out by the UK Government's Department of Business,       Innovation and Skills also shows the impact of Prof H&#246;rnle's research.
In       January 2008, she advised the then Consumer Affairs Minister Gareth Thomas       MP on consumer protection and e-commerce policy, dispute resolution for       consumers and ODR.
In 2009, she provided advice to several of the       Department's Expert Group Meetings on e-commerce and consumer protection,       including a meeting with the then European Commissioner for Consumer       Protection, Meglena Kuneva.
This work stream led to the preparation for       establishing a Consumer Advocate by the Labour Government in 2009/2010       (see reference in Section 5 below).
In 2010, she was commissioned by the Department for Business, Innovation       and Skills to carry out an international and comparative study on the       Enforcement of Consumer Protection Law on the Internet and produced a       Research Report which contained many ideas and concepts articulated in her       previous research on ODR.
The Research Report created an understanding of       the different approaches to enforcing consumer protection law in       cross-border internet cases by showcasing models for ODR in other       countries (Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Denmark, Netherlands and       US) and extrapolating the lessons learned for the UK and including       recommendations for ODR in the UK.
In 2011, she provided consultancy for the BIS's stakeholder advisory       meetings on Online Dispute Resolution with the purpose of implementing an       ODR system for e-commerce in the UK, in view of the impending European       legislation (the ADR Directive and ODR Regulation on which she was       advising the EU Commission at that time).
Between November 2011 and March 2012, she provided advice and consultancy       to BIS, based on her previous research on ADR and ODR, which was used by       BIS to inform their work in relation to the Call for Evidence on the EU       Proposals on Alternative Dispute Resolution.
The consultancy involved two       workshops at BIS and an unpublished research report.
This work informed       BIS work on implementing the EU legislation on ODR and ADR and many of her       ideas and advice are reflected in BIS work, including the Call for       Evidence on ADR and the Government's Response.
This work is ongoing and       BIS will issue a Consultation in January 2014.
Prof H&#246;rnle's research has also helped formulate the Chinese government's       approach to ODR.
She acted as a Senior Expert to the Chinese government on       ODR as part of the EU-China Information Society Project from 2007-2009.
She consulted on four different projects in different regions of China       (with the Beijing, Guangzhou, Xian and Shanghai Arbitration Commissions).
Finally, Prof H&#246;rnle's was a panel member for the United Nations       Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL)'s Working Group on Online       Dispute Resolution, attending meetings in Geneva (2001-2005) and Vienna       (2010), with her ideas helping to shape the discussion and build knowledge       of this new discipline.
As part of this international workstream she has       also been advising the US State Department on ODR in connection with the       ODR initiative of the Organisation of American States (OAS).
