     SENAR Precision Engineering Ltd (http://www.senar.co.uk/)       is a long established (70 years) SME       on Merseyside, currently (July 2013) with 33 employees.
The need to       provide high quality       instrumentation to deliver cutting edge research data has driven       capability development at the       company and has allowed it to (a) enter new markets, (b) upgrade their       manufacturing capabilities,       (c) safeguard jobs in an area of historically high unemployment and (d)       expand and upskill their       workforce [Source 1].
Background     The need to develop an agile robotic telescope led to the establishment       in 1998 of the university-       owned company Telescope Technologies Ltd (TTL) with a specific mandate       (through ERDF       funding) of industrial engagement and regeneration.
SENAR was identified       at that time as a       potential supplier to the project and through contracts with TTL built the       majority of the high value       precision mechanical components of the Liverpool Telescope in the period       2001-2004.
Ongoing Impact 2008-2013     This initial work for the Liverpool Telescope provides an ongoing impact       for SENAR, still featuring       in their advertising as an example of a high-profile/high-technology       client.
The reputation that       SENAR have developed as a result of this has taken them into new       international markets in       astronomy, particle physics and other advanced opto-mechanical systems.
This has led directly to       them being awarded contracts in the period 2008-2012 with other       international observatories (e.g.
work on the new William Herschel Telescope Auxiliary Camera) and CERN (for       whom they       produced the chain links that carry cooling pipes and electrical cables       for the LHC).
SENAR are       now actively targeting work for STFC on the WEAVE multi-object       spectrograph and for ESO on the       E-ELT (European Extremely Large Telescope).
As well as simple reputational impact from their engagement with the LT       project, however, we have       also made significant efforts to improve their capability.
SENAR staff       frequently (most weeks) work       directly with ARI staff in the design and construction of enhanced       instrumentation for the Liverpool       Telescope such as the RINGO series of fast readout imaging polarimeters       (2008-2012) and the       IO:O (2009-2011) and IO:I (2012-2013) Infrared-Optical cameras.
As part of       this, ARI have worked       with SENAR in developing their expertise in machining difficult-to-work       specialist materials such as       molybdenum and Invar.
A recent (2011) project with SENAR involved the design and manufacture of       a large (~1.2m       diameter) bearing location ring that had to be stiff yet lightweight.
The       need for this component       arose from a requirement for higher image quality than was being delivered       by the LT which was       identified in the Robonet research programme to seek out exoplanets       through their gravitational       lensing effect on background stars (microlensing) [Ref 5].
LJMU is       a consortium member for this       programme.
Because microlensing effects are rare events, the project       requires that very crowded       fields with large numbers of stars must be repeatedly searched for the       brief and unpronounced       brightening of background stars caused by the chance passage of a low-mass       exoplanet across       them.
This in turn requires the best images.
Research through pupil       imaging into the image       quality delivered by the LT identified a spherical aberration component       that could be corrected by       offsetting the telescope focal plane.
This needed a large locating and       spacer ring to be inserted       into the telescope structure.
ARI and SENAR staff collaborated on the       design of this, carrying out       Finite Element Analysis on proposed structures while still ensuring the       proposed designs were       actually feasible to manufacture.
This activity allowed the company to       earn "R&amp;D tax credits"       (value &#163;48,000 in 2011/12).
This project also contributed to the success       of the company in winning       a grant of &#163;20,000 from the local council against a total capital spend of       &#163;80,000 to purchase a       new, large vertical milling machine.
The need for specialist operators of       this equipment       subsequently directly created two new jobs in the company.
In addition,       several other posts in the       company can be attributed to the work generated by the continuing       collaborative relationship       between SENAR and ARI.
Overall, since 2008 turnover at SENAR has grown by       160% (from       &#163;980k in 2008 to &#163;2.6m in 2013) and they now employ 33 staff compared to       the 18 they employed       in 2008 (delivered against the background of a general engineering       recession in the UK) [Source         1].
