     The impact of the research carried out at Derby based around engine test       bed and engine control unit optimisation is related directly to both the       project itself and the outcomes of the research papers disseminated       through journals and conference reports.
Land Rover sponsored the work as       legislation for the next generation of petrol engine has put tighter       requirement on engine performance, e.g.
fuel consumption, exhaust       emissions with avoidance of misfiring and instability.
In order to meet       these requirements, the electronic engine management system (EMS) must       become increasingly sophisticated.
A large number of parameters or       variables in the EMS (which controls engine performance) need to be       optimised and calibrated with Land Rover's methodology in 2001 being a       system based on empirical testing methodologies where each of the input       variables are changed with a multi-dimensional grid of points tabulated       and observed to find the optimal combination for attributes such as fuel       economy, torque and emissions.
Once an optimal area of input parameters       are observed, more detailed testing can then take place in this reduced       search space in order to hone in on the optimal settings.
The more input       variables and selected section points on each variable involved, the       longer the calibration time required.
Just a few input variables could       lead to weeks worth of tests.
For example, three or four weeks is required       to calibrate an engine for two parameters and 100 selected section points       with the number of inputs used being greater than this in industry.
The work carried out at Derby had a well defined goal; allowing for much       faster calibration testing, but keeping the accuracy and precision of the       calibration results.
As the number of inputs to the system could not be       altered, the number of test points needed to be reduced; this can be       achieved if a model of the dataset is created combined with a robust       optimisation strategy.
The research was fed directly with data from Land       Rover with the research work detailing the optimum strategy needed to       successfully model the behaviour of the engine test bed using a reduced       data set for input, with a unified approach for Neural Network training       methodology selection combined with a robust and detailed approach       specifying how to deal with practical engine modelling problems such as       data pre-processing, data partitioning, model selection and model       validation.
These are all necessary for the system to be used in the       workplace, and maximise usefulness and impact.
The realised Neural Network       engine model was then used as a test bed and optimised which, through the       research undertaken, was found to be optimally satisfied using a multiple       objective genetic algorithm.
The research worked directly on data from       Land Rover and the output of the Neural Network based engine model with       inputs of engine speed, load efficiency, ignition timing, variable valve       timing, and exhaust gas recirculation rate.
The output variables are the       Brake specific fuel consumption (BSFC), torque (TQ), and coefficient of       variance (COV).
The software allows Land Rover to optimise one or multiple       output variables whilst simultaneously constraining others, allowing for a       more complex relationship between input and output parameters to be tested       and fed into the design and testing process.
Previous to this work, Land       Rover needed to produce engine test data sets which consisted of altering       five input parameters resulting in 1100 tests to be undertaken.
Each test       would take around 10 minutes to setup (including engine warm-up time)       which gives a total test time of around 183 hours.
The combined Visual       Basic and Matlab based system produced by Professor Wu at Derby reduced       the number of tests needed to be initially taken to 500 in order to model       the engine, followed by a further 200 sets once an optimal area for fuel       consumption, for example, has been found.
This gives a total testing time       of 116 hours, saving Land Rover 67 hours per engine, or over 36%.
This       demonstrates clear economic impact, in terms of the time saved per engine       test due to the increased performance of the engine test bed whilst       maintaining the required accuracy and precision of the results, impact on       the environment in terms of allowing the development of fuel efficient       engines whilst maintaining low exhaust emissions, and impact on improving       the professional practices of the test bed team at Land Rover.
The final single and multi-objective version of the software, which was a       Visual Basic application combined with a Matlab toolbox, was delivered to       Land Rover in 2008 and is still in use as a tool to model the engine test       bed off-line using pre-measured data whilst being able to optimise the       engine parameters using multiple, competing, objectives.
This allows the       model's predictions to then be used to direct the actions of the on-line       test bed, with the work also being an important part of Land Rover's       on-going research.
