     The research described in Section 2 has its impact through the operation       of AWE Blacknest, which has for over 50 years been a leading centre in the       world for research into techniques of detecting underground nuclear       explosions and is now responsible, under a contract from the Ministry of       Defence, for meeting the UK's requirement to determine whether seismic       events are violations of the Comprehensive nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT).
An essential element of the CTBT regime is that any violation should be       detectable.
The examination of seismic waves is one of the principal       methods by which this detection can be achieved.
A major component of       detection is the ability to distinguish reliably between seismic waves       generated by naturally occurring earthquakes and those from man-made       explosions &#8212; the seismic discrimination problem.
A closely related       operation is "event-screening", the process whereby those seismic events       that can be confidently identified as earthquakes are discounted as       potential violations of the Treaty.
The forensic seismology involved in seismic discrimination is a       continually evolving field.
As more, and higher-quality data become       available, scientists seek to lower the threshold at which detection of       tests can be achieved.
A fundamental part of this evolution is to discover       new discrimination techniques, key among which are the determination of       depth and geographical location of the events.
The potential for applying Woodhouse's fundamental research to       improvement of source location, thereby enhancing event screening, was       recognized by Oxford University (Woodhouse) and AWE Blacknest scientists       in the early 2000s.
To quote the Team Leader of Forensic Seismology at AWE       Blacknest:     "John conducted fundamental work in the late 1990s and early 2000s to         improve observational databases and 3-D models of earth structure.
Resulting earth models enable more accurate interpretation of seismic         waveforms and, through a number of novel algorithms developed in         Woodhouse's research group, have considerable relevance for the accurate         characterisation, depth determination and location of seismic events"       [7]     AWE Blacknest subsequently sponsored focused research at Oxford       University in the period 2003-2010, to modify the algorithms developed by       Woodhouse's group for specific use in the CTBT context.
This work involved       a graduate studentship sponsored by AWE (Heyburn) and a NERC studentship       with AWE CASE support (Fox).
Both students were supervised by Woodhouse       and worked closely with him.
Heyburn subsequently joined AWE Blacknest as       a Junior Scientist and continues to use the algorithms developed at Oxford       University in event screening as part of AWE's work in support of the       CTBT.
Fox also worked for some years at AWE following completion of his       Ph.D.
He presented his joint Oxford-AWE work at several international       conferences and, together with Woodhouse, recently published the key       findings of his portion of the collaborative Oxford-AWE research on       identification of source location [6].
This collaborative work between the University of Oxford and AWE built on       the fundamental work of Woodhouse to achieve significant advances,       including:     1) A technique based on intermediate seismic surface waves to investigate       the focal mechanism and depth of shallow earthquakes [6].
This work       compares observed and theoretical amplitude spectra using state-of-the-art       methods and models for the calculation of theoretical seismograms.
2) An algorithm for constraining depth using body-wave data.
The method       uses advanced signal processing techniques to detect correlated signals as       a tool for identifying depth phases and thereby constraining the depth of       a seismic event.
3) Studies of measurement and model uncertainties in seismic travel       times.
The resulting method is in regular use at Blacknest for assessing       event location.
Blacknest routinely makes use of the methods developed from this research       and has done so throughout the REF period (2008-13), including the       adoption of new techniques developed from the collaborative work in       2008-2009.
These methods are used for the analysis of specific events, and       to further understanding the background seismicity in areas of interest       for CBTB monitoring.
A particular example was the use of research derived       from the University of Oxford to constrain uncertainties in the locations       of the North Korean explosion of 2009.
Further research at Blacknest       continues to build on such University of Oxford research.
Quoting: "...techniques developed from John's fundamental research,         have been extensively used by AWE Blacknest.
They were used, for         instance, to assess the location of the 2009 Korean nuclear test and the         uncertainty on that location.
These techniques help us to fulfil our UK         obligation within the CTBT &#8212; a key role of AWE Blacknest."
[7]     The primary beneficiaries of this work are those involved in       identification of explosions which may contravene the CTBT.
In the UK,       this has specific relevance to AWE Blacknest who are tasked by the MoD to       fulfil national obligations for such event screening.
Given AWE       Blacknest's international leadership in the field, this work also has       wider significance for the CTBT internationally.
The full benefits of the       CTBT are to world security and the limiting of radionuclide contamination       of the environment.
