     The impact of this research has been in public communication of science,       and in protection of the environment.
In particular, the research       contributed to the designation of the Chengjiang fossil site as a       protected UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2012.
The 2004 book on the Chengjiang Biota (Hou et al.
[2]) was an important       publication, flagging the significance of the Chengjiang site       internationally to a wide ranging readership.
In the same year, Chinese       Premier Wen Jiabao issued instructions to "protect the Chengjiang biota         as a world treasure and natural heritage of significant scientific value"       [9] and the idea of submitting the Chengjiang fossil site for world       heritage status was first considered.
In 2010, Gao Jinsong the Mayor of       Yuxi City, suggested that the central government support the nomination of       the Chengjiang biota for inclusion in the Chinese list of World Heritage       nominations; a suggestion subsequently supported by Wen Jiabao.
In 2011,       Jiang Weixin, Chinese Minister of Housing and Urban-Rural Development,       nominated the Chengjiang Fossil Site to UNESCO for World Heritage status       with bid papers that included those that Derek Siveter had played a       significant part in writing.
Siveter was invited in 2010 by the Yuxi City Government to act as one of       three official scientific external consultants to help write a       World-Heritage bid for the Chengjing fossil-site [7].
He had specific       responsibility for drafting parts of the bid, including descriptions,       illustrations and statements of significance for all the major groups of       Chengjiang fossils; work that relied heavily on his previous knowledge and       research [e.g.
1-6].
He also helped draft the scientific rationale of the       bid [7].
In addition to writing parts of the bid, Siveter provided advice       to Chinese colleagues during its progress, enabling them to address       questions from UNESCO during the bid's scientific and field assessment.
On       1st July 2012 the bid proved successful, and the site was       admitted to the World Heritage list at the UNESCO Ratification Meeting in       St Petersburg [10].
This success gave China its first palaeontologically       based World Heritage site.
World Heritage is the designation for places on Earth that are of       outstanding universal value to humanity and as such, have been inscribed       on the World Heritage List to be protected for future generations to       appreciate and enjoy.
UNESCO states of the Chengjiang site that it "...presents         an exceptional record of the rapid diversification of life on Earth         during the early Cambrian period, 530 million years before present.
In         this geologically short interval almost all major groups of animals had         their origins.
The property is a globally outstanding example of a major         stage in the history of life, representing a palaeobiological window of         great significance" [10].
World Heritage status has benefitted the Chengjiang region.
As it was       being put forward for such status, the Chengjiang site was established as       a Geopark, leading to some 3,000-5,000 people visiting the Chengjiang site       in 2009, including those from around China and overseas.
UNESCO projects       that World Heritage status will lead to an increase of annual visitors to       40,000 in the next five years [10], and a new museum has been built within       the World Heritage Site, opening in 2010.
In a province where tobacco       production and mining offer the only main industries, the site is       diversifying and boosting local and regional economies, with the county       town of Chengjiang and the Fuxian Lake Provincial Scenic Area providing       accommodation for the increasing number of visitors.
Chengjiang County       Museum has also established educational outreach activities in Yunnan       related to the Chengjiang fossil site.
These feature a series of       publications for popular science education, including "Chengjiang         Faunal Fossils and Geological Exploration" and "Guidelines for         the Basic Geology of Chengjiang Faunal Fossils National Geopark".
World Heritage status has also protected the environment of the region.
Provincial government policy has, since 2009, stopped 14 phosphate mines       from operating in the locality, while local government has invested RMB 78       million to protect the natural landscape and to support the Geopark, as       well as building a natural history museum.
"...the local government         will promote tourism based on the fossil site to benefit local people         from world heritage" [8,9].
A number of exhibitions and public communication of science activities       have been organized in cooperation with domestic and foreign institutes.
Exhibitions of Chengjiang fossils and posters have been organized in six       countries and regions outside Yunnan.
As the prime example, Siveter played       a fundamental role in production of a major public exhibition on the       Chengjiang biota in the Oxford University Museum of Natural History in       2010.
This involved the loan, with appropriate government permission, of       some 150 excellent specimens from the Key Laboratory for Palaeobiology,       Yunnan University.
The exhibition was the first time that Chengjiang       material of this quantity and importance has been exhibited outside China.
The exhibition was cited in the UNESCO World heritage application to       support the bid.
The museum was visited by 304,770 people during the       period the exhibition was open (17 May - 14 November 2010), giving some       indication of numbers who will have witnessed the exhibition.
The broader world community has also benefitted.
A key site for our       understanding of life on Earth and the roots of biodiversity, including       our own vertebrate origins, has been internationally recognised as having       universal value, and will be managed and protected as a consequence.
If       the site had not gained such international recognition, it is probable       that its paleontological treasures would have been lost to phosphate       mining.
A truly exceptional scientific resource has been maintained for       palaeobiologists, evolutionary biologists, students of the history of life       and the general public, to investigate and enjoy.
