     Impact 1: Economic Development       The success of this international collaborative research led by Liu, has       resulted in two economic       impacts:            From 2010 to 2011, Liu's team systematically assessed and evaluated         the performance,         dependability and power consumption of iVCS (Internet-based Virtual         Computing System)         which was developed originally by Beihang University [5.8].
This         consultancy directly         contributed to the successful commercialisation of the system in 2012,         by Beijing Teamsun         Technology Co., Ltd [5.5], a leading IT service provider in China.
During 2013, UoD's research partners in Beihang University have         successfully secured a         project on Big-Data Computing, with a value of 25m RMB, ~&#163;2.5m, funded         by the National         Basic Research Program of China.
[5.5].
Liu is now working with the ACT institute in Beihang University to       further develop the iVCS, using       sustainable Cloud computing technologies and inter-cloud scheduling       technologies developed by       the School of Computing and Mathematics at UoD.
Further to this, an       additional 5M RMB (~&#163;0.5M)       has been solicited from Phase II of the China National Cloud Computing       Programme.
Impact 2: International Participation in Higher Education       Both UK and Chinese universities are direct beneficiaries of this       research.
Two academic       collaboration agreements, supporting the exchange of staff and research       students, have been       signed by UoD with Tongji University and Jiangsu University, respectively       [5.3, 5.4].
A PhD Agreement on higher education research partnerships was signed in       London on 16th April       2012 between the UK and Chinese governments.
One of three objectives set       by Sino-UK Higher       Education Research Partnership for PhD Studies is to "develop joint PhD       training mechanisms       through exchange of PhD students."
[5.1] As one of 28 Sino-UK Higher       Education Research       Partnerships funded by UK BIS, Welsh and Scottish Governments and China       MoE, UoD, Tongji       University and Jiangsu University have extended the current research       collaboration between Liu       and his research partners to develop collaborative PhD programmes offering       dual degrees.
Two Chinese students have been selected by Tongji University and Jiangsu       University,       respectively, to be accepted into collaborative PhD programmes.
The       successful development of       the collaborative PhD programmes has been highly praised by the British       Council [5.2].
A Visiting       Scholar from China at UoD and Liu, secured funds from Jiangsu Provincial       Department of       Education in May 2013 with a value of $21,600, which is used to support       the Visiting Scholar's       research at UoD [5.6].
Innovations for technology-enhanced teaching and       learning, developed as a       result of this research, have also been promulgated in the Chinese       universities.
Impact 3: Effective Knowledge Dissemination       Liu served as program chair and successfully organised seven international       conferences and       workshops for the dissemination of knowledge and research results       generated by the collaborative       research during 2010-2013, including three International Workshops on       Dependable Service-Oriented       and Cloud computing (DSOC), ADIM 2011 on Recent Advances in Cloud Storage,       EIDWT 2012 Track on Data Centres and Cloud Computing, MWNS 2012 and IEEE       CPSCom 2013       conferences.
In addition to international conference organisation, Liu       co-edited the book entitled       "Principles, Methodologies, and Service-Oriented Approaches for Cloud       Computing" which was       published by IGI Global in January 2013.
Green Cloud Computing for Higher Education has now become a standalone       workshop organised       by Liu and Antonopoulos from UoD, as part of the 8th International       Symposium on Service-       Oriented Systems Engineering 2014.
Impact 4: UK Digital Economy       This research demonstrates significant potential to positively impact upon       the UK Digital Economy,       as evidenced by knowledge transfer from this research into industry that       has already occurred.
Four undergraduate and two postgraduate students previously involved in       this project are now       working for UK ICT industries.
A BSc graduate from the School of Computing       and Mathematics,       joined Lockheed Martin UK in July 2013 as a Cyber Systems Integrator,       working on an energy-efficient       Cloud Computing project [5.7] utilising knowledge and expertise that was       developed as a       direct result of this research.
As a result, the graduate is now responsible for a project that captures       and analyses the power       consumption of anti-virus products in data centres, in order to reduce       energy consumption in       secure environments.
This engagement has played a principal role in the       project on energy       efficient Cloud Computing, resulting in a successful series of       experiments, and production of an       overall report [5.7].
