     Predicting the distribution of vibrational energy in large coupled       systems is an important and       challenging task of major interest to industry.
For example, cars contain       many moving components       that may produce resonances resulting in unwanted rattles, vibrations and       possibly dangerous       structural weaknesses.
Avoiding or eliminating these resonances is a major       design task and       requires a detailed knowledge of the vibrational spectrum of the coachwork       and chassis.
There are two standard approaches to the problem &#8212; Finite Element Methods       (FEM) and Statistical       Energy Analysis (SEA) &#8212; however, these approaches are either restricted to       the low frequency       regime or rely on assumptions that are hard to control.
In 2011, Bandtlow       and Tanner (University of       Nottingham) began a collaboration with inuTech (Innovative Numerical       Technologies) to overcome       these limitations and contribute to a black-box implementation of this       novel approach.
While for low frequencies FEM is preferable, and for high frequencies SEA       is the method of choice,       the novel scheme really demonstrates its value and works best in the       mid-frequency area, where it       outperforms FEM and SEA.
The method uses finite element meshes based on       the actual topology       of the problem, and does not need any information about eigenmodes.
Based in Nuremberg, inuTech [6] is an SME targeting engineering       challenges that require       application of mathematical solutions.
Within inuTech there is a team of       innovative and highly       qualified employees, possessing many years of research and development       experience, as well as       profound scientific competence.
InuTech has 21 employees with revenue of       1.65 Million Euros.
As       part of their work they develop products aimed at vibration prediction and       have used Bandtlow's       research and methods [1,2,3,4] to develop these products.
In 2011, inuTech       engaged with       Bandtlow specifically as a result of his research around operator theory,       with a view towards the       prediction of the distribution of vibrational energy in large coupled       systems.
The automotive       industry is an example beneficiary of inuTech's products &#8212; cars contain       many moving components       that may produce resonances resulting in unwanted rattles, vibrations and       possibly dangerous       structural weaknesses.
The application of Bandltow's research and novel       methods ensure that       resonances are minimised and support successful design.
Between January to March 2011, Bandtlow was partly based at inuTech in       Nuremberg to       collaborate with inuTech, contributing to a black-box implementation of       their approach.
The       software has progressed as a result of the application of Bandtlow's       research.
The algorithms       developed are now stable and are able to cope with increasingly complex       situations.
In March       2011, the decision was taken to incorporate the algorithms into the       software package.
The       improvements made to the software considerably speeds up and improves the       accuracy of this       part of the design process, resulting in cheaper and safer cars.
InuTech       acts as a consultant and       software provider for other companies, such as Airbus, opening up       possibilities for further       application.
In addition to EADS (Airbus), commercially valuable contacts       to Range Rover, Hapag-Lloyd,       and Bombardier have been established and interest in the software has been       expressed by       those parties.
So far, the software and the consultancy expertise has been       used to approach       problems posed by Range Rover on shock-absorber towers of cars, by       Bombardier for train       design, by EADS for the Airbus fuselage, and by the German Lloyd for the       design of ship hulls.
The founder and CEO [6] of inuTech says: "The expertise offered by         Bandtlow plays an essential         role for our project to predict vibrational energy distributions in         large built-up structures.
The         economic success of the implementation of these ideas depends crucially         on his input and I am         looking forward to continue this fruitful and beneficial collaboration         on related projects".
Impact and       collaboration have been put on a sustainable basis by regular meetings and       visits, the latest in       February 2013, which focused on considerable improvements of the software       implementation as a       result of the use of refined spectral approximations for optimal chassis       design.
