     The following developments in digital arts occurred as a consequence of       the research developed through the CACHe and CAT projects:     1) A new computer arts collection and ground breaking exhibitions at         the V&amp;A.
As a direct consequence of the CACHe projects, the V&amp;A acquired two       significant collections: the Computer Arts Society Collection and the       Patric Prince archive.
The head of Central Systems at the Department of       Word &amp; Image at the V&amp;A became interested in the collection and.
acquired it for the V&amp;A, as the nucleus of the National Centre for       Computer Art at the V&amp;A (Source 4).
Dr Lambert's role in developing       this collection is ongoing.
To celebrate and publicise the acquisitions the V&amp;A mounted a free       exhibition "Digital Pioneers", running concurrently with `Decode', an       exhibition of contemporary digital art (01/12/2009 to 23/03/2010)       supported by a V&amp;A scholarly publication (Ref 3).
The exhibitions were       supported by two public symposia: "Ideas Before Their Time" at the British       Computer Society, in partnership with the Computer Arts Society       (03/02/10), attended by 90 practitioners, historians, theorists and       technologists in digital arts (Ref 4; Source 5); and V&amp;A conference       "Decoding The Digital" which featured artists from both Decode and Digital       Pioneers.
The exhibitions and supporting events were well-reviewed in       publications such as Wired, Huffington Post, Art         Review, GeekDad (Source 6).
The international importance of this work was marked when artist Jeremy       Gardiner and Nick Lambert were invited to represent the project in New       York, including a successful art show "Imaginalis", at the Chelsea Art       Museum (owned by the arts charity, the Miotte Foundation, March / April       2009) (Source 7) and a symposium at the School of Visual Art, New York       (Source 8).
2) Enhanced professional development     CACHe and CAT have been instrumental in the professional development of       the digital arts sector, creating opportunities for networking and       cross-sector ideas sharing.
The event to mark the end of the CACHe project       in March 2006, "Bits in Motion: Early British Computer-Generated Art       Films" was supported by the London Centre for Arts and Cultural Enterprise       (LCACE) and the Computer Arts Society, and took place under auspices of       Node.London, a network of digital artists.
Re-established in 2004 by CACHe research staff , the Computer Arts       Society (CAS), a Specialist Group within the Chartered Institute for IT,       has played a significant role in developing digital arts in the UK and       internationally.
Supported by a &#163;10,000 annual grant from the British       Computer Society, CAS sponsors ongoing lectures, workshops and exhibitions       at Birkbeck's VASARI Centre on historical and contemporary digital art.
(Source 1: testimonial)     The integration into CAS of the international Electronic Visualisation       and the Arts (EVA) Conference has increased connectivity between       researchers, professionals and practitioners in the creative industries,       heritage and arts sectors.
Its annual conference attracts average       attendance of 110 participants making it one of the most important events       on the digital arts sector calendar.
(Source 2: testimonial)     3) Increased interest in the digital arts evidenced by the following         projects:     The exhibition Intuition and Ingenuity, a celebration of the life       of Alan Turing with contributions from contemporary digital artists and       supported by the Arts Council England (ACE) and CAS, toured the UK in 2012       (Source 3: testimonial).
The exhibition was seen by over 40,000 people and       received extensive media coverage, touring to Kinetica Art Fair, London       (9-12 February), The Lighthouse in Brighton, (17-26 February); the       Lovebytes digital festival in Sheffield (22-24 March); the AISB/IACAP       World Congress in Birmingham (2-6 July); the V&amp;A for the Digital       Design Weekend (22-23 September) where the Digital Studio was attended by       nearly 2000 people; and Phoenix Square in Leicester (7 October-10       November) (Source 9).
The UK Fulldome Festival in 2011 (Birmingham Thinktank Planetarium) and       2012 (the Leicester Space Centre): sponsored by the Computer Arts Society       and attracting over 200 and 450 participants, respectively, from the UK,       USA, Germany, Australia and East Asia, the festivals were established by a       partnership between Birkbeck's VASARI Centre, the University of Plymouth,       the Fulldome UK (a not-for-profit association supporting artists and       researchers working within Fulldome immersive environments), and the       digital projections specialists Gaianova.
They brought together       practitioners and researchers in the emerging area of Fulldome (360       degree) digital projection, screening dome films to public audiences       (Source 10).
The Null Object art project, developed through a partnership between       VASARI and central London's Work Gallery, November 2012 to February 2013:       inspired by the work of veteran artist Gustav Metzger, who was one of the       early members of the Computer Arts Society and interviewed by Dr Lambert       for CAT.
Supported by CAS and ACE, Null Object was a collaborative work by       London Fieldworks (digital artists Bruce Gilchrist and Jo Joelson), MIT       medical roboticist and haptics researcher, Yaroslav Tenzer, and software       designer, Jonny Bradley.
Brain mapping software, using       electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings of artist Gustav Metzger as he       attempted to think about nothing, connected with industrial manufacturing       technology to produce a sculptural form (Source 11).
The project is       described in the publication Null Object: Gustav Metzger Thinks About         Nothing (Gilchrist and Joelson, Eds, Black Dog, London, 2012).
