     London's Screen Archives (LSA), a network of London-based archives,       formed in 2006 and funded by the regional screen agency Film London,       Birkbeck, and (initially) Museums, Libraries and Archives (MLA) London,       has remained a mainstay of the London Screen Studies Collection (LSSC).
Film London sponsored three projects which developed out of LSSC between       2006 and 2010 (Discovering London's Screen Archives, 2009-2010; London's       Screen Archive: Network Development Phase 2, 2007-2009; The London Screen       Archive, 2006).
Its ongoing active involvement in developing and promoting       LSSC reflects and sustains the impact of the London Project which laid the       groundwork for ongoing discovery, digitisation and public access to       London's film archives.
The partnerships developed and the non-academic       funding gained for these activities testifies to the recognition by the       British Film Institute (BFI) and Film London of the significance of this       project to opening up London's screen heritage (Testimonials 1 &amp; 2).
It has also resulted in an important new exhibition at the London Film       Museum, a new initiative to pilot engagement with a significant industrial       film archive, and international recognition.
Public engagement with LSSC began with a touring exhibition about the       beginnings of London filmmaking, Moving Pictures Come to London         1894-1914.
Co-funded by the London Centre for Arts and Cultural       Exchange, 2007-9, it toured 10 London boroughs, visiting local history       archives and libraries, with over 15 accompanying talks and screenings of       local film.
At the invitation of the MLA and Film London, LSSC participated in Their         Past Your Future, a project sponsored by the Big Lottery (&#163;22,000)       which resulted in a DVD of archive film from London collections, Their         Past Your Future: London in the 1940s (2008), commemorating the end       of World War II.
This was followed by London Rediscovered: A Panorama         of London films from the 1950s (2011), a selection of films from the       1950s from public-sector archives.
Funded by Film London and the UK Film       Council Digital Film Archive Fund, over 500 copies of both DVDs were       requested by and sent to London's schools, libraries, local history       societies and archives, and community agencies.
(Source 10)     In 2009, London's Screen Archives YouTube Channel was established by the       LSSC on behalf of LSA, showcasing archive films, clips and shorts made       from 1896 to the present day.
By July 31 2013, there were 125 films with       over 2000 subscribers and over 750,000 views.
(Sources 5 and 6)     In 2010, Screening Our Memories was developed in partnership with       Picturehouse Cinemas.
Funded by Film London it provided public in-cinema       archive screenings, reminiscence and intergenerational events.
It involved       14 project participants, piloting training workshops at various venues in       greater London for age care workers and film educators on using archive       film to promote reminiscence among older people and people with dementia.
Staff from Age Concern and a number of arts organisations took part in       one-day training sessions.
A training toolkit (written by Jenny Davison       and Angela English in 2011) remains available on request.
(Source 7)     In 2011-12, Film London (Audience Development and Digital Film Archive       Fund) and the BFI Transition Fund sponsored LSSC's public screenings of       London-related films, in Birkbeck Cinema, Bloomsbury, and Stratford       Picturehouse, grouped around such themes as `Musical London' and       `Experimental London'.
This included the Dickens' London Season at BFI       Southbank.
The project exceeded its KPIs, with over 1100 attending 43       screenings and over 1500 new subscribers to the YouTube channel by the end       of the project.
LSSC made a significant contribution to Screen Heritage UK (SHUK), a &#163;25       million project managed by the BFI between 2008 and 2012 to establish a       coherent and sustainable framework for the cataloguing, preservation and       digitisation of films in Britain's national and regional film archive       collections.
BFI appointed Professor Christie as a board member for this       project, and for its subsidiary, Revitalising the Regions.
The       LSSC at Birkbeck College now holds viewing copies of the 1100+ London       borough films digitised under Screen Heritage UK.
In 2012, Film London, with the support of LSSC, won HLF funding to       develop a major three-year project focused on the moving image history of       15 London outer boroughs.
`London &#8212; A Bigger Picture' will engage local       communities in the capital, to inspire interest and ownership in their       local screen heritage.
(Testimonial 1)     In addition, Professor Christie was invited to co-curate the London Film       Museum exhibition (Covent Garden), Lights Camera London, drawing       on LSSC research, which opened in January 2013, with an estimated 25,000       visitors (Testimonial 3, Source 8).
The LSSC was also instrumental in the       development of a knowledge exchange partnership with New Media Networks to       pilot public engagement approaches to Tate &amp; Lyle's significant       collection of historic industrial films in East London (World in the Cube       Project, funded by CreativeWorks London, March to October 2013).
New Media       Networks approached Professor Christie because of his role in developing       and maintaining the London Screen Study Collection, to support and develop       their `World in a Cube' project to explore the potential value of       digitising and making accessible the Tate &amp; Lyle film archive.
(Testimonial 4, Source 9)     Internationally, the impact of this work is reflected in invitations from       Paris (Sorbonne and Forum des Images); and universities in Udine,       Canberra, Stockholm (x2), Netherlands (Groningen and Amsterdam) and       Lincoln, Nebraska, requesting Professor Christie to speak on London's film       history and on-line access to local archive film, such as the 2011       conference Film Archives in the Digital Era at the Swedish Royal       Library and Stockholm University, and `London Calling', a major       retrospective of London's screen heritage at the Forum des Images in       Paris, Winter 2011-12.
Finally, a new website linking maps and film, www.thecinetourist.net,       has been developed on the basis of the methodology developed in the London       Project for LSSC (Source 10).
