     The impacts on cultural life of this project &#8212; on museums in the UK and       internationally, and on the       lives of Andean weaving communities &#8212; are potentially far reaching and its       immediate impacts are       clear and significant.
A testament to its importance within Bolivia is the       involvement of the Cultural       Foundation of the Bolivian Central Bank, the national agency overseeing       Bolivia's most important       cultural institutions, and the Fundaci&#243;n Xavier Alb&#243;, a Bolivian       organisation set up by the Centre of       Research and Development of the Peasantry to preserve and publish       important national       documents.
An agreement with the Cultural Foundation of the Bolivian       Central Bank to set up the       guidelines of cooperation with Bolivian museums was established in 2009       (Source 1a).
As part of       its contribution, it funded the publication of one of the three       substantial full colour books about the       project, illustrating the materials and techniques uncovered by the       research.
All these books were       published by Fundaci&#243;n Xavier Alb&#243; (Source 2):            Denise Y. Arnold and Elvira Espejo, Ciencia de tejer en los Andes:           estructuras y t&#233;cnicas de           faz de urdimbre (La Paz: Fundaci&#243;n Cultural del Banco Central de         Bolivia, Fundaci&#243;n         Interamericana, Fundaci&#243;n Alb&#243; and ILCA, 2012).
Denise Y. Arnold and Elvira Espejo.
Ciencia de las mujeres.
Experiencias en la cadena textil           desde los ayllus de Challapata (La Paz: Fundaci&#243;n Alb&#243; and ILCA,         2010).
Arnold, Denise Y. and Elvira Espejo.
El textil tridimensional: la           naturaleza del tejido como           objeto y sujeto (La Paz: Fundaci&#243;n Alb&#243; e ILCA, 2013).
The Cultural Foundation invited Denise Y. Arnold and Elvira Espejo (the       project's weaving       consultant) to participate in the development of a two-year programme       (2013-2015) to establish the       basis for a `National Plan of textile Heritage in Bolivia'.
Beyond the work of the Cultural Foundation and Fundaci&#243;n Alb&#243;,       non-academic beneficiaries       include museum curators, archaeologists and technical staff in the UK and       South America:     Museum curators, archaeologists and technical staff in the UK and         South America: training         and service development     From 2009 to 2011, curators and other staff from two museums in the UK       (British Museum and       Victoria &amp; Albert Museum) and ten museums in Latin America (two in       Chile; one in Peru; and       seven in Bolivia) participated in developing the requirements of the       database so it supports their       needs.
The resulting groundbreaking software was given to every museum       involved in the project,       alongside training in its use and a DVD for ongoing training.
In addition       the project provided a basis       for a new understanding of how to value and catalogue the textiles (Source       1c), on some       occasions involved directly in cataloguing specific textiles collections,       as in the National       Arqueology Museum (Source 1b).
Consequently, a national museum of Bolivia &#8212; Museo Nacional de Etnograf&#237;a       y Folklore (Musef) &#8212;       created a new exhibition space including interactive computers using       Sawu-3D (Source 1d).
Other       museums in Bolivia, Argentina and Peru have requested training to develop       their local knowledge       bases on Andean textiles.
The new Anthropological and Archaeological       Research Institute Textile       Lab at the Universidad Mayor de San Andres in La Paz, Bolivia, expanded       archaeologists' and       anthropologists' training and established a public service for identifying       Andean textiles in       individual possession.
One of the project participants, Claudia Rivera,       then authenticated, through       textile analysis, a decommissioned mummy bundle in INAR Museum, La Paz.
Recognising the       importance of this project to the understanding of the historical       significance of textiles to Bolivian       cultural heritage, Asociaci&#243;n Para La Promocion Y Desarrollo Del Arte       Textil Andino-Apdata invited       Elvira Espejo to speak at a UNESCO event on intangible cultural heritage       in 2012.
Denise Y Arnold and Elvira Espejo were invited to join the Advisory       Committee on the British       Museum project on Organic colourants, biological sources and dyeing       technologies in Andean       textiles (2011-12), where they contributed their knowledge of colour usage       in early Andean textiles       (Source 3).
In 2011, the British Museum and CILAVS set up an exhibition       grouping together for the       first time the complex structures and techniques discovered during the       project; an exhibition on       textiles and contemporary art was mounted by CILAVS at the Peruvian       Embassy, London (2012).
Rural textile producers in Bolivia: economic development and cultural         capital     It is impossible to quantify the consequent impacts on economic       prosperity and cultural life of the       project, particularly within Bolivia, but weaving classes and visits       undertaken by the project team       from 2009 to 2012 have had considerable impact in local communities in       Bolivia, involving about       500 women.
Many reportedly felt as if they had experienced `a weaving       university', and `recovered       the "women's science" of their grandmothers'.
The number of weavers in the       region has increased       from 80 to around 300.
Several are now training a younger generation of       women, and some 50       men, in what they learned.
While not formal members of the established       weaving associations,       many of these new weavers have found markets for their products.
(Source       4)     Furthermore, the research contributed to the enhancement of weaving       activity in the region by       improving the quality of the textiles and therefore their value.
It       achieved this because the research       was able to recover and reintroduce the use of ancient weaving instruments       that produced finer       textiles; the techniques used for shearing alpacas and llamas and for       spinning their wool into finer       threads; the use of traditional natural dyes, and the meaning of words in       Quechua and Aymara       related to specific weaving techniques and structures.
