     Our new Tandem MS technology for simultaneous measurement of both 25OHD2       and 25OHD3 has had both clinical and economic impacts.
Impact on Patient Care: For the wider population the common       Vitamin D supplements provide Vitamin D2 whereas the common       (immunoassay) techniques for measuring Vitamin D levels are unable to       recognise this form, frequently resulting in significant underestimation       of total Vitamin D levels.
The ability to detect both 25OHD2       and 25OHD3 simultaneously therefore has two major patient       benefits: the avoidance of over-supplementation &#8212; with the associated risk       of toxicity; and the unnecessary investigation of possible causes of       non-parathyroid related hypercalcaemia.
The 2013 National Osteoporosis Society guidelines `Vitamin D and Bone         Health.
A Practical Clinical Guideline For Patient Management'       recommend that 25OHD should be measured by a method able to clearly       distinguish 25OHD2 and D3.
Authorities involved in       Vitamin D research now recognise the problems arising from the lack of       specificity inherent in immunoassays and therefore recommend the use of       Tandem MS technology.
(corroborating source A)     Impact on National Quality Assessment Methodologies: The       importance of the Tandem MS measurement technology has been recognised by       laboratories accredited to analyse samples for Vitamin D resulting in       significant expansion of use of this technology in NHS laboratories and       research establishments.
This is clearly apparent from the regular reports       of the Vitamin D External Quality Assessment Scheme (DEQAS).
The DEQAS       reports over a 10 year period highlight the increasing use of Tandem MS       technology by participants.
For example, there were no users of Tandem MS       technology in 2004 and, following our development of the new assay, Tandem       MS usage rose to 12.8% of users in 2013.
(corroborating source B)     Impact on Army Recruits via MOD Training Programmes: Based       on the underpinning research reported in references 1, 2 and 3 in section       3, Fraser wrote confidential reports for the MOD which led to three       collaborative programmes of work between the Army Recruitment and Training       Directorate and UEA.
As a result, the MOD recognised that a high       percentage of recruits have significant Vitamin D deficiency and that       female recruits have a particular problem leading to high bone turnover       and predisposition to injury, especially post-partum.
This has resulted in:            a review of the nutritional recommendations for all recruits in         training       a revised medical policy to protect postpartum service personnel in a         medically downgraded capacity for 12 months postpartum       an alteration in the training programme for female recruits &#8212; who are         now trained separately to male recruits.
(corroborating source C)     These changes were based on the following findings from the collaborative       work:     a) Vitamin D and bone health: We have confirmed an association       between Vitamin D deficiency and impaired bone health in female Army       recruits, and a high incidence of Vitamin D deficiency in both men and       women entering / exiting training.
b) Pregnancy and postpartum: The postpartum period is recognised       to be a vulnerable time for female military personnel on return to       physically demanding roles with an increased risk of musculoskeletal       injury.
Our work has shown increased bone turnover in a representative       population of women over a 6-month period.
c) Gender differences in bone density and morphology: It is       generally known that women are more likely to sustain a stress fracture       injury during training than men.
Our collaborative work has shown that       this is due to differences in bone morphology between male and female       recruits.
These findings have also provided evidence for individual       consideration of female-to-male transgender cases.
Impact on the NHS Economy: The Tandem MS technology has had       significant economic impact on the NHS.
For example, the Norfolk and       Norwich University Hospital is an early adopter of this new assay where it       is now the routine method for measurement of 25OHD.
The cost per sample       for a Tandem MS analysis is currently &#163;12.50 compared to the cost of       analysis by immunoassay (the previous method of choice) which is &#163;18.50.
The NNUH `hub' currently requests analysis of 3800 samples per annum       resulting in a cost saving of &#163;125,000 in this region alone.
(corroborating source D)
