 4a.
Informing public and professional debate on a sensitive issue The findings emerged in the context of some high-profile deaths of Black men in UK psychiatric hospitals, and raised awareness of ethnic inequalities in mental health.
Prior to this research, the prevailing paradigm for explaining these inequalities was `racism'.
Not only was this an inaccurate interpretation of the evidence; it also diverted policy attention into simplistic solutions (eg tick-lists of `cultural competencies' in which staff would need to be trained), and to undermine efforts of NHS organisations and staff to provide effective and personalized care taking account of culture.
Research in Queen Mary has steadily shifted this paradigm towards more nuanced and socio- culturally informed perspectives.
For example, the excess of compulsory detentions of Black men for psychosis may be due in small part to `racism' or `cultural stereotyping', but a full explanation must include other interacting variables, including poverty; educational background; stress and discrimination in the workplace; cross-cultural differences in expressions of distress; differences in family support and help-seeking behaviour; and medication adherence.
The findings of this research and evaluation of the national programme [7] led to the recognition among policymakers that solutions must go beyond a behaviourist emphasis on `racial awareness' to embrace organisational and systemic changes as well as personal culture and poor cultures of care.
4b.
Informing and developing national legislation and policy (includes):  Revisions to the Mental Health Bill 2006.
This research was reviewed and evidence taken when the new bill was being developed.
The findings, cited in the consultation documents [8], helped halt legislation that was feared to risk greater ethnic inequalities in use of the Mental Health Act.
The final Bill was modified in a way that was unlikely to further increase inequalities in detention, and further research is investigating what explains increasing levels of compulsory detention in hospital in all groups, and the persistent excess among black patients.
Prof Bhui was invited to draft national policy in 1999-2004; this work produced a 5 year plan (`Delivering Race Equality 2005-2010' [9]) incorporating new service models, training and further research.
Many impacts resulted from this policy in 2008-13.
In many localities, communities had a greater say in local services and were more engaged with NHS services by informing the implementation of the Race Relations Amendment Act and by promoting more sophisticated models of workforce development to meet the needs of culturally diverse populations.
Most importantly, every trust was charged with improving their delivery of care to minority ethnic groups and to show this in inspections to the Regulator.
Other impacts include: Prof Bhui co-authored a report to the Department of Health on suicides in Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) groups [10], contributing to the emphasis in the newly launched (Sept 2012) National Suicide Prevention Strategy and to the work of the 2006 strategy as part of the `Delivering Race Equality' programme.
A national Race Equality &amp; Cultural Competence programme (RECC) was mandated for all mental health professionals, driven by strategic health authorities (SHAs) [11].
It led to inclusion of training by the Care Quality Commission in a race impact assessments of SHAs.
Five hundred `race equality leads', a new workforce, were introduced nationally requiring each Strategic Health Authority to develop an action plan [12].
As part of developing a competent and informed workforce to reduce inequalities, with pump- priming funds from Department of Health, Bhui set up an MSc in 2002 (plus Certificate and Diploma) in Transcultural Mental Health, delivered in an innovative online format to 80 students annually, now drawn from over 38 countries.
This course has recently been extended with new pathways in Psychological Therapies, and Mental Health &amp; Law [13].
4c.
Informing and developing national and international guidelines This work has been cited by, and strongly influenced, guidelines by the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence on schizophrenia, for which Bhui chaired the access and engagement panel [14]; the World Psychiatric Association Guidelines on Mental Health of Migrants [15]; European Union Guidelines on Healthcare of migrants: EU-COST action [16]; and European Psychiatric Association guidelines on Public Mental Health [17].
4d: Implementing and evaluating new care pathways in the NHS The action research project led by Queen Mary (2005-2007) `Enhancing Pathways Into Care' (EPIC) in four NHS trusts illustrated a range of ways of changing pathways into care and engaging hard-to-reach groups to improve access, often through partnerships between voluntary and statutory sector agencies [18].
For example, a Pakistani Muslim Centre developed a joint assessment protocol with an early intervention team in order to improve access to psychiatric care for women from this otherwise isolated population.
In one site (Sheffield) local audits showed a small reduction in the average duration of admissions among Black people.
The evaluation showed clinical leadership, transformational leadership and cultural confidence were key ingredients to the genuine change in services.
The graph below (from a peer-reviewed publication in Transcultural Psychiatry) shows one example of reduction in average length of stay in Black patients on admissions on wards in Sheffield in a participating unit in the EPIC project in 2005-7.
4e: Informing and influencing training and workforce development The Queen Mary team were commissioned by NHS Tower Hamlets (&#163;450K) to provide the Cultural Consultation Service to address intersectional inequalities arising in clinical practice.
Bhui set this up to provide individual staff training in holistic, socio-culturally informed care as well as organisational and system-level support and guidance to NHS organisations seeking to reduce inequalities in mental health service provision [19].
This is built on anthropological understandings of culture, which notes the significance of beliefs, arts, laws, morals and behaviours found in all ethnic groups.
The model uses patient and staff narratives of care as the basis for intervention alongside ethnographic research methods for evaluation.
The team imported and adapted a Canadian model to provide a new service, including in-service workforce development by teaching staff how to use a cultural formulation, and addressing commissioning, management and team influences.
This and the narrative approach permitted more negotiated care plans for patients who were disengaging or stuck in assertive outreach or other specialist psychiatric teams.
The service also included organizational analyses to assist the services and teams to adapt their ways of working to reduce inequalities.
Bhui led an audit of this service showing over 900 contacts, and that cultural competency of staff improved [20].
Among a small sample of complex patients (n=36) needing specialist and in-depth work, there were significant cost savings (&#163;18K total) at three month follow up.
Patient functioning improved and trends showed fewer unmet needs.
4f: Informing further research The overall picture nationally from the Care Quality Commission is that despite an evidence-based intervention based on this research, there has been no overall reduction in ethnic inequalities in detentions, ie that dramatic improvements in some areas (see graph above) are counterbalanced by worsening inequalities in other areas.
This has prompted new collaborative NIHR-funded research studies to explore variations in compulsory admissions across the country [21].
Hypotheses include various geographical factors and social determinants of health.
4g: Oral and written evidence to Home Office and Government: Bhui's team undertook research on Khat (widely used in some minority ethnic groups and linked to mental health problems) and presented the case for it being made illegal [22].
