     The research into the history of evolution in Cambridge has had a       profound impact on public understanding of science as a cooperative,       collaborative enterprise involving men and women from different       backgrounds.
Several hundred articles have appeared in print, from the New         York Times and the Guardian to the Frankfurter         Allegmeine Zeitung and the Sun [5.4, 5.6].
Professor       Secord, Dr Pearn, Dr White and other members of the Darwin Correspondence       Project staff feature regularly on television and radio programmes in many       different countries.
In the Darwin bicentennial year of 2009, in Britain       these included In Our Time, Women's Hour, the Today Programme, Bang Goes       the Theory, and The Story of Science [5.3, 5.5].
The Project's research is       consulted by documentary producers and feature filmmakers, and has served       as the basis for several dramas.
For example, the major television       dramatization `Darwin's Darkest Hour', was produced in by National       Geographic (in association with NOVA) with using extensive material from       the Correspondence Project.
In 2008 the Project commissioned the       playwright Craig Baxter to write Re:design, based on the       correspondence between Darwin and the American botanist Asa Gray.
This has       been widely performed on both sides of the Atlantic, having been       translated into Danish, German, Spanish and Turkish; performances in all       these languages occurred during 2009 [5.1].
Cambridge has a strong record of outreach relating to the history of       evolution and the Darwin bicentenary offered a unique opportunity to build       on this.
Two popular selections of letters were issued, as well as an       illustrated version of the complete letters relating to the Beagle       voyage, which sold over 4,500 copies.
A major exhibition [3.2] was mounted       in the University Library in Cambridge, which attracted a record of over       22,000 visitors; a smaller exhibition about Darwin's public reputation was       staged in the Whipple Museum of the History of Science.
In 2012 the Darwin       Project participated in a further exhibition in the University Library,       `Books and Babies: Communicating Reproduction'.
As chair of the science       programme at the Cambridge 2009 Darwin Festival, Professor Secord ensured       that themes from history and philosophy became a feature of this public       meeting, which attracted 1500 participants from 39 countries; every major       session began with a reading from a Darwin letter.
There have been over       880,000 viewings of the Festival recordings.
In January 2009 he also spoke       on his research on `Global Darwin' in the Darwin College public lecture       series.
This hour-long lecture [5.5] has been downloaded over 23,000       times.
The Darwin Online Project has had a transformative effect at all levels       of public understanding across the world, with several hundred million       hits since 2008 [5.4].
In a continuing process of providing fresh       materials to a wide public, this project has made clearly sourced editions       of Darwin's published writings and manuscripts (including those in the       University Library at Cambridge) freely available for the first time.
The       materials have substantially improved the quality of discussion about       Darwin and evolution on the internet and in schools.
Impact on Cultural Life     Professor Secord's approach, with its stress on the public audiences and       wider contexts of Darwin and Darwinism, was fundamental to a major       exhibition held by the Fitzwilliam Museum and the Yale Center for British       Art staged in 2009, `Endless Forms: Darwin, Natural Science and the Visual       Arts'.
He was instrumental in the discussions that led to the exhibition       and was appointed as its chief consultant on the history of science,       advising the curators at every stage.
He contributed a podcast (on his       research [5.12] and gave several public lectures and gallery tours.
Attracting a record-breaking 93,000 visitors to the Fitzwilliam, including       many from around the world, `Endless Forms' was named Exhibition of the       Year by Apollo magazine, and its catalogue [5.8] won the Berger       Prize for the best book in British art history of the year.
As the       curators said, `We share the honour with contributing authors, colleagues       at the Yale Center for British Art and especially with the book's       scientific advisor Professor James Secord'.
Impact on Education     During the past three years, the Darwin Correspondence Project has       initiated a major programme of outreach in schools and colleges.
In part,       this builds on earlier experiences, including the provision of major       online resources relating to evolution and religion, and a `Write a Letter       to Darwin' programme in 2009 involving use of the online correspondence       and sponsored by the University of Exeter and South West Schools.
The       current Cambridge-based initiative provides full downloadable packages       available for key stages 3 and 4 and A/AS level in Science, English, and       History.
The material has been developed through close consultation with       teachers and has been piloted by Sally Stafford, the Project's full-time       education officer from 2010 to 2013, in selected UK schools.
As the       materials were released in May 2013 the scale of classroom use is not yet       available, but external evaluation [5.10] has confirmed that students and       teachers found the letters revealed the human side of science, developed       skills in writing, experimenting and asking questions, and in       understanding the role of collaboration and debate in science.
A further       body of materials relating to university teaching about Darwin, gender and       women was released in August 2013 [5.7, 5.9], with coverage in national       newspapers and on national TV news.
