     4a: World distribution and sales     Over three million dental restorations have been manufactured and placed       for patients using these highly successful glass-ceramics, generating       significant industry and general dental practice profits [7].
It is now a       global product sold in 46 countries including: The Americas (USA,       Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela); Europe (UK, France, Germany,       Italy, Belgium, Spain, Russia, Poland, Greece, Hungary, Estonia, Bulgaria,       Cyprus); Asia Pacific (Australia, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan,       Indonesia, Vietnam, Philippines, Korea); and Middle East and Africa:       (Dubai, Kuwait, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Israel, Africa GCC, Turkey).
There       has been an improved public understanding of minimally invasive dentistry       as these new materials and techniques have been covered extensively in       newspapers and magazines, including Readers Digest (circulation       &gt;10m) [8], and on the internet and TV, making these the most       patient-requested thin veneers in dentistry.
4b: Industry and academic recognition and clinical trials     During clinical trials this leucite glass-ceramic was clinically rated       `excellent' by the Dental Advisor and by the Clinical Research Associates       (CRA), both of whom are major external assessors who evaluate products for       the dental profession and consumers.
The Leucite glass-ceramic (Lumineers       2 &#174;) was also awarded top cosmetic product by the Dental Advisor (2009)       [9].
The research work behind this material also won the Voco prize for       Dental Biomaterials research at the International Association of Dental       Research meeting in 2010 [10].
Improved methodology for the measurement of       tooth wear using white light profilometry was developed during this work       [11], which has been cited in the literature and is of use in the       scientific community.
4c: Change in clinical practice worldwide     The major impact of this research is that these unique high-strength       glass-ceramics are used in thinner section (as thin as a contact lens)       allowing minimal or "no tooth" drilling and eliminating the associated       pain, discomfort, and local anaesthesia injections (by up to 100%)       required to prepare teeth (www.lumineers.com/h2_lumineers_why)       [12].
This also means 100% reduction in postoperative patient pain, less       tooth destruction (20% less) and fewer or no provisional restorations.
This equates to 25% more profit for dental practices when placing this       system (versus traditional materials).
High aesthetics combined with a       pain-free minimally invasive tooth preparation approach [9] has led to       high patient acceptance and satisfaction with this product (Figure 3).
This information has been fed back from numerous dental practices       (&gt;13,000 dentists in the USA use Lumineers) via patient and       practitioner testimonials [13].
These materials can be easily acid etched       and adhesively bonded to tooth structure and this has made them       particularly useful in the treatment of children with microdontia,       tetracycline staining and amelogenesis imperfecta.
4d: Patient and dentist testimonials     A patient said: "The process was amazing &#8212; it was almost too         easy!
No shots, drilling or pain was associated with getting Lumineers.
I love how natural they look and feel.
Who knew getting a new beautiful         smile could be so easy."
[13b].
A dentist said: "Tremendous         benefits for all our patients because of the no shots or temporaries.
It         produces a tremendous smile with very little or no discomfort to the         patient."
[13b].
Fig.
3: Before and after the use of Lumineers      4e: New low-wear materials     Another major impact of this study was to produce fine and nano-scale       leucite glass-ceramics with dramatically reduced enamel wear properties.
Many conventional porcelains/ceramics are destructive to tooth structure       (four times more abrasive than enamel) and this is increased in patients       with bruxism.
In the UK 8-10% of the population are affected by tooth       wear.
The current materials have the opposite effect and will be kinder to       tooth structure.
We estimate the nano-scale materials give a staggering       reduction in tooth enamel wear of 43-46% compared to the commercial       porcelain in our study (6).
This is of great benefit to patients to reduce       tooth destruction, pain and the prevention of more complex dental       treatment, such as costly bridges and implants when worn teeth are       difficult to restore.
These materials do not have biocompability issues       and are less cytotoxic than current lithium disilicate ceramics, many       metals and composites.
There is less or no drilling and its associated       pain for patients, and up to 100% less post-operative pain.
The materials       can also prevent future repeat or more complex dental treatment, hence       high satisfaction in both adults and children.
4f: Industry feedback and publications     The Leucite glass-ceramics developed at Queen Mary were translated into       two products by a US-based company (Den-Mat Holdings), with two patents       filed [14, 15], and seven published papers [eg 1-6].
Dr Cattell was       responsible for translating this lab-based research to industry and       setting up the processing technology.
This led to a heat extruded leucite       glass-ceramic (Cerinate Pressable) and the Lumineers&#174; 2 glass-ceramic used       in conjunction with new CAD-CAM and 3D-printing technologies [16].
The       versatility of these products and the ease of manufacture made them       desirable to industry and generated significant industry and general       dental practice income (veneers cost $800-2,000 per tooth in US practice).
www.lumineers.com/h2_lumineers_cost     This resulted in hiring of new staff (increased employment in California)       at the US-based dental company and investment in new technology [17].
A       recent company consumer assessment of online conversation related to       branded dental veneers indicated the dominance of Lumineers over two of       their primary competitors (Figure 4).
Fig.
4: Competitive analysis: Share of voice
