     4a.
Overview     Apatite and bioactive glass researchers at Queen Mary have invented new       dental materials for the treatment of dental caries and dentine       hypersensitivity.
Patents were filed and agreements established with       commercial partners experienced in the oral healthcare market.
The first       products based on this research, a toothpaste and mouthwash based on       nano-hydroxyapatite, are already being sold in Boots and major UK       supermarkets under the brand name UltraDEX&#174; Recalcifying.
More recently,       Queen Mary established an IP licensing agreement (subject to       confidentiality restrictions) with a separate global healthcare company to       commercialise one of the novel bioglass materials.
For a sense of the       commercial potential of these products, it should be noted that the market       for re-mineralizing hypersensitivity toothpastes is in excess of &#163;6       billion per year.
Current products on the market include Colgate       Palmolive's Sensitive Pro-Relief and GSK's Sensodyne, which became a       `billion-dollar brand' in 2012.
4b.
Industry patents     Members of this research team are named inventors on four patents that       have been filed and published during the REF period (see section 5a).
The       first two patents cover fluoride containing bioactive glasses.
The third       is a patent filed by Periproducts Ltd on the nano-hydroxyapatite       toothpaste and mouthwash on which there are two Queen Mary inventors, Hill       and Gillam.
The fourth covers a bioactive glass composition for making a       cement or an implant that has been invented by Hill, Karpukhina and Kent.
In March 2013, Prof Hill's team filed a GB patent (not yet published) on       bioactive glasses and glass-ceramics containing chloride.
This patent and       the commercial plans to exploit it won the Armourers and Braziers Venture       Prize, a national competition with a single &#163;25k prize.
The judging panel       comprised three fellows of The Royal Society and leading Business Experts.
4c.
Toothpaste on sale     Periproducts initially approached Prof Hill's team to test a prototype       nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste.
This performed poorly with regard to       remineralisation and dentine tubule occlusion.
Subsequently Prof Hill and       Dr Gillam worked with Periproducts and, using their knowledge and       previously developed techniques for the characterisation of apatites,       developed UltraDEX&#174; Recalcifying toothpaste and mouthwash.
An       international patent (Patent 3 in section 5) has been filed by       Periproducts on which Dr Gillam and Professor Hill are both listed as       inventors.
Queen Mary's contribution to the development of these products       is also recognised on the product packaging [see 5b below].
The toothpaste       is sold in the UK in 1,100 of the 1,300 Boots stores, as well as Waitrose,       Sainbury's and Lloyds Pharmacy.
It is also on sale worldwide via Amazon.
The mouthwash is on sale in Boots and via Amazon.
Both the mouthwash and       toothpaste are based on a nano-hydroxyapatite, but they are marketed as       `biomimetic' products, to overcome any adverse views of nanotechnology in       the target market of over 40 year olds.
4d.
Fluoride-containing bioactive glass toothpaste being         commercialised     The team has also developed fluoride-containing bioactive glasses and a       patent has been filed for this technology (see section 5b, patent 2).
In       2012, Queen Mary established a licensing option agreement with a global       healthcare company to commercialise this technology.
This agreement has       already generated sufficient income (approximately &#163;50k) to cover the       costs of patent filing and the company recently embarked on a scaling-up       process with a view to the commercial production of a fluoride containing       bioactive glass on a greater than 1000kg scale.
The new glasses are being evaluated primarily for use in toothpastes to       treat dentine hypersensitivity, which is estimated to affect 35 per cent       of the world's population (Global Burden of Diseases study).
In addition,       the ability of these glasses to stick to the teeth and slowly deliver       fluoride through a more effective delivery system also has potential to       provide much better protection against caries whilst reducing the risk of       dental fluorosis.
By contrast, existing fluoride toothpastes use soluble       sources of fluoride that are washed away by salivary flow.
Consequently       higher concentrations of fluoride have to be used.
Recognized caries       expert Ten Cate from ACTA in The Netherlands has said: "For treatments         to be effective longer than the brushing and salivary clearance fluoride         needs to be deposited and slowly released."
(European Journal of       Oral Science 1997; 105 (5 Pt 2): 461-5).
In effect, this is what Queen       Mary's researchers have achieved.
The novelty and commercial potential of the new bioactive glass       toothpastes was recognised with the award of the Venture Prize.
This major       national prize led to extensive national and international press coverage,       with two articles in the Daily Mail, as well as articles in dental       trade (BDA) and professional journals (BDJ and ADA), and the engineering       (The Engineer) and materials press (Materials World) [section 5c and 5d       below].
