     Supporting the Families     The team at Brunel helps and supports the children and their families,       primarily by continuing to ensure that the research into Progeria       progresses and keeping the families informed of the progress.
Members of       the Progeria research team are proactively involved with families of       Progeria sufferers.
Dr Bridger is in active contact with The Okines and       The Crowther families, and monitors how Hayley Okines (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hayley_Okines)       is progressing both at home and on her medical visits to the US.
The team       are also members of the Progeria Family Circle, informing them of their       progress (https://www.facebook.com/#!/familycircleprogeria?fref=ts)       and the Atypical Progeria Group.
The team have presented their work and       findings to families of Progeria suffers in the UK (2011), the US (2013,       2010, 2008) at the Progeria Research Foundation workshops and Italy (2012)       at the Progeria Family Meeting.
Figure 1 	     On April 15th 2011 Dr Kill organised the 1st UK Progeria       Research Day at Brunel       (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3324340/pdf/nucl-2-517.pdf)       where scientists and clinicians spoke and mingled with The Okines and The       Crowthers.
Hayley Okines, who has Progeria, spoke to the scientists about       her life (Figure 1) and Harry Crowther who suffers from an even rarer form       of Progeria wrote on his website how much he enjoyed his day at Brunel.
(A) In order to help Progeria suffers such as Harry, Dr Bridger has set up       a new collaborative cross-Europe consortium to decipher how Harry's lamin       works differently to Hayley's so that drug treatments for suffers of       Progeria that make a different toxic protein can have some hope of a       treatment.
The initial meeting of the network has been funded by Sparks.
Figure 2 	     However, the most significant interactions and support that the team has       had is when The Okines family came to Brunel University to film one of the       TV documentaries on the family "The-96-year old schoolgirl" (http://www.channel5.com/shows/extraordinary-people/episodes/extraordinary-people-hayley-the-96-year-old-schoolgirl,       Figure 2).
An excerpt from the book "Old Before My Time; Hayley Okines' Life with         Progeria" written by Hayley and Kerry Okines reveals that Dr Kill       helped the Okines make a potentially life-changing decision by       demonstrating how the new drugs suggested to the family by the US clinical       trial team might help Hayley's Progeria (B).
After talking to Dr Kill the       family made the decision to commit to the new combinatorial 3 drug trial,       which seems to have had Figure 2 positive results for Hayley.
During this same visit the team learnt that Hayley's mother was seeking       funding for a reunion event of children with Progeria after the one in the       US had been cancelled.
The Development Office at Brunel University was       able to identify a sponsor who agreed to fund the event at the Ashford       Hotel in Kent in 2010 for ~ 20 families with Progeria children staying for       1 week.
Engaging with Individuals and Communities     The research conducted by the team at Brunel has also impacted on the       activities of numerous individuals and organisations that have learnt       about Progeria through the dissemination of the research, internet       searches or media articles and programmes that highlight the team and its       research.
Individuals decide to take part in sporting events such as       marathons to help fund the work, school children find inventive ways to       raise money for the team and a retirement group make Christmas decorations       to fund the work.
Individuals from Brunel itself have got behind the team       as a home-made charity it can support.
They raise thousands of pounds by       hosting social evenings and baking cakes.
Other individuals have donated       prizes for the best undergraduate and Masters' projects in Progeria       research &#8212; that have led to local press releases.
Dr Bridger has been       invited to give many talks over the years to the laypeople describing       Progeria and Brunel University's role.
Hundreds of people have been       exposed to and have actively taken part in raising the awareness of       Progeria by doing something positive and fun for themselves.
Organisations       such as the Royal Anti-Diluvean Order of the Buffaloes (2008), the       Freemasons (2013), and Ruislip St Martin's Lodge have each raised       over &#163;5,000 for Progeria research (C).
Drs Bridger and Kill spent time       with the Buffaloes in Epping Forest at a number of their social events &#8212;       chatting about their work and Progeria (2008); and provided images and       information for a presentation of their work to 500 Freemasons at a       special dinner (2013).
Other organisations that have requested talks and       information are the Soroptomists (D), which represent a powerful       female voice in international awareness and lobbying and the Athena       group of female professional and business women.
Dr Kill took part in the       University's series of public lectures as one of three presenters       contributing to a lecture entitled "Can We Live Forever" and       highlighted the work of the research team (E).
There were over 200 members       of the public in the audience who participated in a lively debate.
Figure 3 	     In March 2010, the team took part in a public presentation of their       research at a local science fair in Uxbridge, Middlesex (Figure 3),       speaking to local shoppers about Progeria and their findings.
On June 8th 2013 Drs Bridger and Kill, along with Prof Shananan of Kings       College London presented to a paying audience "Ageing Fast and Slow"       a topic at The Times Cheltenham Science Festival.
There were nearly 100       members of the public at the event and it was actively tweeted about.
The       audience asked some well-informed questions and showed a lot of interest       in Progeria (F).
The team are also acting as consultants for Sparks to train individuals       from this organisation about Progeria and the research happening at       Brunel.
They have run 2 training sessions this year already (April and       November), where Dr Bridger gives a presentation and other members of the       team run "lab tours".
Raising Awareness and Promoting Public Understanding The original       underpinning work research findings were taken up by the media and the       team was interviewed for articles, radio and international television       programmes.
HRH Prince Philip also requested to meet the team in 2008.
Since 2008, the team continue to be involved in informing the UK and the       world about their work and Progeria.
Dr Clement's arrival at Brunel has       been championed by Sparks to raise public awareness of Progeria and there       have been local press releases in the area around Brunel and where Dr       Clements lives (G).
Dr Lynda Shaw a local neuroscientist has adopted       Brunel's Progeria research to highlight and fundraises for Progeria       research at Brunel (http://www.drlyndashaw.com/#!progeria/c1oan)       and she has recently been in a number of high profile magazines discussing       Progeria (H).
In 2005, a PhD student with the team, met with the Khan family in       Kolkata, India to initiate contact and to commence a research study; 4 of       6 children in the Khan family suffer from a rare form of Progeria.
(http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/4286347.stm)       Incidentally, as a consequence of this meeting, his sister featured as a       wardrobe designer in the Bollywood movie about Progeria called Paa       (English: Father) in 2009; this film has educated many thousands of people       about Progeria.
In 2010 The Brunel team helped James Routh of Rabbit productions to film       "Hayley-The 96-year old schoolgirl" for the Extraordinary People       series (I) by providing information and film footage of flies with       Progeria.
This had ratings of 1.43million on the night.
Dr Ian Kill was       also featured in the programme.
In 2011 Hayley was filmed at Brunel       University at the 1st UK Progeria Research Day, giving a speech       &#8212; a topic she mentioned a lot in the documentary as she ticked off the       days on her calendar.
This programme was "Hayley &#8212; the World's oldest         Teenager" (J).
These shows reach an international audience.
