     The inspiration for the research described above was the 2004 Tsunami,       which highlighted the need for an evidence-based tool, presented in an       accessible format, to accurately estimate the ages of victims to help       identification.
It is accessible in various web formats including a       training video [11].
It has been widely covered in the scientific [12] and       lay press [13] and listed as a key source in textbooks [14].
The London Atlas was subsequently used to estimate the ages of victims in       the air crash in Libya in May 2010 and the earthquake in New Zealand in       February 2011.
Professor Jules Kieser, Director, Sir John Walsh Research       Institute, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand commented: "...as         a forensic dentist I, together with my team, used your atlas when we did         the identification of the victims of the tragic Christchurch Earthquake.
The atlas enabled even inexperienced volunteers to understand dental         ageing, and possibly most importantly, it was hugely useful when         presentations were made to the Coroner's Board.
They were able to get a         visual appreciation of what we were telling them.
In summary, thank you         again for providing us with a landmark in the field of dental ageing."
The London Atlas has now been adopted by the New Zealand Society of       Forensic Dentistry.
The London Atlas is now an accepted method of age estimation around the       world, and is used in training workshops run by the American Academy of       Forensic Sciences, the International Organisation of Forensic Odontology,       and the Biological Anthropology Research Centre and Bio-archaeology,       Warsaw.
Professor Bob Wood, Forensic Dentist and Disaster Victim       Identification (DVI) trainer, Toronto University, says the Atlas is part       of the standard information pack given to the Canadian DVI team [16].
In November 2010 Dr Liversidge was invited to present at the       `International Workshop on methods for age estimation in teenagers and       young adults' held by the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration and the       Baltic Medico-Legal conference.
This resulted in a policy change of       practice dealing with estimating age of age disputed asylum seekers in       Norway.
Dr Liversidge's paper on third molars in different ethnic groups       is used to estimate age of asylum seekers from Afghanistan.
The London Atlas is used in teaching of forensic anthropology (UK,       Canada, USA, Israel, Italy), disaster victim identification (UK,       Australia, Canada, Pakistan), forensic dentistry (UK, Belgium, Canada,       American Board Forensic Odontology, USA) and archaeology (Bradford,       Liverpool John Moore, University College London UK, New Mexico, USA).
The       Atlas has been used to estimate age of forensic cases in UK, Switzerland,       Israel, Australia, New Zealand, Libya, Canada, New Mexico, Texas and       Washington State USA.
The teaching of dental anatomy and development of the dentitions also       relies heavily on the London Atlas: it is currently used in most dental       schools in the UK, as well as those in Belgium, Croatia, China, Finland,       Germany, Greece, Israel, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland, USA, Canada, Japan,       Malaysia, Middle East, Australia, New Zealand and Venezuala.
The London Atlas has also been used by archaeologists for ageing skeletal       remains in USA, Greece and Peru.
Finnish forensic archaeologist Dr Jana       Hurnane and her team consulted the atlas to learn more about child mummies       found in Peru.
A well-executed dissemination strategy has been key to the widespread use       and success of the London Atlas.
Worldwide copyright was taken out in 2009       to allow free access on the internet [11].
Since the launch in April 2012       to August 2013 there were 56150 hits from 73 countries, and the website       gets on average 130 hits a day.
The Atlas has been translated into 16       languages including Chinese, Arabic and Japanese.
The app has been       downloaded many thousands of times.
A training video has been developed       and is freely available on the internet.
The project was shortlisted for Research Project of the year by Times       Higher Education Supplement in 2012 [15].
The London Atlas was shown in       'History Cold Case' documentary on BBC2 in May 2010.
