     South Africa has the largest number of HIV infections of any country.
Out       of a population of 50 million people, 5.6 million are HIV+.
On World Aids       Day in September 2009, South African President Jacob Zuma announced the       most significant government-led interventions to stem the AIDS epidemic       since its emergence more than 20 years ago, stating that extraordinary       measures are needed.
He said that "In order to meet the need for         testing and treatment, we will work to ensure that all the health         institutions in the country are ready to receive and assist patients and         not just a few accredited antiretroviral centres.
Any citizen should be         able to move into any health centre and ask for counselling, testing and         even treatment if needed".
This research has had major impact on the       health policy to achieve this.
The policy developments are all landmarks       in primary health policy and provision in South Africa, and have also been       applied in Gambia, Malawi, Brazil, Mexico and Portugal.
Because our research had shown PALSA PLUS to be both effective and       cost-effective, in 2010 the South African National Department of Health       adopted PALSA PLUS as the primary method of in- service training for nurse       practitioners in public sector primary care facilities throughout the       country.
To implement this policy it contracted our partner, the Knowledge       Translation Unit at the University of Cape Town Medical School, to provide       the training, clinical guidelines and training materials (see       corroborating source C).
By January 2013 the KTU had trained 1500 trainers       in all 8 provinces in South Africa, who had in turn trained 18,000 primary       care professionals in 1900 health facilities (of a total of 3500       nationwide).
Supported by the STRETCH trial's evidence, in 2011 the South       African National Department of Health adopted Nurse-Initiated       Antiretroviral Treatment (NIMART) as national policy for the nationwide       expansion of ART in primary care.
The research programme started in 2000 with a WHO initiative to improve       tuberculosis control worldwide by increasing detection of infectious       cases.
WHO's Practical Approach to Lung Health (PAL) programme encouraged       low and middle income countries to implement PAL guidelines for the       diagnosis and treatment of chronic lung diseases among primary health care       workers.
In collaboration with WHO and South African health departments,       and with local primary care doctors and nurses, the researchers completely       redesigned the guidelines and educational methods and implemented them       throughout one province as PALSA (corroborating source A).
After the PALSA       trial showed that the intervention was effective and highly popular, and       that large scale expansion was feasible, it became standard practice in       the Free State province from 2002 on.
PALSA was then expanded, as PALSA       PLUS, to cover nurse-provided care of HIV and sexually transmitted       infections.
After the second trial showed that PALSA PLUS was effective,       it became standard practice in two provinces in 2009/10 and then       nationally in 2011.
Subsequently, the researchers were commissioned by the       South African National Department of Health to expand the clinical       guidelines and training to include diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung       disease and depression, and started to evaluate it as the PC101 trial in       the Western Cape.
Preliminary evidence from PC101 and engagement with the       National Department of Health led to it becoming the standard guidelines       and educational method for primary care nursing in South Africa       (corroborating source C).
Meanwhile the research programme addressed controversial policies on       antiretroviral treatment (ART) for HIV/AIDS.
KTU was contracted to monitor       and evaluate the Free State's HIV/AIDS programme the programme, and to       manage all electronic medical patient records.
Our finding that 53% of       patients died while awaiting ART but that when ART was received it reduced       mortality by 87% increased pressure on South African authorities to       accelerate ART roll-out and to initiate ART promptly in eligible patients.
A key problem though was the lack of doctors to provide ART, which only       doctors were authorised to prescribe.
The researchers therefore developed       and helped the Free State provincial Health Department to implement       STRETCH - a radical breakthrough in enabling primary nurses to treat       HIV/AIDS by training and authorising them to prescribe ART, in the face of       objections by the national Department of Health, HIV physicians, and the       South African Nursing Council.
This intervention was at first permitted       only because it was implemented as a randomised trial (corroborating       source B).
Nurse Initiated ART (NIMART) became national policy within       months of the end of the trial and is expected to greatly enhance access       to ART in South Africa.
Any nurse needs to complete our training to be       authorised to prescribe ART.
Between 2010 and 2011, 300,000 more people       started ART.
ART expansion will greatly reduce morbidity and mortality due       to HIV/AIDS, and help control the rampant tuberculosis epidemic.
Our research has also had wider international impact.
In 2010 the       Malawian Ministry of Health began implementing PALM PLUS, a local       adaptation of PALSA PLUS.
In 2011 the Gambian Department of Health &amp;       Social Welfare began to implement its adaptation of PALSA PLUS, and in       2012 started implementing NIMART based on the STRETCH model.
PALSA PLUS       guidelines and training materials are also being used in Brazil, Mexico       and Portugal.
