     Three main areas of impact are presented below: improving the abilities       of both professional and       emerging practitioners; widening the audiences for contemporary music; and       supporting young       composers.
The Impact Template (REF 3a section d) notes that these       articulate all three of the       more generally-worded aims for institution-wide impact described in the       Impact Template (REF 3a.
context).
Impact 1 &#8212; Improving abilities     The research was encapsulated in the production of the score of Fantasias.
This score, for       reasons set out above, is of necessity extremely challenging to its       performers.
The impact claimed       here is that the study of Fantasias provided a learning       opportunity not only for the NYO but also for       the professional orchestras that have played the work.
This position of Fantasias       within the       evolution of orchestral technique was confirmed at a conference Getting         it Right?
held at LSO       St.Luke's in April 2010 and February 2013 at which artists (including       Helmut Lachenmann (keynote       speaker), Michael Finnissy, Jane Manning, Diego Masson, Rolf Hind, David       Alberman, Richard       Baker and Julian Philips) discussed the development of technique from the       early 20th Century to       the present day.
Other evidence includes the NYO participant's blog in       which the performers       exchange views on the challenges of the work (see section 5. below).
Impact 2 &#8212; Widening audiences     Fantasias was first performed in the US to full houses at       Severance Hall, Cleveland       (capacity: 1,844) on 19th and 20th December 2009.
Other performances include, so far, the NYO's       tour of the UK held in August 2010 to sell-out houses that culminated in       the orchestra's Prom       concert of that year with an Albert Hall audience of about 2,000 and a BBC       radio broadcast.
It       subsequently received a BBC2 TV screening with an estimated audience of       over 700,000 plus       those who later viewed it on i-player.
The work was performed by the LPO in December 2011 in the Royal Festival       Hall with an       audience of approximately 2,500.
A commercially available CD recording       made by the LPO was       released on 4th November 2013.
Fantasias won first prize for Best New Large Scale Work in the       BASCA British Music       Awards of 2011.
It is of course impossible to estimate &#8212; especially in quantitative terms       &#8212; the impact this       degree of dissemination might have had so far on Fantasias'       listeners.
But one proxy measure       might be to contrast this performance history with the fate of the vast       majority of new works that       rapidly find a first performance but search in vain for a second.
Fantasias,       to put it mildly, is being       unusually successful in impacting a widened audience.
A second proxy measure of impact in this sphere of audience development       has been the       increased number of commissions the researcher has received since the       first performances of       Fantasias.
These works include The Discovery of Heaven of       2012 and a concerto for violin and       orchestra to be premiered in 2015, both commissioned indirectly on the       basis of Fantasias'       success.
Part of the explanation for this is the breadth of audience that       the earlier work       commanded, a quality subsequent commissioning bodies wished to see again,       and that was       important, for example, in securing &#8212; in 2010 &#8212; Anderson's on-going       position as Composer in       Residence at the LPO.
Impact 3 &#8212; Supporting young composers     Until the NYO's performance of Fantasias the orchestra played new       work at its Prom       concerts only intermittently, since Fantasias a new work has been       performed every year.
The impact of the research continues to affect positively the development       of new music.
Since the success of Fantasias the composer has been invited to       join official bodies at, for       example, Wigmore Hall (composer in residence until 2016), LPO Young       Composers (12       composers commissioned since 2010) as well as various judging panels       including Tactus Young       Composers' Forum and the Conseil Musical &#8212; Fondation Prince Pierre de         Monaco.
He has also       been invited to speak at numerous conferences including the RMA Research       Students'       Conference at which he gave the keynote speech on new music's ability to       find a lasting and       effective means of communication with jaded audiences (King's College       London, January 2009).
It would of course be ambitious to argue a direct cause and effect from Fantasias       to Anderson's       position on these bodies for the promotion of new work from young       composers, but what is certain       is that the research underpinning Fantasias &#8212; and to a lesser       extent his other works of the period &#8212; was       crucial to the success of Fantasias and that this reinforced his       position as a leading composer       of his generation and thus an obvious choice when the directions of music       today and tomorrow are       being discussed.
