     Dr Sneddon's research on the implications of pain perception for the       welfare and behaviour of fish has received global media attention.
She has       been interviewed on CNN (audience figure: 465,000), ABC Australia, and BBC       news1 (BBC website audience figures approximately 40 million       per week) and Countryfile (typical audience figure: approximately 5       million) in the UK, as well as numerous global radio interviews and       features in Nature News and New Scientist (circulation average of 23,213       in August 2012).
Her work has led to changes in public and government regulations on the       treatment of fish.
For example, Sneddon was part of the Committee on       Recognition and Alleviation of Pain in Laboratory Animals (National       Research Council, USA).
Fish were included for the first time in the       guidelines for the detection and alleviation of pain in experimental       animals in North America that details how researchers can identify and       minimise pain, and Sneddon's research was cited extensively in these       guidelines (Recognition and Alleviation of Pain in Laboratory Animals,       2009)2.
She has also acted as a consultant for the UK Government advisory body,       the Animal Procedures Committee, informing humane methods of killing fish       (Supplementary review of schedule 1 of the Animals (Scientific Procedures)       Act, 1986)3, and also for the Home Office, providing advice and       assessment for project licensees on administration of analgesia in fish.
Fish are now the second most popular experimental model with nearly half       a million used in the UK in 2011 and some 300,000 used at the University       of Washington alone (2010).
Sneddon's work has thus directly informed       protocols to enhance the welfare of a large number of experimental fish.
Given the broad implications of the research, Sneddon was an invited       speaker at the Science with Impact Symposium, Austria, July 2012 and her       expertise has led to her becoming Ethics Committee Chair and Secretary for       Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour (ASAB) Council4.
She is an author on ASAB's updated ethical guidelines (2012) and ensures       all prospective authors adhere to these in her editorial role for the       journal Animal Behaviour5.
She also holds the position       of Neurobiology Convenor6 for the Society of Experimental       Biology (SEB) and in 2012 organised a joint meeting with NC3Rs, ASAB and       the SEB to discuss the implementation of ethical experimentation in       behavioural and physiological studies7.
Sneddon has also been invited to discuss her research findings at various       conferences in USA, Canada, Europe and nationally and has run workshops       for public bodies and veterinary organisations, such as the World Congress       on Veterinary Anaesthesia in Sweden, Switzerland, and Denmark, and Pets At       Home in the UK.
Not only has this research influenced science, but it also has broader       implications on how the public and industry use fish.
She co-authored a       risk assessment for the Norwegian Committee for Food Safety on the welfare       implications of recreational catch and release angling, where fish receive       hooking injuries that may give rise to pain (Norwegian Scientific       Committee for Food Safety Report on Catch and Release, 2009/10)8.
This publication made recommendations to improve the welfare of salmonids.
She was also invited to contribute a book entitled Sea the Truth:         Essays on Overfishing, Pollution and Climate Change, which was       published by the Nicolaas G. Pierson Foundation to complement the film       `Sea the Truth'.
This work examined how fisheries affect individual fish       welfare when they are damaged during large scale fish capture (Sneddon       &amp; Wolfenden, 2012)9.
In addition, Sneddon has acted as a       consultant for the RSPCA commenting upon the HSE report on the use of Garra         rufa fish in beauty treatments and is currently investigating salon       practices to inform improvements in the well-being of these fish10.
Additionally, she was invited by La Fondation Droit Animal, &#233;thique et       sciences (LFDA), in partnership with the International Research Group in       Animal Law (GRIDA), to speak at their international symposium 'Scientific       Recognition of Animal Sensitivity to Pain and its Integration into Law',       whose audience included legal experts, policymakers, philosophers and       animal welfare groups, to address how fish welfare is compromised by many       practices and how global laws can protect them (Paris 2012).
Finally, the       use of fish in vaccine testing by the biomedical industries has increased       and Sneddon has co-authored guidelines on the ethical use of fish in       vaccine research for the European Committee on Vaccines (ECVAM), since       many of these diseases cause tissue damage that could be painful (Midtlyng       et al.
2012)11.
Dr Sneddon's research, therefore, has broad implications and has       generated considerable impact within the public domain, both in terms of       welfare guidelines and also public perceptions of pain in fish.
