     The Centre's research, events, and publications can be shown to have had       an impact on the work of Dr Williams's Library and those who use its       collections, on the varied audiences for the Centre's events, on Bristol       Baptist College (a non HEI), and on a much wider global audience who use       the databases.
The Centre's research and publications have also       transformed public and academic understanding of the field of Protestant       dissent, contributing to the re-evaluation of its cultural legacy.
Enhancing access to Library resources     The Centre's research projects have brought a new and very demanding       readership to the Library, which has made it a stimulating place to work.
The Queen Mary researchers' need to consult manuscripts regularly has       meant that the Library has focused on preparation of these for reading and       has implemented conservation plans.
The digitization projects have made       previously unknown material accessible; transcription and summaries have       made information much easier to interpret; the relational databases have       created new open-access knowledge.
The online articles written by Rivers,       Wykes and their team for the Database and Encyclopedia have       provided an entirely new history of dissenting higher education for both       academic and general readers.
The Surman Index Online allowed the       typed card catalogue, hitherto usable in the Library alone, to be       consulted all over the world.
The editorial projects, especially The         Crabb Robinson Project, for which Vigus is Assistant Editor, benefit       the Library by saving fragile manuscripts from wear through use.
The         Dissenting Academies Project has also had an impact on another       non-HEI, Bristol Baptist College, where much of its archive was       uncatalogued.
In 2009-10 the Centre's Post-Doctoral Research Fellows       entered its manuscript catalogues into the Centre's Virtual Library         System where the records are fully searchable by the public.
Transforming public understanding of Protestant dissent     Queen Mary researchers in the Centre have raised the Library's public       profile through a strategic programme of public engagement.
The digital       databases are free and open-access, and have been used extensively by       non-academic audiences around the world, especially those interested in       family history, genealogy, and church history.
Most of the Centre's events       are open to the public, the seminars are free, and are regularly attended       by non-academics (33 seminars in the REF period).
The public events (the       seminar series and annual conferences) have brought in a wide range of       attendees, some of whom then become library users.
Thus for the Dissenting       Hymn conference, a large number of members of the Hymn Society attended;       for the Nonconformist Architecture conference, arranged with the Chapels       Society, many members of that society attended.
On average the attendance       at seminars is 15-20 and at conferences 50 to 70.
Public engagement       road-shows, organised by the Centre, demonstrated the new digital       resources to audiences at Harris Manchester College, Oxford, John Rylands       Library, Manchester, and the Leeds Library.
The online resources have       generated high numbers of unique users in 2012 (the first complete year):       Database and Encyclopedia: 6419; Surman: 9326; Virtual Library System:       9302.
In the period June 2011 to July 2013 inclusive, the databases       received 780,357 page views, demonstrating that users engage with the       resources in a deep manner.
Enhancing the Library     Queen Mary's support for the Centre has been highly beneficial for the       Library.
Queen Mary, through the Faculty and the Department, has supported       the Centre with resources and staff time to sustain the collaboration with       the Library; hosted the research fellows, research assistants, technical       assistant, and doctoral students; provided funding (&#163;18,000 2004-07,       &#163;15,930 2008-2013) to support the Centre's events at the Library; and       provided the Centre with web and publication design services and computing       resources for the development, mounting and maintenance of the databases.
Collaboration with the Centre's researchers has played an important part       in the Library's recent and ongoing programme of enhancements.
For       instance, the Centre has provided the Library with a specialist camera and       tripod for making high-resolution images of print and manuscript,       purchased using AHRC funding for one of the Centre's projects.
Rivers and       Vigus served on a Working Group of the Friends of Dr Williams's Library       that has submitted a detailed report containing recommendations for the       further development of the Library's reader services and its research       profile in the longer term.
In the wake of the QMUL large grants from the       Leverhulme Trust and the AHRC, the Library has obtained small grants from       a number of different bodies: Manchester Academy Trust, Manchester       Memorial Hall Trust, Congregational Memorial Hall Trust, and Pilgrim       Trust.
Through the work of the Centre's Queen Mary researchers, and their       publications and databases, Dr Williams's Library, a charitable       institution dedicated to the preservation and study of Protestant dissent,       has wider reach and significance, and its resources can increasingly be       consulted globally.
In his letter corroborating this impact statement,       Wykes has commented: `The collaboration has been an outstanding success;       it has achieved everything and more that the Trustees had hoped when the       Centre was established in 2004.
It has not only enhanced the work and       reputation of the Library, it has been of direct benefit to its staff,       members, and the wider dissenting community.'
