     In their contributions to the curatorial process of exhibition conception       and design, as evidenced in the redisplay of the V&amp;A Medieval and       Renaissance Galleries, these scholars were conscious of several principles       guiding English research at Queen Mary, including: diffusion of research       outcomes in accessible, non-technical form; development of contexts for       encounters between researchers and the general public to explain the       significance of ground-breaking research; and clearly defined programmes       of public education in areas where the specialist data is confusing or       difficult.
Opportunities for impacts have been designed into the fabric of       Queen Mary research centres such as the Centre for Editing Lives and       Letters (QMUL 2002-2012) and the Centre for Renaissance and Early Modern       Studies (QMUL 2007-), supported by institutional and external research       funding.
The impact described here has a twofold structure: an impact on the       intellectual base of the exhibition through advice and institutional       collaborations and an impact on the public understanding of the       Renaissance through public engagement with the exhibition itself.
The       model for this impact strategy was established in the redisplay of the       V&amp;A Medieval and Renaissance Galleries (opened 1 December 2009).
Impact was made on the museum and its curators in developing,       conceptualising, planning the exhibition, and writing the supporting       materials (catalogues, wall texts), for both the exhibition and gallery       redisplays between 2000-2009.
Welch's work on consumption and the material       object, and Jardine's approach to the `world of goods', underpinned in       part curatorial decisions about how to present the museum's collection to       the public.
This occurred through the direct use of Jardine and Welch's       publications, through Welch's AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award with the       Senior Curator, Kirsten Kennedy, which supported research for the       redisplay; through advice provided by Jardine in her role as trustee of       the V&amp;A; and through Welch and Jardine's service on the Medieval and       Renaissance gallery's advisory board from 2005-2009 where they commented       on and contributed to display decisions.
In addition, Welch and Jardine       were explicitly named as having offered `extensive consultation' in `Case       Study Seven: Recreating Renaissance Interiors at the V&amp;A' in Past         Present and Future (2010).
In demonstrating the relevance of       consumption to European Renaissance culture, these Queen Mary scholars       supported a shift away from monographic displays around artists to themes       on consumption, splendour, dining, and other forms of domestic behaviour.
In the V&amp;A's new Renaissance galleries, this is visible through the       conceptual shape given to the exhibition space, and the title given to the       name of the accompanying catalogue for the new Galleries, whose sub- title       is `People and Possessions'.
Evidence of the reach and significance of       this is primarily shown by a combination of high visitor numbers (and       associated statistical data on spend) and continued public involvement       with the issues raised.
The Medieval and Renaissance Galleries, which were       opened by Ben Bradshaw MP, Minister for Culture in 2009, represented a &#163;31       million investment of private, public and Heritage Lottery funds.
The       V&amp;A new galleries received 359,000 visits in the four-month period       December 2009-March 2010 (44% of total visits to the museum).
Subsequent       evaluation of the galleries in this period by Matthew Petrie (Fusion       Research+Analytics) found that two-thirds of visitors strongly or somewhat       agreed that the gallery themes were important in their experience.
The new       galleries were widely reviewed and highly praised in the press (Telegraph,         Observer, Time Out).
The model for academic-curatorial collaboration was taken up by the next       generation of Queen Mary researchers.
Research into the history of weaving       and tapestry published by Brotton in collaboration with Jardine (Global         Interests, 2000) inspired Penelope's Labour: Weaving Words and         Images, an exhibition at the Cini Foundation, San Giorgio Maggiore,       Venice in April-Nov 2011, which Brotton curated in collaboration with Adam       Lowe of Factum Arte, an independent art fabrication and digital       conservation workshop.
The exhibition assembled a collection of recent       woven artworks by internationally-acclaimed artists (including Grayson       Perry, Marc Quinn and Craigie Horsfield) to exhibit alongside selections       from the Cini's private collection of Renaissance tapestries.
Brotton       edited the catalogue and contributed a substantial introduction       establishing the connection to early-modern tapestry research.
The       exhibition innovated by displaying historical tapestries alongside       contemporary artistic examples of weaving, to tell a story of how this       medium is newly important to a range of contemporary artists.
The       exhibition involved employing a team of six people to assemble it       (hanging, lighting, laying floors, etc), and the assistance of four       members of the Cini staff who were responsible for press, publicity, and       artist liaison.
The Cini exhibition Penelope's Labour ran from       April-September 2011 as part of the Venice Biennale, the world's most       prestigious contemporary art event.
It attracted over 20,000 visitors, a       record for the Cini Foundation, was reviewed positively in the press (Domus,       The Art Newspaper, The New York Times, The Sunday Times), and was       widely blogged.
