     Rose's analysis of the politics of the Middle East and Jewish dissent in       the UK has aimed to challenge cultural values and assumptions, improve the       quality of public understanding and discussion of the Middle East       conflict, and bring academic analysis into the sphere of human rights and       the law.
Public discourse and civil society       Rose has actively pursued a public engagement strategy through       publications that reach a general audience, and by organizing events,       public lectures and debates.
Mass-market editions of her work addressed at       the general reader, such as The Jacqueline Rose Reader (Duke UP       2011) and the Verso Radical Thinkers paperback of Sexuality in the         Field of Vision, reinforce the claim that she is `a major public       intellectual of and for our times' (Clemens and Naparstek).
Her work has       consistently argued for the need to create a viable forum for in-depth       discussion of the Middle East conflict that would inflect the parameters       of legitimate argument on this question.
In 2007 Rose co-founded with       Antony Lerman, Ellen Dahrendoff, Geoffrey Bindman, Gillian Slovo, and       Brian Klug (amongst others) a collective `speak-out' network called Independent         Jewish Voices (IJV), bringing together academics, human rights       activists and lawyers to debate the right to dissent, international law       and human rights in relation to Palestine/Israel.
The IJV       declaration has gathered 681 signatures (www.ijv.org.uk/signatories).
Since then Rose has been chair and organizer of the IJV Steering       Group, co-organising its media campaign in public print and online media       (including paid advertisements in daily newspapers and contributions to       policy discussions), and co-organising 15 public debates and lectures, at       for example Hampstead Town Hall, Friends House, and the North London       Synagogue, each attracting audiences of 100-300.
Rose co-organised the IJV       media programme through 17 articles published The Guardian, Haaretz,       and The Jewish Chronicle.
IJV's innovative influence is shown by       the foundation of sister organizations in Canada (2008) and Australia       (2009), and the foundation in 2009 of JNews, an alternative news       outlet on the Middle East (Rose co-organised a successful funding bid to       the Amiel-Melbourne Trust).
In addition, Rose wrote and edited important       contributions to the public debate, including her essay `On the Myth of       Self-Hatred' in her co-edited book A Time to Speak Out &#8212; Independent         Jewish Voices on Israel, Zionism and Jewish Identity (2008).
Rose's       own essays (each 3-5,000 words) in newspapers and periodicals include:       `"J'Accuse" &#8212; Dreyfus in Our Times', LRB (10-06-2010);       `Chroniclers of Pain', The Guardian (10-05-2008); and `"We have       exiled an exile": rereading S Yizhar's Khirbet Khizeh' in The         Guardian (12-03-2011).
These publications and public events       exploited the research framework of Rose's scholarly publications so as to       generate debate, and disrupt the apparent consensus amongst British Jewry       in relation to the Middle Eastern conflict.
Inspiring creative practice and artistic expression       The impact of this research extended further to cultural practice, by       inspiring new forms of artistic expression.
Rose's research inspired two       innovative classical musical compositions by the Palestinian-British       composer Mohammed Fairouz (www.mohammedfairouz.com),       described by Opera Today as `one of the most sought after       composers of the young generation' (September 2010).
The first       composition, the Double Concerto for Violin, Cello and Orchestra,       entitled States of Fantasy, premiered at the Merkin Concert Hall       at Kaufman Center, NY (18-09-2010).
It was commissioned by Ensemble 212 (http://ensemble212.org), a highly       regarded not-for-profit professional New York-based orchestra of 35       musicians lead by Artistic Director Yoon Jae Lee with funding from New       York State Council on the Arts, and was performed by Nicholas Kitchen and       Yeesun Kim, two principals of the internationally renowned Borromeo       Quartet.
The work has subsequently been performed five times, including in       Houston, Texas, and the Wyoming Seminary, Pennsylvania.
This work is       inspired by Rose's research in States of Fantasy.
Fairouz said in       an interview with Opera Today: "The double concerto is based on a       wonderful book by Jacqueline Rose, States of Fantasy, which       chronicles aspects of the Middle East, aspects of psychology, aspects of       her thoughts about Israel as a contemporary Jew."
Combining musical themes       from Jewish and Arab tradition, Fairouz recreated in music the       cross-conflict forms of dialogue and creative engagement that are at the       centre of Rose's research in this area.
The double concerto, writes       Fairouz, "derives from the experience of its generative text while       occupying music's distinctive realm."
Rose reinforced the impact of the       performance by leading a public discussion at Columbia University       (17-09-2010) between herself, the composer, and performers, on the       relationship between music, politics and literature.
Inspired by this engagement Fairouz composed a second work, a piano       sonata called The Last Resistance [Fairouz Piano Sonata #2], based       on Rose's book of that title.
The work was commissioned by Reach Out       Kansas (ROK), an arts charity in Kansas City, for the American pianist       Steven Spooner, and was premiered at The Lied Center of Kansas       (13-09-2011; audience 1,000).
In 2011 and 2012, The Last Resistance       was performed at 15 concerts and masterclasses, in states across the USA       including Rhode Island, New York, Washington DC, Indiana, and Kansas, and       extending to tours of Taiwan, China, South Korea, Indonesia, and       Singapore.
The total approximate audience for these concerts is 10,080       people.
To facilitate the exchange, Rose participated in a public       conversation at Columbia (17-02-2012) on the relationship between music,       politics and writing.
Rose and Fairouz collaborated at a joint residency       at the Cogut Center for the Humanities at Brown University (RI), including       a performance of the sonata, a panel discussion on the relation of music       and literature, and a public dialogue between Rose and Fairouz on Music,         Writing, and Critique investigating translation and comparative       composition and the politics of analogizing language and music.
These       collaborative public engagements have sharpened the focus on how Rose's       research has ongoing impact on Fairouz's compositions and their       performance.
These commissions and performances, demonstrate how Rose's       research has inspired new forms of musical expression and creative       practice beyond the academy.
