     The Department of English at Queen Mary has used its research on       cartography and literature in       the early modern and medieval period to enhance public understanding of       the history of       cartography, through broadcast media, print media, and public events,       described below in this       order.
The forms of impact claimed here fall under two distinct       categories.
The first concerns new       ways of thinking that conserve and interpret cultural heritage for       audiences external to the       academy, and the second contributing to economic prosperity via the       creative sector.
Enhancing public understanding and creating cultural capital       In 2010 Brotton wrote and presented a three-part BBC television series on       the history of maps,       entitled Maps: Power, Plunder and Possession.
The series consisted       of three one-hour       programmes for which Brotton wrote the original outline, collaborated with       producers in securing       funding and production approval with the BBC, wrote the script, and       presented the series (involving       21 days' filming).
The series was broadcast on BBC4 (April 25, May 2, May       9, with in-week       repeats), and achieved average peak viewing figures of 596,000, notably       high for BBC4.
Brotton's       History of the World in Twelve Maps was published in September       2012.
The Guardian review (24-08-2012)       described it as `a brilliant survey of cartography in the early modern       period, when       Europeans began to explore entire continents unsuspected by Ptolemy, and       maps bore vivid       witness to the geopolitical and commercial upheavals unleashed in their       wake'.
It was also       reviewed in, Sunday Times, The Telegraph, Sunday Telegraph, Sunday         Mail, Spectator, TLS,         Literary Review and Financial Times.
Researchers within the Department have disseminated original research to       a wider public audience       in the form of talks, presentations and panel discussions.
Brotton and       Hiatt have collaborated with       the British Library to support public engagement with maps exhibitions       (May 2010 onwards).
Brotton gave a public lecture entitled `World maps and the dawn of       globalisation', and was a       panellist on a public forum for the `Magnificent Maps' exhibition (June       2010, attended by 200       people).
Brotton delivered the Raymond Williams Memorial Lecture at the       Hay Festival 2010 (sold       out, attended by 500 people), and the Royal Geographical Society Monday       Lecture (September       2010, attended by 600 people).
In 2012 Brotton presented map research at       four literary festivals,       including Ilkley, Sheffield, Taunton, and at Stanfords Bookshop London.
In       2013 he has spoken at       festivals in Bath, LSE, York, Edinburgh, and international conferences and       presentations in Abu       Dhabi, St Niklaas (Belgium), the Bodleian Library (TOSCA), Oxford English       Faculty, and       Edinburgh.
The Head of Cartographic and Topographic Materials at the Map       Library of the British       Library commented: `I believe that it is vital that the history of       cartography, exemplified in Brotton's       books and television programmes, be imbedded in the context of the wider       universe of learning       and no longer be consigned to its traditional antiquarian and       bibliographical cul-de sac'.
Public engagement was also created through a pro-active media strategy.
In relation to the       television series Brotton published articles in newspapers (The         Independent, April 2010),       magazines (BBC History Magazine, May 2010), online (BBC News         Magazine,       &lt;http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/8654102.stm&gt;       [294,000 page views at 27 Sept 2011]), and       interviewed for over a dozen local and national radio programmes       discussing the BBC4 maps       series, including `Breakfast' (BBCRadio1) and `Night Waves' (BBCRadio3).
In relation to the book,       Brotton was interviewed in The Independent (06-09-2012; on BBC       News 24's 'Meet the Author'; in       a feature by Marcus Burkemann for The Guardian (28-08-2012); on Today       BBC Radio 4; on       Monocle radio; in Corriere della Serra (Milan); in an article in New         Scientist (January 2013), and       the Swedish weekly news magazine Fokus.
In addition this research       has impact in public and       commercial policy of mapmakers.
Brotton wrote a blog for the Ordnance       Survey, a podcast for The         Guardian Books section, and a `Comment' piece for The Guardian       online; he also gave the       keynote lecture at the Society of Cartographer's annual conference       (03-09-2012).
His work has       been cited in publications of the Initiative for a Competitive Online         Marketplace, an industry       initiative for businesses involved in internet commerce, and he has been       consulted by Hot-Map.com       and other online mapmakers (see white paper `How Google Has Monopolised       Online       Mapping &amp; Listings Services', 15-11-2012 &lt;www.i-comp.org/resources/white_papers&gt;).
Contributing to economic activity within the creative sector       This research has an important economic impact, contributing to the       economic prosperity of the       creative sector.
The budget for Brotton's BBC television series Maps:         Power, Plunder and         Possession was &#163;123k for each episode (total &#163;369k).
Brotton's role       as writer and presenter was       central to this enterprise.
The budget included costs for production       staff, archival research staff,       transfer costs, two studio shoot days and international filming.
Over the       course of filming and       production, sixteen highly-skilled television professionals were employed       by the BBC on contract:       one executive producer, one series producer, three directors, three       researchers, one       film/stills/maps researcher, one production manager, one production       co-ordinator, one production       assistant and four free interns.
One cameraman and one sound recordist       were also employed for       the period of filming, and the studio shoot employed one art director, one       camera assistant and       three further assistants.
Editing involved employing three offline editors       for ten weeks each, and an       on-line editor, grader and sound mixer (each for one day).
In 2012 Brotton       was commissioned by       Hardy Pictures, an independent television company, to write and present       `Mapping lster'       (transmitted 29 April 2013), a one-hour documentary on the history of the       Ulster plantation and its       mapping in the 17th century (budget &#163;132k; employed one       executive producer, one series       producer/director (75 days), associate producer (45 days), production       manager (75 days),       production account (15 weeks); 9 shoot days for 1 x cameraman, 3 x sound       mixers and 1 x grip on       a daily basis; post-production 24 days' producer/director, 5 days' editor,       dubbing editor, and 30       days' graphics).
Engaging with publishers contributed to economic activity and employment       in the field of publishing       (impact generating wealth for the cultural sector).
Brotton's History         of the World in Twelve Maps       was published by Penguin in September 2012.
The book contributed to the       economic prosperity of       the publishing sector: at the publisher, the book was worked on by an       editor, deputy editor, and       production staff in PR, marketing, rights, and other functions.
Brotton       employed independently a       picture researcher on a short-term contract for &#163;8K, for sourcing and       reproducing pictures.
Estimating sales between September 2012 and September 2013 at over 21,000       copies hardback,       most sold at c.&#163;20, and 20,000 copies paperback at &#163;7.69-9.99, the book       has generated gross       turnover to the industry of c.&#163;580,000.
Hewitt's Mapping the Nation,       conceived, written, completed       and published in her time at Queen Mary, had high sales figures       (unspecified, commercially       sensitive), in hardback and paperback format.
Both authors generated       economic benefits for the       literary agents they retain.
