     Scholars in the Queen Mary's Department of English have exploited their       research on poetry and poetics in the Victorian period and twentieth       century to enhance the public understanding of poetry, using broadcast       media, web-based media, and public events, to disseminate poetry in print       and performance, information about poetry, and skills for poetry reading,       to a wide public audience.
Broadcast media       In broadcast media, Reynolds has lead by exploiting her research in       nineteenth-century poetry as a writer-presenter of `Adventures in Poetry'       on BBC Radio 4 (since 1998).
By its twelfth series, Reynolds had produced       over 50 broadcasts, including 20 in the REF period (2008-2012), with an       audience regularly assessed at over 750,000 listeners.
The programmes       `explore the background, effect and lasting appeal' of a poem over 26       minutes, including recitation of the poem, and interpretative commentary       by Reynolds and invited guests, exploring moments of insight and       difficulty, poetic technique, form and meaning.
In the series she has       addressed poems by women poets (Barrett Browning, Rossetti, Bronte,       Hemans, Mew) explored in her underpinning research.
Jane Thynne, reviewing       the programme in The Independent (12-11-2009) wrote that 'of all       the things that radio does better than TV, the best must be poetry.
Adventures         in Poetry is a quietly ambitious series, which sets out to anatomise       a much-loved poem without killing it in the process'.
Reynolds has       reviewed contemporary poetry for The Times, spoken on poetry at       the literary festivals, and appeared on BBC radio arts programmes (Front         Row, Radio4; Nightwaves Radio 3).
Brady has appeared on BBC       Radio 4 (A Few Don'ts, December 2012) and the BBC World Service,       and spoken at two literary festivals about contemporary poetry (Hay,       Inside Out).
Online media       Impact achieved through web-based media is lead by Brady, founder and       director of the `Archive of the Now' (www.archiveofthenow.org),       an online repository of recordings of poetic performances commissioned and       produced by Brady.
Founded in 2006, the Archive presents readings by over       170 UK-based poets, available for download as mp3 audio and mp4 video, as       well as an extensive collection of printed materials and poets' archives.
The Archive is distinctive for supporting the experimental poetic       tradition, for being a `creative commons' site with free access and       downloads, and for its commitment to fostering emerging poets.
Peter       Riley, a poet featured in the Archive, commented in feedback on the site       that recording his performance was a `valuable experiment' that altered       his subsequent publication practice.
In 2011, the Archive website had       4,815 unique visitors who accessed 53,338 pages and downloaded 16.5GB of       poetry; in 2012, it had 6,706 unique visitors who accessed 112,792 pages       and downloaded 16.63GB of poetry; January to September 2013, 7873 unique       visitors accessed 60,670 pages, downloaded 31.69GB of poetry.
Its holdings       have been broadcast for eight weeks on the University of Pennsylvania's       PennSound radio station; it has hosted poetry recordings from an       independent London performance venue, Caf&#233; Oto.
Brady also supports poetry       and poets through the small poetry press Barque (co-founded in 1995),       which has published 70 books by 42 poets, 4 CDs, a DVD, and the little       magazine Quid (the press has had over 1000 unique buyers).
QMUL       English hosted the eminent Canadian poet Lisa Robertson as a distinguished       visiting fellow at the Archive in 2012, allowing her to pursue       practice-based research, give a public artist's talk, and a performance.
Of her work with the Archive, Robertson commented that it `was extremely       productive, and will have ongoing effects in my work', leading to a `new       direction in my thinking'.
Public engagement activities       Extending the reach of poetry research has been engineered through public       engagement activities.
Howarth and Brady organised a series of public       seminars bringing poets and academics into dialogue (2008).
Reynolds       established a collaboration with the Poet in the City programme, a       charity supported by businesses, including Lloyd's of London, BT, Pfizer,       Pearson and Linklaters, whose aim is to promote `a love of poetry amongst       new audiences by means of live poetry events, and of funding educational       work' (Charity No.
1117354).
Reynolds organised five public poetry events       with Poet in the City in 2010 and 2011 at King's Place and the       V&amp;A, to which Bari and Vigus also contributed in 2013.
Brady       commissioned the Archive's Poet-in-Residence, Sophie Mayer (one year       2012-13, stipend of &#163;3,600) to organize three workshops on poetry,       performance and digital publication for secondary school students, and to       produce a new work in response to the Archive each month.
Mayer commented       `Working with the Archive's material for live presentation, pedagogy and       interpretative essays posted on its blog, has engaged me in a very       immediate sense with the diversity of contemporary practice, and is moving       my work towards new vocal forms of public performance and political       engagement'.
The Archive has teamed up with local arts organisations       including Eastside Arts, the Poetry School, and Spread the Word to promote       contemporary poetry and build audiences.
Secondary education       Using his research into the performance aspect of modernist poetry and the       sonnet, Howarth organised two one-day conferences on `Teaching Performance       Poetry' with the Higher Education Academy, the Poetry Society, the Poetry       Library, and the National Association of Teachers of English (26-03-2010,       11-05-2011, c.35 participants in total).
He also spoke about the       performative dimension to `traditional' poetry (Owen, Yeats) to three       A-level conferences (12-03-2010, 02-03-2011, 22-03-2012, c450 students and       teachers).
These events with teachers resolved that secondary education is       the primary route through which poetry is encountered in the UK, and       almost the only one for socio-economic groups B, C, D &amp; E.       Furthermore, assessment objectives and teaching materials marginalise       poetry's significance by recognising it as finished statement rather than       the performative event essential to its twentieth-century formal       development.
Howarth has led a programme of consultation on reform of       poetry teaching in secondary education, including (i) a consultant role       with EdExcel during the reshaping of the Language and Literature A-level       (2012), developing a unit on the sonnet as a genre, involving       creative-rewriting and performance, questions of drama, confession, and       audience manipulation; (ii) the award of a National Teaching Fellowship       (2012) for work on improving poetry teaching; (iii) the establishment of       an East End Teacher Network (18 March 2013, six participants) and a Queen       Mary Teacher Forum (16 March 2013, 8 /15/23 June 2013, c. 15 Heads of       English from schools with large A-level cohorts) to discuss difficult       transition areas, including poetry, and develop podcasts and other       teaching resources for schools without access to textbooks or journals.
