     This research has led to changes in national and international health       policy, including policies of the World Health Organisation, other       international bodies such as the European Commission, and the United       Nations Economic Commission for Europe, and the USA Environmental       Protection Agency.
It also led to changes in European Union and UK       legislation.
The impact of the research was strengthened by Hunter's       participation in expert panels advising these public health agencies.
Small and very small drinking water systems     The research showing that small water systems in both developed and       developing countries are far more likely to be prone to microbiological       contamination than large mains systems influenced the recommendations of       international expert groups and task forces, leading to changes in policy.
Hunter was an expert member of the joint task force of the United Nations       Economic Commission for Europe and the World Health Organisation Regional       Office for Europe.
These organisations jointly published guidance, "Small-scale         water supplies in the pan-European region" (corroborating source A),       which appraised policy-makers and regulators in the drinking-water sector       of the need to address failings in the monitoring of small-scale water       supplies.
There is little objective research evidence on which to base       policy and regulations.
WHO cited two UEA studies as providing "exemplary       drinking-water quality data" for England and Wales (corroborating source       B).
These studies were used to show that compliance with microbial       indicators is a problem in many small- scale water supplies, resulting in       water of a quality that is not safe for consumption and a risk to public       health.
Their economic assessment of the health benefits of improvements       to small water supplies (research reference 3) led directly to WHO       publishing guidance on social cost-benefit analysis of drinking-water       interventions (corroborating source B).
Bathing water legislation     It is estimated that, globally, over 120 million gastrointestinal       illnesses per year are caused by swimming and bathing in       wastewater-polluted coastal waters.
Hunter has been a member of two       separate WHO expert groups to deliver improved guidance on bathing water       quality.
Hunter's methodological research was used       specifically to underpin the WHO guidance documents on classification of       bathing water quality, to avoid misclassification of recreational waters       through inappropriate choice of methods of calculation (corroborating       sources C, D, E).
These WHO guidance documents form the basis of current       European Union Bathing Water Directives (corroborating source F), which       were consequently enacted into UK law in 2008 (corroborating source G).
Hunter worked with epidemiologists from the USA Environmental Protection       Agency, identifying the uncertainties and shortcomings of current US EPA       recreational water quality criteria, setting research priorities to       support the development of better criteria, and advocating better methods       for developing new criteria (corroborating source H).
This work then led       to EPA changing the criteria for regulating the microbiological quality of       US bathing waters (corroborating source I).
