     The research findings have impacted to varying extents concerning obesity       assessment and intervention in children and public and commercial       perception of children's body shape and size.
i) Clinical practice.
Impact is evidenced through clinical       assessment charts published alongside other growth charts used in       healthcare practice.
Evidence of their use is their widespread       incorporation into routine paediatric and dietetic assessment, and routine       GP and school nurse usage.
Nationwide child obesity intervention       programmes including MEND and More Life assess abdominal fatness using       these national references.
The clinical assessment charts and their       scientific rationale are included in the major global textbook `Principles       of Nutritional Assessment' by Rosalind Gibson, published in 2005.
This is       impact upon teaching beyond that delivered at this institution and is a       text that underpins professional practice in nutrition, dietetics and       child health.
ii) Health policy.
NICE clinical guidelines now formally recognise       that waist measurement in children gives additional information on risk of       developing chronic health problems.
This can only be interpreted and       guidance offered through use of the national references generated in this       case study Recent NICE guidelines on psychosis and schizophrenia in young       people (CG155), recommend the monitoring of waist through WC centile       charts in patients receiving anti-psychotic drugs due to their effect on       weight gain.
The International Diabetes Federation now support waist       measurement as the "sine qua non" for the diagnosis of metabolic       syndrome in children, based on the data relating WC with components of the       metabolic syndrome.
It states the WC&gt;90th centile as the       diagnostic criterion, which can only be determined using the charts       produced in this case study.
iii) Public Health and surveillance.
The National Obesity       Observatory endorsed waist measurement in children via a briefing paper       titled `Measures of central adiposity as an indicator of abdominal       obesity' in 2009.
This paper was largely based upon the research output       from this case study and most of the content of the report was provided by       Prof. McCarthy.
iv) Public and professional awareness.
The impact of this       underpinning research is strengthened through high-profile dissemination       routes, including national daily newspapers (including on-line material).
Examples include: The Observer (2007, The changing shape of British       children), The Guardian (2006, The BMI myth) and Times Higher (London       Metropolitan University, Fat is a class issue, July 2010).
Dissemination to specialist audiences include invited presentations at       the following conferences:            The Nutrition Society, summer, 2013 - Childhood nutrition and obesity:         current status and future challenges       2012 IFST/Leatherhead Food Research, Nutrition for Olympians,         nutrition for all.
Weight Concern 2011, Primary Care 2011.
Health and wellbeing@work 2010.
Obesity &amp; Health 2009.
Association for the study of obesity 2009          A further related example of impact included collaborative activity with       the City University of New York to address childhood obesity in the two       global cities.
One end result was a report `ObesCities', with a high       profile launch at City Hall, London and in New York.
The report was       endorsed by the Mayor of London.
An additional opportunity was the on-screen expert input into 2 series of       the Sky1 programme Fat Families where abdominal obesity and its metabolic       consequences was brought to a national TV audience.
v) Industry/commercial The body fat charts were produced through       collaboration with MRC Human Nutrition Research, Cambridge, London School       of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine, Institute of Child Health, London and       the Child Growth Foundation, London.
Industrial funding from Tanita Eu       facilitated this collaboration and also brought this tool into domestic       usage through incorporation into home body fat monitors (see link).
This       industrial impact has extended to include the new children's skeletal       muscle reference charts.
The manufacturers state that they have almost 50%       of the domestic market share.
Additional commercial impact is demonstrated       through the incorporation of the children's body fat references into a       dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanner.
An innovative impact occurred through consultancy for a UK doll       manufacturer.
Arklu produced a new doll at the end of 2012 whose shape and       dimensions were based on the reference measurements for a healthy 9 year       old girl generated from Prof. McCarthy's research.
This product was       manufactured in response to calls for a more age-appropriate body shape in       dolls, including waist, leg length and chest size, It has sold worldwide       with enormous global publicity.
The impact of this worldwide health       message is beyond anything achievable through conventional health       promotion routes and illustrates the power of innovative health and       commercial collaborations.
