     The `Cambridge Project' (2006) was the first research to include       Gypsies/Travellers (G/T) as interviewers, identifying their own       community's service delivery needs.
The methods utilised were incorporated       into Communities and Local Government guidance on undertaking assessments,       and increased political engagement with local authorities via community       fora, as well as resulting in enhanced employment for trained interviewers       (2).
Wide-spread take-up of the model followed; e.g.
Greenfields delivered       training on participatory action research methods to community       interviewers working with Plymouth University on the Devon GTAA in 2008       and to community groups in Leeds (LeedsGATE who utilised the methodology       and adapted a survey tool for health and accommodation studies in their       local area (2).
This led to a series of inter-related studies and training       programmes headed by Greenfields (e.g.
West of England GTAA 2007; site       identification studies in North Somerset in 2011-12).
Increased       familiarity with such methods, and the development of a national core of       accredited community interviewers from the Gypsy/Traveller population, led       to the adaptation of the methods and survey tool to map employment       patterns (Ryder &amp; Greenfields, 2010), residence in housing enclaves       (Greenfields and Smith, 2010; Smith and Greenfields, 2013), and impact of       community development programmes (Greenfields with Kay, 2011) on the G/T       population (1).
The use of trained peer interviewers from G/T communities has been seen       as a methodological innovation in working with nomadic or `hidden'       populations, leading for the first time to increased knowledge of the size       and distinctive needs of these hitherto `invisible' housed populations who       experience racialised discrimination and retain traditional cultural       practices (including attitudes to health and frequent use of `traditional'       treatments) , whilst in public discourse being seen as deracinated by       virtue of losing their status as `travellers', a metonym associated more       with a lifestyle than the ethnic status of those groups (Gypsies, Roma and       Irish/Scottish Travellers) recognised and protected under the Race       Relations Acts.
As a result of the above studies Greenfields has become an advisor on       three Department of Health Health Inclusion projects pertaining to       the wellbeing of Gypsy/Traveller populations, impacts of accommodation on       physical and mental health, and the need for specialist training of health       professionals/awareness of the implications of housing on mental health       (5).
Smith &amp; Greenfields (2013) findings on women's mental health and       experiences of racism in social housing are reported to be `significant'       by the teams working on the Inclusion Health studies.
The project was the first in Britain to include a mixture of Gypsy and       Irish Traveller interviewers as co-workers (despite historical tensions       between the ethnic groups), as well as teaming non-literate interviewers       with individuals who could read and write.
Interviewers ranged in age from       late teens to mid 60s and comprised both genders as well as individuals       with physical disabilities/impairments.
The research has been credited as       impacting on the employability of those selected as interviewers (1, 3),       increasing cohesion/ inter-community political engagement amongst Gypsies       and Travellers and changing attitudes towards the use of `non-traditional'       interviewers/staff by local authorities (4).
The research had a direct influence on the process of Government policy       making, with the findings feeding into previously unquantifiable       `impressions' on the extent of accommodation need, degree of coerced       movement into housing amongst formerly nomadic individuals and resultant       preference for sites, and mismatch in needs and service access amongst       Gypsy and Traveller communities (4,5).
Government recommendations on how       such assessments should be carried out were influenced by the positive       reviews of the innovative research methodology utilised in this study.
Subsequently the lessons learnt from this project were fed into good       practice guidance amongst a range of professionals working with the       communities in question (e.g.
Royal Town and Planning Institute guidance       to planners), and incorporated into revised Communities and Local       Government guidance on how all such assessments should be undertaken.
The methodological impact on skills development of Gypsy/Traveller       community members of using participatory action research methods was       profound.
Previously widely considered to be a `hard to reach' community,       Gypsy/Traveller populations themselves frequently complained that they       were not consulted on matters of key concern to their well-being and       accommodation needs, and that they were excluded from all aspects of       service planning.
Use of the methods pioneered in this study and the       subsequent body of work by Greenfields and associates utilising the       `Cambridge methodology' has increased local political engagement amongst       Gypsies and Travellers, enhanced community cohesion through shared       narrative building and agreement over site provision and need with local       authorities, and has led to the development of a mechanism for challenging       unreasonable refusal of site delivery/planning applications.
Gypsy/Traveller policy agencies and activists (e.g.
the Gypsy Council; The       Traveller Movement and Leeds GATE) advise that agencies and individuals       have successfully appealed against assessments of needs which fail to use       participatory research methods or do not enable the `voice' of       Gypsy/Traveller community members to be taken into account (2).
The Fundamental Rights Agency and INVOLVE cited the research as `best       practice' for research with `hard to reach' communities, and the programme       has been widely replicated across the UK in both accommodation and       health/employment needs assessments (6, 7, 8).
As a result of the success       of this model Greenfields has been commissioned to develop training in       working with `hard to reach' groups with a diverse range of communities &#8212;       including refugee and asylum seeking women &#8212; and has delivered training on       the `Cambridge Model' internationally (Israel, South Africa, Hungary and       Romania) where the processes can be adapted to work with migrants, asylum       seekers, Roma and marginalised ethnic populations (9).
