     In 2003 the PURE&#174; technology, initiated through the `PURE'       project and co-developed by Peijs' and his team at QMUL was commercialized       through Lankhorst Pure Composites BV in The Netherlands, a division of the       Royal Lankhorst Group, one of the original partners in the `PURE' project.
The material is targeting application markets ranging from recyclable       lightweight automotive panels to suitcases, flight cases, helmets and       sports equipment.
In 2006, the PURE&#174; technology was licensed to       Milliken &amp; Company in the U.S., the world's largest private textile       firm, who are now marketing this technology under the trade name Tegris&#174;.
Pure Composites BV currently employs around 25 employees in The       Netherlands and Portugal for the production and marketing of the product,       with a similar number employed at Milliken to support Tegris&#174;.
Automotive: SR-PP composites have opened the door to a vast       range of lightweight recyclable car, truck and van parts.
Applications       include: under body shields, interior panels, load floors, scuff plates       and panelling for trucks and vans.
The strong and ultra-light parts help       to save weight (30% compared to glass-fibre-reinforced PP has been       achieved) and lower exhaust emission levels and increase fuel economy.
Because these materials are 100% recyclable, the material is ideal for use       in automotive parts where the EU's End of Life Vehicle (ELV) Directive       dictates recycling rates up to 95% by the year 2015.
Luggage: TUMI         Tegra-Lite's premium luggage collection was introduced in 2012 and       is produced from Tegris&#174; composite material from Milliken &amp;       Company.
Self-reinforced PP is ideal for hard shell luggage applications       where impact resistance, stiffness and weight are primary concerns.
Tegra-       Lite combines an industrial aesthetic look, with a design that is 65%       lighter than glass fibre composites and provides up to 15x improvement in       impact resistance over typical thermoplastics, while it maintains this       performance level at low temperatures (-40&#176;C), far exceeding other       comparable pieces of commercial hard-sided cases on the market today.
PURE&#174;       is also used for impact resistant flight cases, attach&#233; and iPad cases.
TUMI is the world's second largest producer of hard shell luggage and       their Tegra-Lite series is available from large department stores like       Macy's or Selfridges as well as online retailers like Amazon.
Motor racing: The motor racing world has adopted SR-PP in a       number of ways.
Powerstream's         Aero splitters based on Tegris&#174; were introduced in 2011       and are now being used in NASCAR racing, as well as for door panels to       replace carbon fibre.
Self-reinforced PP is not as light or as stiff as       carbon fibre composites; but it has about 70% of its strength at about 10%       of the cost.
One of the most important reasons for its use in motor racing       besides its lightness, superior impact resistance and low cost, is the       fact that it does not splinter when it breaks, which prevents having sharp       pieces of splitter lying on the track after a crash, improving driver       safety.
The material is also incorporated in the new DeltaWing racer,       developed by Chip Ganassi Racing for the American IndyCar series.
Protective armour: Tegris&#174; is used in life       saving protective armour by the U.S. military in its vehicles, primarily       against improvised explosive devices (IEDs) or roadside bombs.
Milliken       qualified Tegris&#174; for a number of military armour applications       and in 2010 they have shipped 20,000 Tegris&#174; armour kits for       vehicles deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Predominantly flat panel       systems for spall liners, these kits are used to retrofit vehicles for       enhanced protection.
Norwegian company ROFI Industries AS have developed       their Armadillo         De-mining Mask against humanitarian mine action (HMA).
The mask,       which is made from PURE&#174; is lighter, stronger and more       comfortable than existing de-mining masks and has proven to be effective       in demining operations.
The mask won the Index Award 2007, an       international design award to promote design that improves life.
Another       outfit that appreciates the lightness and toughness of the material is       Riddell, makers of body armour for American football players.
Its Custom         Power&#174; Lightspeed Shoulder PadsTM was       introduced in 2010 and are claimed to be the lightest in the business       without compromising protection.
PURE&#174; is also used for helmets       and other sports gear.
Blast Basket: Parcel bombs, either real or suspect are a       potential problem for security agencies, major corporations and targeted       groups.
The PURE&#174; Bomb or Blast Basket, is placed over the       suspected object and protects property and personnel from the blast and       fragmentation occurring when an IED is set off.
It captures most of the       metal fragments and redirects the blast waves upwards, protecting       civilians.
For example, a 35 kg blast basket, 400 mm high with a 500 mm       diameter, can handle a 1 kg TNT bare explosive charge.
Kayaks: The UltimateTM         12 Kayak from Legacy Paddlesports in the U.S., was introduced in       2007 and was one of the first commercial uses of PURE&#174; or       Tegris&#174; in a large 3D part, creating the strongest, lightest       kayak on the market.
SR-PP is used because of it high stiffness and high       impact resistance, so it can shrug off hard landings and damage from rocky       bottoms.
Other applications are in skis, snowboards, and surfboards.
Self-reinforced polypropylene composites based on           co-extruded tape technology (PURE and Tegris) are           being used for a wide range of applications incl.
(from top left to           bottom right) automotive undershields,           luggage, motor racing parts, protective sports gear, bomb baskets,           de-mining mask and kayaks.
