     McKeown's creative work has contributed to the effort to transform global       perceptions and values surrounding normality, the abnormal and society's       genetically diverse future.
It is estimated that 15- 20% of the world's       population has a disability and that over 45 million in the EU alone have       a long- standing health problem or disability.
The need to discuss and       confront the issue of disability, and the attendant issues of cultural       capital, have never been more important, as was recognised in his       Revealing Culture exhibition at the Smithsonian in 2010.
This juried       international exhibition was part of the 2010 International VSA Festival,       an unprecedented event featuring 600 artists, performers and educators       from all over the world, introduced by Jean Kennedy Smith.
McKeown has engendered change in societal perspectives on disability,       movement and alternative body forms and has made an important contribution       to the on-going debate on perceptions of ability and disability, through       his pioneering approaches to visual investigation in the domain of       Disability Arts and the arts in general.
As a consequence of Motion         Disabled, McKeown was one of thirteen artists commissioned by the       British Council and Arts Council England to receive their own `Unlimited'       London 2012 Festival award, a series of events that celebrated arts and       culture by disabled and deaf artists on an unprecedented scale.
McKeown's work sets out to raise questions about the validity of the       human experience.
It problematises the medical model of disability and       asks whether we should consider human form in a biodiverse manner - should       we appreciate disability and disabled as an intrinsic element to normal       life?
Uniquely his artworks confront the viewer with new experiences of       the body and movement: for example, in Motion Disabled: Unlimited       (which is the 2012 edition of his internationally exhibited exhibition Motion         Disabled).
The 2012 impression studies the body and movement of some       of the UK's most famous Paralympians and takes the work into new and       exciting directions including a large 10m tall inflatable sculpture and       smart phone applications.
The UK's largest inflatable sculpture, entitled       The Last Thalidomide formed the centrepiece of a series of       multi-platform interventionist participatory works and was launched at       Oxford's Olympic Torch Relay celebration in front of an audience of 20,000       before touring nationally throughout the summer of 2012.
Through the various projects' lifetimes, and because of their continuing       legacy, it is evident that McKeown's work has beneficially impacted the       following fields:     Fine Art: Motion Disabled and its 2012 Unlimited       edition have been exhibited globally, been a focus for many themed       exhibitions and been treated as a major work given large-scale       presentations.
In the four years since its inception in 2009 it has       received major screenings in London, South Korea (2009), Washington D.C.       (2010), Glasgow (2010), Dublin, and Melbourne (2010) and was screened       globally in over 15 countries worldwide on 3rd December 2010 in       the event organised by VSA.
McKeown was awarded DadaFest International       Artist of the Year as a result.
McKeown's work was showcased all over the       UK in 2012 and was a major feature on the BBC arts website, The Space, and       was reviewed on the BBC arts website The Strand with 40 million listeners       (http://www.pushmeplease.co.uk/artists/simon-mckeown/).
Art and Cultural Development: Motion Disabled continues to       push boundaries by raising the profile of disability, disabled artists and       Disability Art.
Disability Art finds itself in a situation analogous to       black artists in the 1970s whose work would not be exhibited due to the       underlying societal prejudice that existed at the time.
McKeown has       benefitted disabled artists, Disability Arts and the arts in general.
Motion         Disabled has been cited as an artwork that brings images of       disability to the arts and the creative cultural agenda with honesty and       integrity.
His Motion Disabled: Unlimited work recently formed       part of the acclaimed `Disabled by Normality' exhibition, initiated by the       DOX Centre for Contemporary Art, Prague, Czech Republic, May 2013.
Policy and Civilisation: In 2010 Motion Disabled was       invited to take a major part in the `40 years of Disability Legislation'       exhibition held in the UK Parliament from 1st March - 5th       March 2010.
The exhibition was organised by The Office for Disability       Issues which highlights issues of ability and disability in British       society.
The work has been widely utilised as a vehicle to highlight       issues of (dis)ability.
It was given a simultaneous global screening on       the 3 December 2010 in celebration of International Day of Persons with       Disabilities.
This demonstrates its capacity as an artwork to give social       and cultural form to the disability awareness agendas of International       Organization on Arts and Disability, such as VSA, governments and       disability-engaged NGOs.
Science, Dance and Sport: In 2010 Motion Disabled was       exhibited on Friday 21st to Sunday 23rd of October in Central Manchester,       as part of Manchester Science Festival, presented by Manchester       Metropolitan University's Institute for Biomedical Research into Human       Movement and Health.
Motion Disabled as a work in itself continues       to be shown globally within the contexts of science, art and dance as in       its 10 year feature at @Bristol, the Bristol Science Museum as part of the       major multi million pound Wellcome Trust sponsored exhibition `All About       Us'.
