     The impact of the research has been to inform and influence policy makers       and campaigners around media regulation and the "death knock" throughout       the census period.
In 2009 the PCC held an independent review to answer       criticism of its ability to deal effectively with complaints about press       behaviour led by Vivienne Hepworth.
Frost was one of three academics out       of 30 witnesses invited to give oral evidence &#8212; after submitting a       research-led report for the NUJ.
No significant recommendations made by       the NUJ to the review were accepted.
These recommendations included the       ability to investigate issues and the right to apply punishments such as       fines for breaches of the code of practice,.
These recommendations were       included in the Leveson report.
Frost's research was influential in alerting other policy-making bodies,       journalism professionals and campaigners to matters of concern that formed       part of the Leveson Inquiry.
MediaWise, a charity supporting the victims       of media abuse, for instance, used the research into the PCC and the PCC's       ineffectiveness in dealing with complaints to inform their policies and in       reports and blogs.
The research papers (2004, 2011) and work based on them       were also taken in evidence by Select Committee on Culture, Media and       Sport in its Fifth         Report in (2003), the Select Committee on Culture, Media and Sport       in its Seventh         Report in (2007) and the select committee of Culture, Media and       Sport in its report on Press Standards, privacy and libel in 2009.
This       was usually to provide background support to the views of the NUJ.
Specific points on the performance of the PCC with regard to complaints       were identified as significant by various select committees such as the       2009 DCMS hearing and 2011 Home Affairs hearing.
The NUJ used the research and additional reports that flowed from it in       its various committees and policy forums to inform its own concerns about       media regulation.
The research and prior select committee evidence was       used to underpin the NUJ submission to the Leveson Inquiry.
The NUJ had       already called for major reform of the PCC through the early part of this       century and finally in 2011 called for a campaign to abolish the PCC       shortly before Leveson and the PCC's announcement it was to close.
Frost also provided the direct evidence to the Leveson Inquiry with much       written evidence including the research papers and work based on them       (see: www.levesoninquiry.org.uk/evidence/).
He also gave oral evidence in module four on the future of regulation (http://www.levesoninquiry.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/Transcript-of-Morning-Hearing-10-July-2012.pdf).
The key and hight profile a recommendation made by Leveson of the need for       statutory underpinning for a press regulator to give it authority and to       bring it more closely in line with Ofcom, was directly supported by the       research (Frost 2012).
This followed NUJ policy and was and the union's       experience with the formation of the Irish Press Council, again informed       by the research (2004).
The final Leveson report identifies some of       evidence derived from the research as a matter of significance on pages       1701 1706-7, and 1986.
Newton also provided research based written       evidence to the Leveson (see: www.levesoninquiry.org.uk/evidence/).
Following the launch of the Leveson Inquiry, other countries decided to       investigate their media regulation and Prof Frost was invited to South       Africa in 2011 by the South Africa Press Commission to advise the chief       justice Pius Langa investigation into press regulation.
The Ghanaian Press       Commission later visited the UK to investigate press freedom and       regulation to recommend a suitable model for Ghana, consulting with with       Frost.
The research is also cited in the Australian Finkelstein report on       media regulation (their version of Leveson).
One of the key areas of the       Leveson Inquiry was how the press deal with sources.
Newton worked on his       aspect the research, looking at the so-called "death knock" &#8212; reporters       dealing with the recently bereaved.
The DART Centre Europe invited her to       give a seminar with her co-writer.
The Dart Centre Europe is a regional       hub for journalists and filmmakers who believe in the importance of       effective reporting on violence and trauma.
It was attended by journalists       (including BBC and CNN), NGO representatives (e.g.
British Red Cross) and       members of the Disaster Action Committee.
Ms Newton was part of a podcast       with Steven Abell, then Director of the PCC, and Sal lalji from the       Samaritans on the ethics of death reporting.
Her research has been used to       to support the approach of reporters on the Belfast, in Australia, on the       UK Daily Express, and the main journalism website (Journalism.co.uk).
