     Scientific Impact     Integra Live is the first large-scale publicly-funded open source       software environment for interactive music production developed through       rigorous testing in artistic practice.
The project embedded a design-led       philosophy with a strong HCI emphasis from the outset, making Integra Live       unique in the field of academic software.
This attention to user       experience generated benefits well beyond contemporary music circles,       resulting in use-cases as diverse as brainwave-based music control and          audio processing for digital DJ setups.
Integra Live has received over 12,000 downloads worldwide since its       release in July 2010.
The software has been featured on Brazilian software       site Baixaki       and high profile music technology blogs including Synthtopia.
It has been presented at key music research conferences including NIME       2009, 2011; ICMC 2007, 2009, 2011; EMS 2011, and published in       peer-reviewed journals (Organised Sound 2013).
This has led to       invited talks at the Earzoom Festival, Ljubljana, October 2011; the       Association of European Conservatoires Congress, Valencia, November 2011;       Integra festival in Copenhagen 2011; the Forum IRCAM workshops, Paris,       November 2011; the INTER/actions symposium, April 2012; Music Tech Fest,       London, May 2013; and the QMUL Sound Software workshop, London, June 2013.
Artistic Impact     The Integra project has transformed creative practice by empowering       musicians to work directly with interactive audio processing without the       help of a technical assistant.
This has given them unprecedented control       over artistic results, with the Chief Producer of the BBC Symphony       Orchestra highlighting that Integra's research `vastly reduced set up       times and eliminated technical problems during rehearsals'.
Impact is       further demonstrated by 16 Integra-commissioned works for ensemble and       electronics, 5 of which were 20-minute works involving additional media       such as dance or video projection.
Each piece has been performed at least       twice, with over 50 Integra- based performances to date.
Notable       commissioned works included: Rolf Wallin (Strange News) performed       by BCMG (Integra Festival 2008), London Sinfonietta (Adventures in Sound       2010), National Polish Radio Symphony Orchestra Katowice (Warsaw Autumn,       2011), Stavanger Symphony Orchestra (2011), Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra       (2011); Tansy Davies (Grind Show) performed by Bit20 (2006, Edvard       Grieg Festival 2007), BCMG (2007); Pierre Jodlowski (Respire)       awarded the Prize for Musical Creativity at the International Dance On       Line Film Festival awards.
Performed at (SICMF, 2011), Bit20 (Borealis       Festival 2011), Ars Nova (Integra Festival 2008); Alvin Curran (Circus         Maximus) performed by Ars Nova (Integra Festival 2011); Iris ter       Schiphorst (Aung) performed by Bit20 (Integra Festival 2011); Mauro       Lanza (Le nubi non scoppiano per il peso) performed by       Court-Circuit (Ultima Festival 2011), Athelas Sinfonietta (Integra       Festival 2011); Philippe Leroux (Extended Apocalypsis) performed by       Athelas Sinfonietta (Elsinore 2011), Bit20 (Borealis Festival 2012); Hilda       Paredes (Revelaci&#243;n) performed by Grup Instrumental (ENSEMS       festival 2011), Court-Circuit (Bouffes du Nord 2011).
Integra organised two international festivals of music with live       electronics.
The first attracted &#163;30,000 of additional funding from BCU's       New Generation Arts and took place in June 2008 at Birmingham       Conservatoire and other Birmingham Venues (Town Hall, CBSO Centre, Custard       Factory).
It featured a 1-day symposium on live electronic music and       premieres of commissioned works performed by Bit20 Ensemble, The Bays, Ars       Nova and BCMG.
The second festival, a collaboration with the Royal Danish       Academy of Music, took place in September 2011 in Copenhagen, attracting       &#8364;20,000 of additional funding from the Nordic Culture Fund and &#8364;30,000       from Kulturkontakt Nord.
It was given a 5-star review in Danish broadsheet newspaper Jyllands- Posten.
Birmingham Conservatoire's project to update Harvey's works involving       DX7-based synthesis culminated in the performance of Valley of Aosta       at Birmingham's Adrian Boult Hall in March 2009, and Madonna of Winter         and Spring at London's Barbican Centre in January 2012, performed by       the BBC Symphony Orchestra and broadcast to a worldwide audience on BBC       Radio 3's `Hear and Now' programme.
The performance also received critical       acclaim, with the Classical Source referring to the work as a       `welcome revival' with the digitally emulated electronics sounding `of       their time'.
The Senior New Music Editor of Faber Music (Harvey's       publisher) cites the project as providing `far-reaching benefits for       publishers (and audiences) by rescuing works that cannot be performed due       to technological obsolescence and ensuring the long-term sustainability of       live electronics.'
Educational Impact     The Integra Project included two educational strands: a curriculum pilot,       intended to embed the use of Integra Live in instrumental teaching       curricula and performer training workshops, to train professional       performers in the concepts and practice of live electronic music.
The       curriculum pilots were delivered by three Integra research centres (IEM,       Malm&#246; Academy of Music and Birmingham Conservatoire) in their own       institutions.
They resulted in four instrumental teachers from each       institution teaching live electronics with their students over a year of       study.
The Integra `performer training' workshops were delivered using       Integra Live over two sessions to members of the Integra member ensembles       (Court Circuit [Paris], Athelas Sinfonietta [Copenhagen], Ars Nova       [Malm&#246;], Grup Instrumental [Valencia], Bit 20 [Bergen]), delivered by each       of the five Integra research centres.
As a result of this training,       ensemble performers are now able to work directly with Integra Live       without the need for technical support.
Integra Live is now being used as a teaching tool in music higher       education courses worldwide.
For example, an Integra outreach partner and       Lecturer in electroacoustic composition at The Liszt Academy of Music,       Budapest, states: `Integra Live has enabled the creation of new works for       live electronics within our composition group [...] Students have found       the software easy to use and it has transformed their creative work by       enabling them to achieve musically satisfying results at an early stage in       the composition process.'
The Co-ordinator of the Electro-Acoustic Music       Program at San Jos&#233; State University states: `Integra Live has transformed       the creative practice of our students by accelerating the process of       constructing interactive projects.
Our students appreciate the simplicity,       responsiveness and cost effectiveness of Integra Live compared to existing       systems.'
