     The initial impact of the programme of research was general, and added to       the discussion of the       adequacy of saving and regulation of pensions.
Our empirical work for the       Commission and for the       Department of Work and Pensions showed clearly that at an aggregate level       savings were driven       by asset prices (both financial and real assets), and not by rational       calculation of needs for       retirement income.
The proposal to raise retirement ages more quickly       subsequently entered the       Conservative Party Manifesto and became policy.
Our work was quoted in the       Conservative Party       background document     Appropriate regulation of pension funds were explored further by Davis in       a Visiting Scholarship at       the Dutch Central Bank which focused on the impact of a firm's financial       structure on its funding of       the pension scheme (Davis and De Haan 2012).
This was cited in a key 2011       report on pension       accounting for the UK National Association of Pension Funds (Clacher and       Moizer 2011).
Davis       undertook further work for the largest Canadian pension fund, OMERS in       2008, looking at the       appropriateness of Canadian pension regulation (Davis and Hu 2008, cited       in OMERS submission       to Ontario Ministry of Finance 2008),, while he extensively reviewed work       on savings determinants       in work for the OECD's WP2 committee in 2009 (Davis 2010).
In 2008 he was       asked by the World       Bank to review the adequacy of its policy work on pensions.
The sequence of work that ended in the 2011 report for the DWP attracted       a great deal of interest,       and was the front page lead in the Daily Telegraph on 5th May       2009, and was presented at a       number of conferences in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The report was built around       the Barrell and Davis       research on inadequacy of saving, the impact of house prices and on the       need for longer working       lives.
The core of this analysis was the inclusion of the Barrell and       Davis (2007) and its use to       analyse changes in policy.
The suggestions were directly cited by a       Conservative Party       background document for the 2009 Party Conference where the manifesto was       presented.
The       proposal to raise working lives by one year before the end of the       Parliament was included in the       Manifesto and entered legislation.
Barrell presented the policy work at a       seminar for the pensions       ministers, Hoban and Webb, in late 2010 and presented it again to Labour       shadow cabinet       members at a PPI meeting at the Labour Party Fringe in September 2011       after joining Brunel.
Further work was undertaken for policy makers at the Bank for       International Settlements in Basel,       and a report was published in November 2011 on Longer Term Fiscal issues.
The research in the       paper was based on the joint work by Barrell and Davis over the previous       decade, and used Barrell       and Davis (2007).
The paper was a companion to one by Alan Auerbach on       longer term fiscal gaps       and fiscal problems in Europe.
He argued that with current pension       arrangements and tax rates the       public finances were unsustainable in many Europe countries.
The group's       research showed that       in most countries these problems could be solved by raising working ages       by three years, with only       Greece and Spain, and perhaps Portugal, facing serious problems because of       their generous       replacement rates and low retirement ages
