     China has been very successful in increasing its power supply capacity by       more than twelve times over the last three decades, and now has become the       largest electricity producer in the world.
The country has chosen a       radical approach to power industry regulation that includes controlling       the price and the output of each firm.
In contrast, most other countries       have liberalised their electricity markets.
Why has China chosen a       different approach and does it work well?
In this context, the results of       our study are highly relevant.
Below we present our contribution and       impact:     (1) China's macroeconomic performance has drawn the world's attention,       but studies of the energy sector which fuels economic growth had only       limited success in understanding the system.
Our study of China's       electricity sector has bridged this gap and provided valuable insights       into the industry and, especially, price and output setting.
(2) The study explored the industry theoretically and empirically with a       focus on understanding how China prices its electric power to support its       significant growth over the last two decades.
The soft price constraint       impedes the restructuring of the industry and efficiency improvements, so       that ultimately the regulatory framework fails to deliver the desired       outcome.
The problem identified in this study shows the importance of       price reform for the Chinese economy.
The electricity regulator needs to       improve the cost efficiency of the industry by implementing alternative       pricing mechanisms that provide the firms with the right incentives to       lower costs and invest in sustainable technologies.
(3) This project has had an impact on the regulatory processes in China.
The officials in the Chinese State Electricity Regulatory Commission have       used a related article (the Chinese version) as one of the main references       to support their price reform initiatives.
The proposed reforms of the       Commission aim to change the pricing system through co-ordination with       other government departments such State Development and Reform Commission.
The findings of our project provide strong scientific evidence that allows       the policy makers to understand the importance of the pricing system       reform and speed up the planning and implementation of an alternative       framework when a new Chinese government comes to the power.
(4) The issues related to cost efficiency improvement in China addressed       by our study have wider policy implications for governments and central       banks in advanced economies.
To the extent to which the prospective       electricity sector reforms in China will increase the cost efficiency of       power supply and, ultimately, the country's competitiveness, this is       likely to have an effect on global capital flow configurations and other       economies.
(5) The soft price constraint shows that the inefficient firms are not       directly subsidised by the `soft budget', but by the `soft price'.
This is       a new economic phenomenon that may be relevant to other transition       economies.
In effect, our study contributes to the existing literature on       the economics of transition and opens new directions for research that       complement the studies of the `soft budget constraint' (e.g.
Kornai, 1992)       by focusing on the novel soft price constraint.
(6) Why has China chosen a different electricity market regulatory       approach?
The government believed that the controlled price system could       help regulate the industry more effectively while serving its strategic       interest in providing cheaper electricity to the economy and supporting       growth.
Our study shows that the regulation in its current form fails to       lower the cost and, consequently, the prices.
Rather, it induces the firms       to manipulate upwards their costs in order to sell at a higher controlled       price.
Our empirical evidence has convinced the Chinese government and has       also strengthened its political will by highlighting the need for price       reform that improves the cost efficiency of power supply.
This impact       claim is made on the basis of the comments given by the Deputy Director       for the Price and Finance Division of the State Electricity Regulatory       Commission, who oversees electricity prices in China.
China is the largest electricity producer in the world with 80% of the       power produced from its coal-fired power firms.
Any policy that would       result in lower costs could have wider implications and may result in       global benefits if the cost saving helped the Chinese producers to invest       in environmental projects and reduce pollution.
Well-designed price       reforms would have significant effects both on productive efficiency and       also on environmental improvement.
