     4a: Paradigm shift in how GH deficiency is conceptualised     Prior to mid-1990s, GH deficiency was primarily a paediatric disease       focusing on achieving       adequate stature.
This research, together with other groups and       collaborators, demonstrated       symptoms and complications of adult GH deficiency, particularly its effect       on lipid metabolism and       (hence) cardiovascular risk, bone and quality-of-life and shown the       importance of replacement after       the cessation of linear growth.
Professors Monson and Savage have given       over 30 plenary       lectures and talks on this topic at scientific, clinical and patient care       fora 1993-2013, including       lectures to GPs, trainees, meetings organised by the Royal College of       Physicians and CPD.
4b: Change in national policy and clinical management guidelines     The team's work in adult and transitional-age GH-deficient patients was       critical in informing the       NICE guidance on the management of GHD in adults and the optimum treatment       of this condition       in the transition from childhood to adulthood.
The NICE guidance was based       on detailed cost       effectiveness modelling [10].
The work has informed other national and       international clinical       guidelines.
In particular, our recommendations feature in the 2002 Society       for Endocrinology       guideline on management of growth hormone deficiency in adults [11].
The Growth Hormone Research Society published a critical evaluation of       the safety of recombinant       HGH administration, which drew on the work of this group [12].
The       team's research into thyroxine       and glucocorticoid replacement established that patients must be       reassessed after initiation of GH       treatment.
This recommendation is now also incorporated in drug       prescribing information both in       UK and internationally (see for example this from USA [13]).
The new       clinical care model, informed       by this research, of replacing GH in adolescents so as to optimise peak       bone mass and lean body       mass, has now become the standard of care for this patient group       nationally and internationally as       accepted by the European Society of Paediatric Endocrinology [14].
4c: Establishing a new `gold standard' service model     The formal paediatric-adult endocrine service at Barts led the way in       establishing the model for       transitional care of complex endocrine disorders, which is consistent with       the 2006 Department of       Health Guidance publication [15].
This model requires considerably       greater collaboration between       paediatric and adult endocrinology clinics than was previously the case.
4d: Change in clinical practice     Following the team's research publications (mostly between 1995 and       2001), and the incorporation       of their recommendations into NICE guidelines in 2003, prescription rates       for GH in the UK       increased, as confirmed by Department of Health data (Figure 1) [16].
Figure 1; Number of GH prescriptions in the UK by year.
The inflection in the curve starting in 2002 reflects the impact of clinical research in hypopituitary adults.
4e: Improved clinical outcomes (reduced morbidity)     GH replacement improves health, psychological well-being and quality of       life (reference 3 above).
Cardiovascular risk is reduced (reference 1 above) and real-time data from       the KIMS database       have confirmed that standardised mortality ratios in hypopituitary adults       receiving GH replacement       are lower than the high rates documented in 1990 (2.0 in men and 3.0 in       women) to a mean of 1.2       (0.94 in men and 1.56 in women).
KIMS data also demonstrate that these       improvements translate       into a reduction in socio-economic costs (reference 3 above).
4f: Establishing a methodological approach to endocrine research in UK     This team's initiation and leadership of a combined adult-paediatric       endocrinology UK multicentre       study focused on the continuation of GH replacement in adolescents in       optimising peak bone mass       and lean body mass development was the first multi-centre controlled trial       of its kind in this       condition.
Since that trial, other high-quality multi-centre trials of       similar design have been initiated       and supported by the clinical endocrinology community &#8212; see for example       [17].
4g: Supporting informed choice by patients and informing the public     A summary of these research findings is distributed by the Pituitary       Foundation in a patient booklet       available to download free from their website: `The Pituitary Gland' in       2012 [18].
Direct patient       comments support the positive effects documented in clinical trials [19].
