     Work by Bayford and Tizzard on the development of algorithms and the       generation of geometrical finite element forward models, applied to       imaging impedance changes inside the human brain, has led to impact in       three areas.
Firstly, the availability of the software has led to its       adoption in commercial software.
Secondly, work on neonate lung function       monitoring has generated a patent.
Thirdly, the software has been used by       both industrial and academic research groups for the provision of further       imaging solutions such as in improving breast tumour images.
Some of this       work is commercially confidential.
(i) The algorithm has been made available via the EIDORS system       (eidors3d.sourceforge.net/) and has over 1000 downloads [S1, S2, S7].
It       is now used extensively by clinicians and researchers in industry and       research hospitals globally.
The use of the algorithm has led to a       significant improvement to the only existing commercial medical EIT system       originally developed by Viasys.
(now Carefusion).
Dr&#228;ger, a leading       international company in the fields of medical and safety technology (http://campaigns.draeger.com/pulmovista500/en/)       has also adopted the EIDORS software [S6].
(ii) Work on neonate lung function monitoring by Middlesex and       collaborators at UCL,City University and GOSH has led to a patent being       filed in the US (61/867,904) that describes a flexible wearable device to       extract boundary information for the warping algorithm to dynamically       generate and modify subject specific forward models in real time [S3].
This work addresses the urgent need for objective, non-invasive measures       of lung maturity and development, oxygen requirements and lung function,       suitable for use in small, un-sedated infants, to define the nature and       severity of lung dysfunction.
We have signed an NDA with Swisstom to       develop the wearable device [note: this is commercially confidential         information] and have a provisional patent in place (61/867,904: US)       [S3].
We are also working with Midatech Ltd to extend the application of EIT       for the detection of cancer.
A joint patent (WO/2010/052503) Detection of       Cancer) is in place with this company, which is led by Prof. Rademacher       [S5].
This work is also subject to an NDA, which limits the information we       are allowed to disclose in this document.
(iii) The models generated have also been used extensively       internationally by other clinical development groups focused on the       production of imaging solutions.
For example clinicians at Dartmouth       College and Florida University in the USA are developing EIT and optical       tomography imaging of both adult and neonate human heads, making extensive       use of our algorithms downloaded from EIDORS (eidors3d.sourceforge.net/).
The automatic generation of subject- specific forward models, the warping       algorithm, has formed the basis of extending the area of impact to imaging       lung function, specifically in neonates, in collaboration with Prof.       Andreas Demosthenous, Dept.
Electronic and Electrical Engineering, UCL,       Prof. Panos Liatsis, City University and Prof. Janet Stocks, Great Ormond       St. Hospital.
The work has also been used to improve breast tumour imaging       in collaboration with Prof. Alex Hartov's team that includes Dr Andrea       Borsic and Prof. Ryan Halter at Dartmouth College.
This work is based on       using elastic deformation to warp standard or idealised geometry &#8212; all of       which provides extensions of the public domain toolset [S7].
Use of the research outcomes for imaging neonate lung function       significantly reduces the cost of patient care and mortality by allowing       systematic monitoring of child lung function for time-critical       intervention.
There is an urgent need to improve ventilation strategies in       children with acute lung injury (ALI), which has a high mortality (22%)       compared with the overall mortality of paediatric intensive care unit       patients.
Disorders of lung growth, maturation and control of breathing       are among the most important problems faced by the neonatologist.
Although       it is not yet in mainstream clinical use for monitoring lung function in       neonates, our algorithms are being used for adult patients [S6] using some       of the developments created for neonate imaging.
