     4a: Sphincter reconstruction and neuromodulation: ESGN, SNS and PTNS.
The development of an ESGN to replace an absent or severely damaged anal       sphincter has allowed many patients who were destined to life with a       permanent stoma to avoid this fate.
The innovator of ESGN (Prof Williams       from Queen Mary) won the Nessim Habif Prize from University of Geneva in       1995 and the Galen Medal of the Worshipful Company of Apothecaries in       2003.
National Specialist Commissioning Advisory Group (NSCAG) funding in       1997 enabled the establishment of the Colorectal Development Unit (CDU)       for trialling new procedures.
ESGN was approved by NICE in 2003 [7] and       reviewed by Health Technology Assessment NHS R&amp;D HTA programme in 2005       [8].
Clinical Commissioning Groups receive funding if patients are       referred for ESGN.
Over 100 procedures had been performed in UK in 2005       [8] with many more since and the procedure is conducted in other European       centres and Southeast Asia [9;10].
This advanced and complex procedure was never intended as first-line       therapy for uncomplicated FI but has transformed the lives of the most       severely affected individuals (e.g.
when the sphincter is entirely absent       or has been severely traumatised) for whom no effective treatment was       previously available.
The lessons learnt in the development of ESGN paved       the way (conceptually and technically) for the development of sacral nerve       stimulation (SNS), which is now the mainstay of neuromodulatory therapy       for bowel disease internationally (Medtronics sales of $1 billion to 2012       for SNS [11]: NICE guidelines 2007 and 2011 [12]).
The trial of SNS in       patients with RED (see above) is changing the paradigm of patient       selection for this procedure [1].
The uptake of PTNS by NHS pelvic floor       services has spread nationally (UK) as a result with a recent NICE       guideline [13] and 7 recently reported case series.
4b: Anal fistula procedures.
The snug seton method is now a       standard technique for certain fistulas, adopted worldwide, and described       in the most popular UK postgraduate textbook of coloproctology [14] and is       part of the Great Britain and Ireland guidelines [15].
A multicentre       European trial (the first of its type in fistula surgery) assessing the       efficacy of collagen paste is testament to the enthusiasm with which it is       being greeted by the surgical community [16].
4c: Rectal augmentation to improve FI in patients with rectal         hypersensitivity.
This procedure is used in extreme cases and has       provided important data that has helped elucidate the cause of rectal       hypersensitivity in faecal urgency and visceral pain.
Drug development has       followed this observation and allied observations in other viscera       particularly in respect to TRPV1 antagonists by GSK [17].
4d Vertical reduction rectoplasty (VRR) and colonic conduit for rectal         evacuation disorders (RED).
Patients with RED represent the majority       of those investigated for chronic constipation.
Our research, utilising       new investigative tools such as ambulatory manometry, rectal barostat       compliance measurements and rectal sensitivity tests has shown that we can       identify a certain subgroup who can benefit from VRR an innovative       procedure we have designed.
These procedures are now included in textbooks       [18] with recent resurgence especially toward the use of anterograde       continence procedures.
4e: The APPEAR (Anterior Perineal PlanE for ultra-low Anterior         Resection).
APPEAR retains gastrointestinal continuity and preserves       acceptable continence in patients who would otherwise require a permanent       stoma.
In Europe the total number of stomas constructed each year is       160,000 with an annual cost to the NHS (appliances etc) of &#163;250 million.
The first paper in 2008 having demonstrated feasibility, a multicentre       trial commenced in 2009 with uptake to date in UK, Germany, China, Iran,       Indonesia and South America [19].
This new procedure has reduced the need       for permanent stoma in two thirds of patients.
Results have been       replicated in the other centres cited.
Externally quantified economic       benefits of stoma prevention can be calculated as &#163;50,000 based on 2 QALYs       and &#163;12,000 p.a.
in avoided stoma management costs [20].
The innovative       stapler design and grasper designed and patented for the APPEAR was       awarded the Worshipful Company of Cutlers' Surgical Prize 2011 [21].
The       IPR (held by the inventor NS Williams and Queen Mary) has been       commercialised internationally (patents WO2012032302 and WO2012032303)       [22].
4f: Procedures designed to prevent parastomal hernias.
Parastomal       hernias are a major problem for patients who undergo stoma formation and       affect some 50% of all ostomates over 10 years, of whom 1/3 require       further, often unsuccessful surgery.
The new technique SMART (Stapled Mesh       Stoma Reinforcement Technique) is now the subject of a randomised,       multicentre, international trial (commenced 2011).
The stapling equipment       that enables SMART also won the Cutlers' Surgical Prize for 2011 [21] and       is part of a collaborative commercial venture with Frankenman       International (Queen Mary receives royalties on the product) [23].
4g: Process development.
After a national competition, Williams'       group were designated as one of only two pilot NIHR Healthcare Technology       Cooperatives (HTCs) in 2007.
The remit was to facilitate interactions       between healthcare and industry to develop technology for patient benefit       in the field of bowel disorders.
The initial funding was renewed for a       further 3 years in 2009 (circa &#163;900,000) by a programme board (of TSB and       NIHR).
The HTC was favourably reviewed by RAND [20] and had leveraged &#163;1.6       million in further funding.
The team was invited to bid for more funding       as part of a policy to extend the HTC concept and was successful in being       awarded a grant of &#163;800K (2012-14) after open competition.
Among the achievements of the HTC (now called Enteric) has been the       development of a de novo specialty specific network of over 20 colorectal       surgical centres through which national multicentre trials are already       underway e.g.
HTA-funded CONFIDeNT study of PTNS [24].
Furthermore the       group has raised charitable income (circa &#163;3million) including a Wolfson       Foundation Grant to develop a National Centre for Bowel Research and       Surgical Innovation that opened in March 2012.
