     Impact comes in two forms &#8212; where you know that you have it, and where       you are still heavily       involved in the debate with policy makers and the polity.
We have impact       in both senses.
Our work       on capital and liquidity in the determination of banking crises was       commissioned by policy makers       and used by them.
The more capital a banking system has, the less likely       it is to experience a       crisis, and the same is true with liquidity.
The idea may have been       obvious to many in the       profession but we were the first to provide good supporting evidence, and       to discuss it at length in       all relevant policy fora.
The initial work is still widely referred to by       the IMF (Financial Stability       Report, April 2013) and the Bank of England (Working paper February 2013).
Our more recent       contributions are still under discussion.
We have been influencing policy       changes in the area of       controls on credit.
This work is of public interest given the huge costs of the recent       financial crisis, in terms of fiscal       expenditures, lost output and unemployment.
The UK authorities have seen       our work at       constituting the leading UK research on bank regulation at a macro level.
In the key policy paper       from the FSA, the Turner Report (FSA 2009a) and its background Discussion       Paper (FSA 2009b),       our work underpins many of the policy recommendations &#8212; as they were       designed to do.
Some       quotations and web references are provided in Section 5.
A further key impact however was at an international level to the Basel       Committee (2010a and b &#8212;       see section 5) which provides an assessment of both the net economic       impact of stronger capital       and liquidity reforms once implementation is complete and the       macroeconomic implications during       the transition to full implementation.
There are extensive references to       Barrell et al (2010) in this       work.
The Basel Committee's assessment of the long-term economic impact       highlights the benefits from       increasing the minimum capital and liquidity requirements from their       current levels that exceed the       potential output costs (Barrell et al 2009).
The paper also highlights       that length of systemic banking       crises is inversely related to the aggregate level of the two types of       buffers prior to the crisis In its       submission to the same exercise the Bank of Japan not only reference our       work but also use our       data and adopt our methodology for assessing crisis risk.
The Basel Committee's assessment of the macroeconomic transition costs,       prepared in close       collaboration with the IMF, concludes that the transition to stronger       capital and liquidity standards       is likely to have a modest impact on aggregate output (referencing Barrell       et al 2009).
The Basel       Committee's proposals for counter cyclical capital buffers have been       critiqued from the standpoint       of our own research in a response to the consultative document.
We contend       that the       recommendation to use credit as a guide to countercyclical bank capital       regulations is flawed in the       light of our finding that it is not a useful crisis predictor in OECD       countries.
Barrell and Karim (2013)       as well as the original BIS work has been referred to by the Bank of       England on this issue, and       remains the centre of a live debate.
Barrell and Karim have been invited       by economists from HM       Treasury to comment in the November 2013 Treasury consultation on the       relevant directive, and a       text has been provided.
Our work has been extensively presented in official fora including at the       European Central Bank       (Barrell 2011, Davis, 2010 and 2012, and Karim 2012), Bank for       International Settlements (Barrell       2010 and 2011) , FSA (various), FMG at LSE (Barrell, 2010, 2012, 2013),       the OECD (Barrell 2010,       2012), HM Treasury (various), Bank of England (Barrell 2010, 2011 and       2012), the Norwegian       Central Bank (Barrell 2011) the Bank of Ireland (Barrell 2012) and the UN       (Barrell 2013).
The       European Commission asked the authors to model a toolkit for desk officers       who monitor financial       stability using signal extraction (2010).
The three authors also impact on       international regulators       and central bankers via presentations at annual conferences held by       Central Banking Publications.
There have been a number of further spinoffs.
In 2011, Davis was asked to       join the IMF's Advisory       Group on Macroprudential Policy and Barrell has joined a group of advisors       to Andy Haldane at the       Bank of England.
Karim is invited to present to central bankers at the       Caribbean Centre for Money       and Finance in 2013.
