     Manacorda's research on child labour has led to a series of collaborative       projects with Understanding Children's Work (UCW), a joint programme of       the International Labor Organization (ILO), Unicef, and the World Bank.
His association with UCW has afforded privileged access to policymakers       and statistical offices, and has given him many opportunities to influence       practices and debates relating to child labour eradication.
Specific areas of impact from Manacorda's research include the following.
1.
Standardisation of statistics.
The mission of the UCW programme includes the collection, archiving, and       distribution of accurate statistics on child labour from around the world.
These statistics are used heavily by policymakers, development       specialists, and the media to measure progress in this area and to make       cross-country comparisons.
Standardisation of figures arising from       different sources is necessary if these measurements and comparisons are       to be meaningful.
Manacorda has devoted considerable attention to this       problem in his work with UCW.
He led a study of the comparability issue       (see source #2 in Section 5 below) that came to pessimistic conclusions,       finding the child labour statistics (and hence the resulting international       rankings) to be worryingly fragile due to variations in the survey       instruments used to collect them.
He then proceeded to develop a method of       standardising these statistics that is scalable and easy to use, providing       a valuable service to research and public policy related to child labour       incidence.
2.
Public sector practices.
Since 2001 the US Department of Labor (USDOL) has distributed       approximately $250 million through its Education Initiative (EI) to       projects aimed at reducing child labour.
In 2009 Manacorda joined the EI's       Technical Advisory Group, charged with the task of developing methods to       analyse the effectiveness of particular interventions and improving the       transparency of the programme as a whole.
Manacorda's recommendations &#8212; drawing on methods used in his published       research &#8212; were made in technical reports (see source #3 in Section 5       below) that outlined the general principles of programme evaluation,       highlighted how randomised controlled trials (a powerful empirical       strategy commonly used in applied microeconomics) were essential for       establishing programme gains in a scientifically credible way, established       criteria for assessing existing projects and explained how an evaluation       component could be built into the design of new programmes.
A recent analysis of an EI project in Nepal, providing schooling       assistance to a group of child carpet weavers, which includes a randomised       controlled trial, was shown to confer substantial benefits on both the       children and the households in which they lived.
3.
Child labour policy debates.
Manacorda is committed to improving understanding of the phenomenon of       child labour by governments, international organisations, and the general       public.
He has taken every opportunity to explain how the tools of applied       microeconomics can address this subject and help to guide the formulation       of effective policy.
For example, he has            been interviewed by the BBC and Al Jazeera on the occasion of June 12th,         designated the World Day Against Child Labour;       spoken at practitioner conferences (eg, the Oslo High Level Group on         Education for All) and at seminars at international organizations (e.g.
the World Bank) on topics such as the interaction between child labour         and globalisation, and school accessibility and child labour; and       participated in the UK consultation on "Vulnerabilities" for the UN         Development Programme's Human Development Report 2014.
Manacorda's research in this area has featured in the Lancet World Report       on Child Labour as well as in policy documents from organisations       including the ILO, UN Development Programme, UNESCO, Unicef, and World       Bank (see sources #4-6 in Section 5 below).
