     Manacorda has been working in Uruguay since the beginning of the last       decade.
Following a change of government in the national elections of       2005, he was invited to join colleagues at the Universidad de la Rep&#250;blica       in helping (pro bono) the new government design and evaluate PANES.
Over the intervening years, Manacorda's research on social assistance       policy has had an impact in four main areas.
1.
Resource targeting.
To address the challenge of alleviating poverty in a population not fully       covered by official records, as well as to allow a quasi-experimental       approach to evaluating the programme, Manacorda and his colleagues       proposed a carefully designed resource-targeting mechanism.
This proposal       was presented formally by Manacorda to the Minister for Social Development       at a 2006 public conference sponsored by the Presidency of the Republic of       Uruguay (see source #6 in Section 5 below), and was later adopted by the       government for PANES and some other social welfare programmes.
The targeting mechanism functions by computing for each household a       poverty index based on verifiable information collected at the time of       application for social assistance.
Only those households scoring above a       pre-defined threshold on the index are deemed eligible for transfer       payments.
This mechanism has been judged a success in identifying       genuinely impoverished Uruguayans.
An independent appraisal by the World       Bank described PANES as "one of the most successful income transfer       programmes in terms of targeting effectiveness," with a higher percentage       of beneficiary households in the poorest quintile of the population "than       what was achieved in other programs in Latin America and around the world"       (see source #4 in Section 5 below; executive summary, point #14).
2.
Programme evaluation.
As mentioned above, the resource-targeting mechanism used in PANES was       constructed in a way that allowed the programme to be evaluated       quasi-experimentally.
Analysis of the data revealed clear evidence of       success both in poverty alleviation per se and in improvements to       the well-being of beneficiaries (whether impoverished or not).
These       findings were communicated in technical reports (see source #3 in Section       5 below) and through discussions with officials in the Ministry of Social       Development, and they were an important factor in the Uruguayan       government's decision to scale up PANES and later to adopt the Plan de         Equidad (a comprehensive reform of the tax and benefit system       introduced in 2008).
3.
Welfare policy debates.
Manacorda has actively disseminated the results of his research to a       variety of audiences.
For example, in April 2011 he participated in a       policy dialogue on "Labor Markets and Social Security" at the IADB offices       in Washington, DC.
This event &#8212; attended by 21 ministers and officials       from Latin American countries &#8212; offered the opportunity to inform       policymakers from across the region about the labour supply distortions       that can be an unintended consequence of social assistance policies.
Indeed, these effects proved to be significant in the Uruguayan case,       leading the government to reduce the strictness of means testing for some       entitlements and benefit programmes.
In addition to the IADB, Manacorda has presented his research findings at       the World Bank and at the OECD's Directorate for Employment, Labour and       Social Affairs.
His analysis of the effects of PANES has been summarised       in a number of policy documents from the international institutions       already mentioned as well as from the UK Department for International       Development and the UN Development Programme (see sources #7-8 in Section       5 below).
He has also given several interviews on social assistance       programmes to the local media (eg, Radio el Espectador and Televisi&#243;n       Nacional Uruguaya).
4.
Administrative practices.
A side benefit of the PANES project was the establishment of good       relationships with and cooperation between various public sector bodies,       including the ministries of social development, public health, the social       security administration and the university.
This has materialized in a       formal protocol of data exchange, which has led to the sharing of best       practices for data collection, handling, storage, and release.
More       broadly, the research carried out using PANES data gave Uruguayan       policymakers a compelling demonstration of the power of social science to       answer questions about the world when provided with a good quality dataset       and an astute empirical strategy.
