     The experiments from the underpinning research identified and confirmed       the need to address the digital needs of potentially marginalised groups       and in particular the need to devise design approaches that could mitigate       against the possibilities of digital exclusion of marginalised groups such       as older people.
The impacts arising from the research have been broadly       centred around influencing policy making to support standardisation,       standardisation requirements on industrial design and addressing the       training needs for those tasked with ensuring accessibility of web sites       and other industrial design outputs.
Policy influence: The underpinning work and participation       in the European Design for All initiative has contributed to policy making       in the UK and EU.
For example, Gill Whitney and colleagues have engaged       with a range of national and European policy and regulatory bodies:            In 2011 Gill Whitney provided advice to the UK Governments Department         for Culture Media and Sport, E-accessibility forum.
In 2011 she was invited to a meeting at the Department of Work and         Pensions to meet Professor Hajime Yamada of Toyo University to discuss         the use of accessibility standards in Japan, the UK and worldwide.
In 2009 Gill Whitney was invited to comment on the UK government's         action plan `Delivering Digital Inclusion: An Action Plan for         Consultation' [S3].
Provision of expert advice to the House of Commons for the Internet         Service Provider Association's Annual Parliamentary Advisory Forum on         Harmful Content in the Internet on the 4th February 2008.
In 2008, Gill Whitney and Suzette Keith were asked to and provided         input on behalf of Middlesex University to the Consultation on EU         Proposals for a Revised Regulatory Framework for Electronic         Communications Networks and Services [S4].
In addition Gill Whitney has provided expert advice to (amongst others)       the European Commission Framework 7 Cardiac project and ANEC (the European       Association for the Co-ordination of Consumer Representation in       Standardisation).
Her research contributions have led to her participation       in National and International Standardisation initiatives.
She is       currently task force leader for the ISO Technical Advisory Group for the       revision of ISO/IEC Guide 71 (Guidelines for standards developers to       address the needs of older persons and persons with disabilities) [S5].
The ongoing research on the needs of older and disabled people resulted       in both further research in this area (funded by ANEC) [S6] and the launch       of a campaign based on this research by ANEC and the European Disability       Forum (EDF) who called on the European Commission to propose a Directive       on web accessibility [S7].
The proposal for a European Directive on the       accessibility of public sector bodies' websites was then presented to       European Council in December 2012.
The goal is to have EU public sector       websites accessible to all by 2015.
Training needs: All those tasked with the design of       systems/web sites and other artefacts should be aware of the importance of       designing for all types of users.
This idea has resulted in Middlesex's       participation in projects designed to identify ways in which information       can be transmitted via education, for example Middlesex led the training       work-package in the DFA@eInclusion (http://www.dfaei.org)       European Commission Framework 6 project which steered the creation of       Design for All In ICT: Curriculum Guidelines [S8].
In addition expertise       was provided to the Stand4All project which was funded by the European       Commission to include people with disabilities and elderly people, not       only in the content of standards, but also in the standardisation process       [S9].
Gill Whitney contributed to the leadership of workshops at two       Stand4All (Standardization for All people) events in Madrid and in London.
These workshops drew directly on the underpinning research described       above.
Influencing Industrial Design:       In 2012, the expert knowledge of the information seeking skills of       digitally excluded communities acquired from the underpinning research led       to the invitation from the Office of the High Commissioner for Human       Rights (OHCHR) and the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons       with Disabilities to carry out research in conjunction with Microsoft, and       Ability Net to assess the accessibility of the OHCHR information systems.
This work produced a report which was accepted in April 2013 by the UN.
Within the broader context of the Interaction Design Centre located at       Middlesex, a doctoral study examining online information seeking       behaviours of low literacy users of the Citizens Advice Bureau, identified       significant differences compared to high literacy users in their       information seeking strategies, behaviour models and mental models.
This       research led IBM Research Lab in India inviting the team to share our       experience and expertise with the product development team of the Spoken       Web [S1].
Since then we have worked with IBM India organising two       workshops focusing on Intelligent User Interfaces for the Developing       Regions (IUI4DR) [S2].
Thus the research on the need to address digital       inclusion needs has had impact on product development elsewhere.
