     Our findings were widely publicized in the popular scientific press       (see e.g.
the above article in       New Scientist 2006); and the daily press, for example The       Telegraph:       www.telegraph.co.uk/expat/expatfeedback/4200756/British-bees-threatened-by-foreign-species.html.
These articles triggered an emergency meeting between       representatives of DEFRA       (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) and the breeders in       2007 at which the       implications of the research were presented by another member of Chittka's       team, Dr Nigel Raine.
The meeting led to a policy review by DEFRA.
An important         response from the commercial       pollination industry, published after seeking advice from the Chittka       laboratory, was produced by       the International Biocontrol Manufacturers Association (IBMA),       which according to their own       website is a "worldwide association of biocontrol industries producing       microorganisms,       macroorganisms, semiochemicals and natural pesticides for plant protection       and public health"       (www.ibma-global.org/index.html),       and whose "Invertebrate Biocontrol Agents (IBCA) Professional       Group" comprises all the main commercial bumblebee-producing companies.
The IBMA       generated a pamphlet "Advice to growers &#8212; The use of bumble bees       for pollination of crops in the       UK" which ultimately led to commercial bumblebee breeders (e.g.
Koppert,       Biobest, Agralan) now       all selling native bumblebees (Bombus terrestris audax) for the UK       market.
A copy of this pamphlet       can be found on the Syngenta website on page 3ff at       www.syngenta.com/global/bioline/SiteCollectionDocuments/Products/B43%20-%20Beeline.pdf     As a result, commercial providers of bumblebee pollinators now require       end-users to ensure       that non-native pollinators are only used in enclosed spaces, and several       companies now breed to       UK native population Bombus terrestris audax.
For example, we       quote from the above website:     "Advice to growers (Revised January 2009):       The use of bumble bees for pollination of crops in England       Following negative press coverage UK during 2006 concerning the potential       impact of commercial       bumble bees on native bee populations, the producers and importers of       bumble bees have       discussed the issues raised with Defra, Natural England and other       stakeholders       The provisions of the Wildlife and the Countryside Act 1981 apply to the       commercial bees because       they are of sub-species not native to Great Britain.
Section 14 of the Act       makes it an offence to       release, or to allow to escape, into the wild `any animal which is of a       kind which is not ordinarily       resident in and is not a regular visitor to Great Britain in a wild state'       without an appropriate licence.
As such, any release of the bees into the wild may be an offence under the       Act.
That could include       a release in a greenhouse, from which the bees might easily escape."
More recent policy changes by Natural England, again based in       part on our research on the       dangers of non-native pollinators, now make it mandatory to apply for a       license if non-native       pollinators are used in spaces that are not fully enclosed, and set strict       conditions for their usage       and disposal, as well as penalties for non-appropriate use: "The maximum       penalty available for an       offence under the Act is, at the time of the issue of this licence, a       level 5 fine (&#163;5,000) and/or a six       month custodial sentence"     Source:         www.naturalengland.org.uk/Images/wml-cl22_tcm6-34782.pdf
