     The impact of our work on TMAU has led to a global understanding by the       medical profession of       the genetic basis of the disorder of body odour.
Our research has also       positively impacted on       TMAU sufferers, through the establishment of patient support groups and,       in 2010, the creation of       MEBO, a patient advocacy group for those that suffer from body odour       disorders [1, 2].
In 2007, at the invitation of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), we       produced a TMAU resource       for the medical profession, patients and the public [3], which was updated       in 2011.
The resource       provides information on the disorder, its diagnosis and its treatment.
In       2012, at the invitation of       EuroGentest, an EU Network of Excellence, we published European guidelines       (Clinical Utility       Gene Card) for genetic testing of TMAU [4].
Genetic testing for TMAU is       now available through the       NHS (Sheffield Children's NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield Diagnostic       Genetics Service) and in the       USA, Canada and Europe through diagnostic laboratories.
To communicate to       the patients and       medical profession the numerous mutations that can cause TMAU we created,       in 2003, a database       of FMO3 mutations [5].
The database, which is curated at UCL and, since       January 2013, has been       hosted at LOVD, permits researchers to submit new mutations and thus       increases the resource for       genetic testing services and patients who elect for testing.
TMAU is now       being included in medical       education programmes, both in the US and UK, and the disorder is described       in the student       textbook `Cell Biology, A Short Course' (2011).
The unusual nature of TMAU has led to close links between researchers and       patients.
Our       research into FMOs and the cause of TMAU was funded by the Wellcome Trust       and in 1999 the       Trust co-hosted, with the NIH, a meeting in the US to which leading       researchers in FMOs and       individuals with TMAU and their families were invited.
Phillips was a       member of the international       planning and advisory committee, and the impact of this meeting was to       produce interactions       among patient groups, and between researchers and patients which continue       today.
He has also       assisted the National Organisation for Rare Disorders (NORD) and the       Genetic and Rare Diseases       Information Center (GARD), both offices of the NIH, with their articles       and websites on TMAU [6,7].
In 2011 he also took part in a TMAU webinar hosted on the Rare Connect       website, a partnership       between EURODIS and NORD, which aims to connect patients suffering from       rare conditions [8].
The patient advocacy group `MEBO' has a global reach providing support       and advice to those who       suffer from TMAU.
It has registered branches in the USA, UK and elsewhere       in Europe [1, 2].
The       organization now raises funds for further research into TMAU treatment and       in 2011 raised       sufficient funds for the NIH National Organization for Rare Disorders       (NORD) to call for       expressions of interest in TMAU research.
Phillips has been a scientific       advisor to group since       2011.
A spokesperson for MEBO said "Professor Ian Phillips provides       significant scientific       guidance to MEBO and assists MEBO with advice when its initiates body       odour testing programs.....
The NIH info co-authored by Professor Ian       Phillips is repeatedly recommended to TMAU       patients in all of the MEBO online sites, including websites, blogs,       forums, Facebook site, and       Skype site" [1, 3].
Urine and genetic testing for TMAU are now available on the NHS - this is       not the case in most       countries, where patients must pay for costly tests.
With the advent of       cheaper DNA sequencing       MEBO is assisting patients who elect to have their FMO3 gene sequenced.
Phillips assists with       interpretation of the sequencing reads and explanation of the results to       patients.
He is collaborating       with a member of MEBO to produce a short primer on how to understand the       sequencing output,       which will be posted on the MEBO site [1, 2].
TMAU affects all ethnic groups and the disorder has been the subject of       several TV programmes       (e.g., Channel 4 'Embarrassing Bodies' - 2011), radio and the press [9].
This coverage has had a       significant impact in promoting public understanding of the condition.
In       2007 TMAU was included       in the book entitled When a gene makes you smell like a fish: and         other tales about the genes in         your body published by Oxford University Press and reviewed in       national newspapers including the       Guardian.
Although TMAU is not a life-threatening disorder, it does make life very       difficult for sufferers, with       many experiencing social isolation and depression.
The patient advocacy       group MEBO said: "Prior       to Professor Ian Phillips' research establishing TMAU as a genetic       disorder, most sufferers were       confused by their conditions and struggled on uncomprehending for years       .....TMAU sufferers       were frequently ostracised by society, and sometimes rebuffed by the       medical profession.....Professor Ian Phillips' research changed that.
Malodour sufferers now know that they are       suffering from a recognised medical condition" [1, 9].
