     Sullivan's research [1-6] led to a range of patented products [7, 8] that       were brought to market by the spin-out company PhosphonicS [a].
The       company, which was established in 2003 and has shown substantial growth       throughout the REF period, manufactures and supplies these products at the       metric tonne scale around the globe.
Current applications of Sullivan's       technology by PhosphonicS clients include precious metal recovery in the       mining, pharmaceutical and petrochemical markets.
The initial phase of translation of Sullivan's research into commercially       viable products began in 2003 with the formation of PhosphonicS Ltd       (Founders Sullivan and Wilson) supported by Dr Malcolm Sims then Director       of Queen Mary Innovation and Enterprise (now Queen Mary Innovation Ltd).
The first staff and lab space were paid for using funds from a DTI Smart       Award and the Combined London Colleges University Challenge Seed Fund.
PhosphonicS' development progressed through a series of stages focused on       product development in the chemistry laboratories at Queen Mary during       2003-2006 and continued, following Series A funding totalling &#163;1.5       million, with a move to premises at Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxford.
Sullivan maintained her academic position at Queen Mary while acting in an       advisory capacity to the company.
The company continued to grow with the benefit of long-term investor       support from the original investor-shareholders who provided additional       amounts of &#163;1.3M in 2008 and &#163;450k in 2009.
PhosphonicS is a cleantech company that provides novel technology to       recover precious metals from process, waste and effluent streams and       providing both financial and environmental benefits to industrial end       users and metal refiners.
The innovative chemistry underpinning       PhosphonicS materials [1-6] gives them leading performance for the       recovery of precious metals such as platinum and rhodium from large volume       low concentration (parts per million) waste streams, making recovery both       cleaner and more economic than alternative options.
PhosphonicS' materials       are also applied in the metric-tonne volumes as next-generation metal and       organic scavengers in the pharmaceutical, and fine and speciality chemical       industries for product purification purposes.
`Case study' examples of the application of PhosphonicS materials are       available from the company website [b, c] and include the recovery of       rhodium from a waste stream that was previously being transported and       burned with no precious metal recovery.
PhosphonicS provided the plant       with innovative materials that remove 95% of the rhodium from the waste       stream, of which 97% can then be reclaimed from the scavenger.
Another       PhosphonicS client utilises the materials in the manufacture of active       pharmaceutical ingredients.
The client uses platinum as a catalyst, which       must be removed from the product before use, with final concentrations no       greater than 10 ppm.
The PhosphonicS scavenger removes 98% of the       platinum, 98% of which can be recovered.
In 2010 the company secured second round financing of &#163;3.5m (US$5.75m),       led by French venture capital company Seventure Partners (Press Release       April 2010).
The new capital allowed the company to expand its core team       into larger premises, increase the number of international agents and       secure further manufacturing options for its products.
In 2011 PhosphonicS also forged a strategic liaison with multinational       company W.C. Heraeus [d], who offer batch refinery.
W.C. Heraeus is       offering PhosphonicS' scavenger processes to its customers with low-grade       waste streams to enable them to capture and recycle more of their precious       metal waste.
Building on the success of Sullivan's novel technology, the number of       PhosphonicS employees had grown from six in 2005 to 25 in March 2012; the       majority at PhD level.
The company has also been able to support PhD CASE       students at Queen Mary University of London.
According to publically       available accounts, the average net worth (net asset value) of PhosphonicS       over the last three years (averaging end of year returns for 2010 - 2012)       was &#163;1.3m [g].
In February 2013 Seventure Partners invested a further &#163;2.1 million into       PhosphonicS.
To date, the company has raised approximately &#163;9 million of       private equity investment over 10 years of trading.
The investment is       facilitating ongoing acceleration of the launch of the precious metal       scavenger product range in numerous international markets, especially       mining and petrochemical, and to invest in co-developing some major       catalyst applications with industry clients.
