     The American Dental Association estimates that there are around 300       million periodontal examinations undertaken in the USA every year,       representing ca.
30% of the examinations undertaken world-wide.
Based on       Watkinson and Krause's research, QMUL's spin-out company Degrasense       (established in January 2008) has developed a system with the likely       capability to accurately identify periods of active inflammation in       relation to periodontal disease that is inexpensive to mass produce.
The       meter (Figure 1) is a point of care system that is designed to allow       rapid, in-house diagnosis of periodontal disease, precluding the need to       outsource assays to external laboratories.
It has been estimated that the       consumables associated with this novel technology, will have a market       value of approximately 450m GBP per annum (Oraldent &#8212; see below).
The       technology will improve the targeting of treatment to patients with active       periodontitis and ultimately improve clinical outcomes and enhance patient       experience.
The device developed by spin-out company Degrasense is shown in Figure 1.
Briefly, the meter works by samples of gingival crevicular fluid (GVC)       from the gums, being loaded onto the capillary sensor chip, which contains       electrodes coated with the QMUL patented technology.
This sensor is then       loaded into the machine, where protelytic activity of the clinically       relevant proteases in the GVC is measured through changes in electrical       impedance.
Figure 1: Meter used to detect protease activity in patients with periodontal disease          Companies and charities influenced by the research     To reach the point of a clinical trial [below, and 1 in section 5]       required collaboration with a number of industrial partners.
Supported by       Technology Strategy Board funding, Watkinson coordinated the industrial       partners to develop the technology specifically for the clinical       diagnostics market.
These partners are:            Oraldent (Oraldent: www.oraldent.co.uk)         who assessed the size of the potential periodontal market to be 450m GBP         per annum in consumables (value of disposable capillary sensor chip).
Industrial Design consultancy (IDC: www.idc.uk.com)         [2 in section 5] who designed the meter (see Figure 1)       AND Technology Research (AND: http://andtr.com)         who developed the electronics in the meter [3 in section 5].
Gwent Electronic Materials Ltd. (www.gwent.org/gem_index.html)         who manufactured the interdigitated electrodes used in the clinical         trial [4 in section 5].
Barts Charity (www.bartscharity.org.uk)         who are currently funding Gwent Electronic Materials to further refine         the electrodes based on insights gained through the clinical trial.
Collectively, these industrial partners contributed over &#163;340k to the       project.
Development of a new clinical diagnostic tool and its application           in a clinical trial     The efficacy of the Degrasense technology is currently being assessed via       a clinical trial involving 30 patients suffering from chronic       periodonitis.
This is an important step on the road to delivery of this       diagnostic technology to market.
The clinical trials are being undertaken       by staff within the School of Clinical Dentistry at the University of       Sheffield, in partnership with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation       Trust.
The aim of the trial is to assess whether the device can be used to       detect active periodontal disease.
The initial 12-month stage of the trial necessitated the appointment of a       dental hygienist to collect patient samples.
The patients were recruited       from a number of sources within the partnering hospital, including the       undergraduate periodontology teaching clinic, staff hygienist clinics and       consultant clinics.
All patients were selected by the clinician in charge       [1 in section 5] according to criteria that include; aged 18 or over; a       diagnosis of chronic periodontitis but otherwise healthy and; one healthy       gingival crevice, one deep bleeding and one deep non-bleeding periodontal       pocket.
Data from the first 12 months of the trial have revealed that the       interdigitated electrodes produced by Gwent Electronics need further       refinement.
The company, funded by Barts Charity, are currently modifying       the electrodes to increase reliability.
All patient samples from the first       stage of the trial have been retained for re-testing once these       refinements are in place.
Application of Degrasense technology in other clinical settings     Krause and Watkinson's technology has already attracted significant       interest and investment from multiple industrial partners and its use in a       clinical setting has been demonstrated through application in a clinical       trial.
In addition to increasing the efficacy of diagnostic tools for       assessing periodontal disease, the technology has significant potential in       a number of other clinical applications where elevated levels of       proteolytic enzymes are linked to disease states.
Investigations into       these applications are ongoing (and are sensitive at this stage) but       include: (i) home monitoring of haemophilia; (ii) clinical monitoring of       sepsis and trauma; (iii) home monitoring of multiple sclerosis and (iv)       the monitoring of arterial ageing and the role of proteinases in       hypertension.
All of these areas are associated with very significant       patient numbers and cost to the NHS.
The generic technology that Watkinson       and Krause have developed is capable of providing significant improvements       in the quality of patient monitoring and consequently also reduction in       treatment costs.
