     The underpinning research has generated several impacts on 1) public       services, 2) the       environment, and 3) the economy.
1) Impact on public services     The UK government made &#163;17bn through the auction of 3G radio spectrum       bands making it vital       for it to monitor interference over this wide frequency band.
The group,       teamed with MASS Ltd,       developed an Automatic Interference Monitoring System for Ofcom to examine       the increasingly       congested EM spectrum over 40 sites across the country during 2005-2007.
This work has       constituted a major contribution to the Ofcom Spectrum Framework Review       Report published in       April, 2008 [I6].
This technology enables Ofcom to monitor/regulate the 3G       radio bands for better       mobile communication services.
2) Impact on the environment     With the integration of multiple functions on mobile phone handsets, the       EM emission from       different components has caused interference to the radio channels, which       burdens wireless       networks, causing excess power consumption.
Sony-Ericsson, have       funded the group to develop       wideband test equipment for detecting EM interference on mobile terminals       since 2007 [I1].
This       work has led to a patent application (EU Patent Application No:       08100712.2,).
In 2008, Innovation         China-UK funded the group to commercialise the developed technology       in collaboration with       Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, China.
Two specialist       test units were built and       sold (one to Sony-Ericsson and the other to Wavetown Communications Ltd,       China).
The       developed products enable the mobile handset manufacturers to assess their       mobile phones and       make sure the products are in `green' operation.
3) Impact on economy (new products, business opportunities and         licence)     3.1) Data communication over power-lines usually operates at low data       rate due to the narrow       carrier signal bandwidth.
In the latest Pan-European drive for efficient       use of the energy, a high       data rate communication technology is required to realise the concept of       smart power grid/metering       in every household.
The group teamed with Artimi Ltd. and       subsequently SiConnect Ltd. and       COE Plc.
developing very high data rate powerline communication       technology supported by       DTI/ESPRC technology programme project (EP/D033950/1) in 2006.
The       technology developed       with SiConnect was purchased by POEM Technologies Co Ltd, China in 2008       for exploitation in       Chinese market.
In addition, the technology is being evaluated in a       separate project funded by DECC       (Department of Energy &amp; Climate Change) and supported by EoN as a       method to connect smart       electrical appliances to the UK smart meter deployment rollout to reduce       peak electricity load on the UK       power distribution network [I2].
3.2) Modern air-borne phased array radar systems require a compact       broadband antenna array.
With the funding from Selex-Galileo (UK) [I3], this work       successfully exploited strong mutual       coupling to construct a wide scanning planar phased array antenna with       bandwidth of 4.5GHz &#8212;       18GHz and scan angle up to 60&#176;.
It used novel electromagnetic analysis       techniques combined       with statistical and neural network methods to predict performance in a       time frame suitable for       industrial design.
A 32 x 32 element fully active phased array based on       this work was built by       Selex-Galileo for the UK MoD.
In a statement of support for this work [I3]       the Selex project leader       stated: `The impact from this work has lead to Selex being able to         develop new products with         improved performance in the area of high performance / high value         military airborne radar, ESM         and very wide bandwidth airborne RF systems.'
3.3) A key component in broadband wireless communication systems is the       broadband antenna       covering all the required frequency bands.
The group has helped Jaybeam         Ltd (UK) in optimising       a broadband base station antenna product (via EPSRC Knowledge Transfer       Account scheme with       Lu Guo, 2008-2009 ).
Jaybeam Ltd was lately bought by Amphenol Antenna       Solutions [I7].
3.4) A satellite employs many antennas for radio control and data link.
QM has signed a license       with SSBV Space &amp; Ground Systems Ltd (formerly Satellite Services Ltd)       to commercialise a       compact broadband antenna for multiple functions on a small satellite       under QM Innovations Ltd       funding.
The prototypes of the antenna will be deployed on the satellite       TechDemoSat-1 for the       demonstration of UK Innovative Space Technologies, the project being led       by Surrey Satellite       Technology Ltd with a total funding of &#163;3.5m from the UK government and       industry [I8].
3.5) Body-centric wireless communications has abundant applications in       personal healthcare,       smart home, personal entertainment and identification systems, space       exploration and military.
The group has applied UWB radio technology to body centric communications       and they have been       awarded with generous funding from Dstl on developing textile antennas for       wideband       communications in battlefields [I4] and NPL on developing the measurement       standard for the next       generation of wearable antennas [I5].
3.6) UWB antenna technology is being used (via the Antenna groups EPSRC       &#163;1m Platform Grant       "Antennas for Healthcare and Imaging" funding) to develop miniature body       mounted pulse radar       based motion tracking system (operating in the 6-10 GHz band) with 10mm       position accuracy for       sports medicine applications.
This work bringing together the QM Centre       for Sports and Exercise       Medicine and the Antenna Group, along with SME collaborators Mediwise       Ltd and Shadow Robot       Company Ltd. A significant competitive advantage over existing       systems is that our system is       wireless, will be more robust and does not need the "studio" environment       that optical systems       require.
Activities through the platform grant and first grant (Alomainy:       EP/H048154/1) has initiated       collaboration with Shadow Robot Company [I9], an SME based in London, on       providing accurate       localisation systems using UWB technologies for limbs and joints mimicking       in the robotic industry.
The research team at QM and Shadow Robot were successful in securing a TSB       grant for 12       months (Aug. 2013) (Alomainy: TS/L000237/1) to further investigate the       research challenges       behind UWB localisation of human hands and translate it into potential       commercial applications.
It       aims to develop a new design of control system, based around a "base       station" that uses UWB       signals to locate antennas precisely within the unit.
The proposed system       has exciting applications       in a range of robotic applications including, for example, the performance       industry by being able to       mimic a person's limb movements to manupulate "set" changes and in medical       systems as precise       surgery robotic.
