     The impact of Corsetti's research has come primarily through a strategy       of direct engagement with various central banks and of explaining his main       research conclusions.
While details of most of the advice to central banks       are confidential, his research has also stimulated much public debate and       Corsetti himself has written extensively in that policy debate, especially       in VoXEU.
International Dimensions of Monetary Policy [1 &#8212; section3]     Corsetti's research [1 &#8212; section 3] underlies much of Corsetti's       activities in support of the International Economic Analysis Division at       the Bank of England.
The Chief Economist at the Bank writes (C1-section5),       "[Corsetti's] research highlights that when financial markets are       imperfect, then optimal monetary policy in an open economy may require a       consideration of factors that go beyond the traditional closed economy       output and inflation gaps, to include the terms of trade and demand       imbalances.
More broadly, his work on New Open Economy Macroeconomics has       helped move our thinking about how shocks propagate internationally beyond       the traditional trade linkages, to consider the roles of the exchange       rate, financial variables and the substitutability of home and foreign       goods.
The implications of this work for UK monetary policy were presented       to the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) at a recent Research Away       day [in July 2013]."
Corsetti's research has also impacted on how the Bank of England       responded to the crisis.
The Chief Economist at the Bank, writes       (C1-section5), "his work on the build up of imbalances within currency       unions has helped us better understand the run-up to the crisis in the       euro area and we've taken up his idea of using inflation differentials as       a summary statistic of total imbalances in our presentations to       policymakers."
In addition to the Bank of England, this work [1 &#8212; section 3] has been       presented to numerous central banks across the world including at the Bank       of Canada-European Central Bank Workshop on Exchange Rates, the       International Research Forum on Monetary Policy, the Swiss National Bank       conference on Monetary Policy Advances, the Reserve Bank of Australia,       Banco Central de Chile, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Reserve Bank of       New Zealand, Bank of Hungary.
Fiscal Multipliers [2,3,4,5 &#8212; section3]     The main lessons from the research on the fiscal multipliers at times of       fiscal and financial stress have been incorporated in numerous policy       models and exercises at the ECB and European national central banks.
The       Head of Fiscal Policies Division at the ECB writes (C9 &#8212; section5): ".
In       our internal simulations we made extensive use of the concepts and ideas       developed in the paper [2 - section 3], which proved to capture essential       elements of interest to a central bank.
It is notable that the paper was       circulated well before the announcement of the OMT programme, which       essentially focuses on the impact of risk premia on government bonds on       the funding costs of the economy."
The main goal of these exercises is to clarify the appropriate role of       fiscal consolidation as part of a strategy of output stabilization, with a       critique of the idea of `expansionary contractions'.
The Director of DG       Research at the ECB writes (C3-section5), "[Corsetti's] work on fiscal       multipliers has been an important contribution to the debate about the       appropriate pace of fiscal consolidation in Europe.
In particular, his       work on the importance of the sovereign risk channel has been highly       influential."
In concluding, he writes: "Overall, Giancarlo's research has       had a significant and important impact on the way the ECB has understood       and dealt with the crisis over the past three years".
The Head of Fiscal Policies Division at the ECB writes (C9 &#8212; section5):       "Giancarlo's work on fiscal multipliers (Economic Policy October 2012       [reference 3 &#8212; section 3]) and on the impact of fiscal shocks on the       exchange rate (such as in Review of Economic and Statistics November 2012       [reference 5 - section 3]) have been extensively used as reference in the       division when assessing the impact of fiscal policies in the short and       long-term and when elaborating scenarios."
Giancarlo's research on fiscal multipliers and the role of sovereign risk       has underpinned his participation in and moderation of the Voxeu Debate "Has           austerity gone too far?
(C6-section 5, April 2012, 35888       reads), as well as his articles "What           is the size of the fiscal multiplier?
An estimate you can't refuse"       (C7-section5, April 2011, 22738 reads) and "Sovereign           risk, macroeconomic instability" (C10-section5, August 2011,       10424 reads).
Monetary Backstops [6 &#8212; section3]     The research on monetary backstops has fed into both the ECB and the Bank       of England.
For the ECB, the Director of DG Research writes (C3-section5):       "his work [6 &#8212; section 3] with Luca Dedola (a colleague at the ECB) on       monetary backstops, the possibility of self-fulfilling runs on sovereign       debt and the effects on incentives for structural reform was a very       significant input in policy deliberations surrounding the sovereign debt       crisis and the ECB's response."
For the Bank of England, the Chief Economist writes (C1-section5), "his       recent piece `The Mystery of the Printing press: self-fulfilling debt       crisis and monetary sovereignty' [6 &#8212; section 3], gave us an analytical       base to think about OMTs [Outright Monetary Transactions], and to explain       to the MPC how countries with the ability to print their own currency can       enjoy lower default premia without a corresponding rise in inflationary       expectations, and to explain why confidence effects can be so powerful       even in a model with rational agents."
Corsetti's research on monetary backstops has been presented in a       non-technical way in Voxeu columns (Is           the euro a foreign currency to member states?
C4-section5,       June 2013, 18288 reads).
His research on monetary policy trade-offs has had substantial impact on       the recent policy debate around the OMTs (especially through various       commentaries by Paul Krugman, C5-section 5).
The research has provided a       basis for a balanced discussion of possible economic and political issues       in the implementation of the OMT strategy.
In addition to the direct impact of his research on the specific       interactions between fiscal and monetary policy, the research in section 3       has also formed the core of the curriculum of central bank training.
Since       2010, Corsetti has repeatedly presented his research at the Central       Bankers Programme of the Study Center in Gerzensee, Bern.
The Director of       the Programme writes (C2- section5): Giancarlo's "research results on       international monetary economics and international finance influence how       the central bank community thinks about exchange rates, monetary policy       coordination or capital flows.
His research has a significant, lasting       impact on the mindset of future leaders in monetary affairs."
