     Kaufmann's research and commitment to public engagement and sharing his       findings through authoritative but accessible writing, the use of       non-academic channels and contributing to policy reports has led to strong       interest in his work in public arenas and among policymakers.
Profile       Books approached him following his report for the Institute for Jewish       Policy Research: `Sacralisation by Stealth: Demography, Religion and       Politics in Europe.'
The wide media coverage of his subsequent book, Shall         the Religious Inherit the Earth: Religion, Demography and Politics in         the 21st Century, with book sales of around 3000 copies, provides       evidence of the impact of his research in the broader public.
The Director       of Profile writes that the book `was widely reviewed in the mainstream       press and had a significant impact in the literary and policy worlds.'
(Source 1)     The book was reviewed in most UK broadsheets (Telegraph, Times,       FT, Independent, Observer), covered in leading       magazines (Newsweek, Time, Prospect) as well as       popular outlets like the London Metro and Big Issue Scotland.
It was also widely reviewed in Canada, Australia and the United States.
Comments include, `This has been a delicate issue since right-wing       demagogues started scaremongering about Muslim `breeding rates' but       Kaufmann avoids falling into any nasty traps and this remains a       provocative and well-informed addition to the debate' from Robert Murphy,       London Metro, 31 March 2010, and `Kaufmann's enjoyably argued       thesis, the subject of great media attention and shouts of alarm in this       deeply non-religious country, begins with the truism that the most       fundamental adherents to Abrahamic faiths believe in having more babies       than the rest of us' from Doug Saunders, Toronto Globe and Mail,       17 April 2010 (Sources 1 and 4).
His political demography of religion work       has been cited over 50 times in non-academic publications, including in Time,       The Economist, Atlantic Monthly and Intelligent Life.
Kaufmann has also been commissioned to write over 13 articles in       non-academic publications, including Prospect and The American       (Source 5).
Kaufmann appeared on TV and radio internationally in 2010 and 2011,       including BBC Radio 4's Thinking Allowed programme (7/4/10,       4/10/06), on Fox TV News in the US, the Pat Kenny Show on RTE       (Ireland), and on John Cleary (29/9/10), Philip Adams       (29/9/10) and the Sunday Night Safran (Triple-J) radio shows in       Australia [3/10/10].
Other appearances include BBC World Service, Premier       Christian Radio (UK), BBC Scotland and the Clay Naff radio show (US).
Kaufmann was approached by two film production companies, one of which,       Clover Films, filmed a short segment for a two-part documentary, and is       currently attempting to interest broadcasters in the US and Europe in       funding the documentary.
He is a sought after speaker, commentator and advisor on political       demography in the West and Middle East.
In total, he has delivered more       than 30 invited talks on the book at universities, literary festivals,       think tanks, public libraries and other fora, reaching some 3000 people       (Source 6).
Following the publication of his book, he was invited to speak       at the Festival of Dangerous Ideas in Sydney, Australia, to an audience of       approximately 1000, and a video of this has continued to receive large       viewing numbers with, for example, 24,916 views by July 31 2013; and two       excerpts of which, on YouTube attracted 5666 and 5871 views respectively       by the same date (Source 7).
He also spoke at Jewish Book Week (200 in       attendance) and the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) in London, the webcast of       which registered 7212 views on YouTube (Source 8).
Evidence that his research has informed foreign policymakers is reflected       in his being a consultant on the demographic sections of the National       Intelligence Council (NIC)'s Global Trends 2025 report in late 2008 and on       the Europe section of the Pew Forum for Religion and Public Life's `The       Future of the Global Muslim Population' report (2011) &#8212; both published       after a decade of rising concern in Europe and America over the       demographic growth of Islam following the 9/11 attacks.
He addressed a       number of prominent Washington think tanks in 2008-11, including the       American Enterprise Institute (AEI), the New America Foundation, Pew       Forum, and Woodrow Wilson Center as well as the Canadian Department of       Public Safety and Department of Canadian Heritage.
A political economist       with AEI writes of Kaufmann: `His work on religiosity and demography has       been widely discussed in Washington think-tank circles' and for example,       `In 2009 he delivered the keynote luncheon address at a UN National       Intelligence Council conference in Washington on the future of Muslim       communities in Europe and elsewhere' (Source 3).
The Pew Forum's 2011       report and David Brooks' column on the `Muslim baby bust' (NY Times       13/3/12) &#8212; entirely derived from the work of Brooks' AEI colleague ,       informed by Kaufmann- arguably helped change the terms of the `Eurabia'       debate.
Kaufmann has addressed the US State Department and NIC on several       occasions, and his papers and presentations fed into both the widely-cited       Future Trends 2025 report and a subsequent NIC report he co-wrote in 2010.
`Dr. Kaufmann brings an empirically well-explored theoretical position on       the confluence of ethno-demography and political dynamics to NIC       workshops.
Clearly (since we have imported him from the UK on occasion),       his expertise is highly valued and difficult to replace,' writes a       consultant demographer at the NIC.
The same consultant lists six policy       briefings for NIC which Kaufmann contributed to and adds that his work has       `been influential in turning policymaker attention to the issue of       ultra-Orthodox population growth and its implications for future political       stability in Israel.'
(Source 3)
