     There are four key areas of impact in Sibert's work:     Monetary Committee Design     The primary impact of Sibert's research is to change the way that policy       makers and the public think about monetary policy committees.
She has       communicated her work to central bankers through invited presentations and       contributions to central bank publications.
Her work on monetary policy to       EU policy makers is disseminated through briefing papers and briefings to       the European Parliament and by taking part in a commissioned collaborative       effort that produced a major study.
This study concludes that to be more effective and predictable the       European Central Bank (ECB) should make a clear move towards more       transparency.
The current final target (a low growth rate of the       Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices) should be accompanied by a review of       non-consumption goods and asset prices.
The ECB should adopt a symmetrical       target to avoid an inflationary drift; and more detailed projections, as       well as the public release of the model used to calculate them, should be       adopted to communicate the ECB's expected inflationary bias, and thus the       expected path of interest rates in the medium term.
The Governing Council       minutes, including the voting record, should be released to enable better       understanding of the different views expressed in meetings.
Operational impact     Her research has influenced public debate about central banks.
Sibert was       a serving External Member, Monetary Policy Committee, Central Bank of       Iceland, 2009-2012 &#8212; photograph at: http://www.cb.is/library/Myndir---EN/Images/Peningastefnunefnd.jpg       and was able to use the results of her research to provoke debate.
It is routinely discussed and reprinted in blogs, academic papers and the       mainstream press, for example: Financial Times 2 Nov 2008; 14 Nov 2008; 6       Jun 2010 (by Wolfgang Munchau) and 12 Jan 2012 (5.4).
When Goldman       Sachs published a report criticising the ECB, her research was prominently       cited (5.5).
ECB Executive Board Member Yves Mersch (then the       Governor of the Central Bank of Luxembourg) demanded that she retract her       remarks on ECB accountability (5.6) and the Deputy Governor of the       Central Bank of Turkey publicly objected to her commentary on the Turkish       monetary policy committee (5.7).
In a lecture, the deputy governor       of the Central Bank of Norway discussed the size of the Norwegian monetary       policy committee in light of her research and in private correspondence he       said that he frequently referred to theory of the optimal size of monetary       committees (5.1).
In Iceland, following the collapse of the banking system, Sibert's       research on the design of monetary policy committees had a direct impact       on policy.
Sibert was appointed to the newly-formed Icelandic five-member       monetary policy committee in 2008 (5.2).
The committee was the       result of legislation that redesigned the monetary policy framework after       the collapse.
The new legislation gave responsibility about the       formulation of many of the details of the committee's decision-making       process to the members of the new committee.
Sibert's research was       significant in their formulation of the committee's conventions.
Gender Composition     Sibert's writing on the gender composition of committees that make       financial decisions has fuelled the European Parliament's opposition to an       all-male Executive Board.
It has been discussed in blogs and the popular       press.
It is cited in a European Assembly of the Council of Europe report       on women in the financial crisis (5.8).
Sibert was interviewed on BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour on 20th September       2012 (5.9).
The interviewer discusses with Sibert the reason for       the lack of credible female candidates for the role of Governor at the       Bank of England and explores why banking may be such a male dominated       culture.
Sibert is also able to contribute ideas about how a more diverse       gender balance in banking may have impacted the financial crises.
Impact on public discourse and the media     Sibert communicates her work to other policy makers and to the public       through newspaper articles, occasional television and newspaper interviews       and papers on the vox.eu website, a policy portal set up by the Centre for       Economic Policy Research.
This shows in excess of 332,000 views as of       October 2013, for Sibert's contributions.
(5.10)     Writing on the web site of the Breugel think-tank (www.breugel.org)       on 31st August 2012, about effective banking supervision under European       Commission proposals for a supervisory board, Guntram Wolff observes that       Sibert, having studied the effects of committee size on performance, has       concluded that a committee of five or fewer is ideal.
He continues: "Sibert's         research on the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) argued that the         detection of systemic risk requires a certain diversity of the skills of         Committee members, notwithstanding the small committee size.
She         concluded that the set-up of the ESRB, consisting mostly of national         central bank representatives, is not conducive to effective systemic         risk assessment."
European Parliament member Sylvie Goulard listed her as a possible       candidate for the Executive Board, as did a prominent German newspaper:       http://sylvie-goulard.eu/bce/ECB-potential%20female-candidates.pdf       .
http://www.faz.net/aktuell/wirtschaft/menschen-wirtschaft/besetzung-des-ezb-direktoriums-vier-frauen-fuer-die-ezb-11941105.html.
