     Frenz's research on modes of innovation and the most appropriate ways of       measuring innovation       achieved its impact through a secondment to the Department of Industry,       Universities and Skills       (DIUS) and through subsequent work for the Department of Business,       Innovation and Skills (BIS)       (5.1, 5.2).
Work at DIUS, carried out in collaboration with       Lambert, led to the production of a series       of significant reports, published by BIS and OECD respectively.
These       reports mapped the       different modes of innovation in different OECD countries and between       sectors.
Their findings were       picked up by policymakers and, in turn, led to changes in the ways the       British Government and       OECD define and measure innovation; in the type of data they collect from       firms; and in the advice       they issue to firms (5.5).
Frenz and Lambert's 2008 report Innovation Modes and Productivity in         the UK (5.3) is an       Economics Paper prepared for DIUS.
It was a background paper to the UK       Department's Science       and Innovation White Paper entitled `Innovative Nations' published       on 13 March 2008.
On the       basis of this initial report, Lambert and Frenz carried out a follow-up       study for BIS entitled       `Innovation Dynamics and the Role of the Infrastructure' for BIS (5.4).
This uses more robust       estimation techniques and its findings have been central to the current UK       Government's       Innovation Strategy document.
Entitled `Innovation and Research         Strategy for Growth' (5.7) it sums       up the Frenz and Lambert research by saying: "The mix of inputs for         innovation differs across         sectors, so the risk profiles of innovation differ, the financing         aspects of innovation differ, and the         supply of skills and infrastructure needed differ.
All are major issues         for government; but it now         seems clear that the mix of these conditions needs to take         inter-industry variation more fully into         account" (Smith and Estibals, 2011: pp.98-99).
The research has,       therefore, helped to increase       policymakers' knowledge and understanding of different innovation       practices and their positive       impact on firm performance (5.6).
Frenz and Lambert have presented this work on a number of occasions at       OECD meetings and       their research findings are included in the OECD's Science, Technology,       and Industry Outlook       (2008); pages 235-238 of this OECD publication are a summary of Frenz and       Lambert's 2008       report (5.8).
At the same time Frenz and Lambert produced two       reports specifically for the OECD.
Frenz and Lambert (2012b) addressed innovation measurement and impact and       their findings       were picked up and cited in a forthcoming OECD report on Ireland by David       Haugh.
Frenz and Lambert (2009) was translated into Russian (5.10) and       published by Foresight Russia       increasing the dissemination of the report beyond OECD countries.
Statistics Netherlands       published a report on measuring innovation that is based on Frenz and       Lambert (2009) (5.9).
Helena Connellan and Ian Hughes from Forf&#225;s, Ireland&#180;s Policy Advisory       Board for Enterprise,       Trade, Science, Technology and Innovation, included mixed modes in their       policy work in 2010.
Frenz's impact has been manifested through her appointment as academic       advisor to the       Innovation Survey Project group of the Office for National Statistics and       the UK Department for       Business, Innovation and Skills (commenced 2010).
In this role, she       participates in regular       meetings during which issues to do with data collection, including       questionnaire design and       sampling, are discussed and monitored.
In summary, over a period of years both the British government and the       OECD have developed       more sophisticated views of the process of innovation and of the ways in       which it can be defined,       measured and encouraged.
The research of Frenz on innovation modes,       varying by sector, has       made a significant impact on policymakers and played an important role in       generating this change.
