     Type of impact: The impact is change to society and         public policy in relation to awareness, policy and practice       on the part of organisations with national and international       responsibilities.
It includes impact on research ethics itself, as a       practical procedure in science and commerce.
The beneficiaries are       (a) national and international bodies engaged with the collection, storage       and research of genetic biodata, (b) individuals donating their genetic       material, and their families, (c) wider national and international       communities benefiting from research made possible by biobanks.
Process and substantive nature of impact: Chadwick       maintains that ethicists must engage with "real questions about what is       possible and appropriate in a variety of circumstances.
"3-2 Her       core research claims have fed into policy formation, and responded to       policy imperatives, addressing the practical challenges of biobank       development in the light of the complex and often contradictory ethical       concerns with new biotechnologies.
The research-to-impact trails outlined       here demonstrate that the impact is centrally founded on Chadwick's           research.
Her membership of the committees drafting       policies indicates her as a core contributor to the       outcomes.
Impact on the practice of DNA collection:     a) Chadwick was invited by the ethics consultant of the Personal Genome       Project (PGP), Lunshof, to join the team reporting3-2 the       adoption of `open consent',5-1 as an instantiation of PGP's       core principle of veracity (http://1.usa.gov/GP2D28)       (see box).
PGP invites donors to provide DNA for sequencing.
By 26/10/13,       2884 donor profiles were listed (http://bit.ly/GWgkg0)       PGP publishes the entire genome sequence, linked to medical and lifestyle       records, for researchers to access without restriction.
The project       monitors the effect of open consent on recruitment, as outlined in the       team's 2008 paper.3-2 Such monitoring aligns with      Chadwick's position that the value impact of bio-technology is far from       static.
In 2012, PGP Canada adopted open consent, with built-in       three-monthly monitorings of the consequences, positive and negative, of       donation.5-2 This step reflects Chadwick's articulation of the       need to surface the consequences of biobanking in order to inform future       decision-making.3-5 Open consent is a social experiment,       testing the power of the communitarian turn in bioethics3-5 by       relying on the willingness of donors to give DNA in full knowledge of the       potential risks.3-2 Are humans that altruistic, and will they       remain so when more is known about the reality of the hypothetical risks?
The Personal Genome Projects (PGP) in the US and Canada are gathering data       from participants to find out.
b) The Wellcome Trust and NIH funded Human Heredity and Health Africa       (H3Africa) Consortium facilitates "a contemporary research approach to the       study of genomics and environmental determinants of common diseases with       the goal of improving the health of African populations" (http://www.h3africa.org/).
In 2013, H3Africa developed guidelines for `informed consent' that bear       many hallmarks of open consent, for use in DNA data collection across       projects in Africa.5-3 They include not only wordings for       consent forms, but explanations of the underlying issues, and advice on       how to ensure the generalised material is appropriate to the local context       (e.g.p.8).
Chadwick, a member of the Expert Committee,5-4       presented the case for open consent at the H3Africa inaugural conference5-5 	  and is acknowledged (p.4) as a primary advisor on the draft.
The       text reflects her case3-3 that while consent practices need to       be harmonised, to protect vulnerable populations, they must be sensitive       to local conditions and beliefs, without undermining equity or veracity       (e.g.
p.18).
Impact on the biobanks debate     c) As a member of the UN Panel of Eminent Experts on Ethics in Food and       Agriculture, Chadwick contributed research ideas3-4 to a       report on the future of global food security, authoring the section on       nutrigenomics5-6 (p.40-44).
It raises asks whether ngx might:       distract from the right to food; contribute to or distract from public       health goals; benefit only selected populations; and create challenges for       cultural difference, and it asks what an ethically robust ngx policy       should look like.
d) Two reports for the Nuffield Council on Bioethics (NCB) drew on       Chadwick's research.
The NCB promotes discussion of ethical issues arising       from biological and medical research, and publishes recommendations on       policy.
One report was an independent evaluation of solidarity as a       concept in bioethics (2011).5-7 At two workshops, Chadwick       explained and debated solidarity and open consent, informing the report's       emerging account of the `communitarian turn' in bioethics.
Addressing the ownership of information and the notion of open consent       (chap 6), veracity as a driving force is acknowledged as a core claim of       the 2008 paper.3-1 The authors propose an approach "based on       the core assumption that when individuals decide to participate in       biobank-based research, they are willing to accept the possibility that       [a] certain level of costs may need to be carried by them for the sake of       communal benefit"5-7 They cite the PGP (see a),       as a model for their recommended practices (p.61).
The NCB 2012 report on       Emerging Biotechnologies5-8 also reflects and       acknowledges Chadwick's research.
Of the principles of public solidarity,       the report states: "This new orientation is towards a notion of the public       good rather than&#8212;and distinct from&#8212;the concern for negotiation between       individual interests engaged by bioethical questions"5-8       (p.62).
Hugh Whittall, Director of NCB since 2007, states: "The Council's work on       both publications to which Professor Chadwick has contributed has been       influential in promoting the principle of solidarity in bioethics and in       developing it as an underpinning framework for policy."
He adds,       "Especially useful was her research into the way concepts of solidarity       have changed in the context of modern genetics, and her interest in       openness and honesty with those donating to biobanks.
"5-9 e)       Chadwick chaired a working group to draft a White Paper for the Human       Genome Organisation (HUGO), 2013.5-10 It explores issues       arising from relinquishing confidentiality.
Acknowledging open consent in       the PGP's as socially beneficial, it yet notes: "privacy and       confidentially still have a role in genetic data processing and storage,"       echoing Chadwick's position that the ethical entailments of consent       remain, at this time of rapid development in biotechnology, conflicting       and unresolved.
