     This research has been informing the national and international policy       community.
Its impact should be contextualised by noting that successive       Senegalese governments under President Abdoulaye Wade, who was in office       from 2000 to 2012, sought to lower the international profile of the       Casamance conflict by suppressing domestic and foreign media coverage.
He       also blocked two books on the conflict that were published in France from       entering and circulating in Senegal.
In this context, the importance of       getting information on the conflict to wider policy communities was       heightened.
Since the election of President Macky Sall in April 2012,       Senegalese policy on resolving the conflict has become more open to       international involvement at the same time as broader concerns about       instability in the sub-region have emerged.
Recent military operations by       West African and French forces against insurgents in Mali &#8212; the latter       have been found with arms apparently trafficked to them from Casamance       separatists &#8212; and related terrorism in Algeria have highlighted the need       for analysis of conflict in West Africa informed by field research.
Evans' research has informed British policy on Senegal mainly through       briefings to diplomats at the request of the Africa Research Group at the       Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and of the British Embassy in Dakar,       capital of Senegal, which also covers Guinea-Bissau.
Her Majesty's       Ambassador to Senegal was briefed in post in Dakar in August 2009,       following an earlier presentation to him in London with six FCO staff and       external analysts present.
His replacement was briefed in London in April       2011 with three additional representatives present.
Besides thereby       providing information supporting small aid projects in Casamance funded by       the British Embassy to Senegal, the research has increased British       government understanding of problems on the ground, the motivations of the       Casamance separatists, and the need for British diplomatic and aid efforts       in support of the peace process.
Evans has emphasised that these efforts       should be better coordinated with those of other European countries,       principally France and Portugal, the former colonial powers in Senegal and       Guinea-Bissau respectively.
At international policy level, Evans provided information and analysis on       events in Casamance to the Africa II Division of the Department of       Political Affairs at the United Nations in New York as it mooted a       peace-building initiative between December 2009 and September 2010.
More       recently, this has been superseded by two new initiatives.
One is a World       Bank programme funding peacebuilding and return of the displaced in       Casamance, where Evans acted as a peer reviewer for the programme proposal       (submitting advice to a panel of 15 people, March 2012) and as a member of       an expert panel giving advice on research underpinning this programme       (four people, June 2012).
The other is a peace-building initiative by the       US Department of State, for which Evans briefed the diplomat concerned,       and his advisor, before he embarked on his mission in September 2012.
Evans has also provided advice to international aid and advocacy agencies       and NGOs, informing them on security and political conditions in       Casamance.
This has included the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre       in Geneva (February 2009 to November 2011; see IDMC, 2010) and Y-Care       International in London from December 2010 to the present day.
Another       important channel through which the research has been disseminated to       users in the aid and policy sectors is the specialised media, particularly       IRIN (Integrated Regional Information Networks), the highly respected news       and analysis service of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of       Humanitarian Affairs, for which Evans has given a number of commentaries       on events in Casamance and Guinea-Bissau (see for example IRIN, 2009a-c).
In addition, Evans has given an interview to the South African       Broadcasting Corporation (SABC, 2009), notable because of South Africa's       important political role on the African continent.
Evans' detailed, first-hand knowledge of the political and social       conditions in Senegal has also been called upon in the provision of expert       reports and other advice on the claims of Casaman&#231;ais and other Senegalese       asylum seekers in the UK, US, Canada and Belgium.
His testimony affected       the cases of at least seven individuals from May 2009 to January 2011.
Given the low profile of the Casamance conflict internationally and       limited expertise on it in Western countries, particularly       English-speaking ones, such testimony has been highly sought after and       valued by the government agencies and legal firms concerned.
