     Significance of the Research       The findings from these research projects have a significance that extends       beyond academia.
The       research on the football industry has contributed to the written evidence       produced by Hamil and       Walters for two parliamentary enquiries.
In addition, individual members       of the Birkbeck Sport       Business Centre have been invited to provide oral evidence at these       enquiries starting with the All       Party Parliamentary Football Group inquiry into `English Football and         its Governance' in May 2008       (5.10).
The written and oral evidence drew on the reports and       accompanying academic articles and       contributed to the findings of the Committee's final report.
In       particular, oral evidence given by       Walters on the issue of club finances and debt based on the research was       cited in the final report       of the All Party Parliamentary Football Group in 2009 (5.3).
Written and oral evidence was provided       to the inquiry by the House of Commons Culture, Media &amp; Sport       Committee into the governance of       English football in February 2011 (5.4, 5.5).
The evidence       presented at this inquiry drew on the       research by Hamil and Walters (2010) and Walters and Hamil (2013) that set       out the poor financial       performance of the football industry and the issues with regulatory       structures.
The oral evidence       provided by Hamil was cited in the final report (and the media) (5.6)       and informed some of the       recommendations made by the Committee, for example, in relation to the       calls for the       implementation of a club licensing scheme to promote financial       sustainability at football clubs and       the abolition of the Football Creditors' Rule (5.5).
The findings from the survey research in 2010 and 2011 on NGB governance       contributed to the       development of the principles contained within the Voluntary Code of         Good Governance for the         Sport and Recreation Sector, a code developed by the Sport and       Recreation Alliance (the umbrella       organisation for the governing and representative bodies of sport and       recreation in the UK) (5.1,       5.7, 5.8).
Walters and Tacon were invited to sit on the Governance       Steering Group that was       responsible for the development of the code.
The significance of this       research has been       acknowledged in the House of Lords following a debate initiated by Lord       Moynihan, then Chair of       the British Olympic Association, on the need for good governance in sport       and was referred to by       Baroness Jones of Whitchurch as "a great starting point for governing         bodies struggling to raise         their game" (5.9).
It has been referenced in the publication       by the Academy of Social Sciences &#8212;       `Making the Case for the Social Sciences: No 5: Sport and Leisure' (5.2).
Expanding Reach       Although some of the findings illustrated in this paragraph are prior to       the impact period, they       provide context and background to the impact post 2008.
The findings from       the annual State of the       Game survey were disseminated first through a series of annual reports       available on the Birkbeck       Sport Business Centre website (http://www.sportbusinesscentre.com/research/research-papers/).
Each       report was launched at a major event attended by representatives of all       the key football       industry stakeholders.
The foreword for each report was provided by a       major public figure in order       to underline the key objective of the research, to inform the development       of best governance       practice in the industry e.g.
in 2006, the Rt.
Hon Richard Caborn, MP,       Minister for Sport,       Department of Culture, Media &amp; Sport (DCMS); in 2005, by Brian       Barwick, CEO, The Football       Association, with an associated preface by Lars Christer Olsson, CEO,       UEFA, the governing body       of European football; in 2004 by Kate Barker, Chair, the Financial       Advisory Committee, The       Football Association; in 2003, by the Rt.
Hon Tessa Jowell MP, Secretary       of State for Culture,       Media and Sport.
The support provided underlined the authority which the       State of the Game       research brought to the argument, promoted by leading government and       football industry figures,       to promote better governance standards in the industry.
Data from the       surveys informed the       analysis in a number of academic journal articles through which the       research findings were       disseminated to the wider academic community.
Hamil and Waters were able to build on the pre-2008 research activity to       extend the depth, but       critically the scope, of the Centre's research agenda, most notably by       expanding the coverage to       include investigations into the quality of governance in major sports       beyond football.
The findings from the survey research in 2010 and 2011 on NGB governance       have been       disseminated in a number of ways.
Presentations of the results were made       to more than 40 NGBs       at two events held at Birkbeck in 2010 and 2011.
These were in       collaboration with Timothy Dutton       QC, author of a major report into governance standards at NGBs, and funded       by the governing       funding agency SportEngland, delivering the keynote address:     http://www.sportbusinesscentre.com/events/good-governance-in-sport-the-road-to-sporting-success/.
All NGBs within the UK have received copies of the final reports in order       to raise awareness of       issues around the role and responsibilities of the board.
The findings       have been used by the Sport       and Recreation Alliance, first as a way to draw attention to particular       issues when presenting to       NGB board members and second, to inform the development of the Voluntary         Code of Good         Governance for the Sport and Recreation Sector.
(5.1) This       code has been adopted by more than       60 National Governing Bodies of Sport in the UK (5.8) and is       helping to raise standards of       governance within the boards of sport organisations.
Further this code has       formed the benchmark       against which the Sport and Recreation Alliance have developed a       governance guide for European       sports organisations, having been the lead on an EU Commission funded       project between 2011       and 2013.
Walters and Tacon have been involved in providing research       support for this project.
