     The Honourable Kate Wilkinson, Minister of Labour wrote to Professor       Bentley, the leader of the research project, in October 2011 acknowledging       the contribution the research had made to the understanding of the nature       and prevalence of psychosocial hazards in New Zealand Workplaces (5.1).
The acting manager for Labour Research and Evaluation acknowledged the       three main impacts of the research.
These were highlighting the importance       of psychosocial factors in workplaces, contributing to the decision to       include psychosocial workplace hazards as a priority area for the       Occupational Health Action Plan to 2013 and using data from the report as       one of the main factual bases for a new guideline Ministry staff wrote on       workplace bullying in New Zealand (5.2).
The significance and reach       of the research, particularly around ineffective leadership as a main       factor leading to increased stress and bullying and that employers in all       sectors had limited understanding of the workplace bullying problem and       how to address it, led the Department of Labour to issue a press release       on April 15 2010 (5.3) specifically citing the research, warning       employers that they had a duty under the Health and Safety in Employment       Act to provide a healthy and safe workplace, which included having a       workplace in which bullying is not tolerated.
Lesley Haines, Department of       Labour Head of Employment Relations, warned employers that they needed       robust practices and procedures to deal with workplace bullying issues.
Haines said the Department would work with each sector covered by the       report to raise awareness of the issues raised by the research findings.
Fact sheets and guidance material have been prepared (5.4).
The       Labour Department was quoted as saying "it would use the findings to         produce fact sheets and other `guidance material' to help employers and         staff deal with bullying."
The research had a significant impact on       the Department of Labour's Occupational Health Action Plan to 2013 (2.1.5,       p.11) where the findings from the research directly contributed to the       decision to include psychosocial workplace hazards as a priority area for       the Occupational Health Action Plan to 2013, as an initiative of New       Zealand's workplace Health and Safety Strategy (5.5).
The research showed that bullying was notably higher in the health and       education sectors, where ineffective leadership was one of the main       causes.
These findings were disseminated to unions and to the Human       Resource Institute of New Zealand.
The findings showed that television       representations of foul-mouthed and abusive chefs may not be far from the       truth with belittling behaviour an accepted and "normalised" part of the       hospitality culture.
An article in Hospitality (2009) about chefs       behaving badly in New Zealand cited the research drawing attention to the       differences between bullying in the kitchen and other parts of the       hospitality industry (5.6).
The research generated enormous media       coverage and impact, highlighting the problem of bullying in the       workplace, with one in five being bullied in the workplace.
This media       coverage included 12 radio and television interviews and some 8 newspaper       articles.
An article in the New Zealand Herald (http://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/news/article.cfm?c_id=1&amp;objectid=10638499)       drew attention to the role of leadership and management in the thriving       culture of bullying in the workplace.
The reach and significance of the       research is further demonstrated by being cited in an article on exploding       the myths of workplace bullying in the Perth, Australia Work Safe Forum (5.7)       where the research focus on identifying risk factors for bullying were       referred to.
The research put workplace bullying under the spotlight in       New Zealand Employment Law fora as an increasingly recognised major       workplace issue with legal implications (5.8).
Expanding Reach     The findings of the research have been widely disseminated across New       Zealand industry by members of the research team conducting road shows to       groups of stakeholders with the aim of increasing awareness among employees       and organizations - who must understand the nature and prevalence       of bullying before they can take steps to prevent it.
Involvement of the       national, industrial and organisational parties provides an excellent       platform for dissemination and ongoing engagement to ensure best the       possible impact and industry uptake of the findings.
Presentations of the       results were made to all these bodies during 2010-12 and to what are now       the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment for public release in       April 2010 (5.3, 5.5).
The research has been picked up by a range       of media and professional organizations including the Association of       Salaried Medical Specialists as late as 2013 (5.9).
It has been       disseminated to all industry groups through presentations such as meetings       of regional occupational health and safety practitioners during 2011.
The       research is being replicated in the ASEAN countries as a comparative study       for capacity building in those countries.
While it is difficult to       evidence that the research has resulted in less bullying and stress, the       impact through influencing government policy and attracting coverage by       media, and safety and employment law forums has resulted in more       organizations producing their own bulling policies that are not just part       of harassment policies.
The research team was invited to comment on the       Safe Work Australia draft COP on Workplace bullying in 2011, based on the       research which was cited (5.10).
