     The underpinning research has been presented in numerous public forums       including non-academic books, public lectures and debates, radio       programmes, literary festivals, YouTube videos and podcasts, and       conferences for secondary school teachers (with information packs).
This       research has impacted on public ideas about the problem of values in       modern society and whether it is possible to affirm the meaning of life       without religion.
Evidence of Gemes' and May's influence in this discourse       lies in the strong interest reflected in the number of their podcasts that       have been commissioned and downloaded, along with book reviews, radio       interviews and invitations to speak at public events such as literary       festivals.
Professor May's book, Love: A History, has received numerous       reviews in major periodicals, including The Financial Times, The         Wall Street Journal, The Guardian, and The Independent (Source 1).
It was incorporated in Antonio Riello's art performance piece "Ashes to       Ashes", exhibited in several major cities including Venice (as part of the       54th Biennale di Venezia, 2011), New York (Museum of Art &amp; Design,       August 2012), Rome, London and Paris.
Professors Gemes and May have been       the focus of three Philosophy Now programmes on Resonance Radio       which has 30,000 listeners for its live shows; it was also podcast on the       Philosophy Now website (Sources 2-4).
The assistant editor of Philosophy         Now writes, `We changed service provider a year or so ago, and since       that time have not been able to collect statistics for the downloads.
I       can tell you that at the time of the change, Ken's Nietzsche show was the       most popular of all the shows, and had downloads of just under 25,000.
The       Love one was almost as popular, with coming up to 20,000, and the Tragedy       one lagging only a bit behind with just under 15,000.
Judging by the       patterns of growth at that time, it's reasonable to say that the stats       would have at least doubled by now, and probably more; so conservative       estimates would be 50,000, 40,000, and 30,000 respectively, but they may       now each be tens of thousands higher' (Source 5).
Simon May has also given       interviews in relation to his book (Ref 5) on Philosophy Bites (source 6)       and Radio 4 Women's Hour (source 7).
Gemes has given invited talks on Nietzsche and free will, nihilism, the       affirmation of life and the Death of God at multiple public events at       universities internationally, including Harvard, Brown, Colorado,       Princeton, Wake Forrest, Oxford, Cambridge, Stirling, and London.
He has       also been invited to give talks at schools including St Paul's School for       Boys, University College School, Highgate School, City and Islington Sixth       Form College, and Sevenoaks School.
He is a popular speaker at public       events including the How the Light Gets In Festival of Philosophy,       2013 (source 8).
He has been invited twice to speak at the very popular       `My Night with Philosophers' at the Institute Fran&#231;ais in 2012 and 2013.
According to the organiser, `Ken was programmed in Les Salons in 2012: 70       people attended (the maximum capacity is 60) and in Salle Iselin in 2013       where 127 people attended (capacity 120)' (source 9).
He was also invited       to speak at the 4 day Academy of Ideas conference (July 2013), attended by       over 200 people, where his lecture was one of the most well-received       (Source 10).
In 2012 he spoke at an event organised at Conway Hall,       London, attracting a packed audience of Muslims and viewable on a Youtube       video with over 1900 views (source 11).
In April 2013, the University of London International Programme invited       Professor Gemes to record two hour-long lectures to be made available on       its VLE, directed at students at HEIs around the globe, on "Nietzsche on       the Value of Truth" and "Nietzsche on Nihilism and the Death of God".
Professor May was invited to discuss his book Love: A History at       the Hay-on-Wye How the Light Gets In Philosophy Festival June       2011.
He gave a keynote lecture; and participated in panels on selfhood,       with Henrietta Moore (Professor of Anthropology, Cambridge University),       Barry Smith (Birkbeck) and Julian Baggini; on `beyond good and evil', with       Prof Anthony O'Hear and Dr Carol Diethe; on nature and value of happiness,       with Professor Richard Layard and Jesse Norman MP; and on the body in a       post-religious world, with Minette Marrin and Finn McKay.
He was invited       to lead a seminar on Love: A History at the Goethe Institute in       Boston in October 2011.
He contributed an invited op-ed piece on love for       the Washington Post in February 2013, reprinted in the Denver Post.
