     ALCOVE aimed to enhance the wellbeing of persons with dementia, by       increasing knowledge and understanding of dementia and developing       preventive and care recommendations for health care policy and practice       across Europe.
The ADS recommendations can be used by policy makers and       influencers across the EU to improve timely diagnosis and to benchmark       progress at a local, national and European level in the key areas of       timely detection, the diagnostic process, complex diagnoses, response to       early cognitive changes and work-force.
Although it is too early to state       how far these recommendations will change policy across EU member states,       the outcomes of the project have already begun to stimulate policy debate.
Further, the associated development of a `toolbox' aimed at limiting the       use of antipsychotics in dementia care has begun to inform care practice.
A comprehensive communication strategy for the project was established       from the outset.
ALCOVE circulated a periodic newsletter directly to 4,000       key decision makers across member states.
ADS presented its work in       progress in a number of contexts: for example, at Alzheimer Europe's       Annual Conference in Vienna, Austria (4-6 October 2012) which included       representatives from a number of Europe's national Alzheimer associations;       and at two lunch debates in the European Parliament.
A final symposium was       held in Paris in March 2013 to report the results of the project to an       audience consisting of government ministers (or their representatives)       from 23 EU Member States, as well as senior figures from organisations       such as WHO and OECD.
In total, ALCOVE research findings were disseminated       in 51 separate instances through a variety of different means.
Further, ADS sought to engage both policy/decision makers and direct       beneficiaries in the research process.
For example, the project steering       group consisted of: Professor Alistair Burns, National Clinical Director       for Dementia; Jerry Bird, project manager at the Department of Health for       the implementation of the National Dementia Strategy; and Dr Karim Saad,       Regional Clinical Lead for Dementia, NHS West Midlands; whilst a reference       group, consisting of people with dementia, family carers, health and       social care professionals, were involved in the iterative process of       reflection, clarification and verification throughout the research.
ADS's research has fed directly into UK policy debate on dementia.
Professor Brooker is a member of the NHS England-BMA Timely Diagnosis of       Dementia Consensus Group.
At its meeting in July 2013 it recognised the       importance of the ALCOVE evidence in creating a consensus on timely       diagnosis (Source A).
It also highlighted the importance of the       terminology of "timely" as opposed to "early" diagnosis, as timely       emphasised that benefit would accrue from the diagnosis.
This significant       distinction has elsewhere been identified by the project manager for the       Dementia Policy Team as a key contribution to this debate (Source B).
ADS's research has also had impact on policy in a European setting, in       particular through work with Alzheimer Europe, the European umbrella       organisation of national Alzheimer associations.
ADS worked closely with       Alzheimer Europe during the ALCOVE project as it was simultaneously       carrying out a project to review national dementia strategies and policies       with a particular focus on recommendations in the field of diagnosis and       treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.
This       collaboration is reflected in the resulting Dementia in Europe 2012         Yearbook on national policies, an important resource for policy       makers across Europe (Source C).
The ALCOVE project is also       referenced in the evaluation of France's Alzheimer Strategy 2008-12,       wherein the importance of the project's outcomes going forward are       highlighted (Source D).
Another key product of the project was a `toolbox' designed to limit the       use of antipsychotics in the treatment of dementia (Source E).
The       toolbox is an information-exchange platform which includes tools &amp;       feedback to facilitate benchmarking and the implementation of public       health actions relating to the use of antipsychotics.
A specific toolbox       was developed around timely diagnosis which, in particular, emphasises the       central importance of timely diagnosis in limiting the later use of       antipsychotics.
An evaluation undertaken at the final symposium       highlighted the immediate value of the toolbox, not only to those living       with dementia and their carers but also to health and social care       professionals and policy makers.
