     Over the last decade public art has increasingly become associated with       the wider processes of regeneration and place shaping.
However, the       assessment of the impact of public art in relation to wider regeneration       benefits is complex and difficult to identify.
This is reflective of a       number of factors, including: the uncontained nature of the audience that       views public art; the fact that the target population for anticipated       impacts of the art is very broad; that audience contact can be intentional       or accidental, conscious or subconscious, direct or indirect; and that       outcomes are often time-lagged, evolving over a number of years.
Since       2003 the cultural policy and public art policy analysis and evaluation       work undertaken through the underpinning research outlined in section 3       has directly addressed these issues, providing policy makers with       information and evidence with which to assess the impact of their       investments in public art works and public art strategies.
The policy impact of this research activity has been spread throughout       the UK across a range of local authorities and public sector agencies.
This work has involved extensive interaction with the policy-making       community through numerous strategy and policy evaluations for local       authorities, as well as assessments of national cultural and public art       programmes relating to the built environment (projects for Arts Council of       Wales, Arts Council England, Scottish Arts Council).
At a national level       our research has informed both organisational change and spending       priorities of key cultural institutions.
For example, the research       undertaken for Public Art Wales (2003) and the Scottish Arts Council       (2004), was used to determine the structure for public art provision in       these organisations, as well as their delivery and commissioning       strategies.
Equally, our research for the Arts Council, England in 2007/8       contributed to the development of a rationalised approach to a national       cultural programme (Architecture Week) designed to promote and improve       public awareness of the significance of art, design and architecture in       the built environment.
Our contribution to the cultural regeneration of place has also been made       at the regional level.
Between 2007 and 2008, working with colleagues in       the University's Policy Research Institute, we contributed to an extensive       piece of research on the `Welcome to the North' Public Art Programme'       (part of a wider `Welcome to the North' initiative funded under the       management of `The Northern Way' programme of regional development       activity in the mid-200s).
Our research both reviewed and evaluated the       success of the `Welcome to the North Public Art Programme' as well as       assessing its broader aim of establishing a public art programme designed       to enhance the profile, perception and overall quality of place of the       Northern Way area (the North West, Yorkshire and the Humber and the North       East).
(see: http://www.artscouncil.org.uk/funding/funded-projects/case-studies/welcome-north-public-art-programme/).
One of the key recommendations from the research was the need to maximize       publicity and promotional messages during the post-delivery stage of the       programme in order to ensure that its impacts continue to accrue.
Indeed,       our work demonstrated that the presence of the art works and their impact       upon the wider public would continue to emerge beyond the life-time of the       overall programme.
The key recommendation here (and impact on the       programme) was that there was a need to identify ways in which the art       works could be mobilized to promote quality of place and improve the       perception of the North of England in the long term.
In practical terms       this required the commissioning organisation to develop approaches to       post-programme management that linked the imagery and presence of the art       work to major event promotion within specific localised contexts.
Our work at the local level has been influential in developing local       public art strategies.
For example, as the Wigan Pier Quarter Strategy       document suggests, "Consultants RKL have prepared a Public Art Strategy         for the Pier Quarter.
The strategy shows how an integrated public art         strategy could help to create a new image for the area and help to         enhance the distinctive qualities of the site."
(http://www.move2wigan.com/images/links/WPQ-Strategy-Final.pdf)       (p.9).
While our work for Durham County Council was recognised as       providing the authority with "the structural capacity to act as a         focus for public art work in County Durham generally and not just         initiatives involving the County Council".
(http://democracy.durham.gov.uk/CeListDocuments.aspx?MID=2755&amp;RD=A3%20Public%20Art%20Str         ategy&amp;DF=04%2F08%2F2005&amp;A=1&amp;R=0     In sum, our work has provided information and evidence designed to allow       each client to assess current policy and provision as well develop and       improve future policy formation and delivery.
This evaluation work has       made specific contribution to the development of more evidenced-based       policy formulation, particularly in the articulation of new and/or       reworked public art strategies produced by these organisations.
The       beneficiaries of this evaluation work are both the public sector agencies       and local authorities themselves (better informed policy-making and       improved understanding of the role and impacts of public art in the       regeneration process) and their local communities and populations       (improvements in public service provision and enrichment of the cultural       offer of places).
Our involvement in the continuing commissioning of such       evaluation and policy analysis work is indicative of the value and       relevance of our past research and the potential for its future       maintenance and continued development.
