     The flow chart below outlines the work undertaken to demonstrate the         types of impact achieved:        Water quality results indicated that shallow well water was heavily       polluted with both total and faecal coliforms, especially after the on-set       of the rains.
About 95% of all the wells tested failed to meet safe       drinking water values for untreated water in the wet season, while about       80% of the wells failed in the dry season(1,2,3).
It was noted       that the main forms of contamination from shallow wells emanate from       bacteriological and physical constituents; in contrast, the main form of       contamination from boreholes stem from chemical elements.
The detrimental       impact on human health of chemical contamination normally requires many       decades of exposure before it can be recognised.
Where life spans are       short due to high incidence of infectious diseases emanating from       bacteriological contamination, it is this form of contamination that needs       to be addressed first for the developing world.
To immediately try to       minimise water related diseases, Water Officers and Village Chiefs were       informed (2006-08) of the wells, which were yielding grossly biologically       contaminated water(A); and hence advised to either just use       this water source for washing or to boil the water for at least one minute       before consuming.
From this data a series of publications were formed(e.g.
1-6).
Inter alia, these fed into the Government of the Republic of Malawi       Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development, Second National Water       Develop Project (NWDP II &#8212; 2011) entitled `Water Resources Investment       Strategy', World Bank funded(B); hence used to developed       policy.
The field sampling data has also been presented to MPs at the       House of Commons and has provided direction to others researchers(e.g.C-H).
Laboratory trials were undertaken on Moringa oleifera,       Jatropha curcas and Guar gum extracts.
Toxicity tests were also       conducted on these extracts.
These trials showed that the addition of       plant extracts can considerably improve the quality of shallow well water.
About 70% reduction in TC and FC was noted on average.
At optimum dosage,       turbidity reduction of water ranged from 10-100% for the three plant       extracts.
All three extracts proved non-toxic at the recommended       concentrations for water treatment based on the ecotoxicity results.
To       implement the use of local plant extracts, grown throughout rural       villages, a novel small-scale `bolt-on' shallow well water purification       system has been developed.
Initial field data demonstrates that       improvement in shallow well water quality of around 80% can be achieved.
Hence, if implemented for every shallow well in Malawi around 1.5 million       Malawians could have significantly improved water sources.
Interest in       applying the technology on a larger-scale has been expressed by NGOs and       the private sector(G) and will be further developed once the       full-scale site trial has been completed.
It is hoped that such a system       will provide a unique sustainable and economical solution to significantly       reduce waterborne diseases to some of the poorest people in the world.
In addition to actually conducting the research work, funding from DelPHE       (2009-12) was awarded to develop a new style MSc course, in conjunction       with the Polytechnic University of Malawi(10).
Prior to the       onset of this course people in the public or industrial sectors had to       leave their jobs (travel overseas) and thus become a full-time student to       gain a higher qualification, due to the limitations of available courses       in-country.
The associated costs, both financial and emotional for       studying overseas are high.
Also, what they are taught and encouraged to       research, in general, targets the cultural and economic situation in the       host country; little benefit may accrue to the student's country of       origin.
In addition, after they have gained their qualification it might       be a few years before they gain employment again in their home country.
A       market had developed for good quality assured postgraduate courses that       can be delivered in-country at an affordable cost, enabling students to       maintain full employment during their studies.
A total of 39 students are       currently (2013) studying on this programme.
