     The group's research has had major impacts in three areas: Building         Regulations: The group is at the forefront of regulatory       development, Bell served on the CLG's regulatory teams for the 2006 review       and following this, work at Stamford Brook (Wingfield et al.
2011), Elm       Tree Mews (Bell et al., 2010) and work funded by the Mineral Wool       Insulation Manufacturer's Association (MIMA &#8212; Wingfield et al., 2009)       highlighted, as never before, a performance gap that could undermine       regulation and the Government's 2016 zero carbon housing targets.
Bell was       invited again, as convenor and technical author, to lead industry working       parties and advise ministers for both 2010 and 2013 reviews.
The       contribution was recognised in a National Audit Office report (NAO, 2008)       and in evidence to the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee (PAC       2009) in addition to citations in the consultation documents for the 2010       (CLG 2009) and 2013 (CLG 2012) reviews.
Crucially, the work on the party       wall thermal bypass (Wingfield et al., 2009 and Lowe et al., 2007) led to       regulatory change in 2010 to ensure bypasses were fully accounted for in       the national calculation methodology (SAP) and the Approved Documents (HM       Government, 2010).
In addition, the government's Green Deal is set to       include party wall installation as an accredited improvement measure in       existing dwellings with cavity party walls.
This will ensure that the       group's research will have application in both new build and existing       dwellings.
Although the full carbon impact remains uncertain it is likely       that carbon savings could be in the millions of tonnes per year.
Low and zero carbon housing policy: Bell provides leadership on       the Zero Carbon Hub (ZCH) which, inter alia, cited performance gap studies       from the group (Bell et al.
2010) and was instrumental in providing the       clearest policy statement to date; over 90% of new dwellings       as-constructed should be zero carbon as verified by effective measurement       (ZCH 2011, recommendation 4a).
Work is on-going through a       government/industry project to develop solutions (ZCH 2013) Bell is a       steering group member.
In addition, Bell's membership of the DECC Expert       Measures Group advises on In-Use factors for DECC's Green Deal program       (driven largely by work at Leeds Met).
The award of &#163;526,800 to research       the Leeds Green Deal Pilot Project (led by Gorse and Stafford) shows       recognition by government.
Further awards by TSB on their Building       Performance and Evaluation and Retrofit Programmes represent a significant       body of work (value in excess of &#163;700,000 led by Johnston and Gorse) which       continue to identify methods of improving building performance and       efficiency.
The group's identification of the performance gap prompted the Technology       Strategy Board's (TSB) programme on Building Performance Evaluation (BPE)       which adopts the group's Co-heating Test protocol.
This standard has also       been embraced by the IEA Annex 58 programme on whole building performance,       for which the group are leaders in whole house heat loss (see Johnston et       al.
2012).
Thus the group is changing the way the construction industry       deals with as built energy efficiency internationally, as well as in the       UK.
The house building industry and manufacturers: The group advises       the Home Builders Federation and National Home Builders Council and       individual developers through the Good Homes Aliance, ZCH, TSB and DECC       programmes.
Dissemination work through CPD (LowCarb4Real -Bell et al.
2009, Green Vision) has engaged hundreds of professionals over the last 4       years; over 150 were reached through the Green Visions program, and over       200 professionals attended meetings hosted by the group for the Leeds       Sustainability Institute, the IEA's annex 58 and the Association of       Researchers in Construction Management.
As an indication of the wider       interest in the group's research the group website which provides details       on projects and their outputs was visited by over 5,300 unique visitors       between August 2012 and September 2013 whilst the Low Carbon Housing       Virtual Site developed by the group was visited almost 11,000 times.
Commissions from MIMA (Wingfield et al., 2009 and Bell, 2012) and       collaborations with Knauf have led to the development of products       specifically for the new insulation market in the party wall bypass worth       &#163;millions.
Research into heat pumps has resulted in manufacturers (IVT)       adopting new commercial control settings and providing guidance for       installers on how to size systems so as to improve efficiencies and reduce       householder bills (Stafford and Lilley., 2012).
Thanks to the group's work       it is now accepted that failure to address the performance gap carries       significant commercial risks and undermines energy and carbon reduction       policy.
