     Dr Cook's research is embedded in his commitment to sharing his findings,       insights and methods as he develops them.
In his work on the post-war       years, his use of oral history has enabled non-academics to explore the       history of queer lives, networks and communities and has highlighted       afresh the significance of locality, class, ethnicity, and gender.
As       co-director of the Raphael Samuel History Centre since 2008, Dr Cook has       used his research to involve communities in the study of their histories,       enabled people in the LGBT community and its wider periphery, in schools       and lifelong learning, to explore and challenge constructions of queer       histories.
His research has also had a growing impact on media and wider       public discourse.
The LGBT community     Since 2008, in LGBT History Month Dr Cook has organised well-attended and       well-reviewed archive workshops (10 - 30 participants) which enable       participants, most of whom have not studied history formally post-16, to       use archival sources to reveal alternative histories.
His research has       provided the basis for strong relationships with a number of organisations       with whom he has convened workshops, including the Lesbian and Gay       Newsmedia and the Hall Carpenter Archives.
His research has been       influential in the development of the work of a number of LGBT       organisations.
For example, he gives annual lectures to the Gay and       Lesbian Humanist Association (GALHA), where he addresses audiences of 80       or more; one talk, on the History of Gay Families, led to an increase in       the involvement of LGBT Parents/Carers in GALHA's work (Testimonial 1).
He       has helped the Pink Singers &#8212; London's LGBT community choir &#8212; in their       successful application to the Heritage Lottery Fund for their oral history       project.
The choir's co-ordinator writes: `That we are able to even       undertake this project is due in no small part to Matt' (Testimonial 2).
For Stonewall's 2009/10 oral history project on policing and housing, and       Rukus!
the Black LGBT Archive, he worked (respectively) as a steering       group member and advisor.
Age Concern's project worker with the older gay       men's group, Opening Doors London, writes: `Matt's talks are always       popular with anywhere between 40 and 50 people coming to hear him speak       .... His talks are stimulating and always get members talking about events       THEY remember...He gives [them] a sense of pride in their own       contributions and feelings of worth that their "stories" are of value.'
(Testimonial 3)     Schools, students and lifelong learning     Dr Cook's research has enabled educational bodies to engage with LGBT       history more effectively.
Since 2009, Dr Cook has helped staff at the       Hall-Carpenter Archive to develop their skills in engaging school students       and adult learners with archival materials.
The London Metropolitan       Archive (LMA) has worked closely with Dr Cook for several years.
He       developed and hosted its popular Queer Histories Certificate of Higher       Education course which attracted new users and raised awareness of the       LMA's collections.
He is on the steering committee for LMA's annual LGBT       History and Archives conference.
His research has led the Interpretation/       Development Team to re-visit collections and make new enquiries of the       material, inspiring new public events.
On the events steering group of the       Bishopsgate Institute since 2008, his knowledge and understanding of gay       history helped them increase their audience by over 500% over 6 years.
According to LMA's Principal Development Officer, Cook `inspired and       highly knowledgeable presentations to conference audiences have been       challenging, engaging and above all accessible for people with a wide       range of interests and background knowledge.
The evaluation feedback over       the years has confirmed this with responses all being Good to Excellent.'
She adds that his `role has been very important to LMA over the years,       enabling LMA to develop audience and engagement directly with/through       Birkbeck and the Raphael Samuel History Centre.
His input has also       informed our practice with other HE institutions.'
(Testimonial 4)     As patron, since 2010, for Schools Out, a charity working in schools and       FE colleges, Dr Cook has inspired school teachers and students to explore       LGBT issues.
In 2011 the Historical Association (HA) invited Dr Cook to       record a podcast on Britain's gay and lesbian history for their schools       website and estimates between 10,000 and 12,000 downloads.
Most of the       users have been teachers, and history students between 16 and 21.
The       podcast was also broadcast by gay radio station Gateway 97.8.
(Source 6)     Cook's research was also instrumental in the successful application by       History and Heritage Adult Learning London (HHALL) to the National       Institute for Adult and Community Education (NIACE), winning &#163;27,000 for a       public Valentine's festival `Past Caring: A Celebration of Love in         History' in February 2010.
This week-long festival involved 16       events at archive and heritage institutions across London, attended by       diverse audiences of over 500 people.
The event report features a list of       project partners (National Maritime Museum, Wiener Library, London       Transport Museum, Geffrye Museum, Freud Museum, Hampstead Museum, London       Metropolitan Archive, Gays the Word, London Review Bookshop.
(Source 7)     The significance of Cook's research is recognised by museum and heritage       institutions.
He gave the keynote for the `Gay Icons' programme, 2009 at       the National Portrait Gallery; he created the gay history strand in the       National Trust's phone app history tour of Soho London, which has received       8,000 downloads since its launch in 2012 (Source 8); and a National       Archives podcast resulted in c.4,500 downloads between April 2011 and       March 2013.
Most recently, in June 2013, he led a discussion at the       Geffrye Museum of the Home in anticipation of his forthcoming Queer         Domesticities book.
The event was fully booked at 100.
Media and public discourse     Dr Cook's two books were listed in the top six `Gay London Reads' in Time       Out, 19 - 25 Feb 2009.
He is a frequent participant in TV and radio       news and documentaries, nationally and, increasingly, internationally.
He       appeared several times as a `talking head' in the TV documentary, `Prince       Eddy: The King We Never Had', first screened on Channel 4 in 2005 but       still available on Youtube.
It was viewed over 13,207 times by 31/07/2013       (Source 9).
He has been interviewed about his research for TV       programmes including `Am I Normal?'
(BBC1 2008); and `Victorians       Uncovered' (Channel 4 2008), regularly repeated on History Channel.
In       2012 he was interviewed for a six-part documentary on LGBT history in       Europe for a student radio station in Norway, appearing in 3 of the 6       episodes (source 10).
On Radio 4's Today (22 January       2013, with an estimated audience of 6.93 million), he participated in a       discussion on history of transvestism.
He also took part in a debate on       gay marriage for the BBC World News TV channel's lunchtime (for Europe;       early evening in Asia) news programme with an estimated global audience of       200 million (5 Feb 2013).
Croatian TV, HRT (www.hrt.hr)       interviewed Dr Cook to provide historical perspective on gay marriage and       rights for documentary programme `Parallels' (May 2013) with a viewing       audience of 2 million (Source 11).
He talked about his research on the       community radio station Gaydio, which has a broadcast and online audience       of up to 800,000 people (July 2013).
A producer of BBC World News       described him as `a fantastic speaker with a balanced, well researched,       original perspective of the gay marriage issue which helped push a lively       debate and also educate our audiences around the world.
Dr Cook presented       his research in a very effective and engaging way and became involved in       the debate with the other participants.'
(Testimonial 5)
