     Systems such as that found in nuclear power plants and air traffic       control place a high cognitive load on human operators as they perform       tasks that require information search, integration and deep inference       leading to a critical decision.
Mastering such complex environments       requires extensive training and increasingly, computer-based simulations       form an essential element of such training.
Although improvements in       display technology are important, underlying issues prevalent in risk       laden environments means that improvements do not necessarily provide for       productive and reliable user performance.
In particular, design and       evaluation of task procedures, information displays for complex systems       and associated training have become a critical issue.
As the task       complexity issue is very important to improve the safety of these       (safety-critical) complex systems many organizations utilizing these       complex systems require methods for evaluating task complexity or       evaluating interface designs for this requirement.
Our research on information seeking behaviour, goal oriented domain       analysis techniques and the influence of user interfaces on critical       decision making has addressed the issue of cognitive overload in safety       critical systems and how to provide training to support users of such       systems.
The research described earlier has led to two overarching       frameworks, both of which have had direct impact on external research       users.
Frameworks for measuring complexity of user interface tasks     In the first instance, within the context of the nuclear power industry,       the analysis provided by Dr Ham on the efficacy of widely available TACOM       methodology for abnormal situations has further materially, informed and       guided the Korean Atomic Energy Institute in their work on designing and       implementing modern control rooms for atomic power stations in Korea.
Guidance has been provided in two specific areas.
First, a conceptual       framework for complexity factors that was developed formulated on a sound       theoretical basis of cognitive systems engineering and system thinking has       now been made available to KAERI.
Secondly, practical guidance for using       task complexity factors in the design and evaluation of task procedures       and information displays for NPPs has also been utilised by KAERI.
Much of the guidance has had its main impact since March 2010 following       the completion of a number of task complexity studies.
The research       outputs and case studies developed in the underpinning research are now       used as a significant reference point for the on-going research activities       of Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute (KAERI).
Following the research undertaken by Dr Han, task complexity has been       regarded as a critical component that should be addressed for the       systematic design and evaluation of task procedures and information       displays in complex systems particularly for NPPs.
Additionally the research outputs have offered a new way of addressing       complexity-related research issues in NPPs.
For example, the research       outputs have helped systems designers and human factors engineers working       in NPPs to evaluate the design of task procedures and information displays       from the perspective of cognitive systems engineering.
Colleagues working at KAERI (Dr. Wondea Jung (wdjung@kaeri.re.kr)       and Dr. Jinkyun Park (kshpjk@kaeri.re.kr))       have been the primary beneficiaries of the impact.
They have been able to       utilize the research and develop further research outputs based on the       initial work done at Middlesex [S3].
Frameworks for designing variable training scenarios addressing         complex crisis situations     The CRISIS project led by Prof. Wong developed the Variable Uncertainty       Framework &#8212; a conceptual tool for managing variability and complexity of       training scenarios along dimensions such as: situational complexity, the       number of events occurring simultaneously, and randomness of events [2].
VSL Systems AB) a commercial software services company has implemented       key functions of the framework in their software product: `The VSL       Planner' including the following: time-based triggers initiating events at       a precise time or between time-intervals; events triggered from other       events; manual triggers and others.
VSL acknowledge that the ideas of the       VUF are powerful and provide a simpler means of increasing the variability       of the training situations with minimum user interaction [S4].
VSL are in       the process of commercialising their products.
Additionally, E-Semble (http://www.e-semble.com),       another simulation based training product organisation has also       incorporate a part of the VUF (spatial aspect triggers) by developing a       bespoke software development kit (SDK) into their XVR product.
As part of the investment into improved training facilities for London       Fire Brigade, Babcock, the infrastructure services company selected       E-Semble to implement the XVR platform into two newly built Incident       Command Simulation (Sim) suites located in London.
The XVR platform       generates a range of scenarios including those derived from the CRISIS       project and its deployment is reported in a press release to the trade       magazine Fire &amp; Rescue [S5]
