     1.
Member of the Academic Panel of the Competition Commission (since         2007)     By way of background, Beckert's early work on micro-econometric demand in       discrete-continuous       choice situations in network industries led to consultation by the       Competition Commission in its       (2002) inquiry into mobile telephony termination charges.
In this inquiry,       it was critical to       understand how mobile telephony users make choice out of a discrete menu       of alternative pricing       plans and subsequently utilize the service.
Conceptually, this choice       problem is addressed in       Beckert's (2005) paper on demand for internet services, and it was this       work that the Commission       wanted to draw upon in this inquiry (5.4).
Beckert's consultation role with the Competition Commission subsequently       expanded, and he is       now a member of the Academic Panel of the Commission.
He has since advised       on numerous       merger and market inquiries, most notably on the Commission's (2008)       groceries market       investigation.
Beckert's (2010) (3.1) paper on micro-econometric       approaches to geographic market       definition in local retail markets informed this inquiry; the approach       proposed in that paper was       used to estimate the relative strength of various store attributes in       consumers' valuations of chain       store offerings and is summarized in the Commission's Final Report.
His       (2010) paper on price-concentration       analysis in differentiated product industries, initially published as a       Competition       Commission working paper, was first used in the Commission's analysis of       the (2006) merger of       the Vue and Ster multiplex cinema operators and formed the methodological       foundation of the       Commission's competitive assessment in the groceries market inquiry; cf.
Final Report.
It has also       been referenced in the Commission's current Audit Market investigation       (referred on 21 Oct 2011,       statutory deadline 20 Oct 2013) (5.6).
2.
Academic Advisor of the Hong Kong Consumer Council (since February         2012)     Following his contributions to the groceries market inquiry as well as       his publications on antitrust       market definition, since 2011 Beckert has advised the Hong Kong Consumer       Council on its       investigation into competition among public housing estate-based       supermarkets in Hong Kong       (5.7).
3.
Oxera Economics Council (since December 2007)     Beckert serves on the academic advisory board of Oxera Consulting Ltd, an       international economic       consultancy (5.3).
In this capacity, he was a contributing author       to the European Commission's       2010 White Paper on "Quantifying Antitrust Damages".
This paper       provides pragmatic, non-binding       assistance in the difficult task of quantifying damages in antitrust       cases, both for the benefit of       national courts and the parties of antitrust damages litigation.
This       White Paper is aimed at       assisting the European Commission in developing guidance in this respect.
4.
Economics Reference Groups, Co-operation and Competition Panel,         Monitor and NHS         (since October 2009)     In the UK, the NHS Act (2006) opened up healthcare to market forces,       introducing choice and       competition.
Patients' geographic and quality preferences are important       determinants of choice       outcomes, and Beckert's work (3.6) examines both.
Beckert was       appointed a member of the       Economics Reference Group of the Co-operation and Competition Panel (now       Directorate), an       advisory panel to the Department of Health and Monitor (5.2).
Its       remit is to protect and promote       the interests of people who use health care services by promoting       provision of health care services       in the UK which is economic, efficient and effective, and maintains or       improves the quality of the       services.
Beckert's (2011) paper on hospital choice, co-authored with the       director of economic       analysis of the Panel, which was first published as a Co-operation and       Competition Panel working       paper, is now published in a distinguished academic journal and widely       referenced by academic       and health economics and policy experts; it directly reflects on the       methodology the Panel uses in       order to assess demand-side aspects of hospital mergers in England.
This       work has been       recognized through Beckert's honorary appointment to the Steering Group on       Competition in       Healthcare Markets of the Nuffield Trust (5.1) a charity and think       tank whose aim is to produce       independent analysis and debate of UK healthcare policy.
The empirical       approach to simulate the       effect of mergers between hospitals laid out in that paper is currently       being used by the       Competition Commission in the competitive assessment of a merger between       two large foundation       trusts in England.
(5.5).
5.
Research Associate, Institute for Fiscal Studies (since September         2003)     Beckert's overall academic contributions have been recognized by his       appointment as research       associate at the Institute for Fiscal Studies.
He participates in       conferences and meetings on       analysis of taxation and related issues in public policy.
