     International media and public discourse     Lovell's book, The Opium War, achieved sales of over 30,000       copies between September 2011       and 31 July 2013 (Source 6) and has been particularly successful in India       (Testimonial 1).
It       was shortlisted for the 2012 Orwell Prize, long-listed for the 2012       Cundill Prize in History and       won the 2012 Jan Michalski Prize.
As a Picador blog announcement noted,       `Julia is the first       writer to win this prize with a work of non-fiction.'
Isabel Hilton, one       of the judges, commented       on the relevance to the modern world of her subject, saying: "The Opium       War continues to       influence attitudes and relations on both sides, as China struggles to       define itself, and the world       struggles to decide what it thinks of China."'
(Source 7).
The book was       widely reviewed       nationally and internationally including in The Guardian, The         Times, The Literary Review, The         Independent, The London Review of Books; internationally its       coverage included Hong Kong's       The South China Morning Post, The International Herald Tribune,       The Times of India, and       Business Standard.
In India, for example, a former Indian Foreign       Secretary writing for The         Statesman called it a `compelling read' which `goes to show that       fact is often more exciting and       compelling than fiction' (Krishnan Srinivisan, August 2011).
Another       reviewer in India, in New         Delhi Business Standard, wrote, `In contrast to many in the growing       tribe of Western       commentators, Lovell has provided an analysis that is both entertaining       and dispassionate,       making the book an invaluable contribution to recent writing on China.'
(August 2011).
It was       also covered in broadcast media in the UK (for example, on Radio 3's Night       Waves), Hong       Kong and India.
(Source 8)     Her research on China's cultural history has led to innumerable       invitations to lecture at       museums, exhibitions, schools, literary festivals and historical societies       internationally including       London's National Maritime Museum and the Army Museum, the Hong Kong Royal       Geographical Society, University of Oklahoma, the Hong Kong Literary       Festival, the Beijing       Literary Festival and the Shanghai Literary Festival, and the India       International Centre at Delhi       (Source 10).
She is a regular speaker at Asia House, London's premier       venue for Asia-related       events.
In March 2013 she chaired a screening and discussion of the film The         Revolutionary       attended by a large, non-academic audience.
Its former director of       cultural programmes writes:       `I invited Dr Lovell to speak or moderate at a number of events due to her       comprehensive       knowledge of Chinese history and literature, and deep, nuanced       understanding of China's       relationship with the West.
... Part of the mission of Asia House is to       encourage understanding       of Asia's cultures and history and Dr Lovell helped us achieve this       through her excellent       contributions to cultural programmes.'
(Testimonial 2)     Dr Lovell's comment and review articles on Chinese history, culture,       politics and economics in       publications such as The Guardian, The New Statesman, The         Times Literary Supplement and       Die Zeit have raised awareness of China and Chinese history among       non-specialist audiences.
She is regularly invited to participate in BBC radio discussions, such as       In Our Time, on       Chinese history.
In December 2011, she participated in a public debate in       BBC History         Magazine on the British Empire, exposing the historical amnesia       surrounding Britain's role in the       opium trade and the nationalistic sensitivity attached to this episode in       China.
The Chinese       media have also shown extensive interest in her research (for example China         Daily) and she       receives regular correspondence in response from scholars, writers and       readers inside and       outside China.
(Sources 8 &amp; 10)     Directly as a result of her book The Opium War, in July 2013       Lovell was commissioned to act as       historical consultant to a four-part drama series provisionally entitled The         Opium Wars, a       collaboration between Mammoth Screen Limited and the BBC.
Her consultancy       services include       offering extensive advice to the screenwriter on the history, protagonists       and locations of the       war, reviewing the script and treatment, and advising during the filming       process.
Literary translation     To use Lovell's expertise, Penguin Classics recruited her as an advisor       on bringing works of       modern Chinese literature onto their canonical list.
This collaboration       has led to Penguin's       commissioning of eight new modern Chinese classics, dramatically       increasing the accessibility of       Chinese literature to a non-specialist, Anglophone audience.
The publisher       writes: `For a publisher       like Penguin Classics, the balancing act is to produce general trade       editions with academic       integrity.
Translations must be readable yet accurate, and I would say       that in the Chinese arena,       Julia is without question among a very, very small group of academics able       to successfully treat       both sides of this equation.'
(Testimonial 3)     Her role in bringing significant Chinese writers to the attention of       English language readers is       recognized by leading American China history specialist, Professor Jeffrey       Wasserstrom, in his       review of Complete Fiction of Lu Xun (2009) for Time       magazine (07/12/2009): `Lu Xun was a       towering figure in Chinese letters who deserves to be much more widely       read outside his       homeland.
This affordable volume comprises an engaging introduction by       translator Julia Lovell, ...
These are arguably the most accessible renditions yet of such famous       stories as "The Divorce",       "New Year's Sacrifice" and the eponymous tale of Ah-Q (the opportunistic,       inept, sometime       participant in the 1911 Revolution).
Together, they give Lu Xun his best       shot to date of achieving       renown beyond the Chinese world.
If it succeeds in this, the book could be       considered the most       significant Penguin Classic ever published.'
(Source 9)     Dr Lovell co-designed a pioneering course on Chinese-English Literary       translation, funded by the       Arts Council, the Australian Government, Penguin Books and China's General       Administration of       Press and Publishing, involving delegates from China, the UK, US and       Australia.
The first large-       scale international venture to bridge the considerable gap between Chinese       and Anglophone       publishing and knowledge production, the project was praised by both the       Chinese and UK       governments as a key cross-cultural platform for individuals working       between Anglophone and       Chinese cultures.
`Having her able to join us in developing it was       extremely important.
This was a       state-level project, organized in partnership with the General       Administration of Press and       Publications, and Julia's participation was critical to its success, both       in terms of credibility (an       international level of faculty, the best in the industry) and expertise       (sharing experiences and       expertise with early/mid career literary translators from Chinese and       English language       backgrounds)' (Testimonial 3).
The course also provides a model replicated       in other countries,       according to the consultant managing the project: `As a result of this       course in China, the British       Centre for Literary Translation went on to adapt the Summer School model       for courses in Egypt,       Qatar and Indonesia, and is looking at further developing courses in India       and Brazil.'
(Testimonial       4)     Cultural engagement     Several cultural organisations have asked Dr Lovell to help them build       exchanges between China       and the English-speaking world.
The British Council recognised her       expertise and influence in       modern Sino-Western cultural interactions, when it invited her to serve as       an advisor in spring 2012       as it prepared to host China as market-focus at the London Book Fair.
She       helped mediate       sensitivities concerning the public representation of Chinese literature:       in the selection of writers to       be invited; in serving as an interface between the Chinese delegation and       their British hosts; and in       chairing public events at the Book Fair.
The former director of literature       writes, `When the British       Council started working with literature in China in earnest in the run up       to the London Book Fair       2012 where China was the Market Focus country, Julia was an essential       resource,       academically/culturally with her historian's eye but also as a guide to       contemporary Chinese writing       in her role as one of the most eminent literary translators from       Mandarin.'
Following the Book Fair,       Chinese officials chose the British Council as their preferred partner for       literary projects in the UK.
(Testimonial 5)     She is regularly invited to speak on Chinese culture and literary history       at English PEN events,       highlighting the engagement of her research activities with contemporary       political issues.
Most       recently, she was involved in planning and chairing the `China Inside Out'       conference at the Free       Word Centre in London, in 2012, which drew together a varied group of       mainland Chinese and exiled       writers and commentators on China.
She is establishing dialogues with school students in Britain and Asia       (such as the United World       College of Southeast Asia) about the legacies of empire and politics of       public memory.
