     The impacts of Figes's research can be seen in cultural life &#8212; in public       discourse and education; in       its economic value to his publisher; and in its organisational benefits       for Russian NGO Memorial.
As a writer, broadcaster and public speaker, Professor Figes communicates       his work widely in the       UK and abroad.
In May 2011 the Guardian listed him among Britain's       top 300 `public intellectuals'.
His books have had a major impact on public understanding of Russia, as       indicated by their sales       in many languages.
His publisher at Penguin writes: `From the point of       view of his published work,       it is almost certainly the case that he has had more impact than any other       British writer in the field       of Russian/Soviet history.
He has sold at least 100,000 books during that       time (excluding American       sales or any of his numerous foreign editions &#8212; so this will comfortably       be a minority of his total       sales) giving him the key shaping role for an extraordinarily       large group of readers in how they       understand perhaps the single most important subject of the 20th century.
In addition, so much of       this impact is based on original research, not the retelling of       old stories &#8212; in other words Orlando       has given access to a huge body of readers to an entirely new experience       of, for example, the       Soviet experience in the Second World War, or the reality of life not only       for the millions of Soviet       citizens who went to the Gulag but also for their friends and relatives.'
(Testimonial 1; also see       Source 3)     Natasha's Dance alone had a huge impact, inspiring authors such as       Graham Robb's Discovery of         France (2008) and filmmaker Joe Wright's interpretation of Anna         Karenina (2012), who says `I took       my lead from a book call Natasha's Dance by Orlando Figes, which is       basically a history of       Russian culture.
In that he talks about Russian society of the period       suffering from a kind of identity       crisis.
Not sure whether they were Eastern or Western.
Choosing Paris and       becoming French,       almost.
They were really performing these roles, and as Orlando writes,       they were living their lives       on a stage' (Source 4).
The book inspired a performance celebrating `300       years of friendship       between Russia and The Netherlands' at the annual Festival Gooisch       Klassiek, in Hilversum, The       Netherlands: `We will focus on how Russians lived back then in Tsarist       Russia: what interested       them, how they raised their children, their habits and daily life.
For       three days in August (16, 17       and 18) the palace and its gardens will be the venue for a multitude of       music performances, as well       as workshops, hand craft activities, poetry, lectures, etc.
... On the       16th, at the Opening of the       Festival, there is an opportunity to create a concert and staged       performance, based on Natasha's       Dance, with the palace as a splendid and historically relevant backdrop.
Finally my dream is       coming true!
I am so excited about it!'
(Source 5).
The book has recently       been translated into       Chinese.
The Whisperers and Just Send Me Word have built on the       influence of A People's Tragedy and       Natasha's Dance in transforming public understanding of twentieth       century Russian history and in       changing the way Russian history is studied in schools and universities.
The         Whisperers (with       sales of over 153,000 copies, in 15 languages, internationally) was       nominated for the BBC4       Samuel Johnson prize and has been discussed in a wide range of media in       many countries.
It has       been the subject of interviews in the Guardian in the UK (source       6); the subject of TV and radio       interviews and features in the broadsheets and Der Spiegel in       Germany; features in Le Temps, Le         Monde and La Lib&#233;ration in France, where the book was       short-listed for the Prix M&#233;dicis; a feature       in Polityka in Poland; and the subject of an hour-length       discussion on national television in       Slovenia.
His research insights into the `people's history' of Russia has led to       Professor Figes being invited       to give at least 20 public talks and lectures, since January 2008, at       literary festivals (including Hay       and Cheltenham), in public societies (such as The Royal Geographic       Society), at the National       Theatre, London, and bookshops internationally.
He has made public lecture       tours in Australia,       Chile, Germany, Slovenia, Russia, and The Netherlands, where he gave the       Telders Lecture in       2009.
The ongoing impact of The Whisperers is evidenced in a further       revelation of papers which       resulted in the publication of Just Send Me Word (May 2012) with       16,751 international sales in its       first year.
The Whisperers was adapted by Rupert Wickham for his       play, Stalin's Favourite       performed at the National Theatre, London, from November 2011,       subsequently at the Unicorn       Theatre, London, in January 2012 before it toured the UK (Source 7).
The       subject of a podcast       Platform event at the National Theatre (June 2012) (Source 8), it       has been optioned as a feature       film with a $20 million budget by Life and Soul Pictures.
Both books have been referenced in articles by teachers of Russian       history.
A major achievement       of the Whisperers research was the establishment of an accessible       archive (interview recordings       and transcripts, unpublished memoirs, documents and photographs) available       on Figes's website       (www.orlandofiges.com).
Although there is no way of indicating the exact       online level of interest in       the Whisperers archive, this portal has received c.923,000 visits from 105       countries (since October       2007).
As a consequence, the research has had an educational impact.
It       has been the subject of       two successful pedagogic trials in secondary schools sponsored by the       Historical Association.
According to a report on the first, Year 12 students were inspired by the       book: `In several places       students took on particular language used by Figes.
Their writing also       became tighter, more       passionate and more nuanced as they became involved with describing       personal stories.'
A further       comment notes that the teacher was `particularly interested in the role of       The Whisperers in       enabling students to encounter the diversity of human experience in Soviet       society.
She wanted to       give students a new lens through which to analyse Stalin's purges and to       challenge some common       generalisations about the phenomenon.
One student was so enthralled that       she decided to buy       and read the whole book' (Source 9).
As well as this research being used       by schools, he is       regularly invited to give talks to schools and colleges.
Beyond the impact of this body of research on public ideas, the research       also involved an       international collaboration with Memorial, a Russian NGO which has had a       significant impact on       the development of human rights, democracy and the public memory of the       Stalinist repressions in       post-Soviet Russia.
Professor Figes has helped Memorial by raising public       consciousness about its       work.
The materials he collected with Memorial were among those       confiscated by the police in St       Petersburg during a raid in 2008.
Professor Figes wrote about the raid in       the UK and US press,       and organised an open protest letter to the Russian President which was       signed by several       hundred leading academics from across the world.
After a long legal battle       the materials were       returned to Memorial in 2009.
In March 2012 the St Petersburg branch of       Memorial received a       special Anniversary Award from Index on Censorship, a UK NGO.
The Director       of Index on       Censorship writes, `Professor Figes's research was invaluable to our       decision to award Memorial       the Index on Censorship 40th anniversary award.
His research       and personal briefing to Index on       Censorship staff provided some of the evidence for the decision we made to       shortlist Memorial and       our judges' decision to commemorate Memorial's work in this way.
...       Orlando's campaign to help       the Memorial archive helped, in part, to alert Index to the situation the       archive was facing.
More       importantly, his specific knowledge of the case, helped us to brief the       media on the impact of       Memorial and why the award was important.'
(Testimonial 2 and Source 10)
