     Dr Amrith's research has been recognised as offering an important       contribution to understanding international development policy beyond       academia.
Indicating the book's international impact and policy relevance,       leading Japanese economist, Professor Kohei Wakimura (Osaka City       University) wrote, `The publication of this fascinating book is very       timely.
Both historians and contemporary experts in international health       would be well served by reading it' (International Review of Asian         Studies, 2009).
Amrith's work was also referenced extensively by       influential Indian entrepreneur and chairman of Infosys, Nandan Nilekani,       in the chapter on `Changing epidemics: from hunger to heart disease' in       his book, Imagining India: The Idea of a Renewed Nation.
(Source       5)     Amrith's research has challenged policymakers concerned with issues of       health and welfare in South Asia and in the developing world more broadly       to rethink their approach to public health policy development.
By       emphasizing the importance of a historical perspective in understanding       why particular health policies have succeeded or failed, he has influenced       policy thinking in several influential organisations &#8212; the China Medical       Board (CMB), the World Bank, the Rockefeller Foundation and the United       Nations Foundation.
They have recognised his expertise, and invited him to       participate in influential forums to explore how historical perspectives       can inform the development of public health policy in the developing       world, and to promote wider understanding of these issues as part of       capacity building programmes.
(Testimonial 1)     China Medical Board     In 2010 Dr Amrith was invited by CMB to be joint coordinator of a project       on the history of public health in Southeast Asia, to coincide with the       CMB's hundredth anniversary in 2014.
As a leading non-governmental       organization involved in public health work in China and across Southeast       Asia, with an annual budget of over US$10 million, the CMB has recently       `begun a planning process to... refine the CMB's mission and strategies       for its second century.'
Dr Amrith's project is one of three projects       informing CMB's strategic planning.
(Testimonial 1 and Source 6)     Dr Amrith has participated in a series of planning and discussion       meetings in the US, UK and Indonesia, with members of the CMB's Board of       Directors and senior public health policymakers based at institutions in       China and Southeast Asia.
Amrith's work on the history of philanthropic       interventions in health in Asia has been of interest to the CMB in       evaluating the successes and shortcomings of their policies over the past       century.
The CMB has been particularly interested in Amrith's focus on the       long-term social, cultural and environmental factors that influence       health.
This historical perspective has helped to explain the unintended       consequences of particular policy interventions.
Amrith's documentation of       the movement of pathogens and policies across Asia's borders makes his       work relevant to the CMB's planning, in a context where new cross-border       links between South, Southeast, and East Asia are reshaping the health       landscape.
China Medical Board continues to draw on Dr Amrith's expertise.
It has       commissioned him to edit a volume of essays with Dr Tim Harper (Cambridge       University), on the history of public health in Southeast Asia, to inform       policymaking.
The President writes, `Our initial review of the work       suggests high policy relevance of these studies for contemporary health       challenges informing both our work as well as health policies in the       region, including epidemic control, the balancing of modern and       traditional medicine, health care system development, and other key policy       parameters.'
He adds: Amrith's `work illuminates the institutional history       of the very health institutions that our China Medical Board has supported       for nearly 100 years.
Of practical value have been insights on the broader       forces that shape the performance of these institutions, how transnational       linkages have impacted on their capacity, and ultimately the translation       of knowledge into good health.'
(Testimonial 2)     Building knowledge and understanding among medical policymakers and         students of policy in the developing world     Amrith's research has provided the basis for developing organisational       knowledge that enables policymakers to take into consideration local and       regional historical factors that influence the effectiveness of policies.
In April 2008, Amrith addressed a workshop on History and Development       Policy at the Brooks World Poverty Institute, University of Manchester,       attended by senior policymakers from the World Bank's headquarters in       Washington DC.
Amrith's contribution became one of ten essays in History         and Development: A Necessary Dialogue (2011), for policymakers in       the field of international development.
The volume was described as a       `hugely important and valuable book' by Oxfam's Head of Research, Duncan       Green, and as a `set of engaging dialogues' between historians and       policymakers, by the Director of the UN Research Institute for Social       Development.
One of the co-founders of the independent History and Policy       think-tank (connecting historians, policymakers and the media) which       organised the seminar, writes that Amrith's contribution played a key role       in its impact on the policymakers who attended, and on the success of the       subsequent book: `Amrith's chapter was commented upon by ..., a senior       development specialist, as showing how central federal state policies,       even when well-funded showed little staying-power in improving public       health in India, by contrast with the record of those sub-national states       with a long-standing participatory culture, such as Tamil Nadu.'
(Testimonial 3)     Amrith drew on his research as a co-director of a year-long project       funded by the Rockefeller Foundation in 2009-10, on Economic Crises and       Health, and designed to promote dialogue between historians,       anthropologists, and policymakers, and to bring historical perspectives to       discussions of the present global economic crisis.
He was one of the lead       organizers of two workshops &#8212; one in Cambridge, UK (June 2009), and one at       Harvard (May 2010) &#8212; with participants including the editor of The         Lancet and advisors to the World Health Organization, the       Rockefeller Foundation, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
(Source       7)     Since 2008, Amrith has delivered six lectures and seminars for the Joint       Centre for History and Economics (JCHE), Harvard University, attended by       policy-makers, health professionals, and development experts as well as       Harvard students and faculty.
The United Nations Foundation commissioned a       video-recording of the first lecture for use in its online open source,       curriculum on UN History, posted on Vimeo and used in Harvard courses       (Sources 8 and 9).
Amrith's lecture emphasized the importance of Asia in       the development of the UN's health and welfare programmes, and helped to       place the UN's history in a wider global perspective as an aid to public       understanding of the organization's work.
Director of JCHE writes, `The       [first] lecture became a central component of the program on United       Nations History based at the Harvard Asia Center, supported by the United       Nations Foundation.
The lecture was webcast, and also used in Harvard       courses in subsequent years; it has been the basis for the public health       component of the widely used UN History website, which was launched in       2012.'
She further adds, `He has been invited to return to Harvard on five       separate occasions since 2008, in connection with a wide variety of       research and policy programs.'
(Testimonial 4)     The China Medical Board asked Dr Amrith to organize (with Dr Tim Harper       of Cambridge University) a two-week intensive summer school in 2013 for       selected junior scholars from Southeast Asian universities to improve       research capacity in the region, and to foster dialogue between academics       and policymakers in the field of public health.
In early July 2013, seven       Masters and doctoral students from Southeast Asian universities were       selected to participate in a series of intensive workshops and       master-classes led by Dr Amrith and Dr Harper on the relationship between       health, history, and policy.
A senior professor reporting on the seminar       observed the summer school and wrote that: `As an effort in       capacity-building for this field, the Summer School has been very       successful.
My thirty plus years of teaching at the tertiary level did not       prepare me to see the kind of growth I saw in the six participants within       my short two weeks there.'
(Source 10)
