     Professor Feldman's historical research provides a fresh perspective for       understanding the present, which has been translated into impact, in the       first instance, through the work of the Pears Institute, which Feldman       directs.
While the Pears Institute continues to develop new areas of       research, its strategic work with policymakers and NGOs and its consequent       impact is underpinned by Feldman's research on antisemitism, immigration       and multiculturalism.
The approach taken by the Pears Institute to public       policy and public engagement follows directly from the emphasis he       pioneered on a contextualised understanding of antisemitism.
Feldman's influential research was fundamental to the decision to appoint       him as first Director of the Pears Institute for the Study of       Antisemitism.
As the Director of the Foundation writes, `We know that       Professor Feldman's approach to placing antisemitism in a broad social and       cultural context and alongside other forms of racism is an innovative       one.'
She adds `Professor Feldman has carved out a space for the Institute       that is both grounded in history and highly relevant to contemporary       contexts.'
(Testimonial 1)     Feldman's influence was clearly evidenced in November 2010 at the public       launch of the Pears Institute which was also his inaugural professorial       lecture.
Attended by MPs, think-tank representatives and representatives       of Jewish communal organisations, the event marked both his own success in       raising awareness of, and interest in his analysis of antisemitism, and       the significance of the new Pears Institute.
MP John Mann noted in       Hansard: `I estimate that 400 people attended the inaugural lecture by       Professor David Feldman, which is a significant number.
The intellectual       interrogation that is needed to draw on and analyse lessons from around       the world is already of huge value to us, and we look forward to working       closely with that institute.
It is a landmark for this country' (Sources 6       &amp; 7).
Another influential figure in this arena writes: `The huge crowd       attending Professor Feldman's inaugural lecture and the formal opening of       the Institute included a very high proportion of politicians, journalists,       community activists, clergymen, interfaith figures&#8212;a clear acknowledgement       that the unique placing of a leading academic figure at the head of a body       tackling a subject so heavily affected by sharp and seemingly       irreconcilable political divisions promised much.
Significantly, Professor       Feldman, through his finely-tuned lecture, which drew on his research on       antisemitism, made it clear that his understanding of antisemitism as a       complex and variegated phenomenon ... would guide the work of the       Institute.'
(Testimonial 2)     Feldman has been acknowledged both in the press and the blogosphere for       his active role in promoting constructive dialogue and collaboration       between numerous organisations, interest groups and individuals engaged in       forming and reflecting on public policy, with regard to antisemitism,       multiculturalism and racism.
Many regard his work at the Pears Institute       as a unique venture which generates discussion on antisemitism and the       Israel/Palestine conflict between parties who normally do not engage in       dialogue and among organisations with a keen interest in the issues at       stake.
(Testimonial 2)     Feldman utilises his research on antisemitism and multiculturalism to       inform his engagement with a range of partners and stakeholders nationally       and internationally, and these partners draw on his research to inform       their work.
Most significant is Feldman's work with the All-Party       Parliamentary Group Against Antisemitism.
In 2012, the All Party Group       approached the Institute and asked it to devise an event to reflect on the       government's policy on integration.
Feldman organised a Symposium on       Integration, Disadvantage and Extremism with the Centre on Migration,       Policy and Society, University of Oxford, at the House of Commons (May       2013).
As John Mann MP notes: `We felt that given Professor Feldman's       focus on immigration and multiculturalism he would be expertly placed to       advise us on how best to consider the government's integration strategy.
His insight and extensive network of contacts led to one of the best and       most thought-provoking days we have organised.
The feedback we received       highlighted how impressed various parliamentarians, government officials       and others had been with the breadth of expert opinion and the quality of       the debate.
We hope to publish some of the policy recommendations       emanating from the symposium as part of our ongoing dialogue with       government about protecting Jews and other minorities in the UK'       (Testimonial 3).
Sixty people participated, including: six MPs and       Government Minister, Baroness Sayeda Warsi; 10 government officials (Home       Office, Department of Communities and Local Government, APPG Against       Islamophobia and APPG Against Antisemitism); and representatives from 12       think-tanks, and five charities.
(Sources 8 &amp; 9)     The full significance of the impact here can be gauged by contrasting the       framing of this event and the forthcoming report with the All Party       Group's 2006 inquiry and report on antisemitism.
Whereas the 2006 report       isolates antisemitism from wider concerns about diversity and racism in       British society, the symposium at the House of Commons does the opposite,       and in this way drew on the findings and perspectives of Feldman's       research.
In this way Feldman's research has guided a public body and made       a significant contribution to its changed approach to the problem of       antisemitism.
Feldman's stature in the field has enabled him to invite high calibre and       renowned speakers to present at the Institute.
In less than three years,       he has organised 28 successful public lectures and round-tables, attended       by over 3,000 people, including scholars, students, representatives of a       wide range of organisations and members of the public.
Public events       typically attract between 65-100 people, the majority of whom are       non-academics.
The following initiatives exemplify how the emphasis on a       contextualised understanding of antisemitism that stems directly from       Feldman's research has shaped the Pears Institute's engagement with public       debate and policy issues.
Symposia on `The Politics of Demonization' (June 2011, with 28         participants) and on `Definitions and Conceptions of Antisemitism'         (September 2012, with 39 participants) brought together a range of         speakers and participants, including representatives from three         charities, two think-tanks, two advocacy groups, the All Party         Parliamentary Group Against Antisemitism and two members of the House of         Lords: Baroness Ruth Deech, Chair of the Bar Standards Board and Sir         Terence Etherton, Lord Justice of Appeal.
A two-day workshop `Muslims and Jews: Citizenship, Identity and         Prejudice in Europe, U.S. and Israel' (February 2012) explored attitudes         to Israel and antisemitism in the context of multiculturalism,         Islamophobia and racism today.
Speakers and participants were drawn from         across the Jewish and Muslim communities.
This workshop was part of a         series, alongside others in Paris, Berlin, New York and Tel Aviv.
Reviewing the workshop, influential commentator, Anthony Lerman wrote:         `It is hard to think of any other forum than the Pears Institute in         which the discussion of the often very difficult issues raised could         have been managed with such a degree of civility and respect.
No attempt         was made to pretend that one event of this kind could do much more than         identify issues for further exploration.'
(Source 10)          The Executive Director of the Jewish Council for Racial Equality writes       `In his capacity as the first director of the Pears Institute for the       Study of Antisemitism, Professor David Feldman has made an enormously       important contribution to the way in which academics, policy makers and       community activists look at the relationship between different forms of       racism such as antisemitism and Islamophobia.
His work has helped to bring       to light many of the issues which need analysing.'
(Testimonial 4)     Feldman is frequently invited to speak about Anglo-Jewry,       multiculturalism, secularism, racism and citizenship at a wide range of       events nationally and internationally, including lectures at Bedford       Historical Society (Feb 2011) and the annual Limmud Conference (Dec 2011).
He has also been an invited contributor to conferences bringing together       academics and non-academics, such as `Secularism, Racism and the         Politics of Belonging' organised by the Centre for Research on       Migration, Refugees and Belonging (CMRB) and the Runnymede Trust (January       2011), `The Politics of Religious Diversity' (Toynbee Hall, 2012.).
He was       invited to speak to staff at the NGO Facing History and Ourselves in       Boston, Massachusetts (2011).
In August 2012, the Runnymede Trust, the       UK's leading race equality think-tank, invited him to sit on its Academic       Forum.
The Director of the Runnymede Trust writes: `David has been very       effective at placing anti-Semitism in a broad political and social context       and relating its study to that of other racisms.
This is particularly       crucial in a period where policy has tended to separate discrimination on       the grounds of religion or belief from that driven by ethnicity, which has       lead to an increasing distance between anti-Semitism and antiracist       movements.'
(Testimonial 5).
