     Treating and living with eczema has large cost and quality of life       implications for society and the       individual families affected.
In 1995-6 the total annual UK cost of eczema       in children aged &#8804; 5       years was estimated to be &#163;47M (or &#163;79.59 per child), of which 64% was       accounted for by NHS       health-care costs.
A further UK study looking at a broader age range       estimated the total annual       cost to be in the order of &#163;465M, of which &#163;125M was incurred by the NHS,       &#163;297M by the patients       and &#163;42M by society.
Childhood eczema has been shown to have a similar       impact on health-related       quality of life as other common childhood conditions, such as asthma and       diabetes.
Current treatments consist predominantly of emollients, bath oils and       topical corticosteroid creams,       although some children may receive topical or oral antibiotics, or oral       antihistamines.
Many       parents, however, worry about the side effects of conventional topical       medications, particularly in       relation to corticosteroids.
Options that avoid the possible side effects       of conventional       pharmacological treatments, such as water softeners, wet wraps and special       dietary products,       have been be welcomed by many parents and medical professionals as an       additional way to       manage eczema.
Indeed hard water is identified as an environmental trigger       in the NICE (2007)       guidelines on atopic eczema in children 12 years and under.
It is likely that a number of families of children with eczema have       purchased ion-exchange water       softeners in the belief that their use would provide relief from the       condition, although there was no       robust scientific evidence to support this.
Indeed, up until 2010 the       National Eczema Society's       Factsheet on the use of water softeners for healthcare professionals and       eczema sufferers,       indicated that the use of water softeners may be beneficial.
The results       of the SWET demonstrate       that the use of water softeners does not alleviate the symptoms of eczema.
The Chief Executive of       National Eczema Society now states (CS1): "as a direct result of the       research conducted by       Professor Dean (University of Portsmouth) and Professor Williams and Dr       Thomas (University of       Nottingham) in their study, "Effectiveness of water softeners in the       management of symptoms of       moderate to severe eczema", which clearly demonstrated that water       softeners do not provide any       additional benefit compared to standard eczema treatments, we decided to       withdraw this Factsheet       from our range".
In May 2011, Drinking Water Inspectorate (who provide independent       reassurance that public water       supplies in England and Wales are safe and drinking water quality is       acceptable to consumers)       issued a guidance document on `Water Hardness' which incorporated a       section on `Should I use       water softener?'.
This document stated that our study `showed no objective       difference in outcomes       between the children whose homes were fitted with water softeners and       those without' (CS2),       citing our PLOS paper (reference 4 in section 3) as the only reference.
As a direct result of our work clinical practitioners and healthcare       professionals are now able to       provide evidence-based advice that the use of water softeners will not       alleviate the symptoms of       eczema, thus managing expectations in patients and their families.
An       example of this is evidenced       by a letter from a General Practitioner CS3.
Our work has also resulted in significant cost savings for families, who       might otherwise have       purchased water softeners, and the selection of more appropriate       interventions for children with       moderate to severe eczema, The typical cost of a water softener unit is       &#163;600 (range: &#163;300-&#163;1800).
Our economic evaluation demonstrated that the additional mean total cost       of eczema treatment per       patient in the water-softener group compared with control group was &#163;198       for the 12 weeks trial       duration alone..
This significant cost difference was due to the cost of       the intervention; all other       resource categories (health professional visits, medications and other       medical items) were not       significantly different between groups.
As our study conclusively       demonstrated that ion-exchange       water softeners were not found to be clinically effective or       cost-effective over the trial horizon, it       was not felt to be appropriate to model the longer term cost-effectiveness       of water softeners.
This study is generalisable with significant reach.
It was designed as a       pragmatic study.
Participants were recruited from UK centres across the primary and       secondary care setting, and       included families of diverse socioeconomic backgrounds.
The main impact       from this research is on       the health of the population, with associated impacts on clinicians who       can ensure that their       practice (with respect to use of water softeners in patients with eczema)       is based on robust high       quality evidence.
A further, indirect, impact of the research is the potential cost saving       offered to patients and their       families, or to the health services that might pay for purchase and       installation of a water softener.
