     Art has been a tool in campaigns against homelessness by Shelter and       other organisations (Ken Loach, Cathy Come Home, 1966 and The         Crisis Commission, Somerset House March-April 2012).
Peter Welch,       Trustee of the Big Issue Foundation had seen Wenham-Clarke's When         Lives Collide (2006) a photographic exhibition (see, for example,       Williams, D. (2006).
Horror images put road deaths in focus.
The         London Evening Standard.
5 January).
As a result he asked       Wenham-Clarke to undertake a series of photographs exploring the lives of       Big Issue sellers.
With the financial crash of 2007 sponsorship for       the show evaporated but Wenham-Clarke decided to continue as he had become       intrigued by the research questions posed: fundamentally how to do       something new about the familiar problems of homelessness.
Recognising       that the homeless were almost invariably represented on the street,       Wenham-Clarke decided to challenge the stereotypical image by treating Big         Issue sellers as individuals who went `home' at night.
He persuaded       the Trustees that he would decide who should be photographed and       how.
To this end, he went out to find the vendors in London,       Wolverhampton, Bristol, Birmingham, Bath, Bournemouth, and Shrewsbury.
He       talked with them and invited them to participate in the project.
Interviewees had to be willing to tell him about their lives and to take       him to where they were living.
Wenham-Clarke also researched in the Big         Issue headquarters at Waterloo identifying individuals and patterns       of experience.
The underpinning research was thus essentially       sociological.
The research itself comprised the photographic practice and       the interviews which elicited the statements that accompany the images.
Impact was registered in the fact that the research was taken up by St       Martin-in- the-Fields.
The church's pioneering work with homeless people       dates back to the First World War when Vicar Dick Sheppard opened the       doors of the church to soldiers leaving for and returning from the front.
The Big Issue was launched on the steps of St Martin's in September       1991.
St Martin's work with homeless people continues to provide       specialist support for 200 homeless and vulnerable people every day and       night.
Hard Times was exhibited at St Martin's as The Big         Issue 20th anniversary event.
Guests at the opening       included Jon Bird, founder of The Big Issue and actor Simon Callow.
The       catalogue was designed by Neil Leonard of Arts University Bournemouth       which contributed half the costs of printing.
Entry to the exhibition was       free with visitors invited to make a donation.
The nature of the impact was specifically the consequence of the       combination of photographic image and the choice of biographical details       transmitted in texts incorporating the `Subjects' own words informing       viewers of the subjects' recent histories.
The empathetic and insightful       visual presentation of the individuals themselves raised awareness of a       major and continuing social problem in an advanced western economy.
It       also impacted on the individuals themselves who thus became beneficiaries:       it gave them a sense of empowerment to communicate beyond the street.
The       research brought together photographic practice and oral history and thus       impacted on the following communities:     (i) the Big Issue sellers who were photographed and quoted and       who were empowered and inspired.
(ii) the wider community of homeless and jobless for whom a powerful       advocacy was made through visual and verbal media.
(iii) the general public for whom it was an illuminating and educative       experience and who may, as a result, have a more accurate understanding of       the problems of unemployment and homelessness and, most importantly, the       connection between them.
The impact commenced with the opening of the exhibition (3rd       March 2011) and is on-going.
The exhibition opened in St Martin in the       Bull Ring, Birmingham (16 September 2011) and was also shown in       Bournemouth Libraries (September 2012) and Inverness Museum and Art       Gallery (2013).
Wenham-Clarke was invited to organise a similar exhibition       in Greece where homelessness has for the first time become an issue as a       result of the euro crisis.
Further impact was supported through a campaign by Rewired (a creative       communications agency) who conducted a PR campaign on a pro bono basis for       the Big Issue as part of its charitable and corporate responsibility       programme; to raise regional awareness of the Birmingham Hard Times       exhibition.
Coverage was secured on regional television and radio,       including a ten minute interview on BBC WM; further coverage was secured       in regional news websites and trade websites, and in regional print media.
The PR campaign reached over 1.4 million people.
