     Luckhurst's work has had a significant impact in relation to cultural       life, with a consequential economic impact in publishing, and the       inspiration his work has provided for creative artists, and in public       discourse.
Publishing     As a result of his academic monograph, The Invention of Telepathy,       Luckhurst was invited to become an editor of popular editions of Gothic       novels in the Oxford World's Classics series:             Late Victorian Gothic Tales (2005) (Sales: print: 10,889;         e-book: 424)       Robert Louis Stevenson's Strange Case of Jekyll and Hyde         (2006) (Sales: print: 64,363; e- book: 612)        Dracula (2011) (Sales: print: 13,227; e-book: 227)       H. P. Lovecraft's Classic Horror Tales (May 2013) (Sales:         print: 3868; e-book:15)          His publisher writes, `In a crowded marketplace it is essential for       readers to be able to differentiate between editions in order to find the       book that best serves their needs.
Roger Luckhurst's editions provide       something distinctive by virtue of the excellence of their introductions,       notes, and other editorial additions.... Luckhurst further enhances his       editions by the inclusion of other texts that shed light on the main work.
In the case of Late Victorian Gothic Tales he selected the stories       to represent this genre, and opened up its literature for study in a       single, inexpensive volume.
These unique features, together with the       quality of his contributions, ensure that the editions are widely read and       used by those studying the books, and the editions in turn enhance the       reputation of the Oxford World's Classics series' (Testimonial 1).
While       scholarly, his introductions are tailored for general, non-academic       audiences and have received reviews in the national and international       press.
Luckhurst blogs for the OUP website and produces video web       introductions for the editions (Source 6).
The Tales and the       Lovecraft edition were explicitly designed to extend the conception of the       Gothic `canon', and involved challenging the Oxford editor to publish what       had been long considered pulp fiction in a `classics' series.
These       editions helped shift the Oxford editor's perspective on how to value       popular literature.
Several of these texts have been adopted as the key       editions on undergraduate courses in the UK and US.
Recognising his expertise in the field, in 2012 BFI Publishing offered       Luckhurst two commissions relating to the BFI Gothic season: an essay for       the BFI Gothic Compendium and a book on The Shining (in       the celebrated `BFI Classics' series), published in 2013.
He was also       commissioned to write short story on the mummy's curse for the collection       The Book of the Dead sponsored by the Egyptian Exploration Society       and the publishing company `Jurassic London', expanding the diversity of       his interventions.
Creative artists       British artists have used Luckhurst's work on the Gothic and science       fiction as a source of inspiration for their work and to help audiences       interpret it.
The British artist and film-maker Patrick Keiller has long       referenced Luckhurst as a source of ideas and asked to be interviewed by       him during his exhibition `The City of the Future' at the BFI (Feb 2008).
The artist Linda Toigo produced an artist-book version of Jekyll and         Hyde informed by Luckhurst's edition, which gained her special       commendation in her final show at the London College of Communication and       was selected for exhibition at the Zabludowicz Collection in 2011.
She       writes `Roger's introduction to the Oxford University Press edition of the       novel, and in particular his analysis of the Psychology of the Double in       Stevenson's time has been the starting point of all my theoretic and       visual research and from his key points I based most of my choices in       terms of structure and design' (Testimonial 2).
The painter Dolly       Thompsett, who uses science fictional and Gothic imagery in her paintings,       asked him to write a catalogue essay for her show at the Ritter/Zamet       gallery in Autumn 2009.
Most recently, in June 2013, Luckhurst was invited       to chair an onstage Q&amp;A with the director of Creation theatre company       following their production of Jekyll and Hyde.
Luckhurst's edition       was a key reference point for the production (Source 7).
Public discourse       Luckhurst's research on popular culture from the 19th century,       and his ability to make these ideas accessible to contemporary audiences,       makes him a trusted consultant on these topics in the media, where he has       been widely reviewed (Source 8).
His publications have led to radio       appearances, including a 15-minute interview with Laurie Taylor and Marina       Warner for Thinking Allowed (audiences of 984,000) on mummy curses       (August 2011); a 15-minute talk on the centenary of Bram Stoker's death       for Radio 3's The Essay series (April 2012: Source 9); a 28-       minute documentary on Radio 4 about mummy curses (`True Tales from the       Crypt', Sept 2012: Source 10).
A BBC arts producer: `I regularly       commission Professor Luckhurst because of his unique research, his       excellent communication skills and his ability of discuss often esoteric       subject matter in an intelligent and inclusive manner' (Testimonial 3).
In       November 2012, Luckhurst was commissioned by BBC Worldwide to advise on       the global appeal of certain Gothic and science fiction narratives, with a       view to aiding drama commissioning decisions in the future.
He advised       Optomen Television on their `Mysteries of the Manor' series for American       television, regarding Highclere Castle and the Carnarvon curse (2013).
He       acted as expert advisor to Raw Television company, helping to shape the       script on an episode on mummy curses for their `Unexplained Mysteries'       series by providing historical data and contacts.
His impact on public discourse has led to numerous engagements with a       wide variety of non- academic organisations and audiences, the Bishopsgate       Institute (2012), Bart's Pathology Museum, the Wellcome Institute (2012),       and the Lichfield Literary Festival (2012).
With UCL's Flinders Petrie       Museum, Luckhurst developed a series of public talks and workshops around       the museum collection and the creative imagination, in May and Oct 2012.
The curator commented that, `Using Roger's book [The Mummy's Curse]       helps to break down barriers and look at the objects and learn new things       based on their Victorian reception.
The informal approach brings new       responses to objects within the collection and allows for a non-academic       audience to engage.'
(Testimonial 4)     In 2012, he was asked by the Head of Education at BFI Southbank to advise       on the programming and educational support for their Gothic season       (launched in June 2013) and has been commissioned to speak on horror film       to BFI audiences (Aug &amp; Oct 2013) and co-organised both a Gothic study       day and a day of screenings at Birkbeck with BFI curators for November       2013: `Professor Luckhurst is bringing together a study group of academics       and writers to reflect on the remarkable recent transformations of genres       loosely grouped under the term "the fantastic".
The group aims to explore       the striking convergence of genres like dark fantasy, science fiction,       horror and the Gothic, in film, TV, and fiction.'
(Testimonial 5).
