     Teevan's impacts relate to his contributions to the shaping of public       discourse on contemporary war in civil society and concomitant impact on       cultural life through broadcasting and theatre performances.
His publisher       (Oberon Books) particularly values his ability to communicate deep       knowledge accessibly to audiences and writes: `If there were more       academics as capable as Teevan, the distance between academia and       professional theatre would not be so great.'
(Testimonial 1).
Some of       these performances have been staged for senior military figures and the       implications of the work debated on Newsnight on national       television, and have prompted school teachers to discuss the issue with       their students.
Broadcasting       Teevan's play Massistonia was broadcast on Radio 3 (6/2/2011),       reaching over 93,000 listeners.
The play was part of a sequence of       commissions from Radio 3 and as Senior Producer, BBC Radio Drama,       commissioning editor of the series, comments, `it was the combination of a       distinctive idea and Colin's track record of delivering substantial,       intelligent and accessible contemporary drama for radio that secured the       commissions.
The `international' aspect ... was attractive to Radio 3 too'       (Testimonial 2).
Massistonia was made available on BBC i-Player       and has recently (June 2013) been added to audiogo.com's retail list.
It       has also been broadcast twice by the democratic opposition radio Kanal 103       in Macedonia.
The Sandancers, an episode commissioned for the ITV       series Vera (with consolidated viewing figures of 6.5 million)       starring Brenda Blethyn was broadcast in June 2012 on the Queen's Golden       Jubilee.
It was a hard-hitting play and had to be rescheduled owing to bad       news from the Afghan front.
(Testimonial 3)     Influential theatre collaborations       Teevan has worked on two seasons of political theatre at the Tricycle       Theatre in Kilburn, London, honing the fusion of documentary and fictional       narrative with its director.
The Lion of Kabul was first performed       in 2009 and revived in 2010, and considered one of the standout plays in       the theatre's The Great Game season, which attracted audiences of       7722.
`The Great Game' was reviewed in The Guardian, The Times,       and The Financial Times.
On its premiere in 2009, the New         Statesman wrote of Teevan's play: `In one of the best plays, The         Lion of Kabul, Colin Teevan imagines a confrontation outside       Marjan's cage between a female UN official of British Asian origin and a       smugly fanatical Taliban mullah who refuses to address her except through       a male translator, even though he speaks English.
She is demanding justice       for two murdered Afghan employees.
In accordance with the retributive       principles of Taliban justice, he proposes handing over the culprits to       her, to be fed to the lion.
The irreconcilable differences between       relativistic western liberalism and hermetic Islamist certainty are       expertly explored.'
(Source 6)     After the London run, it was staged in Washington DC and toured across       American (2010).
The play was short listed for an Olivier award in 2010       for Outstanding Achievement and won a Liberty Human Rights award in 2010.
As a review of The Great Game in The Washington Post noted about       Teevan's play, `In a more unsettling vein, Colin Teevan's The Lion of 	  Kabul proves a highly watchable slice of blood-soaked life under the       Taliban.
Set at Kabul's zoo, the play concerns a macabre administration of       justice, abetted by the king of the jungle' (Source 7).
It toured seven       major venues in the US including the Guthrie in Minneapolis, Berkeley Rep       in San Francisco and The Public in New York.
A second play, There Was       A Man, There Was No Man, was commissioned for the Tricycle's The       Bomb: A Partial History, another highly acclaimed themed season       which attracted audiences of over 4300.
The former Artistic Director of       Tricycle Theatre writes: `Colin Teevan's work was an integral part of two       major projects on Afghanistan and the history of the Nuclear Bomb both       produced at the Tricycle Theatre over the past 4 years.
His plays were       seen by thousands of people in both Britain and the USA.'
(Testimonial 4)     Both plays gave a number of actors (21 in all) the opportunity to further       develop their careers.
One actor, as a consequence of her part in There         Was A Man, There Was No Man, was offered three parts (two theatre,       one TV).
As she commented, `Colin's play had not one but two Iranian women       as its leads and that is something you rarely encounter in British       theatre.
I feel it's through this sort of politically minded work that       ethnic minority actors get the exposure that is so generally lacking in       the mainstream culture' (Testimonial 5).
Further evidence of impact came       in July 2013, when Colin Teevan and Birkbeck colleague, theatre director       Rob Swain, were invited to Afghanistan in autumn 2013 by the BBC       Developing World correspondent David Loyn to collect more stories.
Debates in the military and cultural diplomacy       The Lion of Kabul was given a command performance for the British       Army (2010) and for officials and their guests in the Defence Department       at the Pentagon in Washington DC (later in 2010), initiated and sponsored       by the British Council.
`His play about the Taliban in Afghanistan was       performed at a command performance for the Ministry of Defence and the       British Army in London and for the Pentagon in Washington' (Testimonial       4).
General Sir David Richards, Chief of Defence Staff, wrote in The       Times: `We talk about the theatre of war but it is rare that a       general has the time to watch a proper drama, let alone one that lasts so       long, but I found The Great Game a fascinating, entertaining, and       historically accurate account of Britain's involvement in Afghanistan       since the 1840s and well worth the time.
More than 200 members of the       audience were from across the military and defence, including 15 Sandhurst       officer cadets who saw it with me on Thursday.
Nothing learnt in the       classroom will have had the same subliminal effect as this.
It is crucial       for us who work out there to have a more nuanced understanding.'
(The         Times, 3 October 2010).
The Lion of Kabul was also debated on       BBC2's Newsnight review programme and Channel 4 news in this       context in May 2009.
During the two special British Council sponsored performances in       Washington DC audience members were invited to complete a feedback poll       designed by a professor of Public Diplomacy at the University of South       California.
Of the 100 surveys completed every one reported that they       considered the play relevant to their work with the Department of Defence       and to the US mission in Afghanistan.
All appreciated the opportunity to       learn more about the country and very few had read more the two or three       books about the region.
It was seen as `an important part of the process       by which the Pentagon awoke to the cultural complexities of Afghanistan'       (email 02/07/2013: see Source 8).
The report describes the theatre       performances as an exercise in cultural diplomacy, noting the unusual       collaboration involved in putting the plays in front of the Washington       audience, `The Tricycle Theatre, British Council, British Embassy in       Washington, Bob Woodruff Foundation and Pentagon are unlikely bedfellows,       but their cooperation makes sense given the subject matter.'
(Source 8)     Schools     Further impacts of the Bomb season were evident in the US where,       for example, `A teacher who worked in a small, rural high school in       Wisconsin, responded to The Great Game by writing to the Tricycle:       "...the show prompted me to think of my own students and how I could use       these plays to help educate them about the history, culture, and political       realities of Afghanistan in a way that they would find more meaningful.
I       believe that this is especially important for my students because many of       them will join the military as a way to escape their rural, economically       impoverished homes"' (Source 6).
In the UK, Teevan has received a number       of invitations to visit schools to discuss his work.
