     The major feature of the Voiceworks project has been the partnership       between Birkbeck, Guildhall School of Music and Drama, and Wigmore Hall,       UK's leading venue for chamber music and song.
As a consequence it has       made a significant, ongoing impact on cultural life, through developing       the creative expertise of a new generation of composers, singers and       poets, creating new repertoire and performances.
It has also helped an       important cultural institution transform contemporary song and interest       audiences in new classical and experimental material.
For Wigmore Hall,       `Voiceworks is a vital part of the development of the genre, introducing       Song as a living art form to a new generation of writers, composers and       artists, and fostering a career-long engagement with the genre'       (Testimonial 1).
The venue provides various platforms for young artists,       including competitions and recitals, and the Voiceworks project forms a       unique part of that strategy by nurturing young composers, song writers       and performers.
Wigmore Learning, which reaches over 8000 young people every year,       piloted a Voiceworks programme with school children aged 12-18, initiated       by Carol Watts, which resulted in work integrated into the main Voiceworks       Wigmore performance in May 2012.
The Head of Wigmore Learning writes: `As       the number of Voiceworks alumni grows and those who have been part of the       programme become established as professionals, their experience gained       through the project will not only influence their work but also have an       impact on those with whom they collaborate.'
She adds that Voiceworks is       unique because `the collaborative writing process is still a relatively       rare thing within the classical music world and something the students and       young professionals involved in Voiceworks will take with them into their       careers' (Testimonial 1).
One of the school students, whose work was       performed, went on to win the BBC Proms Inspire Young Composer's       Competition in 2012 (12-16 age category).
Wigmore Learning plan to extend       the Voiceworks project into their schools programme triennially from 2013.
For the Guildhall School of Music and Drama, the Director of Composition       writes, `Voiceworks has had a major and significant impact on the creative       practice not only of ...[our] composers but also on the depth and meaning       of cross-collaboration between composers, singers and instrumental       performers over the past seven years.
This has been powered at its heart       from the deep thoughtfulness and intellectual curiosity that staff and       student poets from Birkbeck College have brought into the creative culture       of the Guildhall school.'
He adds, `It has completely transformed our       postgraduate composers' sense of what cross-art collaboration means in       terms of creative practice and in a very specific sense inculcated in       student composers a far greater degree of sensitivity and responsiveness       to text and the limitless potential of its relationship to sonic/musical       material' (Testimonial 2).
The deputy head of Vocal Studies explains, `the       unique value of Voiceworks is the space it offers for practitioners ... to       encounter each other's practice.
Out of this opportunity have emerged       lasting artistic relationships between Voiceworks participants, and an       interest in working collaboratively has been kindled especially among       singers whose involvement would conventionally only be in the later stages       of the creation of new work.'
Individual participants have gone on to       involve other non-Voiceworks collaborators in this interdisciplinary mode       of practice, extending its impact (Testimonial 3).
There are now over 130 alumni of the Voiceworks programme, many of whom       have used it to launch or develop their creative careers; it has enabled       them to extende their portfolios (with new commissions and collaborative       work), and several continue to work in collaborative teams.
Alumni       indicate that the experience has profoundly influenced their approach to       creative composition and led to new opportunities in their working lives.
A young singer (Voiceworks, 2010-11), for example, `feel(s) very grateful       to Voiceworks for sparking what has been an exciting collaboration.
My       interest in contemporary music has continued to grow and I feel more       courageous in tackling new ideas and works.
This ... has helped me in my       career.
I am currently involved in a new opera ... at the Linbury Studio,       Royal Opera House with four other performers.
The audition process asked       me to vocally improvise &#8212; to feel free to create, a task I would not have       been so comfortable doing had I not taken part in Voiceworks' (email       21/08/2013, Source 7).
A prizewinning composer, whose song cycles have been performed at       numerous venues in the UK and internationally and on BBC Radio 3, also       testifies that `I do feel my vocal music written before and after Voiceworks       are different, particularly in terms of the increased awareness of the       interworking of text and music, the impact of vocal writing on both the       interpreters and the impression the resultant work will make on the its       listeners' (email, 22/08/2013, Source 7).
As a freelance poet writes, `I       consider Voiceworks to have been a true launch-pad for my       practice.
... As a result of the work I produced for Voiceworks...
I was       successful in my application to work on a newly commissioned project for       Dartington International Summer School' (email 10/09/13, Source 7).
As a further outcome of Voiceworks, Carol Watts is an advisor on       collaborative practice on London Sinfonietta's Jerwood funded Blue       Touchpaper scheme and an alumni of the project won one of its hugely       competitive commissions (Source 4).
Other organisations which have       recognized and benefited from the expertise of Voiceworks alumni include       Royal Opera House, Welsh National Opera, Arcola Theatre, Traverse Theatre,       the Liverpool Biennial, Museum of Art, Bury Museum of Art (Source 5),       Manchester, the Wellcome Institute and the Dana Centre at the Science       Museum, and literary and music festivals in the UK and internationally       (Paxos, Switzerland, Hong Kong, South Africa, US, France, Spain).
The digital repertoire of Voiceworks now extends to at least 48 pieces,       all available on the website, developed with an AHRC Digital Equipment and       Database Enhancement for Impact grant designed and led by Carol Watts.
In       one year from June 2012, the website recorded 69,156 sessions with an       average of 7 minutes per session (Sources 8 and 9).
Live performances have       been captured digitally, building a growing body of work stored on the       website.
As Voiceworks' Guildhall partners express it, `On every level, we       regard Voiceworks as a paradigm for the formative development of creative       practitioners and the effective dissemination of the fruits of their       collaborative endeavours' (Source 2).
