     The impact of research on Victorian sentimentality developed at CNCS is       represented by a series of outcomes and their contribution to cultural       life, relating to the life and work of Charles Dickens and the Victorian       period.
The active approach of CNCS scholars to public engagement is       exemplified by the ever popular Dickens Day and close association with the       Dickens Fellowship.
.
As well as involving the wider public, this work has       led to two public exhibitions: Bown's collaboration with Tate Britain on       the co-curated exhibition `Victorian Sentimentality' (May-Dec 2012) and       Tilley's exhibition in collaboration with RNIB on the Victorian `tactile       imagination'.
1) Dickens and feeling     Professor Slater has been in the forefront of revaluating Dickens' life       and work and the success of his books including the 700 page Charles         Dickens: A Life Defined by Writing, with English language sales of       over 15,000, and numerous enthusiastic reviews, indicates the impact of       its publication (Source 6).
Alongside this is the development of Dickens       Day, an annual event in central London, set up in the 1980s by Michael       Slater, which continues to foster collaboration between Birkbeck scholars,       The Dickens Fellowship and the Dickens Museum in Bloomsbury, and to engage       Dickens enthusiasts amongst the wider public.
It promotes public       understanding and debates about Dickens' legacy.
Attended by increasing       audiences since 2005 (from 50 to 120 &#8212; 50% non-academic) with the       development of a varied public programme, it is particularly popular       amongst the Dickens Fellowship: `The one externally organised event that       the membership particularly looks forward to is the annual Dickens Day at       London University.'
The 2010 conference `Mr Popular Sentiment: Dickens and       Feeling' `was particularly memorable.
The day explored, amongst other       aspects, how Dickens could be so clear eyed and humorous about the       over-sentimentality of other artists, and yet on occasion outdo them in       that respect.
It also examined why sentimentality was so prevalent in much       of the art of the Victorian period, and has such a bad press now.
I       clearly recall a strong case being made in favour of the sentimental.'
(Source 1)     Further evidence of the public influence of CNSC scholars in relation to       this issue was reflected in speaking invitations to Fraser, Bown and       Burdett during the Dickens Centenary `Big Read' events in 2012 on Oliver         Twist and they are regularly invited to do Christmas readings at the       Dickens Museum.
2) `Victorian Sentimentality' at Tate Britain     Bown co-curated a full-room `Focus Display' on Victorian         Sentimentality (May-December 2012) as a consequence of the       conference she organised (2006), and subsequent issue of 19 (2007)       she edited, on `Rethinking Victorian Sentimentality'.
Her close       association with the museum sector was reflected in the inclusion of an       article by curator Sonia Solicari (drawing on the latter's work for the       Victorian and Albert Museum's A Show of Emotion: Victorian Sentiment         in Prints and Drawings, 2006-7) and was further developed in       subsequent conversations with Tate Britain.
Through the exhibition,       sponsored by BP, Bown showcased insights from her work within CNCS, making       a significant contribution to cultural capital and a recognised       intervention in public discourse.
The selection of paintings from the Tate       collection, many of which had not been on display for many decades because       they had fallen so resolutely out of fashion, asked `Why has       sentimentality come to seem so unforgivable?'
and tracked the ways in       which `being sentimental' developed a pejorative meaning in the course of       the nineteenth century, having been so valued in the eighteenth.
The       exhibition was complemented by a public panel discussion during Birkbeck       Arts Week (May 2012) attended by approximately 55 people.
As Serena       Trowbridge wrote in her review of the exhibition, `The exhibition ...       contained some Victorian giants, and was also immensely thought-provoking.
... Of course, these "sentimental" paintings are rarely avant-garde; they       tend to be well-executed but not particularly striking in artistic merit.
But they were phenomenally popular, and perhaps our resistance to engaging       with sentiment needs to be fully reassessed.'
(Source 7)     According to the Tate curator commissioning the exhibition, it `was       commissioned as an In-Focus: a type of display which allows a curator       (internal or external) the opportunity to present new research and       thinking about an aspect of the Tate collection.
The display presented an       ideal opportunity to draw attention to neglected works in the collection       while offering new ways of viewing familiar pictures such as Fildes' The         Doctor and Millais' The Order of Release.
... Each picture       was accompanied by an interpretative text (written by Bown) which used       relevant contextual information to pose questions about the work and the       ways in which critics and artists have approached it in the past.
By       inviting viewers to engage with the paintings and sculptures on display we       hoped they would then reflect on the feelings and responses stirred by the       content and formal qualities of the works themselves.'
It `was one of the       best attended displays of 2012, attracting a large number of visitors       (including school parties and tourists) at a time when few works from the       historic part of the collection were on view.'
For the Tate, `the display       also presented an opportunity for Tate's conservation department to       examine and treat a number of works that had not been exhibited for many       years such as MacCallum's Silvery Moments' (Source 2).
It thus       gave support to Tate Britain's new policy to give dedicated space to items       from the archives rarely if ever on public show, and to explore and       illustrate new research, within its current multi-phase transformation.
It       also generated interest among other curators: the Whitney in New York       subsequently asked Bown for the contextual panels written for the Tate       show.
(Source 8)     3) The Victorian `tactile imagination'     Dr Heather Tilley's research has led to an exhibition, `Touching the       Book: Embossed Literature for Blind People in the Nineteenth Century',       launched in Birkbeck's Forum for the Arts, on July 18, 2013, and an allied       two-day symposium `The Victorian Tactile Imagination', with papers by       Bown, Nead and Fraser, of the CNCS, and Solicari, Director of Guildhall       Art Gallery, attended by 120 participants including museum professionals.
As explored in the exhibition, blind people were often figures of       sentimentality in the Victorian visual economy.
Significantly supported by       the RNIB and the Wellcome Trust, the exhibition was largely funded by the       Heritage Lottery Fund which awarded it &#163;8200 from their 'Sharing Heritage'       strand (Sources 3, 4 &amp; 9).
The exhibition displayed materials loaned       by the Wellcome Library and RNIB: examples include the first classbooks       printed for blind people in the 1820s-40, examples of embossed bibles       printed in a variety of raised types from the 1830s-40s; and early secular       reading material: `Three works, which would have otherwise been sitting in       our stores, have been given a new lease of life and are helping to       communicate this interesting and important topic to a wider audience'       (Source 4).
The RNIB Heritage Services Manager writes: `Dr Tilley's       thorough research has resulted in an important and unique resource       reflecting the historical development of reading formats for blind and       partially sighted people in their correct social and cultural context.
Additionally, the decision from the outset to adopt an accessible and       approachable framework has successfully brought this diverse range of       materials to life for both public and specialist audiences, and is in our       opinion to be commended both in terms of its scope and vision.'
(Source 3)     Further reflecting the significance of this work, Tilley was invited to       curate a forthcoming display of prints and photographs at the National       Portrait Gallery (NPG), `Facing Blindness: Visual Impairment in the       Nineteenth Century', November 2013-July 2014, titled `Facing Blindness:       Visual Impairment in the Nineteenth Century' (Source 5).
NPG has also       commissioned her to give a public lecture (December 2013) and a gallery       tour to blind and partially-sighted gallery visitors (January 2014).
