     The impact of the research undertaken falls into the following main       categories:            Resources produced for use by teachers, nationally and internationally       Continuing professional development delivered to practising teachers,         nationally and         internationally       Consultancy requested by governmental departments, nationally and         internationally       Presentations at national and international conferences for practising         teachers       Education Endowment funding for a further research project and the         PSTT hub          Resources produced:       The findings of the AstraZeneca Science Teaching Trust (AZSTT) research       project have been       widely disseminated each year since 2004 and, in order to have a maximum       impact on the       pedagogy of practising teachers, dedicated resources have been developed.
These include an       online Continuing Professional Development Unit (CPDU) for teachers, which       was funded by the       AstraZeneca Science Teaching Trust in 2009 and is available on their open       website.
This is called       Bright Ideas in Primary Science and can be found at: http://www.pstt.org.uk/ext/cpd/bright-ideas/index.html"&gt;     The AZSTT collect data about the usage of the Continuing Professional       Development Units on       their website and this CPDU was the most frequently viewed of the 29       available between February       2009 and January 2012, with 7,647 viewings recorded.
The next most popular       CPDU had 4,650       viewings recorded in the same time frame.
The website was redeveloped in       January 2012 and       between then and September 2013 the CPDU was the second most frequently       viewed with 4,901       visits recorded.
In total, the number of page views from February 2009 to       September 2013 for this       CPDU is 12,547.
At our instigation, the AZSTT also funded us in 2006 to write a booklet,       `Creativity and Excitement       in Primary Science'.
All 4,000 of the original print run have been       distributed and the demand was       such that another 1,000 were produced in 2009.
These continue to be       requested and they have       gone to teachers, students, Local Authority advisors, to National Strategy       consultants and to       international contacts.
Hence this booklet is also available on the       Norwegian website for science       teachers: naturfagsenteret http://www.naturfag.no/binfil/download.php?tid=1786575       The findings from the research project have been used by the Science       Advisor for Somerset Local       Authority who wrote: "I was introduced to the Creativity and Excitement       project at the Annual       National ASE conference (January 2007).
I was immediately very excited by       the project and       worked with our science Advanced Skills Teacher to implement the project       at her school, the       project proved to have a very positive impact on year 6 science SATS       results.
Together, we wrote       a 1 day course based on the Creativity and Excitement materials which we       have run on numerous       occasions since then.
The project thus has been cascaded into many       Somerset schools.
It has       been the focus of at least 2 teachers' dissertations for their MA and       formed the basis of part of our       training for our Foundation Degree and School Centred Initial Teacher       Training students.
The       project is still as relevant and exciting as it was when I first heard       about it in 2007.''
Continuing professional development (UK):       The government funded organisation, London Gifted and Talented (LGT),       commissioned the       design and delivery of a course, `Challenge in Primary Science, in 2007-8.
This consisted of six       sessions &#8212; two face-to-face, four online and in school, spread over the       year and 35 teachers       participated.
The project was evaluated for impact by LGT.
Two 4 day training courses were requested by the South London Organisation       of Gifted and       Talented (SLOGAT) and were carried out in 2008-09 and 2009-10 with 60       teachers participating.
The Lewisham Local Authority Gifted and Talented Advisor, wrote: "Lewisham       teachers working on       these courses found them stimulating and engaging.
The ideas and       approaches were taken back       into schools and shared widely.
Pupils' approach to science became more       enthusiastic and       teachers reported that the pupils' skills, knowledge, understanding and       depth of thought improved       across the ability range."
As well as the above outputs, the following projects have also been       delivered:       Wilson is a consultant with the National Science Learning Centre (NSLC) at       York University,       annually (2006-13) running a four day residential course for primary       teachers, with at least 200       teachers participating.
The link tutor stated: "The evidence is clear that       Helen has been able to       make a real difference to what teachers do in the classroom.
Many of the       comments and ratings       show that Helen's invaluable advice, guidance and instruction has made a       real impact on teachers'       practice and, in turn, on their pupils' learning and experience of       science."
Continuing professional development (International):       Wilson was invited to Vilnius, Lithuania (November 2011), to give an       INSET for Lithuanian teachers       and university education lecturers, entitled: `Using Questioning       techniques and Higher Order       Thinking Skills to enhance science teaching and learning'.
She was invited       to a day's INSET in       Malaga (March 2008) and Barcelona (September 2008) in British       International schools focussing       on provision for the Gifted and Talented.
Consultancy for the UK government:       In 2008, Wilson was a consultant for Department for Children, Schools and       Family on the       development of science specific materials for the nationally used Gifted       and Talented Classroom       Quality Standards:       http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20110809101133/http://nsonline.org.uk/node/246326 She       was also invited by the National Strategies to write the e-module: Primary       Science which       forms part of the blended learning package for the national training of       Leading Teachers of the       Gifted &amp; Talented:       http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20110809101133/http://nsonline.org.uk/node/175139     International consultancy and conference presentation:       Invited by the Finnish Board of Education, Wilson delivered a keynote       (Teaching for Challenge) at       the first national conference focused on gifted and talented education for       head teachers and       educationalists in Helsinki, Finland 15-16 April 2009 Furthermore, she was       invited to deliver a       lecture (Teaching for Challenge) at the University of Helsinki Department       of Teacher Education on       17 April 2009.
Conference presentations (UK):       Wilson gave the keynote address (Creativity and Excitement in Primary       Science) at the Annual       Primary Science Conference Somerset for 100 teachers on 9 July 2010 , and,       gave a presentation       (Gifted &amp; Talented and Science &#8212; National Developments) at the       conference for Oxfordshire head       of secondary school science departments for 30 teachers on 7 November       2008.
Also, she gave a       presentation (Creativity &amp; Excitement in Primary Science) at the       Oxfordshire Primary Science       Conference for 80 teachers on 18 March 2008.
Education Endowment Fund (EEF) project       A key indicator of the impact of the original research is that the EEF       has accepted a recent bid to       study the impact of inclusive challenge in primary science lessons in more       depth and on a larger       scale.
The Education Endowment Fund support projects which are evidence       based and the       findings of the AstraZeneca Science Teaching Trust were instrumental in       the successful bid.
The Primary Science Teaching Trust (PSTT) Science Education Hub       The PSTT (formerly the AstraZeneca Science Teaching Trust) have granted       Wilson and       colleagues &#163;150,000 to develop a science education hub at Oxford Brookes       University over at       least three years, beginning in October 2013.
A key aim is to further       cascade the findings of the       research so that they are embedded in teachers' practice.
