     The underpinning research and its key findings have been influential in       both the UK and overseas.
Firstly, LA benefit fraud investigators have       engaged with the researcher to review their practices in light of the       researcher's findings, leading to a review of training needs and       identification of skills deficits, as well as requests to deliver findings       in other professional settings, alongside an engagement of the researcher       in strategic planning of the LA investigators' national forum.
Thus far       the researcher has presented research findings to over 750 LA       investigation personnel in around 12 separate presentations (about 20% of       the total investigation personnel in the UK, and representing over 60% of       the 440 LAs.).
Specific in-depth consultation has occurred in five of       these organisations, whilst other agencies and constituencies (such as the       police, Business,Information &amp; Skills' investigators, Gangmasters'       Licensing Authority, the East of England Fraud Forum, and the Welsh Fraud       Forum) have engaged with the researcher and asked him to present his       findings in various training/ `masterclass' contexts, that has included       around 200 detectives undergoing initial training in Derbyshire and       Lincolnshire Constabularies.
Evaluations of these sessions learned that       Walsh had positively influenced officers' thinking about interviewing       strategies.
The GLA have recently engaged Walsh on a consultancy basis to       advise how to further boost investigative performance.
Other impacts include the provision of the research as an essential       component of the training of police officers overseas, where it is       estimated that over 2000 officers in the last three years have read the       researcher's study (Section 3, item 1) as prescribed in their training.
As       part of a package of reading it is clearly difficult to make claims as to       its own discrete impact.
However, this article is unique in that it shows       the association between skilful deployment of an interviewing framework       (that is steadily being embraced around the world) and optimum interview       outcomes (that is; a comprehensive reliable account).
Anecdotal evidence       from trainers in Norway indicates that this article clearly overcomes       officers' concerns that the interviewing model better identifies the       guilty, while avoiding false confessions from the innocent.
Professional       social media sites such as Linkedin have recently cited the researcher's       work as the only study of investigations outside the police (this was an       Australian view).
As a consequence of presenting research to Belgian Police, Walsh was       asked by (i) senior Belgian police officers to contribute to a handbook       for all Belgian Police officers' that advises how to disclose evidence in       light of recent ECtHR rulings that concern legal representation       requirements when criminal suspects are questioned about possible       offences; and (ii) by consultants to the Dutch government to provide       evidence for their report how the ECtHR rulings will likely affect police       investigations in the Netherlands.
Alongside this activity Walsh reported his findings from his first study       in 2007 at an international seminar that was attended by both academics       and practitioners interested in the study of the investigative       interviewing of victims, suspects, and witnesses.
This led to Walsh (with       Dr Gavin Oxburgh, of Newcastle University, and Dr Trond Myklebust of the       Norwegian Police Training College) to create an organisation that was to       be the host for both practitioners and academics with an professional       interest in this area, with the aims of encouraging collaborative research       between the two groups and to enable a forum where best practices are       identified and spread world-wide.
In the first five years since its       inception it has achieved both these aims.
The organisation (the       International Investigative Interviewing Research Group &#8212; iIIRG) under the       stewardship of the three original founder members, has grown to over 300       members.
Among its other successes are an annual international conference       (in each of the last five years) and masterclass (that regularly attracts       150 delegates from all over the world) and a biannual peer reviewed       journal; Investigative Interviewing: Research and Practice (of which Walsh       is its Editor-in chief) with contributions from both practitioners and       academics.
The international reputation and credibility of Walsh's status       in this organisation is directly related to his studies in pioneering       research in hitherto untouched territories.
For example, in New Zealand       and Australia three training companies use the researcher's material as       important components for their own training that has been delivered to       over 250 trainees in the past two to three years to underline the efficacy       of the interviewing framework.
Finally, Walsh provided consultancy advice during 2007-2012 to welfare       rights' groups in their authoring of various editions of a national       guidance document, designed for those who attend fraud interviews as       suspects without legal representation, informing them of their rights.
Feedback from both the organisations and the public who have used the       document has been highly positive towards its usefulness.
