     The Centre's hearth tax volumes, published in association with the       British Record Society and local record societies, are preserving         fragile records for future generations.
Since 2008, the Centre has       published three volumes for Essex, Warwickshire and Westmorland.
Distributed by subscription, the Centre's research is directly delivered       to at least 1800 lay members, the majority of whom are individuals       committed to the history of their counties, such as members of the       Cumberland and Westmorland Antiquarian Society, the Dugdale Society and       the Essex Society for Archaeology and History.
These editions are regarded       as authoritative, and consequently users of the volumes have less need to       consult the original documents that can be fragile or under restricted       access in record offices.
For instance, the Essex Record Office has seen a       relative decline in the hearth tax documents Q/RTh 1-7 (1662-1672) being       called up since the publication of the volume in July 2012.
In addition,       prior to publication users interested in exemption certificates need to       search un-catalogued sets of E179 hearth tax documents, whereas each       hearth tax volume published since 2008 has included an appendix which       identifies the specific call-mark of each exemption certificate relating       to at least the period of administration of the hearth tax return(s)       and/or assessment(s) published in the hearth tax volume.
This research is also enhancing public service provision at The           National Archives.
As one of the main beneficiaries of       our research, members of the medieval and early modern team draw upon the       resources and publications of the Centre, when helping members of the       general public with their research.
The National Archive's General         Guide to pre-1689 Taxation Records advises users seeking further       information to utilise Hearth Tax Online, and staff refer readers to the       short research guides published electronically by the Centre.
In addition,       Dr Adrian Ailes (principal records specialist), Mr Paul Carlyle       (archivist) and Mr Peter Seaman (former senior archivist and senior       research fellow of the Centre) give talks on the hearth tax and draw       attention to Heath Tax Online at events attended by members of the general       public (e.g.
`Cataloguing Day' and `Thursday talks').
The reach of this       work is extended through electronic means, the most recent example of       which is a podcast of a lecture given by the National Archives       &lt;http://tinyurl.com/q8xh86n&gt;, which was downloaded 7,614 times since       April 2013.
The Centre also maintains direct contact with local communities, most       notably by distributing hearth tax volumes through 36 local public       libraries, whilst the 2012 Essex volume has also reached public libraries       in Toronto, Canada, and numerous public libraries in the USA (worldcat).
The Centre also uses digital communications and locally organised public       events to engage members of the general public who might be visiting       record offices.
For instance, a mini-exhibition on 'Poverty in later       Stuart Essex' held at the Essex Record Office between early July and       September 2012 was curated by Ruth Selman (a Roehampton PhD student       working on the hearth tax and poverty in Essex), and explained through       images and artefacts the experience of being down and out in late       seventeenth century Essex (see http://tinyurl.com/o3ezvyt&gt;).
The       exhibition was viewed by c. 1,875 visitors to ERO.
News stories on       `Poverty in late 17th century Essex' have been published in the       newsletter of the Friends of Historic Essex (circulation of c. 240,       excluding copies in ERO) in the autumn 2011 and spring 2012 issues.
The Centre for Hearth Tax Research is also dedicated to widening           access to non-academic historians to the research.
The       principal means of public engagement is through the Hearth Tax Online.
Launched in December 2009, the website provides access to the Centre's       research, including transcriptions, introductions, analyses, maps and       indexes.
Reaching national and international audiences, Hearth Tax Online       has stimulated considerable public interest and has attracted 35,000       individual visitors since 2010.
A Hearth Tax Online weblog provides an       additional forum where the Centre publishes excerpts from transcripts,       initial research findings and details of future research.
Since July 2011       a total of 17 data releases have been viewed 4,226 times, including during       the 2012 Olympics, when releases relating the Olympic venues at Stratford       and Wimbledon were made based on recent research.
Hearth Tax Online also       fosters direct collaboration between the public and Centre staff who are       then able to enter into more detailed correspondence.
The impact of the hearth tax research, and its online presence in       particular, is confirmed by its reception among specific audiences.
For       example, the BBC's popular family history magazine Who Do You Think         You Are?
explained how the hearth tax could be used to unearth       seventeenth century ancestors (Oct 2010) as well as listing Hearth Tax       Online as its "Top Tip" and rating it as the twelfth most important       website for 2011 (Dec 2010).
More significantly for research on documents,       which would be regarded as obscure without the Centre's work, is the use       of its research in lifestyle magazines; an article on `Artisan Arcadia' in       Country Life used hearth tax data - provided by the Centre - to       discuss interior design.
These digital publications also stimulate more formal public engagement       with the hearth tax and the Centre, through demand for workshops, seminars       and talks, which complement the service.
Before 2006 the Centre had not       held any public events at the University of Roehampton, but since then an       event has been held annually.
Since 2008 these events have averaged fifty       attendees each year.
The topics covered included `Charity and community',       `North and South: wealth and poverty in later Stuart England', and `Life       and living in later Stuart London'.
In recent years the Centre has       increased accessibility by giving talks to non-academic organisations,       including the Dorset History Forum, the Friends of Historic Essex (FHE)       and the Society of Genealogists.
The focus of presentations has been to       provide insights into a range of social and cultural themes, including       poverty, employment and house architecture through the research.
For       instance Dr Wareham presented a talk on `Researching house history from       the hearth tax' at an event organised by FHE on 14th July 2012.
In 2011, the Centre organised its first workshop which was directed at       non-academic users of the hearth tax, and was focused upon members of the       general public living in the Woking area of Surrey.
Leaflets were       distributed at the Brooklands Museum, Elmbridge Museum, the Lightbox, and       the Woking Family History Centre.
This workshop on 'Early Modern       Ancestors' combined talks and training sessions connected to reading and       understanding hearth tax records, and was attended by 30 people from       outside higher education, who appreciated the teaching in small groups and       the insights offered by members of the Centre, including the guidance       offered by three of the Centre's senior research fellows (Dr Catherine       Ferguson; Dr Elizabeth Parkinson; and Peter Seaman).
The workshop was very       well received, with feedback indicating that 100 per cent of those who       attended the event considered it to have 'significantly' (43 per cent),       'considerably' (14 per cent) or 'greatly' (43 per cent) benefitted or       impacted directly their work and interest in family history research.
The work of the National Archives and the Hearth Tax Online is       complemented by this public engagement, the public benefits of which       continue to be felt by a wide range of users.
