     This research has led to impact &#8212; in many forms and media &#8212; on:     1) the documentary, The Other Pompeii: Life and Death in Herculaneum,       that focused on Herculaneum, commissioned for BBC2: transmitted 1 April       2013, repeated 2 April, 17 June, 1 August and 17 September; consolidated       viewing figures of 2.71 million, average audience rating 88/100 (Section       5.1).
Wallace-Hadrill was both historical consultant and presenter.
The programme was dependent on the results of his project and the       arguments of his book.
Reviews and blog comments were positive: for       example, `Professor Wallace-Hadrill presents with such passion and       enthusiasm for the subject he has devoted his life to that it is hard not       to be engaged' (5.2).
2) the conception of the British Museum's exhibition `Pompeii and       Herculaneum: Life and Death' (March -September 2013), specifically in the       inclusion of Herculaneum in the title; in the well-received case of       objects recovered from the Herculaneum sewer, in multiple references in       the exhibition catalogue (5.3), and in the series of four lectures       and events in the British Museum curated by Wallace-Hadrill in parallel       with the exhibition (3, 24 and 31 May and 12 July).
Wallace-Hadrill also       took part in both live transmissions of the BM show, Pompeii Live       and Pompeii Live for Schools to cinemas in the UK on 18 and 19       June, and shown to audiences in over 500 cinemas in the USA and Canada on       25 September.
`Everyone has been full of praise for your enthralling       presentation to Peter in the evening broadcast and your equally brilliant       performance with the children on their "dig"' &#8212; Deputy Director, British       Museum (5.4).
3) secondary education in the New South Wales Board of Studies Stage 6       Syllabus, Core Study, The Cities of Vesuvius, The Herculaneum Conservation       Project is regularly studied by over 10,000 young Australians (5.5).
4) the approaches of the Italian heritage authorities, both at the local       level of the Soprintendenza Archeologica di Napoli e Pompei, and at the       national level of the Ministero dei Beni Culturali.
The project team, led       by Wallace-Hadrill, was invited by the Comitato Scientifico di Settore for       heritage to give a three-hour presentation of its results in order to       inform the spending of a European grant to Pompeii (24 May 2012).
Wallace-Hadrill has twice taken part in national debates on the future of       heritage organised by Professor Andrea Carandini (La Sapienza, Rome) in       Florence at the Fondazione Florens (November 2011 and November 2012) (5.6).
5) the municipal authorities of Ercolano, and on the local community and       economy.
With these public authorities as partners, the project has set up       the Associazione Herculaneum, with Wallace-Hadrill as its President, and       the Herculaneum Study Centre as its principal organ, with Wallace-Hadrill       as its Director.
Through a state grant of 800,000 euros the Associazione       has been able to set up various projects of collaboration with the local       community, notably an outreach programme to local primary schools, and an       oral history project recording older inhabitants' attitudes to, and       recollections of, the site (5.7).
In collaboration with the Comune,       the Associazione has made a successful application to the Regione for       European funding for 2.2 million euros to create a park over the       north-west corner of the site, in an area previously occupied by slums.
This is matched by the undertaking of a grant of US$3 million from the       Packard Humanities Institute for the cost of demolitions and       expropriations (5.8).
6) the continued work of the Herculaneum Conservation project which has       been granted by the Packard Humanities Institute six grants totalling five       million euros since 2009 (5.9).
This is the only sponsored project       of its sort in the heritage sector in Italy.
The recent success of the       project, including the impact of Wallace-Hadrill's monograph, has led to       the extension of the programme for another five years and the first grant       towards a new project to build a new onsite museum.
7) public perceptions of conservation issues related to Vesuvian sites:       especially in the last three years, the project has attracted considerable       press interest, extensively in Italy (5.10), but also in UK and the       USA (New York Times, 22 April 2013).
It formed one focus of the       recent (2011 and 2013) UNESCO reports into the state of conservation in       Pompeii, and the project was held up in the report as a model of best       practice.
`The results of this partnership are remarkable and there has       been a very great improvement in the overall condition of the site.
There       are lessons, for example on working practices, which could be translated       into other sites even without a private/public partnership' (5.11).
