     Pathway to impact     OET Ltd was founded in November 2007 as a spin-out business as a direct       result of the successful       Exploitation Agreement between Oxford Brookes University and the Natural       Environment       Research Council.
The patents granted to Brookes and NERC CEH were       licenced to the new       company in return for shares and a royalty income stream.
From the       beginning, OET's ethos has       been to generate revenue and profit to maintain and grow its activities,       following an initial private       equity investment of &#163;330K.
A number of staff working in the Brookes       insect virus research group       transferred into the company including Dr Richard Hitchman as Research       Director, Ms Evi Siaterli       as Scientific Officer and Ms Helen Irving as Business Development Manager.
Professors King and       Possee took on the roles of Scientific Advisor and were appointed to the       Board of Directors.
Impacts 2008 to present     The innovative technology (flashBACTM) developed by       King and Possee in the academic sector       has resulted in a range of easy to use kits that enable users to make       recombinant proteins in a       rapid and convenient one step process.
Its unique properties comprise (1)       its capacity for high       through-put production of multiple recombinant viruses and (2) the       improvements to the genetic       backbone of the virus to generate higher yields of good quality `difficult       to express' proteins.
While       competitor baculovirus expression products exist (for example,       Invitrogen's, BAC2BAC and BD       Biosciences' BACULOGOLD), the genetic backbone of these vectors       has not been further       developed since launching in the mid-1990s, and therefore flashBAC       is the only product that has       been genetically modified to improve the yield and quality of `difficult       to express' proteins and at the       same time enable high throughput, simultaneous production of virus       vectors.
First commercial sales of flashBAC kits began in 2008 and they       are sold world-wide either directly       from OET's Oxford base or through 19 international distributors to 21       different countries in Europe,       Asia and North America.
To access the American markets, the technology was       licenced under       Original Equipment Manufacturer agreements to EMD Millipore in 2008 and is       sold under the brand       name BacMagic.
Clients are a mixture of commercial and academic       laboratories.
Sales during the       period January 2008 to July 2013 have amounted to over &#163;1.8M and royalty       payments to       Brookes/NERC has totalled &#163;50K in the same period.
About 45% of OET's       sales derive from kit       sales and of this about 60% from distributors and 40% through direct       sales.
This is evidence that       the biotechnology sector has adopted a new technology as a result of the       research undertaken at       Brookes.
The flashBAC technology is also used in-house by OET to produce       recombinant proteins for       customers unable to make them in their own laboratories and this accounts       for about 50% of       annual turnover.
OET has thus established itself in the rapidly expanding       market for "off the shelf"       research services that enable companies to avoid setting up their own       dedicated facilities or enable       them to outsource when in-house facilities are at capacity.
OET has worked       with companies such       as Merck, Novartis, Epistem, Serotec, Medigene, Protein Sciences, Sanofi       Pasteur, Sanofi Aventis       to name a few, plus industry-related entities such as Oxford Structural       Genomics Consortium, the       Oxford Protein Production Facility and government laboratories such as the       Health Protection       Agency and The Pirbright Laboratory.
We have enabled these companies and       institutions to       advance their drug discovery and/or vaccine development programmes by       producing proteins       more quickly and to higher yields and better quality than was possible       previously.
Companies       utilizing OET technology are based in Europe, North and South America,       South East Asia,       Australia, Middle East and China, as well as in the UK.
A specific example of the licensed use of the technology has been in the       development of a point-of-care       serology assay for the detection of Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever by       the Health       Protection Agency, which involved the expression of the CCHF virus       nucleoprotein using the       flashBAC system.
In the time of its existence, OET has provided employment for 5-8 members       of staff at any one       time.
A number of OET R&amp;D staff were trained at Brookes, including E       Siaterli, CH Irving, JO       Danquah and A Chambers.
OET invests in R&amp;D to ensure its platform technologies remain       competitive and at the forefront of       new expression vector development through in-house and collaborative       R&amp;D with a range of UK       and International, commercial and academic partners, such as Proteonics in       The Netherlands, The       BBSRC Pirbright Laboratory and Paratech Inc., USA.
Most recently, OET has       produced a new       flashBAC variant that is enabling increased production and yield of       Virus Like Particles (VLP) for       the vaccine markets, which was released in October 2012 under the retail       name flashBACPRIME.
Through this in-house and collaborative product development pipeline, OET       also provides a range       of reagents to complement its flagship flashBAC kits including       BaculoQUANTTM, an innovative       quantitative PCR method for fast and accurate titration of viruses, an       effective transfection reagent       for insect cells (BaculoFECTIN) and a range of novel transfer vectors for       the expression of genes       at various points in the virus replication cycle, for dual expression of       proteins and for production of       proteins in mammalian cells (BacMAM vectors).
OET has also funded or co-funded 3 PhD students at Brookes, which are       directly related to further       improving the Baculovirus expression system and most recently a       studentship which aims to       develop novel vaccines for African Horse Sickness, co-funded with BBSRC       Pirbright Laboratory.
A       strategic partnership has been established with Proteonics and Paratechs       and licences have been       granted to a number of commercial users and the Health Protection Agency       (HPA).
OET also       provides training courses to enable R&amp;D staff within industry to gain       high-level skills in using the       bacculovirus expression system in their own laboratories.
In recognition of it's early impact in the local biotechnology sector,       OET was awarded `Best new       start-up' in Oxfordshire and SE 2009 at the annual Oxfordshire Bioscience       Network (OBN) awards.
