     Published by Walker Books, the only book ever commissioned by the Reader       Organisation and       the third chosen for their shared read, The Unforgotten Coat has       been distributed throughout the       UK and across the world including Australia, Hong Kong, Bulgaria and       Denmark.
The book has       been translated into several languages, nominated for several prizes,       winning The Guardian       Children's Fiction Prize in 2012, the German Children's Book Awards       in 2013, and nominations       for the Costa Children's Book Award in 2011 and the International Board on       Books for Young       People (IBBY) for the prestigious 2014 IBBY international Honours List in       Mexico 2014.
The book       was used by three projects with three beneficiaries of transformational       impact:            The organisations involved       The therapists and community workers       The readers.
The book's worldwide distribution and awards demonstrate its global       reach.
The Good Read       website offers further evidence of the book's impact on a general       international readership, with       testimony from teacher trainees inter alia, and observations about       the significant, and integral, role       of the photography, and the book's reception and use as a tool for       stimulating creativity and       debate, especially in the school setting.
(Other sources 4-7)       The research, and a programme of impact activities which followed,       aimed to:            Improve literacy and reading skills       Foster public engagement with creative storytelling through         photography       Highlight the plight and experience of young asylum seekers.
Beneficiary 1: The Reader Organisation &#8212; literacy and           reading (Corroboration: Factual           statement 1; Other sources 1-2)     The Reader Organisation, a Liverpool-based charity, advocates the       benefits of communal reading       and being read to, to promote self-esteem, self-confidence and wellbeing.
They have used the       book widely with their Get Into Reading groups across the UK,       which bring people together in       weekly read aloud groups.
Stories and poems are listened to, thoughts and       experiences are       shared, and social connections are made.
They work in mental health       settings, prisons, and with       looked-after children.
The Unforgotten Coat was central to RO's Our         Read project in 2011, in       conjunction with the Bluecoat Arts Centre in Liverpool.
On 3 March 2011,       50,000 free copies of       the book were given away on World Book Day.
That day, Hunter and Heney       took 25 young people       from Merseyside, all members of Get Into Reading projects, to       London on the `Story Train' for the       book's premiere.
They gave a presentation to schoolchildren in the British       Library, and with Cottrell       Boyce, they explained why and how the photography was important to the       creation of the narrative.
In the Bluecoat Arts Centre in Liverpool on the same day, schoolchildren       from the Get Into Reading       group, members of the public, and staff from the Bluecoat and the Reader       Organisation       participated in four readings throughout the day.
Evidence supplied       underlines the book's benefit       and impact, e.g.
a secondary teacher in Toxteth used the book with Year       7s, describing how the       pupils `had lots to say about the photographs and how they related to the       story'.
It stimulated `a       successful debate' where the group, `who usually talk over each other and       rarely enter into proper       discussion, each started asking other group members their opinions and       listening to their       answers'.
Project workers for children on the story train offered examples       of how the book       stimulated reading.
One foster carer reported: `B. read the book.
I'm       amazed.
He's never read a       book before [...] but this one he took to show everyone at [an alternative       education programme]       and finished it by himself'.
(Other Source 2, Section 5).
Beneficiary 2: Haven Project/Alder Hey Children's NHS Trust           &#8212; therapeutic storytelling           (Corroboration: Factual Statements 1-2; Other sources 1)     In 2011, the book was used by Liverpool's arm of the UK-wide Haven       Project, established by the       charity Action for Children in Conflict (AfCiC) that provides       psychological, emotional and       educational support to the survivors of conflict.
The Haven Project,       AfCiC's UK programme,       worked specifically with young asylum seekers and refugees in selected       British schools, including       Liverpool.
Some refugee children are at risk of developing mental health       difficulties due to their       experiences.
They may have experienced bereavement, be coping with harsh       memories,       separation and loss, and have experienced traumatic events such as seeing       people killed or       injured.
Working with a Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service psychotherapist       (Alder Hey       Children's NHS Trust), Hunter and Heney ran a workshop on       photo-elicitation (using photographs       to stimulate stories) with 15 refugee children and those with mental       health problems in Toxteth.
Drawing on the same creative process as the book, the workshop focused on       the children taking       three Polaroids and weaving stories from them.
The Alder Hey Children's       hospital's evaluation       report states: `All participants [in the workshop] said they would like to       do more photography in the       future.
Scores on the 10-point likert scale asking how happy or sad each       child felt after the session       yielded an average of 9.5' (p. 8).
In conclusion, it states: `[...] The       evidence here provided further       attests to the positive impact these activities have upon children and       young people who otherwise       face barriers to becoming involved in these types of communal activities.
As an essential       engagement and wellbeing activity the evidence indicates that the use of       group workshops       promoting positive physical and mental wellbeing should remain central to       the provision of       community-based services more broadly' (p.11).
(Other Source 1, Section       5).
Beneficiary 3:The Bluecoat Arts Centre &#8212; educational;           storytelling; creativity           (Corroboration: Other source 3)     The Bluecoat ran a series of workshop events for schoolteachers and       pupils through the       summer term of 2011, producing a Teachers' Pack derived specifically from       the book replete       with learning activities predicated on KS2 and KS3 curriculum links to       English (Writing), History,       Geography and R.E.
One of the proposed exercises, called `Map Your       Imagined World', involved       the use of photographs as the inspiration for their own creative projects.
Hunter and Heney       participated in one of the events, giving a presentation on their role in       the production of the book.
Using the learning activities, pupils benefited from the encouragement to       engage creatively with       their environment by means of photography and using their imagination as       the starting point for       the creative process, mirroring the same process undertaken by the       researchers in producing       the Polaroids.
Additionally, the activities raised the children's       awareness of debates about       migration.
