     Weaver's artistic research has social and cultural impact on       three main constituencies: artists, audiences, and curators / programmers       / venues.
Some takes place at the time of a performance, workshop or other       event, and feeds back immediately into the development of the research.
Some takes the form of an ongoing legacy for those engaged by and through       the research.
As playwright and Yale School of Drama playwriting lecturer       Lisa Kron notes, `Lois has profoundly influenced generations of theater       makers.'
(i) On artists.
The impact of Weaver's innovative, research-led       practice as a performance artist is demonstrated by the number of artists       &#8212; over twelve between 2008 and `13 &#8212; who have been inspired to emulate or       build on her work and sought her collaborative leadership as a mentor       and/or director.
Such collaborators include: Bird la Bird (2010-11);       Rosana Cade (2013); Stacy Makishi, Making of Bull the True Story       (2009-12) and The Falsettos (2013); Louise Mothersole and Rebecca       Fuller (Sh!t Theatre), Job Seekers Anonymous (2010-13); Dan       Fishback (NYC) for La Mama series, Squirts (2013); Holly Hughes, Let         Them Eat Cake (2009) and The Dog and Pony Show (bring your own         pony) (2010); and Serge Nicholson and Laura Bridgeman, The         (Trans) Mangina Monologues (2009).
Artists who received direct       support from Weaver's EEC project after 2008 include Oreet Ashery, Richard       DeDominici, Sheila Ghelani and Jiva Parthipan.
Artists who developed new       work with support and/or mentoring organised by Weaver through AiR and PtP       include Helena Hunter, Kira O'Reilly, Julia Bardsley, Mehmet Sander (AiR       residencies 2009-11) and Lauren Barri Holstein, Hester Chillingworth and       Jamie Lewis Hadley (PtP 2013).
Here, Weaver's research through her own       performance practice combines with her research on structures for       supporting artists; her curated events and mentoring deliver the impact of       her research to the work of other artists, and to the culture of live art       in general.
(ii) On audiences.
Incorporating audiences is crucial to Weaver's       research through performance conversations, Long Tables or Porch Sitting.
Techniques for audience incorporation were developed as part of Weaver's       ongoing research into forms facilitating access and participation.
In       these performances, audiences are invited to contribute photographs and       writing in the pre-show, enabling them to engage in public conversations       during the performance, based on their contributions &#8212; members of the       public are supported in their participation rather than put on the spot.
Miss         America: 15+ public performances, 2008-9, in NYC, London, Boston,       Minneapolis and Zagreb (audience c. 2,000).
Lost Lounge:       20+ public performances, 2009-12, in NYC, LA, London, Toronto and Brisbane       (audience c. 4,000), Ruff: public performances in London,       NYC and Glasgow (audience c.1,010; &#163;30k Wellcome Trust grant       autumn 2013 secures future touring).
(iii) On curators, programmers, venues.
The impact of Weaver's       research and development of curatorial strategies is evident in a range of       significant enhancements in the UK's theatre/performance culture,       including: expansion of live art programming (at Duckie and Chelsea       Theatre, where Weaver is on the Board of Directors); development of new       artist-led spaces/initiatives (LADA's DIY was set up as a result of       Weaver's EEC experiments; the tenth DIY edition ran in 2013); development       of new artist development programmes at venues including the Colchester       Arts Centre (2005-the present) and (from 2012), The Junction, Cambridge.
Mark Ball, Artistic Director of LIFT since 2009, acknowledges her impact       when he writes that: `Lois Weaver opened my eyes to a new type of       performance that was conceptual, experimental, sexy but still deeply       political in nature.
That introduction to what's now termed "live art"       changed my view of what theatre could be and do.'
The impact of Weaver's social research also takes place both in       the process of the research itself (for participants) and in its legacy       and continuation by others.
Rachel Anderson, former Artangel Head of       Interaction delineates Weaver's expert MC'ing skills as Tammy at the       launch of Stay (2010): `[Weaver] managed to guide the audience       across ... a bumpy terrain with absolute sensitivity, respect and       humour... [Weaver] successfully created a beautiful celebration whilst       also holding the severity and seriousness of the context in equal       position.'
(i) DemTech devised methods to engage participants often excluded       from digital and new media technology in discussions about digital       technology design.
Workshops involved 36 participants from local groups:       Bow Women's Choir, The Geezers, S-AGE at the Sundial Centre and       Association of Greater London Older Women (AGLOW), who worked alongside       interactive design students and the project researchers/artists.
The       research was disseminated for a general public through The Not Quite         Yet Exhibit at Space Gallery (2008) featuring works by five artists       commissioned to respond to the research conducted in the workshops, a       related symposium and a professional development DVD resource for       designers, activists and policymakers (www.spacestudios.org.uk/whats-on/exhibitions/the-not-quite-yet).
The impact of the original research includes work undertaken by the       participants following DemTech's formal events, including projects by       AGLOW, who won a Community Cohesion Award from the London Health       Commission in 2010 for `performance work challenging ageism across service       deliverers and getting people talking about good practice and how it can       be achieved.'
(ii) Participatory events in which Weaver has drawn on her       research to engage non-specialist and often marginalised publics.
Most of       these involve Tammy WhyNot.
Five public performances of What         Tammy Needs to Know about Getting Old and Having Sex (2008-13)       (estimated total audience 600); public workshop with 10 lesbian       asylum-seekers using personae to support participants in the confident       expression of their sexual identity and assertion of rights claims, with       audience of c. 120 family, friends, artists and activists, as part       of Stay, an Artangel project led by Oreet Ashery (2010); Tourist         Information Wanted (2010) with Stacy Makishi, part of Alternative       Village F&#234;te, produced by Home Live Art for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee,       in which members of the public were invited to remember events in their       own lives for which they would like to have a `Jubilee' (350       participants); What Tammy Found Out (2013) performance at Contact       Theatre, Manchester (audience c.170); five-day residency in a retirement       home in Varazdin, Croatia with c. 35 residents and staff, on       issues of health, sexuality and aging (2013), culminating in five films       and a live performance (audience of 125); What Tammy Needs to Know         About Being Femme (2013), City of Women Festival, Ljubljana,       audience c.150 (also with a Long Table on Gender and Drag).
(iii) The widespread use of the `open source' technologies developed       under the Public Address Systems (PAS) umbrella.
Weaver herself       has hosted 26 Long Tables since 2008, of which 17 were in theatres,       festivals or related non-HEI contexts in Glasgow, London, New York and       Boston.
Other people have organised them in Sydney, Pittsburgh, London and       New York.
Events have involved discussion of human rights, technology       design, feminism, autobiography, labour, riots in London, Afrofuturism,       performance art and sexuality, with c.1,500 participants.
Other       PAS events include Porch Sitting for the Future of Queer Performance,       La Mama, NY (2012), with 75 participants, leading directly to enhanced       LGBT youth programming at La Mama and the establishment of an annual queer       youth festival, Squirts; Getting On: A Back Stage Tour (2013),       three workshops using theatrical language to increase conversation on fear       of aging with elder groups in San Francisco and London (25-30 participants       and pamphlet for dissemination of workshop methodology); a workshop to       present and disseminate PAS with c. 20 artists and activists, CREATE,       Dublin, 2013; and launch of Public Address Systems website, 2013.
