     The following impacts arose between January 2008 and July 2013.
1.
Improved patient movement and wellbeing       Across pilot FWYA (oncology; neuromedical) and subsequent phases       (neuromedical, cardiac, orthopaedic, acute psychiatric wards) ISD has       proved to be effective in engaging young patients at AHCH.
Many children       become very inactive as a result complex conditions and long hospital       stays.
Patients who have been experiencing anxiety, pain or depression       have engaged with STDC, enjoying their experience and enhancing physical       and mental well-being.
ISD is person-centred, allowing patients to make       choices and lead sessions, in contrast to experiences of medical contexts,       in which they have no control over treatment and/or experiences.
ISD has       been shown to be empowering and transformative of hospital experience.
The       skilful improviser listens, attunes to bodily expression, perceiving       subtle shifts in tone and movement, holding a creative space, and       accompanying another on imaginative journeys.
Qualitative documentation       draws from patient, parent, clinician and artist narratives (References 1,       2; Factual Statements (FS) 1-4).
Interviews with STDC and patients'       parents were broadcast on BBC North West Tonight (June 2012).
2.
ISD research has changed practices at AHCH       Following a successful pilot phase, FWYA was extended to patients       of other specialist teams, and STDC carried out a 20-week investigation of       ISD efficacy for Neuromedical, Cardiac and Orthopaedic patients with acute       pain.
92% of participants experienced quantifiable pain reduction, and       this finding had an immediate impact on hospital practices: the Play       Specialist (FS 4) invited STDC to support cardiac patients pre-surgery, in       recovery and with pain management.
The Pain and Sedation Service and Arts       Coordinator placed STDC with multi-level orthopaedic surgery patients: an       important development, as there was little engagement with the arts for       health programme (FS 3) in Orthopaedic care.
STDC received referrals from       physiotherapists working across hospital wards, exemplifying a growing       demand for ISD's incorporation in a multi-disciplinary approach to pain       management, neuro-rehabilitation and recovery post-surgery.
STDC have been       invited by AHCH Pain and Sedation Service to share their findings at the       Paediatric Pain Travelling Club Annual Conference (Birmingham Children's       Hospital, April 2014); the inaugural dance practitioner presentation at       this national event.
The work in relation to pain is very interesting and       encouraging.
`The perception that pain will be induced by movement can       result in a reduction of spontaneous movement, increased anxiety and       associated muscle tension which can directly lead to increased pain.
Dance       improvisation in the wards, encountering patients who have different       clinical conditions particularly cardiac, orthopaedic and neuromedical,       has shown that participation in the dance programme has not only reduced       patients' perceptions of their pain but that of their parents and clinical       staff as well [...] In some cases patients have spent significantly less       time in hospital because their requirement for medication and their       rehabilitation has been more rapid. '
(FS1)     3: Benefit to dance practitioners       STDC have successfully documented the effectiveness of ISD in the From         Where You Are and Invisible Duets films, greatly       facilitating sharing of approaches, experiences and insights beyond AHCH,       with both artists and health practitioners.
The Foundation for Community       Dance's national annual Summer School (2013) screened From Where You         Are as an example of good practice on the Dance, Health and       Wellbeing strand of this training.
STDC attracted applications for CPD       from artists and health practitioners, and are national leaders in       training dance artists in ISD in clinical settings.
Eight apprentices       participated in their apprenticeship programme, with some thirty enrolling       for Healthful Dancing training weeks (2012-13), and evaluation       questionnaires confirm impact on individuals' professional development.
Participant feedback is strongly positive, with all respondents rating the       experience as very good or excellent.
Examples of participants who       expanded their practice include one now working with disability dance       groups, and another now using ISD with elderly and frail clients.
One       participant commented, `I felt very honoured to hear Small Things,       alongside the Guest Artists, the medical profession and families of the       children attending Alder Hey hospital, discuss and share their experience.
It was incredibly inspiring, refreshing and informative.
The impact of the       work undertaken by Lisa and Catherine has been of great significance.'
An       apprentice observed, `Being an apprentice has allowed me to experience new       and exciting insights into this work.
The first-hand experience I received       is invaluable and has taught me so much about the importance of       somatic/sensory work in a children's hospital and approaches on how to       deliver such work in these settings.'
(Other Source 1).
4: Benefit to fund raisers       A commissioned film documenting ISD at AHCH has been used by the hospital       to raise their profile and enhance funding appeals and applications.
The       AHCH Arts Co-ordinator presented `From Where You Are: The Impact       of Improvised Dance and Movement Practice on Patients at Alder Hey       Hospital' at The Arts in Applied Psychology and Education Conference,       Derby, 17th July 2013.
Currently STDC have a grant for this research from Arts Council England.
The Arts Council England's Relationship Manager for Dance (RMD) has used       the case study to advocate on behalf of award holders to ACE colleagues,       recognising the innovation of this project and its impact on the arts and       health agenda for ACE.
(FS 5).
