     Mansell's research has impacted on information society policies by         influencing policy makers to acknowledge the complexity of change in the         digital world and the legitimate claims of all stakeholders,         including citizens.
In the mid-1990s, the narrative emphasised rapid       change in digital technologies and the rate of diffusion in the market.
It       neglected citizen interests in trusted services, privacy and affordable       access.
Drawing on Mansell's research, in 2005, UNESCO signalled a major       shift towards information, or knowledge, society policy with a focus on       people, fairness and equity in the digital world.
Mansell's research had       demonstrated that when citizen interests are neglected, the chances of       achieving inclusive policy goals are much reduced.
Her persistent advocacy       of citizen-centred policy in United Nations agency forums has influenced       subsequent policy; as a result, policies implemented by government and       third sector organisations more often reflect privacy, safety, online       freedoms and equitable access to networks.
For example, Mansell's work for       UNESCO was reflected its 2008-13 Medium-Term Strategy [A].
She authored       UNESCO's World Report, Renewing the Knowledge Societies Vision in       2013 [B].
Many of her recommendations were repeated in UNESCO's       recommendations for the United Nations review of the Millennium Goals [C].
The report is approved for publication by UNESCO and world distribution in       Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Portuguese, Spanish and Russian in 2014,       in time to influence the final deliberations on the Millennium Goals that       bear on how policies concerned with digital technologies can contribute to       inclusive development.
The impact of Mansell's research on policies aimed at increasing investment           in broadband networks has extended to regions such as       Latin America and the Caribbean.
Policies in this region increasingly are       incorporating the idea of `open development'.
This gives much greater       attention to demand, diverse user needs, open (in contrast to proprietary)       digital services, and equitable access.
Based on her research on regional       strategies aimed at developing network infrastructures in the US and       Europe, she was invited to present her recommendations on behalf of       regional civil society organisations, and the Canadian International       Development Research Centre, at the Fourth Ministerial Meeting on the       Information Society for Latin American and the Caribbean Region in Uruguay       in 2013.
Mansell's research has impacted on measures aimed at curtailing copyright           infringement resulting in moderation of ill-conceived measures to         combat online `piracy' and agreement to independently assess the impact         of the Digital Economy Act 2010 in the UK.
The creative industry       argues that legislation is needed to reduce online `piracy' or copyright       infringement.
The Act introduced measures to monitor the activities of       Internet users suspected of infringing copyright.
This was challenged in       the Administrative High Court by Internet Service Providers (who are       obliged to provide data about their customers under the Act) because of       its implications for citizen privacy and their competitiveness.
Mansell       served as expert witness on behalf of British Telecom and TalkTalk in the       Judicial Review.
Her evidence was used to challenge claims by creative       industry about the costs of copyright infringement to their businesses and       to support the argument that copyright enforcement must be proportional,       taking into account changing online cultural norms [D].
Her evidence was       quoted and found to be very finely balanced with government and creative       industry counterarguments [E].
The court accepted the case for an initial       one year implementation of the Act so as to assess whether the measures       have the impacts on copyright infringement claimed by the industry.
The       implementation of the Act by the regulator, Ofcom, has been delayed and is       not to be introduced until at least 2015.
The impact here was to credibly       challenge the creative industry and government claims about the       proportionality of the Act.
In policy concerned with Internet security and privacy,       Mansell's research influenced policies concerning the use of intrusive         surveillance technologies.
Post 9/11, some police authorities and       politicians strongly advocated swift implementation of privacy invasive       uses of the Internet to combat serious online crime and terrorist threats.
Mansell's report on Cyber Trust and Crime Prevention for the Office of       Science and Technology Foresight concluded that strategies to improve the       security and trustworthiness of networks must minimise breaches of citizen       privacy if they are to be effective and consistent with democratic values       [F].
The social science input to a twelve-month deliberation process,       involving stakeholders from the Home Office, MI6 and technology and       digital service specialists, was led by Mansell as lead expert       representing all the social sciences, including economics.
The result of       this work was that stakeholders started to see why technical fixes to       security risks are very partial answers to the development of online trust       and the protection of citizen rights to privacy.
This work continues to       influence policy debates.
For example, when the Communications Data Bill       2013 in the UK was proposed, it was seen by civil society groups as       increasing the risk to citizens' rights to privacy, resulting in       evidence-based objections which drew partly on Mansell's work for the       Foresight project.
Wider Implications: When citizen interests are neglected by those       who make policy around digital information, there is a high risk that       people will be excluded from the local and global benefits that come with       access to the Internet.
The risk is also high that they will be subject to       intrusive surveillance and threats to their privacy.
Mansell's emphasis on       a citizen-centred policy has influenced choices about how digital networks       and services are developed and used.
This has material consequences for       whether citizens benefit from their information societies.
With moves by       governments to suppress copyright infringement, to allow inspection of       emails and private communications, and to promote massive investment in       broadband networks, effective advocacy of citizen-centred policies based       on systematic empirical evidence is vital.
It is one means of restraining       the excesses of state and business enthusiasm for digital technologies       that put citizens at risk.
These impacts are important to foster consent       in democratic societies.
