     The work of this team has established through a number of peer reviewed       publications that hCG&#946; is expressed by many aggressive human tumours and       that it is required for rapid cell growth.
They extended this in further       publications to show that hCG&#946; expression could be used as a diagnostic       tool to establish tumour type and indicate potentially useful therapies,       and to show that antibodies could be used to block the action of hCG&#946; in         vitro, which decreased tumour cell growth by preventing the hCG&#946;       mediated inhibition of apoptosis.
The group continued this work to develop       modified forms of hCG&#946; that could be used for immunotherapy or vaccine       development.
Building on this work, and that of others, Celldex Therapeutics (Needham,       MA, USA) have developed an anti-hCG&#946; cancer vaccine based on their       patented technology for targeting antigen presenting cells (APC) - (Keler       et al., 2007).
Termed CDX-1307, this vaccine has completed Phase 1       development and is planned to be marketed as a treatment for colorectal,       pancreatic, bladder, ovarian and breast cancers, with the potential for       others.
CDX-1307 couples the entire beta chain of hCG to an APC specific       adjuvant antibody and induces both humoral and cell mediated response to       the complete molecule and not just the CTP.
These Phase I trials showed a       halting of tumour progression for many patients, and their serum was       demonstrated by Dr Butler to significantly reduce cell number in vitro       (Morse et al., 2011).
A Phase II study in patients with invasive bladder       cancer began in May 2010.
The N-ABLE Trial (Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant       Bladder Cancer Trial), was proposed to evaluate CDX-1307 in both       neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings in patients with newly diagnosed       muscle-invasive bladder cancers with inclusion dependent on demonstrating       hCG&#946; expression by the tumour.
Preliminary data was expected by the end of       2011.
However, while initial data was very encouraging and positive data       was presented from three product candidates in four presentations at the       American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting, recruitment of       suitable patients was slow.
Coupled with the financial crisis slowing       progress even further the trial was halted in 2011.
However, Celldex and other companies are well positioned to continue this       work when circumstances are right.
Therefore, current benefits include       possible increased survival time for patients within the trial, and a       significant financial impact on whichever company runs the trial.
As an       indication of the impact this may make, other US based companies have       received significant government funding to extend this work using other       immunotherapy approaches although no data have been presented as yet.
The       results reported in this trial show the vaccine approach has the potential       to make significant advances in the treatment of this invasive cancer.
From our data we know that antisera appears to block anti-apoptotic       activity of hCG&#946;, which in turn reduces the growth and spread of tumours       to distant organs.
This has a profound effect on survival and the vaccine       may target these metastatic cells directly.
Current plans are that the vaccine will be trialled over a five-year       period, amongst a group of 60 newly-diagnosed patients with the cancer.
The same molecule occurs in many epithelial cancers (32% by meta analysis)       (Butler &amp; Iles, 2010).
In time, therefore, this type of vaccine could       also offer treatment benefits across a range of other highly invasive       cancers.
Bladder cancer affects four times as many men as women with       10,000 new cases a year in the UK.
It is the fourth most common cancer and       the sixth most common cause of cancer death in UK men.
At present, 75% of       cases are lethal.
The potential beneficiaries therefore number in the       millions worldwide, with the nature of the impact being increased survival       times, and possibly long term cures of cancers.
