     This project has been recognised because of the way it has mobilised a       community to take concerted action, and the fact that it has been       rigorously and independently monitored by the University of Chester.
The       research input has been vital both to its success and to its endurance.
The beneficiaries of this research have been many and various.
The       village of Ashton Hayes has benefited most directly through the energy       savings and improvements to lifestyle made by many of its 1,000 residents.
It has also received extensive recognition and tangible assets have been       acquired as a result of the project.
In 2008, lobbying led to Cheshire       County Council developing a safe access footpath to the railway station in       the next village and the DECC LCCC project in the village provided a       sustainable, low carbon sports pavilion and electric car for community       use, as well as 25kWp of solar photovoltaic generation capacity on the       pavilion and the village school.
Invited presentations to more than 150 UK communities (http://www.goingcarbonneutral.co.uk/diary-of-events/"&gt;diary-of-events/)       and distribution of a Toolkit DVD to 1,000 more in the UK and abroad have       stimulated many to follow the Ashton Hayes example.
Eden Mills in Canada       set up a very similar scheme in 2007 following a visit to Ashton Hayes.
Eden Mills has adopted the logo and methods used in Ashton Hayes and has       linked with the University of Guelph.
N&#248;tter&#248;y in Norway also established       a similar project and is now twinned with Ashton Hayes on a carbon neutral       basis.
Government organisations and policy makers have also been influenced.
The       project has regularly featured as an exemplar on the Energy Saving Trust's       website (http://www.energysavingtrust.org.uk/),       particularly for the methodology used for community carbon footprinting.
In September 2008, The Rt Hon Hilary Benn made a ministerial visit to the       village to learn more about the Going Carbon Neutral project and our       research for the microgrid study.
The project featured as a case study in       the White Paper, The UK Low Carbon Transition Plan, published on       15 July 2009, when the BBC spent the whole day in the village making       hourly national and international broadcasts about the research       activities.
It also features as an example of community energy in the       White Paper, Local growth: realising every place's potential,       presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State for Business, Industry       and Skills on 28 October 2010.
From 2010 to 2012, Roy Alexander served as       an invited member of the DECC LCCC Working Group.
In addition, businesses have been influenced by the project.
At the       outset, start-up funding of &#163;3,600 was provided by local companies and the       international environmental consultant RSK Group was stimulated, in part,       to set up its carbon monitoring unit as a result of the project.
In 2009,       Business in the Community made a Seeing is Believing visit to       Ashton Hayes to learn more, particularly about the ways businesses could       interface with community projects.
Also in 2009, the project was one of       the first to be adopted for support by newly-established charity, Carbon       Leapfrog (now Pure Leapfrog), which channels pro bono professional       services to carbon saving projects in the UK and abroad       (carbonleapfrog.org).
In 2010, Roy Alexander was invited to become a       member of Carbon Leapfrog's Project Steering Group, which selects projects       for support at its monthly Dragon's Den-style meetings in London.
He has       also been invited to speak at its national and regional events for       communities.
Productive links have been established with energy technology experts EA       Technology Ltd and ScottishPower Energy Networks.
These began with work on       the microgrid feasibility study and have led on to further collaborations       on projects concerned with demand-side management and smart appliances.
The Ashton Hayes Going Carbon Neutral initiative is now recognised       nationally and internationally as a pioneering flagship community project.
Articles have appeared in local, regional and national press, including       the Observer and Financial Times, and in publications such as Dagens       Nyheter, T&#248;nsbergs Blad and Berliner Zeitung in the international press.
Broadcast media coverage in the UK has involved local and national radio       on BBC4 and 5Live, plus international radio coverage on the BBC World       Service, German World Service and CBC.
Television cover has BBC 1, CBBC       and Sky News in the UK, with the BBC News and BBC World channels, New       Zealand TV and SBS TV South Korea providing international coverage.
Together with a short film about the project, The Village Green,       commissioned for and broadcast worldwide during the Live Earth       concerts on 7 July, 2007, the total reach by these media outlets is       estimated at up to one billion people.
