     This research has had direct impact on health and wellbeing; society,       culture and creativity, and practitioners and services.
Impact on health and wellbeing &#8212; measure of improved clinical         outcomes, public behavior and health services       A rigorous intervention mapping approach was used to develop the parents'       sex and relationships group programme `What should we tell the children'       [3], with 400 parents benefitting since 2006.
Feedback collected in       December 2010 showed that parents' confidence in discussing sexual health       matters had increased as a result of undertaking the course (97% of       attendees thought that, as a result of the course, they were more likely       to talk to their children about relationships and sex) [a].
Subsequent       feedback from parents has shown that the programme has had a significant       impact on the way they interact with their children regarding sexual       health matters [b].
As a result of the programme, Coventry City Council continued to work       with the research team to launch a new web-based campaign `Be Savvy' (www.besavvy.org.uk)       to promote sexual health and wellbeing to teachers, parents and young       people.
The website hosts a serious game version of `What should we tell       the children'.
The team have also developed and promoted an interactive       PR:EPARe serious game for relationships and sex education (RSE) [5].
The       game is used by teachers as a resource to aid sex education; tackling       pressure and coercion in teenage relationships (see section below on       impact on practitioners and services).
Using the same rigorous intervention mapping approach, the research was       extended, in collaboration with Warwickshire Council, to redevelop their       `Respect Yourself' campaign website and develop a new web app (www.respectyourself.info).
The campaign is aimed at young people in Coventry and Warwickshire to       provide them with information about locally available resources.
Brown       and Newby's research contributed to the successful `Respect       Yourself' campaign, which resulted in a decline in under-18 conceptions in       Warwickshire.
Evaluation data indicated that the website and web app were       successful in increasing the uptake of sexual health services by young       people in Warwickshire, specifically amongst males.
Involvement in the       development of the website and web app also had a positive impact on young       people.
This is confirmed by written feedback from the young people       sitting on the project's consultancy board, e.g.
"...this has been a very       beneficial experience for me, in the way that it has expanded my knowledge       and confidence" [c].
Amy Danahay, Respect Yourself campaign manager, said:       "These results prove we are giving young people the power to make positive       and informed choices about their relationships and sexual health and the       courage to speak out if they don't feel comfortable and safe."
The impact of the chlamydia screening intervention was evaluated between       2009 and 2011 in a prospective, cluster RCT with a modified Zelen design,       in which participating practices did not know that the intervention was       being evaluated.
During this period, testing in intervention practices was       1.76 times greater than in the control practices and this persisted for       nine months post intervention.
The number of chlamydia infections detected       increased within the intervention practices, from 2.08 per 1000 registered       15-24 year olds prior to the intervention, to 2.45 during the       intervention.
Due to this evidence of substantial efficacy, the findings       have been widely discussed by Local Authority commissioners and public       health teams across England.
Furthermore as a direct result, in April 2012       the NCSP commissioned the roll-out of the intervention across all GP       practices in England using a network of trainers.
Training of the trainers       commenced in July 2013 and 70 upper-tier Local Authority areas in England       have elected to participate.
Impact on society, culture and creativity &#8212; impact on public         understanding and public debate       Although the `Respect Yourself' and `Be Savvy' websites were set up for       use within the West Midlands, they have had significant international       reach.
In the 9 months between July 2012 and March 2013 the `Respect       Yourself' website was visited 164,463 times (data from Google analytics),       with visitors from over 20 countries worldwide.
The significance of the       resource is demonstrated by good repeat use of the site, with 30% of       unique users having visited the site previously.
One year after its launch       the resource is still attracting more than 6000 visitors per month (data       from Google analytics August 2013).
On average 2-3 questions are submitted       to the site each week, proving the ongoing value of the website and the       continued engagement of young people in the resource.
Similarly, the       `Respect Yourself' app has been accessed 20,000 times by 11,042 users       (data from Diva Creative Ltd).
There are 22,000 visits a year to the `Be       Savvy' website, on which the PR:EPARe and `What should we tell the       children' serious games are both hosted [d].
Both the PR:EPARe serious game and `Respect Yourself' website have       received significant media attention, promoting and stimulating public       awareness.
The PR:EPARe serious game received both business and       educational media coverage and the `Respect Yourself' campaign was       featured in the Guardian [e], on YouTube [f], on Channel 5 evening news,       &amp; ITV's `This Morning' programme [g].
International press coverage       included China and Mexico [h].
In addition, the website and app were       featured in a presentation at the Public Policy Exchange's `6th Annual       Sexual Health and Young People Symposium: A New Framework for Tackling       Teenage Pregnancy', held in Westminster on 9th July 2013[i].
The positive early evaluation findings and considerable media attention       have meant that a number of other local authorities in the UK have shown       an interest in replicating the `Respect Yourself' website and app for       their own locality.
This has led to the original partners in the project       putting together a licensing agreement so that other authorities can       purchase the right to replicate it.
The research team at Coventry       University remain the behaviour change experts and evaluation providers       for each new license purchased.
Four local authorities are currently in       the process of purchasing the license [j].
Impact on practitioners and services &#8212; evidence of adoption of best         practice       Building on intervention mapping methods, Brown and Barrett       applied asset-based approaches to develop FGM research.
FGM is a problem       that presents locally, within migrant communities in the UK, but stems       from traditional, deep-rooted cultural practices in Africa, the Middle       East and Asia.
The EC-funded REPLACE project resulted in the development       of a pilot toolkit promoting the application of community-based       participatory and behaviour change approaches to interventions, aimed at       ending the practice of FGM within the EU amongst FGM affected diaspora       communities.
This has had an impact on and been supported by a number of       organisations working to end FGM including original partners (FORWARD UK       and FSAN (Netherlands)) and organisations from outside the project, such       as the European Institute for Gender Equality and the UK Government.
REPLACE II has just been funded to implement and evaluate the REPLACE       toolkit developed during the pilot phase, working with various FGM       affected diaspora communities across five EU countries.
The Daphne REPLACE       framework, developed as part of the project, is now being used by other       practitioners, for example, in a separately funded Daphne [k] project and       by Bristol NHS Trust.
Brown and Barrett's FGM work has       been featured in the national press (The Parliament Magazine &#8212; Nov 2011,       and London Evening Standard and The Conversation - June 2013) and Barrett       has been invited to contribute to a to a government-funding consultation       at DFID on FGM prevalence rates and has been part of the "huddle" to       inform forthcoming research priorities on FGM.
Barrett has been       called upon by the Asylum Appeal Court to prepare almost 30 expert reports       on FGM in Gambia, and she has appeared as an expert witness in two cases.
The PR:EPARe game has also had impact on practitioners, being available       as a resource to teachers in Warwickshire to support their delivery of       relationships and sex education.
Warwickshire Council ran training courses       for teachers every two months and in the first year (2010) 900 completed       the course, indicating the reach of the programme.
Feedback from teachers       stated they found the game to be "...an excellent stimulus for discussion"       and "...engaging".
The chlamydia screening intervention has impacted on staff in GP       practices, supporting them to achieve a significant increase in       opportunistic screening and detection of chlamydia.
As detailed       previously, this intervention is being rolled out nationally in 70 local       authorities.
Conclusion       This case study demonstrates that the Unit's research had impact on         health and wellbeing supporting a decline in under-18 conceptions,       an uptake of sexual health services and increasing chlamydia screening       rates.
The materials developed have also had an impact on society,         culture and creativity, increasing public awareness on sexual health       issues.
Internationally, the research has had impact on practitioners         and services working to reduce female genital mutilation.
