     Impact on health and welfare (international and UK)     The research of Singh and colleagues on the incremental shuttle       walking test is cited in the American Thoracic Society and European       Thoracic Society Statement for Pulmonary Rehabilitation [a] as well as the       British Thoracic Society Guidelines on pulmonary rehabilitation [b].
The       importance of the incremental shuttle walking test and associated features       of the test, including the minimum clinically important difference will be       central to a second statement from the American Thoracic Society and       European Thoracic Society examining the use of field exercise tests in       chronic respiratory disease (Singh &#8212; co-chair, anticipated       publication date early 2014).
In addition, the test and the minimum       clinically important difference will feature in a third statement that is       supported by the European Thoracic Society describing the use of       `functional outcome measures for respiratory disease' (Singh &#8212; task       force member, publication date 2014).
The value of defining a minimum clinically important difference allows       clinicians to evaluate the impact of the intervention and assess the       clinical effectiveness.
Defining the effectiveness of a service is also       important to commissioners within the newly formed Clinical Commissioning       Groups.
To guide the commissioning of pulmonary rehabilitation, the       IMPRESS website (a collaboration between the British Thoracic Society and       Primary Care Respiratory Group) contains detailed information about the       test, the importance of measuring exercise capacity, and the anticipated       improvement [c].
Between March 2012 and March 2013 there have been 3582       downloads of the pulmonary rehabilitation guideline from the IMPRESS       website.
The guideline states &#8212;     Functional exercise capacity: of those entering the         programme, 1 in 2 should have an improvement above the minimally         clinical important difference in their exercise tolerance using a         functional exercise test.
(ref Singh 2008).
The incremental shuttle walking test is also cited in the 2012 NHS       Specification for Pulmonary Rehabilitation, indicating that it is viewed       as an important outcome measurement in service development and evaluation       [d].
Impact on practitioners and services (international and UK)     The incremental shuttle walking test has been pivotal to the development       and delivery of pulmonary rehabilitation in the UK.
The definition of the       minimum clinically important difference has supported the delivery of a       quality assured service and this has now been extended to the delivery of       cardiac rehabilitation programmes.
In addition, the incremental shuttle       walking test is used to assess the need for oxygen therapy in patients       with chronic respiratory disease.
The usefulness of the test was described       by Sandland et al [e].
Hogg et al give an example of a service using the       minimum clinically important difference of the incremental shuttle walking       test to demonstrate the effectiveness of their pulmonary rehabilitation       programme [f].
The incremental shuttle walking test and its minimum clinically important       difference has been taken up internationally and they are now recommended       for the measurement of exercise capacity in the Pulmonary Rehabilitation       Toolkit of the Australian Lung Foundation [g].
Data from the incremental shuttle walking test has been included in the       National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation (NACR), into which 75% of the 375       cardiac rehabilitation programmes within England, Wales and Northern       Ireland report.
The minimum clinically important difference is now being       used to evaluate the relative merits of cardiac rehabilitation across the       UK.
The incremental walking shuttle test has also been validated in other       clinical populations (including low back pain [h] and a modified version       described for the assessment of cystic fibrosis), extending the scope of       practice for many health care professionals to evaluate their       interventions objectively.
The incremental shuttle walking test has been       deployed as a primary outcome measure for a number of research studies,       particularly in chronic respiratory disease, and is used to define       responders to rehabilitation and foster the development of enhanced       rehabilitation services for patients with chronic respiratory disease.
The minimum clinically important difference is valuable to researchers       and allows studies to be powered adequately.
This has included therapy       trials [i,j] and pharmaceutical trials.
This is important as       conventionally pharmacological trials for patients with respiratory       disease have relied on primary outcomes that are of little relevance to       individuals.
Exercise performance is an important patient reported outcome       and the incremental shuttle walking test is increasingly being used in the       context of pharmaceutical trials [k].
The test has also been employed by       large pharmaceutical companies in phase 3 trials (including, GSK,       AstraZeneca, Merck, and Boehringer-Ingelheim).
Through engagement with       industry and the use of the test in clinical trials, 350 people have been       trained to use the test for two of the major pharmaceutical companies (150       at GSK and 200 at Boehringer Ingelheim).
Practitioner training (UK)     The incremental shuttle walking test is integrated into the curriculum of       a number of physiotherapy degree courses across the UK and Ireland       (including Trinity College Dublin, Oxford Brookes, Sheffield Hallam).
The       test is also presented within MSc modules for advanced respiratory care or       specifically pulmonary rehabilitation modules and post graduate courses       (University College London &#8212; MSc Advanced Cardio-respiratory physiotherapy       course, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust post graduate course       on pulmonary rehabilitation).
The test is therefore introduced to       practitioners as part of an advanced curriculum.
Conclusion     Singh and colleagues have explored the minimum clinically       important difference of the incremental shuttle walking test for       individuals with chronic respiratory disease.
Their research has had       impact on the health and welfare of individuals, on practitioners and       services, and on practitioner training.
As a result of Singh's       research, this threshold is now included in international guidelines for       pulmonary rehabilitation and has also been introduced into research and       practice among people attending cardiac rehabilitation over the last 5       years.
