     The research described above has impacted on the nature of public debate       about youth gangs, violence, sectarianism and criminal justice responses       to young offenders.
The Scottish media has shown intense and consistent       interest in the research and dissemination therein and has led to many       invitations to give additional presentations/keynotes and to lead       professional development programmes.
Firstly, this was achieved through       Deuchar and Holligan's own media contributions (see 5.3 - 5.7 for       examples).
Secondly, it was achieved through journalists' reporting of the       insights from Deuchar's research, which on occasions created vociferous       online public discussion about the issues (5.1, 5.2, 5.8).
And thirdly, it       was achieved through Deuchar's appearances on television current affairs       programmes such as Scotland Today, Newsnight, The Politics Show       and the WKRC Local 12 News in Cincinnati.
Ohio throughout       2009-2012, with the latter contributing towards public debate in the State       of Ohio and subsequent invitations to deliver keynote presentations to       both academic and practitioner audiences in European locations such as       Porto, Helsinki and Hiller&#248;d near Copenhagen.
As a result of this publicity and wider engagement, Deuchar drew upon the       research insights to underpin the development of new knowledge exchange       and CPD programmes for practitioners in Scotland, and this led to       subsequent impact on practice.
For example, youth workers within the Youth         Community Support Agency (YCSA) in Glasgow attended a CPD session       run by Deuchar in 2009 and commented in course evaluations that the       session had helped them to understand the `thought process of young people       in gangs'.
In addition, senior and operational police officers who       attended Deuchar's knowledge exchange seminars that he ran within police       leadership training with guest inputs from reformed young offenders       commented that the sessions illustrated the 'benefits of using applied       academic research in police training' in making a 'very robust training       product that has a noticeable impact on front-line policing'.
Between 2009-13, several community-based organisations and policing teams       who are heavily involved in delivery of professional services for young       people were able to become beneficiaries of Deuchar and Holligan's       research.
These organisations drew upon the research to gain new funding       for programmes, and/or developed their existing practice as a result of       the research.
For example, in one testimonial, the former Assistant       Regional Director with Aberlour Child Care Trust notes that, in       establishing a new streetwork programme for young people in deprived       communities in Glasgow, Deuchar's research offered a `sound conceptual       framework' which was used to look at how the new service was designed and       described and how the organisation might measure its outcomes.
He also       notes that being able to draw upon the research was `significant' in being       able to secure funding of over &#163;0.5 million from the Big Lottery in order       to implement the new streetwork programme.
In another testimonial, a       serving officer from the Community Policing Team in Drumchapel, Glasgow,       highlights that he was able to draw upon the research to `construct a       series of youth workshops to help understand gang related difficulties in       the Drumchapel area of Glasgow, inviting local residents, youth group       leaders and senior police managers to form part of the discussion group'.
From an international perspective, the Project Manager at Grundtvigs       Hojskole, Hiller&#248;d, near Copenhagen, comments in his testimonial that the       content of the keynote lecture and workshop Deuchar gave at the       International Gangs Seminar held there in September 2013 was `inspiring'       and that participating practitioners felt that the practical exercises       provided them with a `range of strategies that Danish practitioners can       use with street socialised groups'.
As a result of Deuchar and Holligan's close partnership with the Scottish       Government Community Safety Unit, Scottish policy debate was also       stimulated and informed by their research.
For example, the 2010 Scottish       Government publication Troublesome Youth Groups, Gangs and Knife         Carrying in Scotland made direct reference to Deuchar's work in its       quest to identity the nature of gang culture in Scotland (5.9), while the       2011 Scottish Government Thematic Report on Knife Crime referred       to Deuchar's work on curfews in identifying best practice in tackling       knife crime in Scotland (5.10).
In one further testimonial, the former       head of the Community Safety Unit says, `Professor Deuchar's work has been       at the forefront of our thinking in developing violence reduction and       wider community safety policy ... his thinking is clear and well-suited       for uptake into policy, and it has had a direct impact on how policy and       practice has evolved.'
In 2010, Deuchar was runner-up for the ESRC Michael Young Prize, in       recognition of the significant impact his research has on audiences beyond       academia.
