     Dr Finnin has channelled his scholarly work in and through a       comprehensive public programme of exhibitions, film screenings, and       literary readings, which have reached thousands around the world.
As the       Ukrainian daily newspaper Den' (25 May 2012) reported, `Dr       Finnin's fresh approach to the study of Ukrainian culture... has made       Ukraine an accessible cultural and social space for the European public' [1].
In 2009 his research into the artistry of Taras Shevchenko led him, in       partnership with the University's Department of History of Art, to       organise an exhibition at Cambridge's Michaelhouse Centre of over twenty       prints of the poet's paintings.
Entitled `Verse in Vision', the event       explored commonplaces in Shevchenko's poetic and painterly languages and       presented his self-portraits as visualised forms of lyric address.
The       exhibition was attended by an estimated 2,000 local residents, students,       and tourists, all of whom received informational pamphlets about       Shevchenko's life and work, written and designed by Dr Finnin.
In May       2009, Dr Finnin invited over twenty students from the Cambridge Russian       School to the exhibition, where they recited Shevchenko's verse in Russian       translation to celebrate his penchant for cultural and linguistic       exchange.
According to the Director of Studies at the Cambridge Russian       School, `Dr Finnin's exhibition and literary reading allowed our students       and parents to encounter Shevchenko as a complex artist committed to       exchange and dialogue between national groups' [2].
This positive       response led Dr Finnin in 2010 to launch the annual Vsesvit Readings in       Celebration of Literary Translation, which feature student recitations of       literary texts in various languages.
In 2013 Dr Finnin built on this       momentum, discussing his research on the significance of Shevchenko's       lyric address in a Ukrainian-language interview with Radio Liberty (14       March 2013) [3].
The interview elicited an enthusiastic response       from the public, with over 9,000 downloads and 272 likes on Facebook in       one week alone.
In 2008 Dr Finnin's work on the historical and cultural position of the       figure of the Crimean Tatar in Ukrainian culture, which the Crimean Tatar       community has described in the Russian-language media as `breathtaking'       (11 May 2012) [4], led him to organize the film festival `At the       Crossroads', which premiered documentary and feature films about Ukraine's       Muslim Tatar legacy.
Held at the Cambridge Arts Picturehouse, the event       met with a very enthusiastic response from the public.
Over 250 people       attended the sold-out screenings, which were accompanied by pre- and       post-screening discussions with Dr Finnin.
An attendee remarked: `Before       attending this event, my partner and I knew almost nothing about Ukraine       and its religious diversity.
We discovered an amazing country with a       turbulent past and a multi-ethnic culture' [5].
The event's       success prompted Finnin to establish an annual Cambridge Festival of       Ukrainian Film, which has since become a leading international showcase       for contemporary Ukrainian cinema, winning praise from many Ukrainian       civic organisations and news outlets, including the popular newspaper Komsomol'skaia         pravda (16 November 2011) (circulation: 1 million) [6].
Over       1,100 members of the public attended these screenings between 2008-12.
As       celebrated Ukrainian filmmaker Volodymyr Tykhii remarked, `The Cambridge       Film Festival has helped me understand my own work within an international       cultural context.'
In 2009 Dr Finnin's scholarship on the public memory of Ukraine's history       inspired him to mount an exhibition at the Wren Library (Trinity College,       Cambridge) of the 1932-33 diaries of Cambridge alumnus Gareth Jones, the       only journalist to stake his name in reporting the Holodomor to the world.
The exhibition's methodology drew on Dr Finnin's scholarship into       effective commemorative practices in Ukraine and Eastern Europe, advancing       a documentary, text-based memorialization rather than a monumental one.
The exhibition was visited by 2,789 guests in a two-month period, and the       Wren Library Sub-Librarian remarked that `there was more international       interest and impact with this extremely powerful exhibition than with any       of our other offerings' [7].
Over 180 world media outlets,       including The Daily Telegraph (13 November 2009) and The         Guardian (13 November 2009), covered the exhibition.
Ukraine's national daily Den' reported that the exhibition exposed       `the entire world to the Holodomor'.
The Kyiv Post (4 December       2009) quoted Finnin as saying that Jones's diaries `refocus the attention       from the political fighting [about the famine] to the voices of its       victims' [8].
Finnin also launched an exhibition website and       screened the UK premiere of a Ukrainian documentary (The Living,       2008) about Jones and the Holodomor to a capacity crowd at the Cambridge       Arts Picturehouse.
In addition he gave radio and television interviews       with the BBC and leading Ukrainian and Russian media outlets, speaking       live on BBC World News (13 November 2009) (global audience 97 million) [9];       on the BBC World Service (13 November 2009) (global audience 145 million)       [10]; on BBC Wales (13 November 2009) (weekly reach 486,000) [11];       on BBC Look East (12 November 2009) [12]; and on Inter (8 December       2009), Ukraine's most watched television channel [13].
He spoke in       Russian on Radio Liberty (26 November 2011) (audience 4 million) [14]       and in Ukrainian for an interview with the Ukrainian newspaper Den'       (18 November 2009) [15].
In the words of journalist George Carey,       creator of Newsnight, `Finnin's work has done much to widen public       interest in this important but hitherto neglected aspect of twentieth       century history.'
According to John Sweeney of BBC's Panorama, `Dr       Finnin's exhibition helped direct national media attention to the       Holodomor and offered the British public a new and better understanding of       Ukrainian history.'
