     Since 2005 Leonardi has produced three reports which have affected       government policies and aid agency programmes.
The principal benefits of       these reports have been:     (1) increased recognition among governments and aid agencies of the       significance of South Sudanese traditional authority for local governance       and justice;     (2) guidance on the existing local justice system for the planners and       implementers of access to justice programmes in South Sudan [text removed       for publication],     (3) better informed methods of policy-oriented empirical research by the       World Bank and the South Sudan Law Society on access to justice in South       Sudan and in other conflict-affected states.
The key beneficiaries have been:     (1) the Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS);     (2) non-academic users and partners in the Rift Valley Institute (RVI),       the UN Development Programme (UNDP), the United States Institute of Peace       (USIP), the South Sudan Law Society (SSLS), the British Council, Pact, the       UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), and the Department for       International Development (DfID);     (3) stakeholders in justice and governance reform programmes in South       Sudan and other conflict- affected states, such as the World Bank, the US       State Department Bureau of International Law and Narcotics and KPMG       Development Advisory Services.
Report (1) `Traditional authorities in Western and Central       Equatoria' (2005) was researched and written by Leonardi as part of a       project on traditional authority by the UNDP, which employed Leonardi as a       consultant on the basis of her expertise on chiefs.
The report was       commissioned by UNDP to inform the drafting of a `local government       framework' by the then rebel movement, which assumed power as the       semi-autonomous Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS) in 2005.
Report (1)       advocated an official acknowledgement and clarification of the chiefs'       judicial and administrative role at the `boma' level (the lowest level of       local government) and called for a simplification of local government       structures.
These findings contributed to the local government framework,       which eventually became the GoSS Local Government Act, 2009: Chapters       X-XII of the Act detail a central role for chiefs and customary law in       local government and justice [source 5.1] [text removed for publication].
Report (2) `Traditional administration and justice systems in       Sudan' (2007) was a desk-based report, commissioned by a senior governance       advisor at DfID who had read a 2006 conference paper by Leonardi.
There is       good evidence that this had influence on policy towards justice programmes       in Sudan [text removed for publication].
Report (3) Local Justice in Southern Sudan [publication       3.3] [text removed for publication].
In 2008 the United States Institute       of Peace (USIP) commissioned and funded a research project on `Local       Justice in Southern Sudan', conducted in 2009-10 through the Rift Valley       Institute (a UK- based non-profit organisation, see CS1).
Leonardi as       Research Director designed and managed this project, which was undertaken       in three locations in Southern Sudan by a team of three consultants with       local assistants.
Leonardi was lead author of the report, published       jointly by USIP and RVI in 2010.
The report was disseminated through high-profile launch events: (a) in       Southern Sudan, attended by the Vice-President of GoSS and representatives       of its Local Government Board and Ministry of Legal Affairs, members of       the Southern Sudan judiciary and representatives of the US State       Department Bureau of International Law and Narcotics; (b) at the       international affairs institute, Chatham House, in London (http://www.chathamhouse.org/events/view/156949);       (c) at the USIP headquarters in Washington DC (http://www.usip.org/events/local-justice-in-southern-sudan).During       2011 Leonardi presented the findings to the Danish Institute for       International Studies (at a conference supported by the Danish Ministry of       Foreign Affairs and the International Development Law Organisation), and       to KPMG's International Development Services Conference in Nairobi.
The report contested the current direction of GoSS policy, which favoured       the ascertaining of customary law in written form, and it argued that this       would not improve access to justice.
Instead, it emphasised the importance       of the chiefs' courts for local-level access to justice, noted their       flexibility and capacity for change, and made policy recommendations       designed to support the positive aspects of this local justice system.
These conclusions and recommendations contributed to a policy shift among       international agencies away from the ascertainment of customary law and       from reliance on the police and other central state institutions, to a       focus on improving local access to justice [source 5.2] [text removed for       publication].
The report has influenced the work of other bodies [text removed for       publication].
The South Sudan Law Society (SSLS) is an indigenous legal       organisation based in Juba, South Sudan.
Its research director states that       he has `made extensive use of Dr. Leonardi's work in several research       projects that I have managed...
The SSLS is also conducting an assessment       of local justice systems in South Sudan for which we took as a starting       point the excellent work that Leonardi and her colleagues did on local       justice for the USIP in 2010' [source 5.3].
The Local Justice report has had further influence through       reports produced by other international agencies.
For example, it is a       leading source for a study of local concepts of protection in South Sudan       by `Local to Global Protection', an initiative supported by Danish and       Swedish government aid [source 5.4].
The World Bank guide to Doing         business in Juba 2011 uses the report to establish the point that       problems with formal courts have led people to resort largely to customary       courts, and hence to call for reform of the formal legal and judicial       system [source 5.5].
The report is used by Human Rights Watch to make a       similar point about the greater accessibility and familiarity of customary       courts, in a report on arbitrary detention [source 5.6].
A report on       women's imprisonment in South Sudan by the Strategic Initiative for Women       in the Horn of Africa (a coalition of women's groups supported by Oxfam       Novib) quotes extensively from the Local Justice report in order       to show the long history of overlap between customary and state laws and       courts.
It declares that Leonardi `compellingly describes' the risks of       simply recording customary law, and it urges the need instead to engage       `imaginatively' with traditional authorities [source 5.7].
The emphasis in       Local Justice on the blurring of customary and statutory laws and       courts has been taken up by various agencies including Save the Children       [source 5.8].
Leonardi has discussed the report's findings directly with       several agencies working on government and justice within South Sudan,       including the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, KPMG       Development Advisory Services, the International Commission of Jurists,       the UN Mission in South Sudan Justice Advisory Section and the EU South       Sudan Rule of Law Programme.
Leonardi's work has had further influence beyond policy focused on South       Sudan.
Her criticisms of the policy of recording customary law are       referenced in a UN report designed to promote and guide engagement with       informal justice systems by international agencies [source 5.9].
The World       Bank's `Justice for the Poor' programme manager attests that the Local         Justice report `has had a significant impact on the way       practitioners understand justice in conflict affected states generally.
Instead of focusing on legal clarity and particular institutional forms,       it is now much more widely accepted that the starting place should be user       experiences and needs based on empirical data...
The methodology used by       Dr. Leonardi has influenced studies in CAR (World Bank), Solomon Islands       (World Bank), Haiti, and South Sudan (SSLS).'
[source 5.2].
