     1) Influencing trade policy, regulation and legislation     Campling's research was central to the Pacific Islands negotiating a new       `rule of origin' (RoO) with       the EU in 2007, which allows these developing countries to export canned       tuna to the EU duty-free       without having to use fish caught by EU boats.
The restrictiveness of the       old RoO was a source of       controversy for the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) states since       1976.
The European       Parliament (2012) estimates that new investment stemming from the reformed       RoO will see PNG's       local benefits from tuna processing grow from US$21m in 2012 to $70m by       2018 and employment       increase from 5,770 (mostly local women) to 20,000.
The Director of the       Marine Resources       Division, Secretariat of the Pacific Community, said: "[Campling] provided       the [Pacific Islands]       region with the first comprehensive reference work on the subject of       fisheries trade rules... for       countries like PNG... [this] has contributed to the attraction of major       foreign investment and job       creation."
Since 2008, Campling has worked on the European Commission's impact       assessment of       this RoO (Hamilton et al.
2011a).
The DG TRADE, European       Commission said: "The study was &#8212; and       continues to be &#8212; highly relevant for the implementation of the EPA       [Economic Partnership       Agreement], and the wider dialogue with the stakeholders.
It was       particularly important because it       provided detailed data and thorough analysis on a subject which until then       had been discussed on       the basis of hearsay and anecdotal evidence.
The analysis of the wider       (social and environmental)       impact of the derogation also helped us to better define our position in       the on-going negotiations of       the relevant chapters of the comprehensive EPA with the Pacific region."
Campling's research underpinned another major report, commissioned by FFA       (Hamilton et         al.
2011b).
It is now a standard reference work used by media and       tuna firms (it has 5,823 hits on       the FFA website and 4,596 on academia.edu at 26/09/13) and is cited by       Greenpeace, International       Seafood Sustainability Foundation, Technical Centre for Agricultural and       Rural Cooperation ACP-EU       (CTA), and the Philippines Socsksargen Federation of Fishing and Allied       Industries.
The Policy       Advisor, DG MARE, European Commission said: "[Campling's] work as an FFA       consultant [eg       Hamilton et al.
2011b] concretely impacted on the stance of       Pacific states at the international level       and allowed them to start integrating their fisheries sectors in the       global tuna supply chain."
At the World Trade Organisation, Campling provided an evidence-based       contribution (2007       to 2011) to the negotiation positions of four alliances of developing       countries in the Doha Round.
The main users were the Pacific Island countries and small, vulnerable       economies (SVEs)       groupings, but also the African group and the least developed countries       (LDCs).
The main impacts       were in the development of positions on proposed new trade rules       disciplining fisheries subsidies       (Campling wrote the analytical room documents and speeches and personally       engaged in bilateral       and multilateral negotiations).
Campling contributed to formal SVE       positions on enhancing       differentiation for small vulnerable economies, a special exemption from       rules for subsidised       fisheries access fees, and relaxing rigid proposed rules for artisanal /       subsistence fishers.
Counsellor at the Office of the Director General, WTO, noted that       Campling's work: "was crucial in       helping the group of SVEs have a better grasp of the conceptual and       practical link between the       possible rules and disciplines on fisheries subsidies and what was       happening on the ground in       countries... His work on tuna in Hamilton et al.
(2011b) and       Havice and Campling (2010) shed light       on an issue on which there was only sporadic exposure to in the WTO       negotiations and resulted in       there being a greater appreciation for the role of the fisheries' industry       in Small Island States and a       more nuanced negotiating position on behalf of the group of SVEs."
(2) Improving labour conditions in PNG tuna processing facilities     In 2010/11 Campling was involved in the European Commission review of       PNG's new RoO with       the EU (Hamilton et al.
2012a).
The review recommended improving       working conditions in PNG       tuna factories, a recommendation that was carried through in a public       policy agreement between       PNG and the EU, with the former agreeing to enhance working conditions.
Pro-bono work (drawing       on Campling's published research) has also fed into a campaign by the       International Transport       Workers' Federation (ITF) since Feb. 2011 on unionising this new       industrial workforce in PNG.
ITF       organising work resulted in the unionisation of tuna processing workers       with employer       commitments to improved working conditions and pay (ITF 2013a, 2013b).
The       ITF Fisheries       Programme Leader said Hamilton et al.
(2011b) and other work by       Campling "played a vital role in       evidencing the value of investing in a pilot project in PNG" which       "directly led to the unionization of       over 5,000 workers in the fisheries sector in the country".
ITF draws on       "the evidence base in his       publications that is invaluable in our training and education programmes       around the world and       have so far been used in the training of over 400 union leaders and       industry specialists".
In       addition, Campling (2012) and Havice and Campling (2013) "provided       evidence that there is value       in further research being commissioned in the Africa region to start       expanding our work       programme there".
ITF has commissioned Campling to do this work in Dec.       2013.
(3) Influencing public debate and understanding of fisheries industry         and policy     Campling's research and pro-bono advice contributed to a successful       Greenpeace UK campaign in       2010/11 that resulted in a complete overhaul of UK canned tuna brands and       supermarkets' tuna       sourcing policies.
Campling's research underpinned the understanding that       lay behind that       campaign.
The former head of Greenpeace UK Oceans Campaign, now CEO       Greenpeace       Australia, who was deeply involved in the campaign says: "The work of       Campling was absolutely       crucial in assisting Greenpeace in understanding the nature of the global       tuna trade.
We       specifically drew guidance from [his] work on the political economy of the       global tuna trade, and       have quoted him in Greenpeace publications."
Environmental journalist       Martin Hickman called this       "one of the most successful environmental campaigns in years" (The         Independent, 12 April 2011).
Campling's research has also deepened the understanding of change in the       global fishing       industry and associated policy regimes.
He produces a bi-monthly       publication FFA Fisheries Trade         News (since Dec 2007) for FFA, frequently cited in the media and by       development agencies.
It       provides timely analysis of fisheries trade policy, regulation, markets       and industry, with emphasis       on issues of relevance to the independent Pacific Island countries.
The       Chairman of the Pacific       Islands Tuna Industry Association says: "Both in the Association and       private company role I am a       regular user of, and rely upon [...] FFA Fisheries Trade News...
This is the prime and often the first       information source on trade matters effecting Pacific Island nations."
The       coordinator for the       Coalition for Fair Fisheries Arrangements (representing a coalition of       development and       environmental NGOs in Brussels) notes that Campling: "Informed our own       research and facilitated       our lobbying of the European Parliament and European Commission on       environmental and social       sustainability issues in fisheries."
Available online FFA Fisheries         Trade News is also distributed by       email by FFA's Fisheries Development Division to around 150 recipients       (key FFA Fisheries and       Trade Officials, FFA professional staff and external contacts) and by the       authors to their own       network of contacts (around 200 recipients).
In addition to these direct       mailings, from July 2012 to       June 2013 it recorded monthly average online reads of around 2,500.
In other pro-bono contributions to public debate, Campling was guest       speaker at       Greenpeace's launch of the Tinned Tuna League Table 2011, alongside       Charles Clover (journalist       and author), Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall (chef and campaigner) and Zak       Goldsmith (MP).
In 2012       he advised the UN's Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food at a meeting       in Nairobi on issues       related to fish production, access and the right to food.
This culminated       in a report to the UN       General Assembly (A/67/268, 2012), which referenced Campling's work.
In       2013, Campling was       invited by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs to a meeting       of experts on new and       emerging issues of small island developing states (SIDS); the report from       which will feed into the       20-year review of the UN Barbados Plan of Action for SIDS in 2014.
