     1.
The impact on the policy and best practices of local authorities         and voluntary sector       The research team developed an interpretive framework for those with       equality responsibilities to       use in developing the local policies and strategies required to meet the       legislative requirements.
This framework was further refined through a workshop with the five       authorities led by the research       team in December 2009.
The framework sets out the underlying policy and       public service       guidelines and the best practice for integrating what had been quite       separate duties on race,       disability and gender duties, plus the addition of religion, sexuality and       age strands in preparation       for the EqA.
All five local authorities have now adopted the framework.
They are using this       framework in the assessments against the Equality Framework in Local       Government, a national       standard whereby local authorities have to assess the extent to which they       have achieved best       practice on equality.
As a direct result one major urban authority       significantly improved their       Equality Framework for Local Government rating to `excellent' (the range       runs from `developing',       `achieving', to `excellent').
"Following the research interviews we looked at our overall focus in the       area of gender to       ensure that it did not become marginalised with the increased focus on       other protected       characteristics.
We used the research as support for, and under pinning,       our self-assessment       in this area.
This led to a new approach around embedding equality in       decision       making with the introduction of a performance measure to understand the       extent to which       this takes place.
The research also helped with our self-assessment       against the excellent       level of the Equality Framework for Local Government which we achieved in       May 2011."
(Strategic Equality Manager, Leeds City Council).
Impact is also very evident in those voluntary sector organisations which       are using the public       sector equality duties to pressure local authorities to improve their       practice.
"Over the course of the meetings I had with you [Hazel Conley] and       Margaret Page it       became clear that Fawcett Southwest was far too tied to the County       Council's apron strings.
This completely hampered pro-active gender equality promotion, other than       working with the       County Council.
I relayed to the tiny Exeter group your advice &#8212; about the       need to achieve       credible independence in order to effectively use the Gender Equality Duty       (as it was in those       days).
We met, dissolved Fawcett South West, reformed as Fawcett Devon,       opened our own       bank account, established our independence and put ourselves onto the       Devon 'map' of       equality/diversity organisations by taking our Fawcett Devon stand to       conferences and       equality events.
It was the best thing we could have done."
(Exeter       Councillor).
2.
The impact on trade union's priorities, strategies and         representational roles       The research has made a significant contribution to enabling trade unions       to pursue equality issues       more effectively on behalf of their members.
Conley has presented the       research findings and       outlined how unions can take up equality issues with employers in a range       of seminars.
These       seminars have involved trade union workplace representatives from the       local government sector as       well as the banking and finance sector, a sector which the EHRC has       targeted and investigated for       its poor record on equality and diversity practice.
In particular, she led       a training session for the       Unite union at their training and conference centre in Eastbourne       (September 2012).
The       participant feedback points to considerable impact in the form of learning       by union activists about       how they can apply the lessons of research in representing their members       and negotiating with       their employers over equality issues.
The research also created a resource       for Equality       Representatives at: www.acas.org.uk/index.aspx?articleid=2056.
Its presence on the ACAS       website indicates that ACAS consider that the resource has significant       value for users.
The research has had an impact on national trade union policies and       priorities, providing the       necessary evidence base for giving greater priority to equality issues.
The Head of Local       Government in the largest public sector union UNISON notes:     "I have attended a number of seminars at which Dr. Conley has presented       her research on       the Gender Equality Duty and the current Public Sector Equality Duty.
I       have found the       information provided on how the Duties can be used by trade unions useful       and thought-provoking       and we have incorporated it into some of our work at UNISON, particularly       when       looking at the impact of austerity measures on a predominantly female       workforce.
Dr.       Conley's research and other academic research on this issue has encouraged       the union to       prioritise the support and use of the duties in our future policies."
The team's research has had a very tangible impact in equipping the       Transport and Salaried Staff       Association (TSSA) with the evidence and strategy to mount equal pay cases       which have       compelled a formerly recalcitrant employer to begin negotiations with the       Union advice.
The team's       analysis encouraged the Union to launch equal pay test cases, as the       Assistant General Secretary       has testified:     "You were very helpful in undertaking an initial analysis of the data and       confirming that there       was statistical relevance that suggested that in key bands (particularly       three and four) there       was evidence of gender pay inequality.
Your support and advice allowed us       to develop a       more targeted approach to individual jobs within those grades.
This second       survey, gave us       the ammunition to launch 30 equal pay claims (with a potential liability       to the employer in       excess of &#163;1 million for back pay alone).
The effect of this was that the       employer, who had       previously simply refused to accept that there was an issue, changed their       attitude and       agreed to enter into discussions...
Your analysis was instrumental in       moving our thinking on       and focussing us on how the survey could provide a point of leverage to       move the company       from a position of denial to one of active engagement."
Assistant General       Secretary, TSSA.
3.
Wider impact on public policy in terms of promoting social justice         and public debate, and         improving government policy     The Equality Act 2010 (EqA) had a turbulent start as its enactment       coincided with a change of       government and the global economic crisis.
The government is now reviewing       both the Public       Sector Equality Duty and the Dual Discrimination provisions under the "Red       Tape Challenge &#8212;       Spotlight on Equalities" initiative.
Given this review, Conley's research       has made a major       contribution to focussing attention on the social justice aspects of the       legislation both within       government and more widely in public debate, as well as potentially       contributing to improved       government policy.
The decision to review the legislation so close to its enactment gave       little time for equality groups       to assemble and interpret the limited information available, therefore       Conley's contribution has       been particularly significant in informing public debate and assessing the       impact of the Act.
Her       research and advice has been much sought after as illustrated by:     (i) An invitation to address the `Equality and Diversity Forum Research       Network seminar Evaluating       the Equality Duty &#8212; where is the evidence?'
(June 2012) together with       representatives of the       Government Equalities Office and the Equality and Human Rights Commission.
Over 50       practitioners, policy-makers and academics attended.
EDF highlighted the       seminar as indicative of       how research had informed their policy work over their first two years of       existence:     "In June 2012, the Network held a seminar entitled `Evaluating the       Equality Duty &#8212; where is the       evidence?'
Speakers from Oxford University, Queen Mary University of       London, the       Government Equalities Office and the Equality and Human Rights Commission       considered       what we know about the effectiveness of the Equality Duty and whether it       is bringing about       organisational change to secure better equality outcomes."
(www.edfresearch.org.uk)     (ii) An invitation to contribute to a publication of the European       Commission's Network of legal       experts in the field of Gender Equality.
The European Network of Legal       Experts assists the       Commission `in the field of Gender Equality in order to help monitor the       implementation of the EU       acquis related to the principle of equal treatment between women       and men in the EU countries and       to develop new legal initiatives in this specific field.'
The Network of       Legal Experts informs the       European Commission of important legal developments in the field of gender       equality at national       level and the impact of these developments.
Published in 2012 at:       http://ec.europa.eu/justice/gender-equality/document/index_en.htm#h2-9     (iii) The research findings have been submitted in evidence to House of       Commons Business,       Innovation and Skills Select Committee inquiry on `The Women in the       Workplace' (Conley was the       lead author with Durbin (UWE), Moore (UWE) and Wright (QMUL)).
The       research was cited on       three occasions in the final report released in June 2013, which can be       found at:       http://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-a-z/commons-select/business-innovation-and-skills/publications     Conley et al's evidence on the public sector equality duty and       equality impact assessments was       reflected in the recommendations of the report.
And two of the research       team's key outputs (2010,       2011) were included in the evidence dossier produced by the Equality and       Diversity Forum for the       Government Equalities Office.
Thus these outputs are major contributions       to the government's       review of the public sector equality duty.
The document is available at:       www.gov.uk/government/publications/evaluation-of-the-equality-act-2010-evidence-dossier
