     The work with the USGS described above is ongoing and contributing to the       Pliocene Data Intercomparison Project, a recently established theme       (complementing a Model Intercomparison Project) within the Pliocene       Research, Interpretation and Synoptic Mapping (PRISM) project, centred in       the USGS.
For the last 20+ years PRISM scientists have been engaged in       compiling successive generations of a worldwide proxy database of Pliocene       environmental conditions, particularly surface temperature.
This has been       used in both the construction and testing of numerical climate models for       the Pliocene, and is featured in Assessment Report 5 (draft, 2013) of the       Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change because of its relevance to       prediction of future climate.
PRISM work cited in AR5 (e.g.
Dowsett et         al.
2012, Nature Climate Change 2, 365-371) makes reference       to the mollusc-based technique developed under Johnson's direction at       Derby.
The high-resolution data obtained through it have contributed to a       `paradigm shift' in the PRISM approach to climate reconstruction (ref.
6       above), whereby attention will be given to fluctuations in climate (at       various timescales) within the context of the generally warm Pliocene       world.
This will enable refinement and more rigorous testing of models,       ultimately leading to increased accuracy in predictions of future climate.
The leader of the PRISM group, Dr H.J.
Dowsett, has supplied a letter       (submitted alongside this) confirming the contribution of Johnson and his       team to PRISM research featured in AR5 and to planned work for AR6.
As well as feeding into international research and policy development, the     work at Derby described above has had more general impact in that it has     figured in TV and radio broadcasts, YouTube videos, lectures and an exhibit     dealing with climate change in general.
In these the emphasis has been on     demonstrating to a lay audience the existence of past climate change and     scope for accurate documentation of it.
Initial interest was in many cases     created by the `green' methods of travel used by Johnson for research.
Two     lengthy research visits (summer 2007 and summer 2011) to the USA exclusively     involved travel by container ship, train and bicycle in order to avoid the     large carbon-footprint associated with conventional plane and car travel.
The first of these led to invitations to appear on BBC Radio Derby     (03/04/2008) and BBC TV East Midlands (27/05/2008), the creation of two     YouTube videos (Container       ship &#8212; 60 Seconds of Science and Green       travel: 1339 and 758 `hits', respectively, by 06/11/2013) and     (05/03/2008) and Derby Cycle Touring Club (11/03/2008).
More recently     Johnson has spoken on climate change to the UK Alexander von Humboldt     Association (15/10/2010) and collaborated with colleagues Jones and Pope in     an exhibit on the climate of Derby over the last 350 million years for the     University's Fun Day (05/05/2013; see     http://www.flickr.com/photos/derbyunipress/sets/72157633431829397).
In this, opportunities were provided for members of the public to drill     samples from ancient carbonates (Carboniferous brachiopod and Quaternary     speleothem) and have them isotopically analysed (winners of a raffle).
Visitors to the display were asked to complete a questionnaire on climate     change.
Of the 49 respondents (see returns supplied alongside this), 32     stated that they had initially thought only crude estimates could be made of     past climate but now understood that precise estimates could be made using     the chemical approaches explained in the exhibit.
Changes of view were also     evidenced by responses to the three other questions asked, amounting in       toto to significant impact.
