     The impact of all Williams's public outreach work on digital miscellanies       has been focused on restoring local historical knowledge of 18C         popular culture and enhancing appreciation of it through concerts and         public performances where the surviving material evidence has       hitherto been little known (and, when known, treated very flatly).
She has       significantly improved the ways in which the curators and directors of         particular heritage sites create a sense of the lived reality of 18C         popular culture; she has enhanced the work of a number of         schools in teaching social history and literacy through creative and       interactive use of miscellany content.
In late 2010, Williams approached the early music duo Alva       (Vivien Ellis and Giles Lewin) with a proposal to develop a repertoire of       musical entertainments based on content from 18C miscellanies.
The       aim was to enhance the scholarly interpretation accompanying the index and       take it to interested members of the public around the UK.
In the main,       selections were themed to reflect preoccupations found in the miscellanies       such as regional, sporting, and comic songs.
Williams provided texts and,       where available, tunes.
In the absence of any record of the intended       accompaniment she worked with Ellis and Lewin to find appropriate settings       from the period's fiddle repertoire (combining her understanding of metre       and genre with their knowledge of C18 folk repertoire).
Performance       workshops with other project members helped provide political and cultural       context to assist interpretations.
Across 2011-12, the group increasingly       responded to requests from heritage and educational institutions for       themed programmes.
The first entertainment programme and lecture were       offered to the 2011 York Early Music Festival.
c. 250 people attended the       concert, c. 70 the talk.
Festival organiser Delma Tomlin remarks that the       lecture `illuminat[ed] the importance of the City of York's musical       history and social status in the 18C [and] was much enjoyed by a capacity       audience ... from across the UK and beyond' (Ref.
1).
The concert was       warmly reviewed by The Yorkshire Press: `effervescent singer       Vivien Ellis and deft fiddler and occasional vocalist Giles Lewin,       unveiled a representative sample of these catchy ballads ... typical of       what ordinary 18th-century folk would sing and play at home, in the       taverns, on the streets, or at the fair or racecourse.
Alva brought them       vividly to life'(July 2011).
Having attended the concert, Lindsay Kemp,       director of the London-based Lufthansa Festival of baroque music,       commissioned an hour-long programme of 18C sporting music taking up the       Festival's Olympic theme for the year, `Contests, Competitions, and the       Harmony of Nations'.
The afternoon concert in St Matthew's, Westminster       offered `insights into 18th-century attitudes to ... wrestling, boxing,       cricket and horse- racing, as well as forgotten sports such as stoolball,       cudgels and quarterstaff' (Programme Note).
c. 140 people attended the       concert, c. 60 the talk.
The Guardian covered the event with a       670-word article by Williams in their music blog (readership c. 500,000; 7       shares, 14 tweets).
Kemp comments that the events `provid[ed] the Festival       with new and unusual material ... a useful point of press interest' (Ref.
i).
Radio 3's `In Tune' interviewed Williams and previewed the music on 18       May.
In June, she wrote to BBC Radio 4's Word of Mouth suggesting       a programme on 18C reading.
`Reading Aloud', structured around interviews       with Williams, aired 28 August and 3 September 2012.
A further programme       on 18C pedantry and the role of the modern scholar was commissioned by       Radio 4, airing 13 May 2013 (Ref.
ii).
Over the course of 2012, Williams developed a series of entertainments       programmes targeted at the curatorial and educational work of specific         literary heritage venues.
The series began with `An Evening with       Walter Harding', Bodleian Library, 18 January (audience c. 60), exploring       the story of Harding's collection and the range of music in his archive.
An indicative response: `Many of the themes sung of are present today in       our everyday life &#8212; pride in place, snobbery, love.
It helped me remember       that ... popular culture ... can be celebrated in our homes, by anyone and       not just observed on the media' (Helen Hewlett) (Ref.
2).
The concert       accompanied a month-long exhibition at the library and a Radio 3 concert       interval programme researched and presented by Williams.
`Ragtime to       Riches' broadcast on 7 February with an audience reach of 202,000 and       audience share of 2.2% (Ref.
iii).
It was a Guardian Review `pick       of the day'.
Feedback ranged from one listener's reflection that Harding       provided her with an insight into her own obsessive compulsive collection,       to another (David Paisey) spurred to research ballads with the refrain       `Doodle-[doodle-]do'.
For the Beverley &amp; East Riding Early music       festival in May 2012, Williams put together a programme of music from       Yorkshire miscellanies.
Alva performed in the Guildhall, Beverley to a       capacity audience of 140.
At the following year's festival the repertoire       was used as the basis for a workshop for local folk musicians, giving rise       to lively debate about surviving evidence for tunes, composers and       instrumentation (Ref.
3).
The Geffrye Museum in Shoreditch, East London is the museum for the       domestic interior, with three rooms focussing on the eighteenth century.
On 15 November 2012 Williams used miscellanies and contemporary diaries to       recreate an evening at home in 1745.
The interactive programme of       readings, music and singing, with a demonstration of how to sew a       housewife (a small sewing kit), attracted a capacity audience of 42 and       will be repeated in November 2013.
Williams also addressed an audience of       15 curators at a Specialist Subject Network `Histories of Home' event at       the Geffrye on 3 October 2012, alongside Mark Purcell, Libraries Curator       to the National Trust.
`Histories of Home' is an Arts Council funded       network connecting academics with museum, library and archive       professionals to disseminate research on the home.
Williams spoke about       how to make books come alive in museum spaces.
Assistant Curator Hannah       Fleming comments that the `description of her research and discussion with       curatorial and learning staff about how it could be applied to creating       new displays and interpretation helped us to develop a new collections       app, due to be launched in October 2013.
The app, a mobile-friendly       website that can be viewed on smartphones and tablets, allows visitors to       access information about hard-to-see objects like books in the museum's       period rooms'.
Williams's research also `very much informed' the design       and content of new pull-out drawer cabinets for books in the museum's       permanent display collection, `with interpretation that focuses on the       history of reading in the 17th and 18th centuries       and the liveliness of people's reading habits' (Ref.
4, iv).
Further       events, similarly tailored to specific locations, took place at Dr       Johnson's House, Gough Square, London (19 April 2012, c. 30 people),       Richmond Georgian Theatre, N. Yorks (17 June 2012, c. 70 people),       Chawton House Library, Sussex (17 February, 2013, with a library display       of miscellanies, c. 30 people).
Indicative feedback: `[E]ducational &amp;       entertaining and well presented.
It has prompted me to think about       recording some of my own thoughts on "family" entertainment prior to the       advent of television' (Roger Tee, Werburgh, 19.4.12) (Ref.
v).
Because many miscellany compilations aimed at entertaining and educating       children, Williams also designed a number of events for schools in       Leicester, Winchester, and Richmond, North Yorkshire, speaking to year         11 and 12 children on the theme of domestic entertainment `before       TV'.
Liz Moss, drama teacher at Richmond School, reported: `you could tell       from the students' responses that they really engaged with what you were       saying.
It's great for them to ... see how academic research can result       from an evolving interest &#8212; that you don't know the endpoint as you       embark.'
A children's author in the audience at Leicester, Michaela       Morgan, went on to use Williams's research in her own efforts to promote       reading aloud in schools (speech to teachers from Northampton,       Warwickshire, and Leicestershire, June 2012; and speech to the Children's       Writers and Illustrators Group, September 2012).
Williams spent two terms       working with Gifted and Talented children in St Michael's C of E primary       school, Marston, Oxford (March-July 2012) using children's miscellanies as       the basis for a Key Stage 2 history and literacy project.
The programme of       activities &#8212; inventing dictionary entries, reading aloud, playing rhyming       games, writing short stories with morals &#8212; was written up as an ongoing       teaching resource.
Children's responses included (Madeline) `I learn't       lots of new games and how children in the eighteenth century [played]';       (Dan) `I usaly find litracy really boring but this was intresting!''
(Hanan) `I now think a lot differently of the past.
I've realized how       different things were!'
(Ref.
vi)     Independently, the research data collected in DMI brought Knowledge         Exchange benefits for Gnostyx Research Inc., Ottawa, Canada.
In       February 2011 Williams was approached by Joe Gollner, Managing Director,       and a former student of Lonsdale, seeking database content that could be       used to model flexibility and responsiveness to change of the kind needed       for corporate datasets.
Gollner states that `the DMI project has provided       Gnostyx Research with a real-world laboratory for exploring ways to       managing and use complex data, and for supporting the needs of specialists       working with that data.'
(Ref.
5).
The services of his company over the       last 18 months of the project are conservatively estimated to the value:       &#163;55,000.
A podcast for the Oxford University Oxford Impacts series       describes the collaboration.
