     The main UK impact of Oxford research on the King James Bible, gathered       and put collaboratively       to work by Moore to mark the quatercentenary of the Bible's publication,       occurred in the       anniversary year, 2011, with further impact in the US continuing into July       2013.
The exhibition       produced immediate benefits for Oxford city by informing cultural         history teaching for local         schools and enriching the city's summer cultural programme.
It increased cultural and         historical understanding of the KJB for the record number of       visitors to the Bodleian and those       who accessed it virtually via the mobile phone app, and achieved       significant economic benefits       for the Bodleian Library.
Extensive press coverage assisted further impact       in the way of informing         and enlivening public debate about the importance of the KJB in British         history and its         ongoing significance.
The reach of impact extended when the       exhibition transferred to the US,       with the focus widened to reflect the cultural significance of the KJB         in America.
Financial       backing from the National Endowment for the Humanities, supported the       educational and cultural       work of these American exhibitions, and enabled a panel exhibition touring       40 US sites.
`Manifold Greatness: Oxford and the Making of the King James Bible' was       the Bodleian Libraries'       Summer Exhibition for 2011, with free admission for the public 7 days a       week for 4 months.
It       brought together a vast resource of original manuscripts, books and       material objects never before       displayed to the public or reunited since 1611, and it told, in scholarly       but accessible form, the story       of religious fervour, intellectual conviction, technical skill and       political will that produced the       `Authorized Version'.
An initial proposal was put to the Bodleian in 2010       by Moore, following       discussions with archivist Reid.
Moore then devised the narrative, ethos       and themes of the       exhibition and book, and assembled and led the curatorial committee       (section 2) who, through their       wider subject-specific expertise in theology, history, and literary       criticism decided how to deliver the       overarching aim of demolishing the myth that the KJB `descended from the       sky', selecting texts       and objects to demonstrate the polymathic intellectual interests and       labours of the translators, and       providing interpretative materials to draw out (inter alia) the strikingly       `modern' nature of a collective       enterprise in which translations were argued over academically, crafted as       rhetoric and poetry, and       fiddled with endlessly in committees.
Over 58,000 visitors attended the       exhibition between 22 April       and 4 September&#8212;a Bodleian record.
They ranged from the Paulton Junior       School children who       attended as part of a classics visit, to the Archbishop of Canterbury who       took time out from a       diocesan visit to study the exhibition.
The website (http://www.manifoldgreatness.org/)       and a blog       (http://manifoldgreatness.wordpress.com/),       live from March 2011 until 31 July 2012, attracted       199,464 page views (41,004 unique visitors) and 67,227 page views       respectively.
The mobile       phone app, `The Making of the King James Bible', was a first venture into       app design for the       Bodleian.
It made virtual coverage of the exhibition available for       download to iPhone, iPad and       Android devices at a cost of 69p.
Featuring more than 60 items from the       exhibition, it replicated       electronically the exhibition's work in reuniting books and documents       behind the KJB translation.
Michael Heaney, executive secretary of the library, commented that `The       app is a great way of       reaching people around the world ... who can't visit the exhibition in       person.'
The app was       downloaded 998 times between 3 August 2011 and 9 July 2013 when it was       retired.
The organising committee also assisted the educational and promotional       work of the exhibition.
Maltby and Cunningham organised a series of 4 public lectures in the       months leading up to the       opening.
These lectures were supplemented by a special Choral Evensong to       commemorate       `President John Rainolds and the King James Bible' (Rainolds was the       original proposer of the       translation and led the translators responsible for the prophetic books).
Between 100 and 200       people attended each lecture; the Evensong in Corpus Christi College       Chapel attracted a capacity       congregation of 80.
Moore briefed the volunteer docents, equipping them to       answer questions       about objects on display, and contributed regularly to the exhibition       blog.
Feedback from school       pupils included (from a 6 th form History student): `thank you       for producing such an interesting book       which has led me to become totally engrossed in the world of biblical       translations and ...       encouraged me to pursue studies into the topic next year when I will read       history at university'       (June 2011).
The `thrill of encounter' was equally evident in the verbal       testimony of adult visitors for       whom the exhibitions made visible a vital element in the history of their       faith.
They included people       in their 80s and beyond who found it physically difficult to get to the       Bodleian but wanted to seize a       `once in a lifetime opportunity' (Ref.
2).
Moore was interviewed on       several occasions during the       exhibition run for BBC Radio Oxford, BBC South Today and the Oxford         Times.
Significant economic benefits accrued to the Bodleian Library.
Manifold         Greatness, the book edited       by Moore and Reid to accompany the exhibition (Ref.
3) garnered reviews       such as `A fine example       of how scholarship can serve the interests of the wider public' (Journal         of Ecclesiastical History 63       (2012)).
It outsold its first print run of 4,074 copies more than four       times over, achieving sales of       19,857 copies by the end of the exhibition run (far outstripping any other       exhibition book since the       Bodleian Shop began keeping records), and made a profit of &#163;7,629.
Other       items on sale (Moore       provided text descriptors for the postcards) produced net sales to the       value of &#163;36,291 (&#163;16,427       profit) (Ref.
4).
Popular items included Bibles and bookmarks.
Some       Bodleian merchandise was       sold in the States, with further items including leather embossed bibles,       imprinted with a cover       design copied from one of the Folger exhibits.
The transfer of `Manifold Greatness' to the Folger Shakespeare Library,       Washington DC (23.9.11-16.1.12)       and the Harry Ransom Center, University of Texas at Austin       (28.2.12-29.7.12) was       enabled by a major NEH grant of $626,964 to the Folger, for which       Moore and Maltby acted as       scholarly advisors.
The grant covered the cost of the exhibitions, a       travelling panel exhibition, and       expansion of the website and blog.
More than 58,200 visitors saw the       exhibition at the Folger; a       further 25,592 at the Harry Ransom.
A preview for members of Congress was       hosted at the Folger       by the NEH.
Moore delivered public lectures (sponsored by the Wall         Street Journal) at the Folger       and the Harry Ransom Center, assisting the educational and promotional       work.
The Harry Ransom       lecture was posted on the University of Texas website and on Youtube where       it has had 1302       views.
The website for the Texas exhibition attracted 60,616 views by the       close of the exhibition,       including 46,306 for the family guide (Ref.
5).
The Folger's video channel       for the exhibition       (http://www.youtube.com/user/ManifoldGreatness)       hosts 15 videos, some of which have attracted       very large audiences (`Mistakes and Misprints: The KJB's Bloopers', 1,233       views; `Making a Quill       Pen' 9,823 views; `Making a Ruff' 6,830; `Making Ink' 21,366).
From the       closure of the Texas       exhibition to 12 July 2013, the touring panel exhibition took the       interpretative work of Manifold       Greatness to 40 educational and civic venues including the Tuscaloosa       Public Library, Alabama,       and the Nancy Guinn Memorial Library, Conyers, Georgia (Ref.
6).
The       retired panels remain on       display at the Cary Graphic Arts Collection, Rochester Institute of       Technology, New York, until the       autumn.
The expanded Manifold Greatness blog proved exceptionally       successful in hosting and       enabling a developing public conversation about the history, technologies,       and continuing cultural       importance of the KJB in the US.
By the time of its closure, it had       `debunked myths about the KJB',       enhanced public understanding of many `milestones' in the American story       of the bible (`from       Jamestown and the Mayflower to the speeches of Martin Luther King'),       brought to light rare historic       materials, including a KJB given to a Civil War prisoner by the US       Sanitary Commission as part of       its relief efforts with rebel prisoners.
The blog had also recorded the       experiences of numerous       young visitors entertained and educated (their activities viewable in the       Youtube videos).
The cultural value of the UK and US exhibitions' reinterpretation       of the history of the KJB for the       general public was widely recognised.
Country Life called the       original exhibition an `unmissable       event'; The Church Times praised it for `pav[ing] the way' in the       quatercentenary celebrations, and       `rightly explor[ing] the contribution that the Church of England has made       to world literature quite as       much as to faith'.
`Pay close attention', the New York Times       advised, `you will ... sense the gradual       birth of the modern English language and the subtle framing of a culture's       patterns of thought'.
Salley Vickers, reviewing the exhibition book for The Times,       described it as `nourishing...beautifully       presented and scrupulously edited', singling out Julian Reid's `riveting       and shaming' essay on `the       47 fabulously well-informed translators', most of whom `had finished their       degrees ... and were       already fellows of Oxford colleges while still in their teens'.
The book       was Times' online bookshop's       `pick of the day' on 18 April 2011 (Ref.
7).
The quality of the supporting       electronic materials       attracted wide acclaim, with the Folger website among 5 winners of the       2012 Leab Exhibition       Awards (electronic exhibition category) presented by the Rare Books and       Manuscripts Section of       the American Library Association (Ref.
8).
Not least, the exhibitions provoked vigorous public debate,         especially in the UK, over the value       attaching today to the KJB.
This disputative dimension of the impact,       consistent with the culture of       argument surrounding the bible from the first, is well represented by       Giles Fraser, speaking on       BBC Radio 4 Today programme's `Thought for the Day' (23.3.11)       (Ref.
9).
Fraser asked whether       the popularity of the events celebrating the 400th anniversary       of the KJB was not `some huge       expression of cultural nostalgia for a world where it was so much easier       to say what it meant to be       British' (a view energetically refuted by Moore in the Oxford Times       (May 2011).
Malcolm Barker,       writing in the Yorkshire Post (7.2.11), wondered (in more       conservative vein) whether `The Book of       Common Prayer' is not comparatively `endangered by indifference and       undermined by neglect' in       the contemporary Anglican church.
BBC History Magazine (the       biggest selling history magazine in       the UK; estimated reach c. 265,000) ran a long discussion piece debating       the KJB's status as `the       most important book in the English language' and exploring why it has       proved so enduring.
Henry       Hitchings, in the London Evening Standard was one of several       writers who meditated on the extent       to which the language of the authorized version still permeates written       and spoken English, despite       huge changes in our religious and political cultures.
Emails received and       comments left in the       Bodleian visitors' book confirm the stimulus to debate on all these       topics.
