     The impact of Boehmer's work has taken two main forms: impact on the       framing of recent public       policy discussions about immigration, through her contributions to a       government forum; and impact       on the work of museums and other institutions curating and mediating       British history, through       assisting better interpretation of collections relating to the history of       immigration in this country, and       enabling better public understanding of on-going contributions to the       culture and identity formation.
Impact on the framing of government policy debates.
On 24 January       2012 Boehmer was an invited       participant in a Scoping Workshop under the auspices of the UK Government       Office for Science,       aimed at framing initial terms for a fuller `Foresight' report on `Future       Identities'.
Both the workshop       and the project itself were arranged by Sir John Beddington (Chief       Scientific Advisor).
The       workshop was a civil service day forum on the social, political, cultural       and environmental impacts       of migration on British society now and into the future.
Boehmer reported       on migration as a public       good, drawing on material from her essay subsequently published in Only       Connect to demonstrate       that the UK has been a society of migrants for a long time (at least from       the mid-19th C) and has       been generally more receptive than not: in short, migration is nothing       new, and represents no       cause for a moral panic in the present day.
Indeed, Britain has largely       benefitted from migration       (it's impossible to think of this society as a purely native-born       society).
Her emphasis is discernible       in the final Scoping Workshop report, especially it's underscoring of the       complexity of identity, the       importance of histories of migration and of integration into Britain for       migrants (pp.
2, 9, 20, 45-50,       53) (Ref.
i).
Boehmer attended the follow on meeting of the Foresight       (government) forum, and       launch for the report.
Eleri Jones, project leader, confirms that the       report (published in 2013) `took       a broad view of the current evidence for the drivers of change affecting       identity in the UK over the       next decade, bringing together for the first time current evidence and       pointing out some of the main       implications for policy makers.
The report has proved useful for a range       of Government       Departments and there has been interest from, for example, parts of the       Cabinet Office.'
(Ref.
1)     Impact on interpretation of the cultural impact of past immigration       Much of the dissemination work undertaken by Boehmer has directly impacted       on the way in which       various cultural groups are interpreting the history of immigration in       Britain to and with the wider       public.
Boehmer contributed a filmed interview about India's first woman       lawyer, Cornelia Sorabji       (1866-1954) to `OxAsians' &#8212; a Heritage Lottery funded multimedia       Installation employing film       interviews with historians, biographers, and in some cases subjects.
OxAsians focused on famous       Asian subjects who were students at Oxford after 1880 in order to show       that there was a significant       Indian presence among the student and the teaching bodies at Oxford (as at       other British       universities) from the time that religious restrictions on entry were       lifted.
The installation launched       in April 2010 at the Pitt Rivers Museum, where it worked creatively with       the architecture of the       building to evoke the sense of an alternative history speaking in, and       from, its spaces: it produced       a 3D reproduction of Oxford's college walls, complete with Gothic arches,       each arched area       working as a mini film screen.
Actors spoke the words of the subjects, and       talking heads (Boehmer       among them) added historical context and interpretation.
The films brought       to life the experiences       of Benazir Butto, Indira Ghandi, Ifkatir Ali Kahn Pataudi, and others,       reflecting also on how much       has changed over time, most obviously with respect to racism.
The Pitt       Rivers Museum saw a       significant expansion of its audience, the installation organizer working       with community and arts       groups from around the Oxford area to draw in many Asian-British viewers       who had never entered       the museum before.
Comments in the visitors' book included (from a member       of the South Asian       community) `inspirational ... fills me with pride'; and (from one of the       actresses) `knowing so much       more about our heritage and history [has been] an inspirational journey'       (Ref.
ii).
OxAsians       subsequently visited the Oxford Records Office (Ref.
iii), and Langley       Academy in Slough (where it       assisted GSCE history syllabus delivery in Museums Week - over 600       children seeing the       exhibition in the foyer, and taking part in activities).
Teachers and       students commented that prior to       seeing the exhibition they had `absolutely no idea' that the Indian       historical figures featured had       any involvement with Britain, having thought of them as `over there'; the       exhibition `filled big gaps'.
Further exhibition venues included Slough Museum, Reading Museum, the Paul       Robeson Theatre,       Hounslow, and a careers fair encouraging students to consider career       possibilities in the museums       and arts sector.
An estimated total of 6000 people saw the installation.
OxAsians coincided with a one-month exhibition, `Indian Traces at       Oxford', curated and organised       by Boehmer and post-doctoral fellow S Mukherjee and hosted by the Bodleian       Library through       March 2010; also with a session on `The New Asian Novel' at the Oxford       Literary Festival.
The       exhibition gathered significant items from the Bodleian's own Indian       holdings, including Sanskrit       documents, Amitav Ghosh's DPhil thesis, a piece of a Cornelia Sorabji       sari, and a poetry collection       by Laurence Binyon and Manmohan Ghose.
For the Oxford Literary Festival       session, Boehmer       was joined in conversation with prominent Indian and Pakistani novelists.
The audience of 25-30       festival goers entered into spirited debate about whether or not       literature can deal adequately with       `colonial guilt'.
A one-day symposium on 1 March, open to the general       public, discussed cultural       experiences of early Indian students in Oxford and the impact of Indian       studies on the university       and city in the C19.
Ghosh gave a presentation recounting his time as a       student in Oxford, followed       by a reading from his fiction the next day.
The symposium (c. 60       attendees) included a public tour       of `Indian Oxford' which attracted 25 participants (numbers had to be       limited; it was later repeated       in an ad hoc way several times).
7 `Bodcasts' of the symposium were       recorded as part of the       Oxford Spires podcasting project (one by Boehmer; others by A Ghosh, H       Ansari, R Arrowsmith, R       Sorabji, A. Mondal, S. Mukherjee).
To date, they have attracted 2312       downloads.
(Ref.
iv).
A further exhibition entitled `South Asians Making Britain', organised by       the Open University in       collaboration with the British Library, was co-curated by Boehmer and five       others, led by Florian       Stadtler from the OU.
The Oxford English Faculty contributed &#163;4000 of       funding assistance.
This       travelling exhibition, widely advertised in local newspapers and relevant       venues (e.g.
Woking       mosque), provided a more mobile vehicle for informing public understanding       of British immigration       in and beyond the UK.
It traced through photographs and text the impact of       early Indian migration       to Britain, 1870-1950, including South Asian contributions to sport, the       arts, domestic, cultural and       intellectual life, resistance and activism, as well as national and global       politics - interpreting a       wealth of new material from archives in India, Sri Lanka, the United       States and Britain.
Boehmer       helped to select the images and authored three of the 12 panel texts,       looking at Literature and Arts,       Intellectual Life, and World War I.
In July 2010 four preview panels       featured as the backdrop to an       introductory reception in New Delhi for the British coalition government's       trade mission to India,       where they provided background for the Prime Minister's meeting with       leaders of the arts and       culture sector at the British Council.
The panels (made available in       response to a special request       from the then head of BBC India) made the visual point that Britain       recognises the positive cultural       contribution of Indian migration over the past century and a half and is       seeking to build on the       resulting close connections between the two countries in its current and       future trading       arrangements.
They also demonstrated a long history of close cultural and       economic involvement       between the two countries, so that consolidating trade relations today can       be seen to embed an       already existing relationship.
Between September 2010 and July 2011 the       full 12 panels began a       touring exhibition, funded jointly by British Library Regional Programmes       and Open University       Strategic Funding.
They were displayed initially at the British Library,       13-14 Sept. 2010, then for       periods of 3-6 weeks at: Bradford Central Library; Manningham Library,       Shipley; St. Barnabas       Library, Leicester; Birmingham Central Library; Jubilee Library, Brighton;       Surrey History Centre,       Woking (footfall 1,727); Croydon Central Library; Barking Library; Swiss       Cottage Library;       Middlesborough Library; and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
With the       aid of funding from       the British Council in Berlin, an expanded version of the exhibition moved       in early 2012 to the       Centre for British Studies, Alexander von Humboldt University, Berlin, 31       Jan.-16 March; returning       to the UK for final showings at Asia House and Southall Library.
In Berlin       the exhibition's work in       informing and changing preconceptions about the cultural impact of       immigration contributed       directly to the delivery of school curricula.
Feedback from the many       visitors who commented       appreciatively includes (from a teacher) `Thank you very much for a very       interesting exhibition on       our 2ndsemester's topic &#8212; "Cultural Identity/Migration".
The       students learned a lot.'
The       Administrator at the Humboldt Centre, confirms that `schools and the       general public ... turned up in       big numbers, made themselves comfortable, asked questions and scribbled       notes down.
... [T]his       topic is currently top of the agenda at many schools' (Ref.
v).
The interpretative work of all the above exhibitions, and the reach of       their impact, were assisted by       interviews and lectures given by Boehmer over the same period:            for radio, an interview with the poet Daljit Nagra as part of his BBC         Radio 4 programme `The         Poet's Indian, the Words Are English', focusing on 19th c         Indian poets in English, including         Indian migrant poets to Britain (aired 7 Nov. 2010, and again on 13         Nov.) (Ref.
vi).
a guest lecture on `Indian-British Contacts in the Late Nineteenth         Century: India Arrived' at the         Centre for British Studies, Humboldt University, Berlin, 29 Oct. 2012.
This was a follow-up         lecture to the visit of `South Asians Making Britain' travelling         exhibition to the Centre for British         Studies in Summer 2011; c. 200 attended.
Gesa Stedman, Professor at the         Centre, confirms         that `[t]he lecture and the exhibition were very well received and we         were able to draw on both         during the courses we taught throughout the next academic year' (Ref.
2).
for the London Literature Festival, a panel presentation on `Asian         Bloomsbury' by Boehmer,         Romesh Gunesekera, Susheila Nasta, Sukhdev Sandhu, at the Royal Festival         Hall, 8 July         2012, exploring how this site of early modernism was `imbued at its         heart' by India.
The panel         session was preceded by a tour of Asian Bloomsbury.
20 people         participated (numbers had to         be limited); approximately 65 attended the panel exhibition (Ref.
3).
an interview with Amitav Ghosh (in conversation with Boehmer and         Anshuman Mondal),         published in the leading literary magazine for international writing,         with coverage significantly         beyond the academy, Wasafiri; and a short creative non-fiction         piece, `East to West', in the         voice of an Indian traveller to England via Suez c 1880, amalgamating         actual commentaries         and diaries of Indian travellers to render a subjective experience of         immigration.
Financial         support of &#163;900 for Ghosh's visit was provided by OUP-John Fell Funding.
The interview         provided a long retrospective vista to the exhibition, back to the 14C.
In response to         Boehmer's questions, Ghosh spoke vividly about the more numinous aspects         of the         underpinning research &#8212; thumbprints on documents, oral histories &#8212; his         reading of these         traces probing the exhibition's readings.
`East to West'.
(Ref.
vii).
