     Members of the MEC, including Ramadan, Willis, and Rogan, are frequently       invited to discuss their research with a variety of audiences in both the       Middle East and the West, including governmental policy groups, business       think-tanks, and public media gatherings.
These diverse audiences have       benefited from informed analysis at a time of momentous political changes       in many Arab and North African countries.
Enhancing the capacity of Middle East politicians, governments and         states through advice and guidance: The MEC has played host to       meetings, conferences, and seminars, acting as a neutral place for       academic and non-academic discussions involving key players from several       North African states.
In January 2011, a discussion on "The Western Sahara       Conflict: Is there a Solution?"
featured speakers from Morocco and       Algeria.
Representatives from the Polisario Front and the Moroccan Embassy       attended, enabling the two groups to express and exchange points of view       on the dispute.
Later that same year, Ahmed Al-Shahi organised a series of       meetings under the auspices of the MEC's Sudanese Programme, with invited       participants from both the Sudanese regime and Southern Sudan [i].
These meetings provided a neutral forum for the two groups to meet and       talk in the period running up to the formal secession of Southern Sudan in       2011.
MEC members have also participated in discussions on constitutional       reform in the countries concerned.
For example, Willis was invited to       attend a two-day seminar on constitutional reform at Al Akhawayn       University, Morocco, in June 2011.
The seminar developed recommendations       and presented them formally to the Moroccan Commission for Constitutional       Reform [ii].
MEC members have been invited to informal talks with select government       delegations and ambassadors.
For example, in March 2011, Rogan opened       discussion at a Britain Club dinner hosted by the Kuwaiti Ambassador with       a talk on "Arab Unrest: Where Are We Heading?"
The dinner was attended by       other ambassadors and MPs [1].
Later in the same year, Rogan       attended a series of sessions involving a Jordanian government delegation       comprising the Minister for Political Development, the Minister for Media       and Communications, former Prime Minister Fayez Tarawneh, and officials       from the Prime Minister's office and the Royal Court.
A dinner for the       delegation at the House of Lords was hosted by Baroness Morris and Richard       Burden MP (Chair of the APPG on Jordan) [2].
Helping ensure Western policy-making and business relations are         informed by current research on the Middle East: Politicians,       government officials, and ambassadors (e.g.
from the UK, US, and       Australia) have invited MEC fellows to provide background knowledge and to       discuss future approaches.
Rogan met with HM Ambassador to Yemen in       October 2011 [3].
Willis gave a background lecture to the UK       Foreign Office on Modern Maghreb Politics in October 2012.
In       December 2012, he contributed to a formal brainstorming session that was       assembled to brief the HMA Designate to Rabat on perspectives for Morocco       prior to his deployment to the region: the government wanted as much       background information and knowledge as possible because the degree of       change in Morocco had so greatly surpassed expectations [4].
In a more formal setting, Rogan was a witness (29 November 2011) at a       House of Commons Select Committee for Foreign Affairs meeting on British         Foreign Policy and the "Arab Spring".
He is quoted extensively in       the report of the meetings.
A conclusion drawn from his evidence,       regarding the inclusion of members of the British arms trade in the       delegation of a Prime Ministerial visit to the Gulf, was further discussed       in the Government Response to the House of Commons Foreign Affairs         Committee Report, although the Government ultimately rejected the       criticism made [iii].
The Conservative Middle East Council (CMEC) seeks to ensure that       Conservative party policy is grounded in a deep understanding of the       complexities of the region through enabling discussions between       Conservative parliamentarians and leading experts on the Middle East.
The       CMEC has frequently consulted with members of the MEC in two main ways:       through briefings and through presentations to MPs in Westminster.
For       example, in February 2011, an emergency session was convened to brief       parliamentarians on the extraordinary turmoil in the Middle East.
The       assembled panel of leading expert commentators included Willis [iv].
Numerous CMEC publications, which were distributed widely among MPs and       members of the House of Lords, included contributions from MEC fellows       Rogan, Ramadan, and Daoudy; an example is the CMEC booklet "The Arab       Spring: Implications for British Policy" for the Conservative Party Annual       Conference of 2011 [v].
Think-tanks and strategy forums have extended invitations to MEC members       for advice on economic and business matters.
Rogan has participated in       panel debates and has given lectures to organisations ranging from the       Global Strategy Forum to the Royal Institute of International Affairs       (Chatham House).
In February 2011, Ramadan and Rogan were on a panel       convened at the Royal Geographical Society by Intelligence Squared, which       discussed "Turmoil in the Arab World: Is the Genie of Democracy out of the       Bottle?"
Their participation led to further requests for meetings, e.g.
with a chief economist at Deutsche Bank [5] and the Britain Club       Dinner (see [1]).
On 16 December 2011, the Morocco Institute, in partnership with the       International Centre for Counter-Terrorism (ICCT) &#8212; The Hague, hosted a       meeting of experts, "Political Transition and Stability on the Borders of       the Union: Morocco and North Africa".
The meeting brought together over 40       academics, practitioners, specialists, and policymakers with specific       knowledge of transitional processes in volatile environments or in-depth       regional expertise.
Willis presented the keynote speech entitled "Morocco:       The Arab Spring and the Challenge of Reform" and is one of the experts       quoted on the webpage summarising the event [vi].
Enriching public understanding of events in the Middle East through         improving the quality of media coverage, informing other authors' works,         and participation in literature festivals and discussions: Public       interest in the revolutionary events surrounding the 2011 Arab Spring has       created greater demand for informed analysis from those with academic       understanding of the political situation.
Members of the MEC have been       called upon regularly to provide expert commentary and accurate background       information for various international media outlets.
In addition to giving interviews to major UK and European radio and TV       news programmes on events following the Arab Spring in Tunisia and the       terrorist bombings in Marrakech, Willis has been interviewed several times       by the media local to the events, e.g.
by 2M TV in Morocco and by local       press and media outlets in Tunisia [vii].
Examples of print media       contributions include an interview with Rogan discussing Egypt, which was       featured in "Inside Story" on Aljazeera in November 2012 [viii].
Willis is quoted in an article on Morocco's February 20 reform movement in       The National (Abu Dhabi Media company's first English-language       publication) [ix].
Advice to the media has extended beyond       contributing content to newspieces.
In 2012, four fellows of the MEC       (Rogan, Willis, Al-Shahi, and Shlaim) were among 17 members of the       "External Organisations and Individuals" panel which contributed to a       formal review by the BBC Trust of the BBC's coverage of the events of the       Arab Spring [x].
The research of MEC fellows has also had an influence on popular       publications, such as the book by the BBC's Middle East correspondent,       Jeremy Bowen: The Arab Uprisings: The People Want the Fall of the         Regime (2012).
Bowen quotes both Rogan and Ramadan and their books       and cites their publications.
In his acknowledgements, he refers to "the       brilliant and essential book The Arabs: A History" [xii].
The publication of books such as The Arabs: A History has also       led to many opportunities to engage more directly with public audiences       through book launches and literary festivals.
For example, in the UK Rogan       debated with Paddy Ashdown at the Sunday Times Oxford Literary Festival       2013.
In March 2013 Rogan also participated in panel discussions and book       talks at the Emirates Festival of Literature, Dubai, UAE [xiii].
Such activities have enabled MEC members to enrich public understanding of       events in the Middle East itself.
