     The influence of Brock is attested to by representatives of the St Ephrem       Ecumenical Research Institute (SEERI) in Kottayam, Kerala: "Catholics,       Orthodox, Protestants, Russians, Greeks, Lutherans, Copts, Ethiopians,       Georgians, St. Thomas Christians, Maronites, Armenians, Assyrians,       Chaldeans, Syrian Orthodox and Ukrainians, have all taken him as a kind of       Patriarch of Syriac studies, with unquestionable authority" [1]     Brock's publications intended for Syrian Christian communities (as       described in section 2) are translated further and used all over the       world, extending the reach of his scholarly work into communities not       normally exposed to original research.
Through his participation with the       St Ephrem Ecumenical Research Institute "there is a genuine revival of       Syriac studies in India" [1].
Numerous invitations have arisen from Brock's world-wide reputation as a       scholar in the Syriac tradition to consult with a variety of religious       institutions on training courses and texts for religious formation offered       to those wishing to enter one of the Syriac churches.
For example, SEERI       in India has established a correspondence course in English on Syrian       Christian Heritage, for which Brock has authored three of the nine       published course books [i].
At the Beth Aprem monastery Brock's       influence has meant that "East Syriac is studied and used in Liturgy, a       new phenomenon in the much latinized Syro-Malabar Church" [1].
He       has given lectures at seminaries across India such as the Orthodox       Theological Seminary (Kottayam), Malankara Syrian Orthodox Theological       Seminary (Mulanthuruthy) and Good Shepherd Seminary (Palai) [1],       and he has taught at the Pontifical Oriental Institute in Rome [2].
As well as contributing to the education of those within Syriac churches,       Brock's publications serve as standard texts on numerous university       courses around the world, such as the unit East from Jerusalem:         Christianity in Premodern Asia taught in the Department of Religious       Studies, University of Oregon [ii] and Christianity along the         Silk Road in the Department of Near Eastern Studies, Princeton       University [iii].
Brock has played a significant role in ecumenical activities and related       ecclesiastical texts, for example in his "translation of the `Burial       service' of monks (who are not priests) and nuns.
The Syrian Churches were       trying for this translation for more than 100 years in vain" [1].
This translation is used today by the St Thomas Christian Churches in       India.
The international standing of Brock's extensive research on the origins       of Christian religious traditions has led to his becoming a member of the       Pro Oriente Foundation, established to improve relations between the       Catholic and Oriental Churches.
"Its most recent meeting, held in January       2009, focused on the nature, constitution and mission of the Church.
Brock       continues to be a critical resource for all parties in this dialogue.
In       his publications he [ha]s illustrated again and again that Churches in       dispute with each other often share the same ideas though they speak       different languages" [2].
Participation with the Catholic church       is further attested to: "His scholarly and erudite presentation of the       Syriac anaphoras has practical implications for the ecumenical relations       among Christian churches today.
He demonstrates how unity does not       necessarily mean uniformity.
His recent publications (and they are many)       continue to open new avenues for dialogue between the Catholic and       Oriental Churches" [2].
The president of Beth Mardutho, The Syriac Institute, New Jersey       summarises: "Sebastian Brock not only had far-reaching effects on Syriac       scholarship in general (there is hardly a paper published that does not       cite his work), but was able to have a tremendous impact on the life of       Syriac Christianity today.
One particular field that he affected is       ecumenism.
Throughout his writings and lectures at official ecumenical       meetings, he brought together factions that have been separated for       generations.
He played an important role in showing that the faith of the       Syriac Orthodox Church and that of the Church of the East, seen       traditionally as heretical, are indeed orthodox.
He coined the term       miaphysite to replace the prejudicial term monophysite.
Brock's term not       only received wide acceptance in scholarship, but was accepted formally by       the Patriarchs of the Oriental Orthodox churches as a term that correctly       describes their Christological formula.
It is no surprise that Brock has       received the highest honors from the Syriac Orthodox Church and from the       Catholic Church."
[3]     As well as having an influence within religious communities, Brock's       research has also been brought to bear on interactions between church and       state.
The Mor Gabriel Syriac monastery in southern Turkey has had       troubled relations with the Turkish state, which in 2012 expropriated the       monastery's lands.
Through his research, advice, and briefing papers,       Brock provided assistance to the Dutch MP P. H. Omtzigt, who with others       applied pressure on the Turkish government to return the lands, which they       did in 2013 [iv].
Several interviews given by Brock are available for all on the internet       and help circulate his findings to a wider audience.
Melthodhaye, a Syriac       Christian Youth Organisation, has posted an interview with Brock from       their Second Annual Meeting in London, 2010 [v], where the       interviewer specifically mentions the importance of Brock's academic work       to the Syriac Church and language.
A 2012 piece entitled "Sebastian Brock       on the Syriac tradition in Christianity" was filmed for an educational       portal of the Education Committee of the Russian Orthodox Church and had       been viewed by 4237 people on YouTube [vi].
In February 2013 Brock       participated in a public programme of study days, `Meeting the Fathers',       at the Institute for Orthodox Christian Studies, Cambridge, teaching about       St Ephrem [vii] and the event has been made publicly available for       others to learn from [viii].
Brock's studies on Isaac the Syrian have significantly changed the       understanding of his teachings, leading to an upsurge in interest and       renewed publications and popular translations.
For example, the monks at       the Greek Orthodox Holy Transfiguration Monastery in Boston relied on       Brock's work on the Syriac version of the text of Isaac's Ascetical       Homilies when they published an English translation of the 8th-9th century       Greek version.
In the preface they referred to the "debt every lover of       Syriac literature owes to Dr. Brock ...
If Syriac studies are now more       popular than they have ever been, if the research on Saint Isaac in       particular is increasing, it is because those leading the way such as       Brock genuinely love their subject and encourage, rather than deter, those       who consider entering the field."
[ix] Another example is a Dutch       translation of Brock's Wisdom of Saint Isaac the Syrian, produced by the       Syrian church in Holland [x].
Brock's English translations of       dialogue poems and hymns have been published in the liturgical manuals of       the Assyrian Church of the East.
[xi].
