     Curtis's reputation as a specialist on Russian literature, with       particular reference to drama, has led to collaborations with several       leading and high profile British theatre companies since 2008, supporting       them in staging Russian drama (or dramatising Russian prose texts) in a       wide variety of ways.
Her work has had several key impacts including 1)       improving the quality of translations available to theatres; 2) improving       the quality of performances through educating the cast on the specifics of       Russian literary history and theatrical practice; 3) contributing to the       professional practice of theatres, by enabling the directors and backstage       teams to provide a more authentic or convincing staging; and 4) engaging       the interest and enriching the experience of audiences within and beyond       theatres, through talks, podcasts and the writing of features for theatre       programmes.
The beneficiaries have included theatre companies themselves       (directors, cast and crew), a playwright, and theatre-goers as well as the       wider general public.
1) improving the quality of translations available to theatres     Based on her research in Russian Theatre outlined in &#167;3, Curtis has been       involved in evaluating translations as well as creating a new translation       of a Russian play for use in theatres.
Through doing this she has improved       the standard of translations in use, giving the actors and audiences a       more accurate portrayal of the original text.
In 2009 she was involved in       reviewing for the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) the translations       of two newly-commissioned plays, Vorozhbit's The Grainstore, and       the Durnenkovs' Drunks.
In 2011 she made a literal translation of       Galin's Stars in the Morning Sky, for the Belgrade Theatre       (Coventry).
She was able to give advice to the playwright adapting her       translation for the stage, allowing him to overcome difficulties in the       work: `I'm very glad I made the visit, and came home feeling much clearer'       he said [1].
2) improving the quality of performances through educating the cast     Curtis has led significant educational work with casts of actors,       allowing them to delve into the specifics of Russian literary history and       theatrical practice, thus enabling them to create more accurate       portrayals, using authentic methods.
She delivers education mainly in the       form of talks and workshops with the casts.
In 2008 the Artistic Director       of the RSC, named Curtis his `Special Adviser' as he prepared a 3-year       project of theatre from and about Russia This included Curtis providing       six workshops in Stratford and London for about 150 people, including the       entire acting company, as well as many other RSC staff (producers,       directors, administrative team, props, music, movement etc.).
The sessions       offered an introduction to Russian history and language, and a Q&amp;A       about the plays they were working on.
These workshops were felt by the       company to be very useful to them: `Thank you again for your inspiring       help.
'[2].When Curtis interviewed the Artistic Director for the       RSC's International Council, in the presence of HRH Prince Michael of       Kent, one RSC officer commented that `One of the catering staff [...] is       doing theatre studies and said she learned more in that hour than she has       in hours of college lectures!'
[2].
In 2010 Curtis also       fulfilled an invitation from the Director of the National Theatre (NT),       to talk to the cast of The White Guard about Bulgakov and the       historical background to the play.
[3]     3) contributing to the professional practice of theatres, for more         convincing stagings     From 2009 to 2011, Curtis as `special advisor' to RSC's Artistic Director       found herself regularly responding to queries from RSC departments about       any aspect of their Russian projects, including helping the set designers,       text and voice coach, sound designer, and prop-makers to create authentic       materials (artefacts, images, music etc.).
`This is fantastic!
Everything       we need &#8212; thank you so much, I don't know what I'd do without you!'
[2]       In 2010 Curtis also helped the RSC Director and her designer with project       planning for Rona Munro's Little Eagles (about Gagarin and the       Soviet space programme).
The Director said `The notes and references are       incredibly useful.
[...] Thank you for all your ongoing knowledge and       advice!'
[4].
Michael Billington in the Guardian gave the       production 4 stars and wrote `It is a huge subject, but Munro, director       Roxana Silbert and designer Ti Green admirably convey the excitement of       scientific progress [...] Munro is also good on the interaction between       politics and science[...] Munro makes history come alive...'.
[i]     Curtis also took up an invitation from the Director of Complicit&#233;,       to meet and discuss his ideas for staging an adaptation of the notoriously       difficult The Master and Margarita by Bulgakov, at the Barbican in       2012.
Curtis' research on this Russian author, the basis of her advice to       the Director, in turn made a contribution to how this adaptation was       staged.
The production was widely reviewed in the mainstream and theatre       press; WhatsOnStage review of the production online says `Complicit&#233;'s       extraordinary staging of Bulgakov's 'unadaptable' The Master and       Margarita has returned to the Barbican, providing a welcome opportunity       for those of us who missed it the first time to see what all the fuss is       about[...] the fuss is still justified, and I staggered out after three       and half hours feeling much as I expected to &#8212; utterly overwhelmed with       ideas and imagery.'
[ii] The production also got attention in       the social media sphere.
One blogger tried to explain the impact of       viewing such a complex story and production.
He said ' As I left the       Barbican after seeing Complicit&#233;'s take on The Master and Margarita,       I thought to myself that was simply extraordinary but I have no idea why       and tweeted something to that effect.
I couldn't really explain it in any       kind of meaningful way and in some ways even if I could, it still wouldn't       do it justice[...]but it did tap into something more visceral.
I found       myself inexplicably moved at several moments[...]ultimately that did it       for me: I certainly didn't `get' it all but it really didn't matter for me       in the final analysis.'
[iii]     4) enriching the experience of audiences within and beyond theatres     After featuring in BBC programmes about Russian theatre on Chekhov (Radio       3), and on Bulgakov (Radio 4), Curtis was approached by the National       Theatre to write the programme notes for their production of Bulgakov's The         White Guard in 2010.
This allowed her to give the audience an       in-depth understanding of the story and the history and cultural       references behind it.
NT Head of Publications wrote to Curtis: `Thank you       so much; this looks perfect.
I think you've taken just the right tone for       our audience'[5].
An art blogger wrote `The background is       supremely well explained in the programme essay by the Oxford Russianist,       Julie Curtis, one of the best such efforts I've ever read.'
[iv]       Another reviewer said `the &#163;3 programme is a gem containing helpful       excerpts and comments by Julie Curtis of Wolfson College, Oxford.
The       quotations I wrote above are all taken from her notes.'
[v]       Curtis was asked to conduct an interview with Michael Boyd about Pushkin's       play Boris Godunov, which provided the main feature for the show's       programme.
She also wrote other features for programmes in 2012 including       for the Belgrade Theatre's production of Galin's Stars in the         Morning Sky and the Barbican's production of The Master and         Margarita, and did a members' talk and discussion for the Barbican       audience on 5 January 2013.She gave them an insight into the background       and key themes of the novel, after which they split into smaller groups to       share their thoughts in a book-club style discussion.
They gained a deeper       understanding of the play from hearing Curtis' research insights and the       discussion allowed them to explore areas that had particularly engaged       them.
[vi]     Curtis has also been involved in digital media outreach activities that       have served to help a global audience to feel closer to the plays and the       history and ideas behind them.
She co-featured in a National Theatre film,       broadcast as an introduction to John Hodge's play about Bulgakov (Collaborators)       when it was shown in cinemas worldwide on 1 December 2011.
This was part       of the National Theatre Live project (the National Theatre's       groundbreaking project to broadcast the best of British theatre live from       the London stage to cinemas across the UK and around the world,       productions to date reaching audiences of over 800,000 in 22 countries).
Curtis' film helped cinema audiences to get closer to the author and story       before watching the production.
They also created a 20-minute podcast       based on this which can be accessed on the NT website and iTunes page [vii]       One blogger wrote `This is a handy podcast pre/post show viewing to get a       more in-depth look into the real-life character of Mikhail Bulgakov,       played by Alex Jennings.
A great listen!
She has also presented on other       NT video podcasts `An introduction to Collaborators' and `An Introduction       to Anton Chekhov' [viii].
The Chekhov video features in the       `Playwright' section of the NT website, with videos designed to give the       viewer explanations of a well-written play from the perspective of a       playwright and advice for first time writers.
It enables audience       engagement pre- and post-performance.
The videos are free to watch, and to       demonstrate the reach, the videos in the collection have been viewed 1.5       million times according to the annual report for 2011-12.
[ix]
