 Professor Howarth's extensive research has had considerable and cumulative direct impact on the design, enforcement and practical operation of UK environmental law, particularly (but not exclusively) in relation to water and fisheries.
His research has had significant influence on the work of the Government, on Fish Legal (an important and longstanding environmental NGO), and on the practice of professional legal and environmental practitioners.
The impact of this research has been furthered through an extensive range of high level consultancy and policy-oriented advisory activities, which have allowed him to feed in the insights of his research at a high level.
While these are too numerous to be detailed here, by way of illustration, these include acting as specialist legal consultant to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and as a legal advisor to the Northern Ireland Environment Department.
a) Impact on Government Policy and Practice Howarth's work, and particularly his research on the effective formulation and enforcement of environmental law, has both shaped the terms of policy debate and had considerable direct influence on government environmental policy and practice (source 1).
The Pathway to Impact: Prior to this REF period and laying the groundwork for significant impact within it, Howarth worked with WRc (formerly the Water Research Centre, now a leading UK environmental consultancy), providing the legal components of a report for DEFRA on The Effectiveness of Enforcement of Environmental Legislation (DEFRA Report 7208; WRc, 2006), which draws closely on his research (e.g.
output 1, Ch.9 on pollution offences).
Throughout a subsequent, ongoing and lengthy reform process in which Howarth has continued to be closely involved, this Report has provided an important source of evidence of the multiple inadequacies of the current law and continues to serve as a basis for the development of further measures contributing to a more stringent legal regime for dealing with environmental offences.
Most immediately, the influence of the Report was seen in its effect on the Government's Review of Enforcement in Environmental Regulation (2006).
Drawing specifically on what a DEFRA spokesperson describes as Howarth's `helpful' contribution to the WRc report, serving to identify `problems that had to be overcome in any new enforcement system' (source 1), the Review highlighted some key underlying obstacles to more proportionate, consistent, transparent and effective environmental enforcement.
DEFRA's longest serving environmental lawyer explains that this preparatory work also influenced the authors of the subsequent DEFRA Report, Review of Enforcement in Environmental Regulation (2006) (source 2).
Impact since 2008: The WRc Report and the 2006 Review, which draws on it, have continued to frame reform efforts and to exert a strong influence on Government thinking since 2008.
The DEFRA spokesperson cited above describes the legal research (authored by Howarth and cited extensively in Annex B of the Report) as having `put Defra in a good position to respond to the subsequent Macrory Review, which was very influential in shaping Defra's subsequent policy on enforcement, culminating in the civil sanctions order in 2010'.
The 2010 Order allows environmental regulators to impose civil sanctions on a business committing certain environmental offences, as an alternative to prosecution and/or criminal penalties of fines and imprisonment.
This represents a key step in making enforcement more effective and proportionate, particularly in relation to minor offences and offences that are committed unintentionally.
In addition to this introduction of provision for civil penalties, the Report has also underpinned ongoing work on more detailed proposals for strengthened sentencing powers in relation to environmental offences.
As such, the DEFRA lawyer confirms that after six years and a number of further initiatives down the line, the recommendations of the Report `continue to resonate' (source 2).
These important issues received further attention in DEFRA's Fairer and Better Environmental Enforcement Project.
Begun in 2007 and ongoing throughout this REF period, this project built on the Review to develop recommendations for a more transparent, proportionate, consistent and effective environmental enforcement system in England and Wales (http://archive.defra.gov.uk/env ironment/policy/enforcement/review/report.htm).
In pursuance of these aims, a public consultation took place in 2009 to seek views on Government proposals to introduce civil sanctions for existing environmental offences in England and Wales under the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008.
Howarth's work was deemed an important part of the evidence base for this highly significant ongoing work (source 1), being found by DEFRA to be particularly valuable in showing the limitations of data available, evaluating the role of strict liability in sentencing and highlighting the concern that judicial precedent may serve to undermine proportionality in sentencing practice (source 1).
The consultation has been followed by a Government Response and Summary of Replies (2010, http://archive.defra.gov.uk/environment/policy/enforcement/pdf/summary-reponses.pdf) supporting proposals for the introduction of civil sanctions and initial proposals to strengthen the powers of criminal courts in sentencing the worst environmental offenders.
b) Impact on the work of NGOs Howarth's work has also impacted on the activities of NGOs, particularly those of Fish Legal, the legal action organisation associated with the Angling Trust (a not-for-profit organisation which represents angling interests and the protection of the water environment with 11,000 subscription- paying members).
It is dedicated to using law to fight pollution and other damage to the freshwater and marine water environment, protecting aquatic ecosystems and fisheries, and acting for fishing clubs, fishery owners, syndicates and commercial fisheries, having brought a range of significant cases (http://www.fishlegal.net/page.asp?section=168&amp;sectionTitle=Current Cases).
It is also active in lobbying government and public bodies on issues relating to the protection of the aquatic environment.
Drawing upon his academic legal research, and particularly his extensive study of water pollution and water quality law (output 1), Howarth advises on whether particular legal actions, including litigation, can and should be pursued in relation to water pollution and water quality concerns impacting upon fisheries.
Howarth is the sole academic advisor on the Advisory Committee.
In the words of the chief solicitor of Fish Legal, Howarth's work has had `direct and significant impact on the way in which we have been approaching issues of rights of access and navigation on watercourses, the law on Freedom of Information and Environmental Information Regulations, European law, interpretation of sections of the Water Resources Act 1991 on abstraction and other matters' and his advice has been `invaluable' (source 3).
To take just one, specific example of this impact, he cites the inclusion of Howarth's research in the bundle of materials put into the court in the groundbreaking case of Fish Legal and Emily Shirley v ICO and Yorkshire Water, United Utilities and Southern Water (EA/2010/0069 &amp; 0076).
c) Impact on Professional Practice In the field of environmental law there is a particularly close interface between `academic' and `practical' scholarship and Howarth's research is typically in areas which span the academic- practitioner divide, with articles in academic journals frequently used by legal and environmental practitioners.
Notably, non academic readership of the Journal of Water Law (edited by Howarth) and the journals in which his publications have appeared is significantly higher than might be expected for other fields of legal `academic' research, on occasion citing a non-academic readership of over 80% (source 5).
Further, publications that draw on the underpinning research, e.g.
in outputs 1 and 7 above, have appeared in a form which is designed to be accessible and useful to a practitioner audience.
Most notable, however, is the translation of Howarth's academic research into practical legal guidance undertaken in his capacity as a consultant editor of Halsbury's Laws of England, Volumes 100 and 101, Water and Waterways, LexisNexis (5th ed.
2009) and Volumes 45 and 46, Environmental Quality and Public Health, LexisNexis (5th ed.
2010).
This is the UK's leading legal encyclopaedia and is used daily by legal practitioners in England and Wales.
In summary, through the body of work described above, Professor Howarth's research has made a significant contribution to broader efforts to achieve sustainable development in relation to the aquatic environment, aiming to shape law and policy capable of impacting on behaviour in ways that help to protect the aquatic environment.
This impact has been felt on the work of Government, playing a key part in framing and informing significant policy development since 2008 and making a significant contribution to legal reform, particularly in the form of the Civil Sanctions Order (2010) and on the work of NGOs and environmental practitioners.
