     Before our research, little interest was shown in protection for       whistleblowers.
It was assumed that       protection either existed under common law or unfair dismissal provisions,       or alternatively that it       was unnecessary.
Lack of empirical research prevented human resource       practitioners from       appreciating why whistleblowing procedures and policies were needed, how       such policies might       operate, and how they would relate to other arrangements.
Lewis's research       has driven specific       lines of enquiry and strong policy engagement, and has had impact on       politicians, practitioners,       employers, trade unions and voluntary organisations [1].
Disseminated as       commissioned studies       [2] and derived presentations, and interrogated in numerous professional       as well as academic       forums [3], the research has highlighted public interest in encouraging       whistleblowing while       showing that such interest could not be adequately protected through       employment measures       alone.
Impact has been incremental, cumulative and goes beyond the UK.
The Modern         Law Review       article (1995) stood alone as an academic study at the time of its       publication, and exerted influence       on the decision to make protection for whistleblowers an employment right       (UK).
This approach       was subsequently emphasised when an increasing number of countries (and       the EU) recognised       the need for whistleblowing legislation as an anti-corruption tool.
Legislators were assisted by       access to rigorous research in the empirical evidence-base provided by       Lewis's comparative       studies of whistleblowing statutes when considering questions such as       whether/what protection       should be given, the thresholds for evidence of wrongdoing, whether motive       was relevant, and       what remedies should be made available to those victimised for making a       disclosure.
The positive approach to whistleblowing taken by the Committee on       Standards in Public Life in the       late 1990s took account of empirical evidence presented in Lewis's       research: Public Concern at       Work deployed Lewis's results (local government study) in their       submission, and Homewood and       Lewis provided oral and written evidence in 1996 [4].
Increased acceptance       over the last decade       that effective whistleblowing arrangements are vital to private and public       interests, in the wake of       health and safety disasters and exposure of financial scandals, has       engendered processes of       reform and innovation underpinned by research.
One consequence of       increased recognition of       whistleblowing procedures is the production (2008) of a publicly available       Specification Code of       Practice on Whistleblowing (BSI).
Following wider dissemination, researchers in cognate disciplines have       been demonstrably       inspired by Lewis's work (e.g.
Vandekerckhove).
The Unit's findings have       been incorporated by       commercial organisations in their promotion of consultancy packages on       corporate governance       and integrity (see Sai Global and Expolink).
Commercial training sessions       for senior human       resource and legal practitioners run by Lexis Nexis (2009 &amp; 2012)       derive authority from expert       presentations and an outline of practice implications by Lewis; and,       extending the impact of such       research, Xpert HR (2012) commissioned the production of a comprehensive       guide to good       practice.
Such channels have ensured direct and indirect impact on the       behaviour of human       resource practitioners, as well as on larger workforces.
With       organisations keen to embrace best       practice, Lewis's work has made it possible for employers and employee       representatives to       develop appropriate approaches to whistleblowing arrangements [5].
Impact of the research reaches beyond the UK.
In 2009 a Japanese national       committee reviewing       the impact of the Japanese Whistleblower Protection Act 2005 sought oral       evidence from Lewis       during its deliberations.
In a similar context of public policy review and       formulation, Lewis was       invited to submit oral and written evidence to the Budgetary Control       Committee of the European       Parliament (2011), an opportunity he used to advocate EU-wide measures to       protect       whistleblowers via anti-discrimination directives [6].
In 2012,       Transparency International formed a       committee of experts to formulate principles for national whistleblowing       laws, with Lewis selected       as a member [7].
The Unit's research on whistleblowing continues to impact on high-level       policy debate [8] and       practical discussion regarding policies and procedures in this field in       the UK and internationally [9].
Over two decades, a specialized, previously indiscernible focus of concern       was transformed by       research led by Lewis, leading to general acknowledgement that       whistleblowing arrangements are       needed for sound business reasons.
Today, employers lacking such       arrangements are recognised       as failing the interests of their organisation and staff, as well as the       interests of the public.
Deepening the contribution made to this shift of employment culture, Lewis       has been appointed as       consultant academic adviser to the National Audit Office in its review of       whistleblowing       arrangements within Government and NGOs [10] and the Comptroller &amp;       Auditor General plans to       publish the results of this work in December 2013.
