     Beyond its academic dissemination and recognition, Sheringham's work on       the city, the everyday and the archive has fostered creative attention to       the collective and individual dimensions of urban experience, cultural       memory, and everyday life through events and interventions.
These have       mediated and made accessible the ideas of thinkers, creative writers and       artists whose work focuses in different ways on the everyday world.
He has       articulated research findings in articles, reviews and lectures that have       wide non-academic circulation, in interviews in journals for the wider       public, in talks to professional bodies, in gallery talks, and in radio       broadcasts; been pitched accessibly, always aiming to make often complex       ideas comprehensible to the non-specialist.
He has involved French as well       as English contexts, so as to encourage interchange between non-       specialist audiences in different language communities, creating       opportunities for his work to appear in (primarily French) translation.
Improved public awareness and more informed debate have been brought about       in various contexts.
Increasing Public Understanding of the concept of everyday life:       After Everyday Life [see &#167;3.2] appeared, Sheringham was invited to       deliver four lectures: Po&#233;tique du quotidien: la rue, la journ&#233;e,         l'archive (March 2007) at the Coll&#232;ge de France.
Whilst the lectures       occurred out with the REF impact period the lectures were later (2008)       broadcast on the national radio station France Culture; podcasts of three       of the lectures were made available on its website for a period afterwards       [i].
Everyday Life sold well and appeared in       paperback in June 2009.
This has meant that the book is much more       accessible to public audiences, furthering public understanding of the       concepts explored by the author.
A French edition, translated by Maryline       Heck and Jeanne-Marie Hostiou, came out with Presses Universitaires de       France in Spring 2013.
The French edition Travers&#233;es du quotidien: des         surr&#233;alistes aux postmodernes was part of the book series `Lignes       d'Art', aimed `not only at scholars and specialists, but all those       interested in the on-going evolution of artistic activity' [ii].
Advance publicity for the translation included two substantial interviews,       and a long review article in leading French journals for the general       public: Esprit, August 2010; Europe, January 2012; Critique,       December 2008.
Following publication, Sheringham was interviewed in Next,       the monthly magazine of the newspaper Lib&#233;ration (6 April 2013),       in the weeklies, Marianne (7 June) and Les Inrockuptibles       (22 May), and on French Radio (27 May).
In March 2009 Sheringham gave a lecture entitled `Disappearing Acts:       obscure lives and precarious identities in twentieth-century literature'       in the Kent University Open Lecture Series (aimed at the University's       `town audience' and often involving politicians and other prominent figure       as well as academics invited to relay their work to a general audience).
The podcast is still available on the university website [iii].
In June 2010 he gave the Inaugural Lecture, `City of Disappearances:       Losing Oneself in the Modern and Post-Modern Metropolis', at University       College London's `City Centre' which reaches out to a wide public by       co-ordinating `a range of different research projects on aspects of the       cultural and literary history of the metropolis from the Middle Ages to       the present' [iv].
In April 2009 Sheringham organised a       study day on `Paris and Visual Arts' for Oxford's Department for       Continuing Education, and in February 2013 he gave a lecture on City       poetry entitled `Inspired by Paris', at a day school in the same context       (average attendance 80 people).
Round Tables and Workshops at cultural centres and literary and art       festivals, addressed to non- academic audiences, include events at the       French Institute in South Kensington (June 2009); the first EVENTO Arts       Biennale in Bordeaux (a major arts festival across the city, October 2009)       [v]; the annual literary festival, Rencontres de         Chaminadour held at Gu&#233;ret (Creuse) in September 2009, where       Sheringham was also interviewed (see France Culture website [vi])       for a radio programme `Carnet Nomade' based on the event; and the annual       literary festival Enjeux de la litt&#233;rature contemporaine, held at       the Petit-Palais in Paris (January 2011).
[vii]     Applying the concept to the work of professional bodies, practitioners         and creators:       Sheringham's work on the aesthetics of experimental, and often       archive-based, everyday projects led in February 2009 to an open lecture       at the Architectural Association in London, and a follow-up seminar to an       audience of c. 100.
Imparting insights from his research but also       discovering new facets Sheringham and his audiences engaged in a mutually       enriching dialogue bearing on such issues as the place of memorialization       in the city and different ways in which individuals engage creatively with       urban space.
A further invitation to lecture there, which had to be       declined for health reasons, testifies to Sheringham's reputation for       `accessibiity and transparency' in addressing varied audiences [1].
Sheringham was approached more recently by a tutor at the Architectural       Association to present his work as part of one of their teaching units:       `In 2008/09 when I was a student in the Histories and Theories MA       programme directed by Marina Lathouri you had given a seminar talk to our       class, followed by a lecture at the school.
The talk and your writings       have been of great influence to my research to date.
I have been doing       quite a bit of research over the last 4-5 years on Georges Perec and the       Oulipo group and the role that constraints play in the design process,       both literary and architecturally.
This research is the basis of the new       Intermediate unit that I am launching at the AA this year.
I am starting       to put together a seminar series for the unit and wanted to reach out to       you and see if you would have interest in giving a seminar talk [...] It       would be great to have you down to London as I know your expertise would       be very beneficial to the students.".
[2]     As one of twelve fellows at the Camargo Foundation at Cassis (France) in       September-December 2010, Sheringham engaged in dialogue with writers,       composers and visual artists as well as historians and a sociologist.
By       bringing American and British contributors together in a French context       this fellowship generated new ways of thinking across national boundaries.
The everyday and the archive proved to be key concepts in rich exchanges       in which the local audience, made up of teachers, local government       officials and other interested parties collaborated enthusiastically,       responding to the benefits of cross-fertilisation between disciplinary       perspectives and between reflective and creative outlooks and practices.
[3]            Contributions to Museums and Art Galleries: In March 2010, in the       contemporary art space, Casino Luxembourg, Forum d'Art Contemporain, in       Luxembourg, Sheringham contributed to a public lecture series in the       context of an exhibition called `Everyday(s)'[viii].
By       providing an opportunity to link the exhibited artworks with a range of       ideas on everyday life, this event prompted the audience to consider the       value of creative reflection on everyday experience at individual and       collective levels.
The Whitechapel Gallery, London, with MIT Press, has       twice reprinted sections of Everyday Life in the Documents of       Contemporary Art series (print run 4200).The series provides access to a       plurality of voices and perspectives on a specific subject or body of       writing that has been of key influence to contemporary art internationally       in a format accessible for the general art-going public.
[xi]       The commissioning editor said of the extract of Sheringham's work used in       Johnstone's anthology: `[...]there is no other text that sets out the       connection, as you do so brilliantly, between the concerns of figures such       as Lefebvre and the characteristics of the project, as explored in the       works of artists such as Sophie Calle, who is also included in this       collection.
Particularly due to the descriptive examples, this is an ideal       text for many of the intended readers, who will be artists and art       students, not all of whom will be familiar with French theory.
'[4]     By engaging with these different types of interlocutor and beneficiary       Sheringham has brought his research on the everyday, the city and the       archive to bear on the concrete existences of his audiences, helping them       to think about neglected or depreciated facets of their everyday lives.
This refocusing of attention changes in a range of ways the individual's       awareness of the balance between participation in solitary and collective       experience.
It does so by encouraging recognition of the creative       potential harboured by the everyday, for instance in the potential of city       experience to energise and diversify experience creatively, and to make us       aware of the extensive `archives' of collective memory manifested in the       institutions, monuments and trajectories that make up the cityscape many       of us inhabit.
[5]
