     Dr Howick's work into philosophical issues concerning the ethics of using       placebos in clinical trials and in clinical practice has helped to       determine what types of trial are conducted and what types of treatment       are used in clinical practice.
It has also increased the understanding of       the general public on the use of placebos.
(i) Impact on Clinical Tests and Clinical Practice      `Levels of evidence' had first been introduced in 1998 by the Oxford       Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine, in an attempt to make both the process       of finding appropriate evidence for diagnostic techniques, prognostic       markers, therapeutic benefits, and economic analysis and the task of       explicitly stating the results of that process feasible.
On the strength       of the research for his book The Philosophy of Evidence-Based Medicine,       Dr Howick was commissioned by the Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based       Medicine (OCEBM) to participate in the working group revising the 1998       levels.
The updated version was published in 2011(i) and       included not only new data but also the new conceptual considerations that       Dr Howick advances in his book.
These new OCEBM levels of evidence       constitute one of the most widely used systems for ranking evidence in the       world: direct appeal is made to this system in deciding whether treatments       are effective, whether diagnoses are accurate, how prevalent diseases are,       how successful prognostic markers are, and ultimately which treatments       shall receive approval for marketing.
The system is thus used not only by       medical researchers but also by care-givers, patients, and policy makers.
Examples of the many and varied recommendations and clinical advice that       incorporate this system are the 2012 Canadian Guidelines for the         diagnosis and management of fibromyalgia syndrome and clinical       practice guidelines on sudden hearing loss that were published in Otolaryngology       in 2012(ii).
Discussions of the practising of evidence-based       medicine, with links to the levels of evidence, are available on the       Patient.co.uk website.
The levels are also used in teaching, e.g.
at the       University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa(iii).
Following the ethical concerns expressed in the article `Questioning the       Methodologic Superiority of "Placebo" Over "Active" Controlled Trials' a       change in clinical tests and clinical practice has been observed.
Placebo       use in clinical trials is controversial where an established treatment is       available: clinicians are generally against its use while methodologists       claim placebo use is sometimes required to establish efficacy.
The article       examined the controversy and specified well-defined criteria that need to       be met in order for placebo controlled trials to be ethical.
It is having       an influence on the way policy makers think about placebo controls, as       evidenced in the article `The Rationale for Placebo-Controlled Trials:       Methodology and Policy Considerations', by Franklin Miller, Senior Faculty       of the National Institutes of Health and advisor to the United States Food       and Drug Administration(iv).
The research findings are also       having a bearing on the way research on placebo controls is being       conducted, both in the medical sphere(v) and in other areas       such as social policy(vi).
Specifically, the use of placebo       controls, especially for complex interventions, is coming under increasing       scrutiny.
In response to a draft of the survey results of placebo use by UK primary       care practitioners the General Medical Council (GMC) issued a revision to       their Good Practice in Prescribing and Managing Medicines and Devices       guide in clarification of their stance on placebos(vii).
(ii) Impact on the Reporting of Trials       The article `What's in Placebos: Who Knows?'
prompted a clarification       from the authors of the Consolidated Standards for Reporting Trials       (CONSORT)(viii).
CONSORT is a set of recommendations for the       reporting of trials: it contains a checklist, and many of the top medical       journals (including British Medical Journal, The Lancet, Journal         of the American Medical Association, and Annals of Internal         Medicine) require that potential authors complete the checklist       before being considered for publication.
Evidence for the impact that the       article has had on how trials are reported is provided by the fact that,       whereas at the time when the article was written, 83% of trials failed to       report the composition of the placebo concerned, a later study by       Ravikiran Sonawane and others, published in 2012(ix), showed       that this figure, at least in respiratory medicine, had come down to 38%.
(iii) Increased Public Awareness       The findings of the article `The Evidence Underpinning Sports Performance       Products' formed the basis of an edition of BBC's Panorama in July       2012(x).
Both article and documentary received widespread media       coverage in the UK and internationally, e.g.
in Canada, India, and       Australia where additional comments were included from local sports       experts and nutritionists(xi).The research and findings were       also summarised on the NHS website in a discussion section on news       headlines(xii) and have thereby contributed to changing the way       in which people think about consuming sports drinks and spending money on       expensive sports equipment.
The survey of placebo use by UK primary care practitioners was widely       picked up by the media (including BBC and Channel 4 news, The Times,       The Independent, and The Daily Mail)(xiii) and       therefore increased public awareness of the issues.
The article `What's in       Placebos: Who Knows?'
also captured the attention of the general public:       it was widely reported in the press (including Reuters(xiv), The         Wall Street Journal, and Science Daily).
(iv) Advising Professional Groups       Following the well publicised findings of Dr Howick's research, he is       often invited to talk to professional groups to discuss professional and       methodological practices in a variety of fields.
Recent examples include a       Presidential Address to the American Neurophysiological Monitoring Society       on `Evidence-Based Neurophysiological Monitoring' in Salt Lake City, USA,       in May 2012; a Plenary Lecture to the European Organization for Research       and Treatment of Cancer on `New Concepts in Levels of Evidence' in       Brussels in December 2012, and a talk on `The necessity of conducting       randomized trials (but not placebo controlled randomized trials) for       complex interventions in allied health professions' in London in May 2013.
Following this last meeting Dr Howick was invited to author a follow up       paper that will guide the use of placebos in UK physiotherapy trials(1).
