     Impact from the body of research described above falls into two streams:       (1) contribution to international policy formulation; and (2) research-led       training of actors whose practice has been made more effective by       engagement with collective rights.
1.
Formulation of a new UN SDG, `Gender, Social Inclusion and Human         Rights' Castellino's (and his colleagues') critique of dominant       approaches to rights, and proposals for alternative formulations around       group rights derived from non-Western legal systems, led to his       appointment as Co-chair of the Social Exclusion, Human Rights and Gender       group, as indicated above.
This position called for his input into       formulation of the SDGs [1] with input into the High Level Panel [2]       reflected in the report of the UN Secretary-General [3].
Inclusion of a       human rights goal based on vulnerable groups, as advocated by Castellino,       contributes to the establishment of a global framework for poverty       eradication, hitherto an exclusive concern of development economists.
The SDG formulated is informed by research produced by the Unit and by       Castellino's public advocacy as lead researcher to NGOs and end-users [4]       as well as Governments [5].
The model avoids traditional rights foci on       the individual and emphasizes co-operation rather than censure.
Each of       these aspects involves a significant departure from the orthodoxies of       contemporary human rights politics; underpinned by publications that had       led to Castellino's appointment as Co- chair of the UN Group in the first       place, and which guided his co-chairing of that Group, and impacted the       deliberations of the High Level Panel chaired by Their Excellencies       Cameron (UK), Johnson Sirleaf (Liberia) and Yudhoyono (Indonesia).
Research in the Unit is now engaged in analysis of the unfolding impact       of the SDGs e.g.
in relation to criticism from human rights lobbies wedded       to censure, (`naming and shaming' procedures, see Dominguez-Redondo,       Output 3).
Compliance with the SDGs will follow the practice associated       with the earlier Millennium Development Goals, i.e.
annual world-wide       monitoring.
The ultimate impact of the Unit's research, accordingly, as       amplified by the goal it has helped to shape through publications and       Castellino's UN involvement, will be the requirement on 194 states to       provide evidence of progress to the UN over the 15 year span of the SDGs.
Potential impact is therefore on millions, to the extent that national       policies adhere to the SDGs, and UN goals are reflected by agencies whose       activities and funding will be shaped to implement them.
2.
Training programmes aimed at capacity-building related to         group-oriented human rights To connect the Unit's contribution to       policy formation with professional practice, a range of programmes have       been designed and delivered by researchers to advocates (a), judges (b),       civil servants (c) and emerging policy makers (d),as below:     a.
2009.
The Human Rights Defenders Network (Central Asia)       created by the European Human Rights Advocacy Centre and other researchers       in this Unit, and funded by the Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office.
The Network consists of 18 professionals from Kyrgyzstan,       Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, but also extends to Tajiks and Turkmen and is       hosted by the Kazakh Human Rights Lawyers Association, Almaty.
Continued academic support provided by Middlesex researchers consists of       updates training and facilitation of networking between international       organizations [6].
b.
2010.
Two-day judicial colloquium, Equality Law: Global         Approaches, co-hosted with Equal Rights Trust (UK) and Human Rights       Law Network (HRLN, India).
This event was attended by Lord Walker, then       President, UK Supreme Court; Lord Lester QC, and Lord Justice Sedley (via       video-link) [7].
The case analyses presented were drawn from Middlesex       research, adapted to requirements of the Supreme Court of India.
Impact       took the form of increased professional awareness and enhanced expertise       on the part of 40 High Court and Supreme Court judges.
The programme also       led to a successful bid by HRLN (India), funded by KIOS (Finland), to       deliver training in conjunction with Middlesex staff to the judiciaries of       Bangladesh (October 2013) and Nepal (April 2014) [8].
c. 2011.
Human rights programme designed to assist the re-building       of Iraqi Kurdistan, delivered by Dominguez-Redondo and others (funded by       British Council, facilitated by DelPhE).
This programme was delivered to       20 civil servants and judges, and became the model on which the first LLM       Human Rights Law in Iraq was directly based (Duhok University, first award       made in 2012 to 20 recipients) [9].
d. 2012.
Closed sessions at Wilton House, Sussex, delivered by       Castellino, on human rights considerations involved in drafting new       constitutions.
These sessions derived from Castellino's research in       comparative constitutional law, and functioned as catalysts to continuing       work on drafting by nine Arab delegations.
The delegations consisted of       MPs, leaders of opposition parties, activists and journalists, selected by       the British Council based in Bahrain.
The event was devised in response to       an approach by Shevolution on behalf of the British Council and Foreign       &amp; Commonwealth Office [10].
