     Dr Arnold-de Simine's research is becoming increasingly widely recognised       within the museums       and heritage sectors in the UK, Germany and elsewhere (Sources 1 &amp; 2).
As a result of her       involvement in two AHRC networks `After the Wall' (2009-10) and `Silence,       Memory and Empathy       in Museums and at Historic Sites' (2012-2013), which brought together       academics, museum       directors, curators and guides from Germany and the UK (sources 3 &amp;       4), she has contributed to       the development of new exhibitions in three German museums, the Imperial       War Museum and a       new London cultural heritage site by providing advice on how to connect in       more complex and       nuanced ways with visitor responses.
The head of research at the GDR Museum, Berlin, informally consulted her       in March 2009 while       the museum was in the process of major refurbishment and extension.
With       reference to her       research on the deep divide in GDR remembrance culture (refs 1, 2 and 4)       she was able to draw       attention to the reception of the museum's earlier exhibitions, pointing       to the need to embed its       focus on everyday life in the context of political oppression in the GDR.
This observation was       influential in revising and doubling the size of the exhibition when they       reopened in October 2010.
The museum's head of research writes, `There has been a long standing       co-operation between Dr       Arnold-de Simine and the GDR Museum Berlin.
... A major change was that       apart from the       everyday we now also provide more information on the political structures       and the economy of the       GDR as well as the oppression by the state and opposition to it.
...'       (Source 5)     With the director of Dokumentationszentrum Alltagskultur der DDR,       Eisenh&#252;ttenstadt,       (Documentation Centre of Everyday Culture of the GDR) in July 2009, she       discussed solutions to       reaching different memory communities.
Based on her research that showed       the unresolved       tensions in GDR remembrance culture (ref 4) she encouraged the Centre to       explore ways of       making communicative memory more accessible to younger audiences and       suggested that it       showcase personal stories representing different memory communities and       portraying the different       effects of historical forces on individuals.
These suggestions were       reflected in the new exhibition,       which opened in March 2012 and now includes recordings of eyewitness       accounts and their object       stories.
The director writes: `The international and interdisciplinary       framework opened to us by Dr.       Arnold-de Simine and the "After the Wall" network has definitely proven to       be extremely helpful for       the conceptualization of a permanent exhibition.'
(Source 6)     In discussions with the director of the Bernauer Strasse Wall Memorial in       Berlin, which was still a       work in progress in 2010, when they met, Dr Arnold-de Simine was able to       address the problems       which arise when a memorial museum has to serve memory communities with       different interests       and investment in the past and combine different forms of remembrance.
Drawing on her research       on conflicting demands on memorial museums (refs 3, 5 and 6) she       facilitated a discussion that fed       into design decisions.
Dr Klausmeier writes: `The [...] exchange with       Silke was extremely fruitful,       since we were still experimenting with the site and its innovative design.
We were still testing new       means and ways in the field of commemorative landscapes, since we were       dealing with an historic       and authentic "Berlin Wall-Site" and simultaneously introducing a       completely innovative language       of design for commemorative cityscapes.
... She analysed in great detail       the problems which arise       when a memorial museum has to serve memory communities with different       interests and       investment in the past and combine different forms of remembrance.'
(Source 7)     Within the UK, Dr Arnold-de Simine has worked to encourage dialogue       between memory studies       and museum studies and between museum practitioners, educators and       academics in the UK.
In       June 2012 she co-organised the Empathy and Memory Studies Conference       (Birkbeck, 23 June       2012) which was attended by approximately 200 people, (50% were       non-academics).
A curator       and research officer at the Imperial War Museum (IWM) who attended the       conference,       subsequently contacted Dr Arnold-de Simine to discuss the redesign of the       permanent exhibition of       the IWM, London and the potential impact of concepts of empathy on this       project.
Dr Arnold-de       Simine then became involved in a project with the Digital Learning Officer       at IWM focusing on       online resources for schools linked to the Centenary of the First World       War, which will be available       via IWMs website.
He writes, `Silke and I have spoken a lot about objects       and how they are viewed       in various different media, including online.
This has affected how I have       gone about selecting       objects, and I have been focussing primarily on the impact they will have       online and their ability to       convey our learning outcomes specifically within that medium.'
In July       2013, at the conference       `Challenging Memories: Silence and Empathy in Heritage Interpretation',       they gave a collaborative       talk on the impact of digital media on the presentation of sensitive       material and the responsibility       this places on the museum.
Fifty members of the network attended, half of       them non-academics       working in learning and education in museum and heritage sites, including       the Head of Learning       from the Imperial War Museum (Source 8).
The ongoing development of Dr Arnold-de Simine's research impact in       museum and heritage       sectors is reflected in her recent involvement (since May 2013) as an       adviser on an HLF funded       project to turn the last remaining steam coaster SS Robin into a heritage       site as part of the       regeneration of the Royal Docks in East London.
She provided advice on       developing the concepts       for the interpretation onboard.
(Source 9)
