     Regional     The C.Ind.Le project produced a double CD-ROM pack, launched in 2006, which     has been the central training resource in a 30 hour advanced professional     certificate course, sponsored by Cambridgeshire Local Authority (and a     shorter 6 hour `taster' course), which were together attended by around 200     Foundation Stage Cambridgeshire practitioners from 2008 to 2010.
The courses     were extremely positively evaluated by participants, with many attesting     significant change in their practice.
Between 2008 and 2010 the short course     was used by Cambridgeshire Early Years' Service as a pre-OFSTED training for     Foundation Stage settings, and this resulted in significantly improved     outcomes for many settings.
All this is evidenced in the letter from the     Early Years' Service within Cambridgeshire Local Authority [5.1].
National and international       This training resource has also been purchased for use in other regions of       the UK (to date the original printing of 500 copies are all sold, and       around 20 copies have been reprinted).
Courses have been personally       delivered by Dr. Whitebread &amp; Mrs. Coltman in Peterborough and in       Harrow (both in 2008) and by Dr. Whitebread and others abroad (e.g.
:       Australia, 2008; Jordan, 2009; Turkey, 2010; Canada, 2010 &amp; 2013;       Cyprus, 2008-13 and Chile 2008-13).
In further cases this dissemination       has been carried out by Masters and PhD students, some of whom worked as       temporary research assistants on the C.Ind.Le project.
As a consequence of this national and international dissemination of the       outcomes of the C.Ind.Le project among the early years teaching profession       (including the CHILD observational tool), Dr. Whitebread's advice was       sought by the recent Tickell Review of the UK Early Years Foundation Stage       (2011), commissioned by the Department for Education.
The section of this       report headed `characteristics of effective learning' heavily reflected       this research.
This work, in turn, influenced some of the amendments to       the revised Early Years Foundation Stage (DFE, 2012).
All this is       evidenced in the letter from a member of the DFE National Strategies team,       adviser to the Tickell enquiry, and subsequently author of Development         Matters in the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) (DfE, 2012), the       non-statutory guidance material accompanying the revised Statutory       Framework for the EYFS (DfE, 2012) [5.2].
Letters from members of the Executive Committee of TACTYC: the       Professional Association of Early Years Educators also testify to the       influence of Dr. Whitebread's research on the UK Foundation Stage [5.3 and       5.4].
Dr Whitebread has also been asked to undertake international consultancy       with the LEGO Learning Institute (now the LEGO Foundation) on the       importance of early metacognitive processes and how these are supported in       constructional and imaginative play, and particularly in collaborative       problem-solving activities.
For example, he is currently advising on the       development of a school-based assessment tool which draws directly from       the insights emerging from the C.Ind.Le project, and is undertaking       research with local primary schools, funded by the Lego Foundation,       examining the impact of constructional and pretence play on children's       writing [5.5]
