     A major educational policy development based on Cambridge Faculty of         Education research: We focus here on how policymakers in one       Canadian province used these research findings to build an infrastructure       for `student voice' in their school system.
This became a very substantial       development emanating directly from the Cambridge research.
The Ontario Student Voice policy initiative, based on the       Cambridge research, was started by its Ministry of Education in       2008 with three components:            Student Forums &#8212; implemented through regional forums held across the         province to gather student input on a variety of topics.
SpeakUp Projects - $1.2 million was allocated for student-led         projects;       Minister's Student Advisory Council (MSAC) &#8212; composed of 60 students         (Grades 7-12) from across the province who continue to meet regularly         with the Minister of Education to share their ideas, particularly on         ways of strengthening student engagement.
Jean Courtney, Education Officer, Ontario Ministry and Team Lead for       their Student Voice Initiative provided an update in April 2013 (see 5.1).
In this she describes the activity that has derived from the application       of Cambridge's research findings:       "Over 6000 grants have been awarded to 800 schools in 72 school boards for       SpeakUp projects.
To date, 41 Regional Student Forums have been       held in Ontario to bring students together to make recommendations       regarding student councils, student engagement, leadership, and the Civics       curriculum.
Student feedback confirmed a desire to host forums.
In       response, the Ministry has created kits which are distributed freely upon       request.
A total of 2000 kits have been ordered by students and teachers.
Their recommendations have been shared with the Ministry and have resulted       in changes to SpeakUp project categories.
The conversation       continues".
Strong testimony to the Impact of the Network's Research: Courtney       contacted Cambridge in 2006:       "I write to acknowledge the inspirational work of Jean Rudduck.
I can       attest to the fact that the foundation of Ontario's Student Voice       initiative rests at the University of Cambridge.
My connection with       Cambridge University began in 2006 when I sent an exploratory email to       Professor Jean Rudduck and Julia Flutter, co-authors of the       ground-breaking book, Consulting Pupils&#8212;What's in it for schools?
I discovered the publication while conducting a literature review on       student engagement as Ontario focused on reducing the number of early       school leavers."
The Ontario Ministry of Education then came to a financial arrangement       with the publisher to adapt the Consulting Pupils `Toolkit (see       3.5).
More recently it has taken up the Students as Researchers       materials (see 3.6).
Courtney acknowledged both:       "The Consulting Pupils Toolkit for Teachers (3.5) and the Students         as Researchers (3.6) resources inspired Ontario's student-led       collaborative inquiry effort.
In 2012, the first Students as         Researchers Forum was piloted....
Findings from the pilot project       have led to transformative changes including modifications in transition       supports for aboriginal students in one school board quickly leading to       changes in other districts struggling with the same challenges.
Since the       pilot, eleven Students as Researcher forums have trained student research       teams across the province.
Research findings and recommended next steps       have been shared with their principals, school board teams and the       ministry.
Interest grows".
Ontario's implementation of ideas about student voice has also sparked       very similar policy developments in Alberta, beginning in 2008 (see 5.3).
The broader context and policy implementation: In 2008,       TLRP Director Andrew Pollard summarised and explained interest amongst       policy-makers in the UK (see 5.4):       "The UK impact of work on pupil consultation has been very considerable in       the past few years, thanks largely to the work of this Network.
In one       form or another it has been promoted by government departments and       agencies in Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and England.
[...] In part       it caught a wave of teacher enthusiasm to innovate and to explore       alternative ways of developing educational quality.
Indeed, the network       consistently worked with very high levels of teacher engagement in the       research process at all stages, and is a paradigm case of the benefits of       this approach."
