     Policy implications     The most important policy implication of this research was that the       current focus of climate mitigation policy, limiting rates of greenhouse       gas emissions in 2020 and 2050, is misplaced: effective mitigation       policies need to limit the total cumulative release, not just the rate of       emission in any given year.
This matters, because not all measures to       reduce the rate of emission in the short term will necessarily be       effective in reducing the cumulative total.
Although the scientific case for limiting warming to 2oC       through emission reductions was noted in Copenhagen in 2009, specific       measures indicating how this was to be achieved were not agreed.
The need       to limit cumulative emissions has substantial political implications, such       as short- versus long-term effects, and industrialised versus developing       world responsibilities.
The cumulative carbon emissions point was made by Allen i) in       presentations to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change       delegates in Bonn and Copenhagen; ii) in separate briefings to senior       civil servants in the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) and       the Department for International Development (DFID); iii) in evidence to       the UK Climate Change Committee; iv) to the Royal Society (who have       acknowledged the importance of cumulative emissions in public statements       [A]); v) to the Parliamentary Environmental Audit Committee's 2009 enquiry       into carbon budgets [B].
Allen also developed a visual demonstration of       the cumulative carbon concept that he presented at the UN Climate Change       Conference (COP18) in 2012.
The DECC/Defra-funded AVOID programme, which       provides advice to government on climate change, includes discussion of       cumulative emissions in its analysis of whether the pledges in the       Copenhagen Accord are consistent with the desired 2&#176;C warming limit, and       references [1] directly [C].
The campaign group Sandbag, founded by       Baroness Worthington, has used the trillionth tonne concept in its       analysis and subsequently in two of its 2010 viewpoint papers, which also       cite [1] directly [D].
Sandbag uses these to lobby governments on       emissions trading.
It also advises the public and organisations about       personal carbon offsetting strategies, for example discouraging tree       planting offsetting which, while it reduces carbon concentrations, does       not affect the cumulative carbon emitted.
Allen's research in [5] directly influenced one of the key conclusions of       the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 5th Assessment       report.
The report concludes that limiting the warming caused by       anthropogenic CO2 emissions alone to less than 2&#176;C (with a probability       greater than 66%) will require cumulative CO2 emissions from all       anthropogenic sources to stay between 0 and about 1000 gigatonnes of       carbon.
These estimates were based on the concept of Transient Response to       Cumulative Carbon Emissions (TRCE) from [5], which was a variant of the       cumulative warming commitment proposed in [1].
Allen was a       draft-contributing author for the assessment of the literature on TRCE in       the IPCC 5th Assessment.
The final draft, highlighting the importance of       the trillion tonne budget, was submitted to governments on 7th June, 2013.
Paper [5] is cited in the full report and the summary for policy makers.
Although these were published after the REF impact period, and so we are       not claiming impacts that are a consequence of the final report, it is       clear that Allen's research has heavily influenced the IPCC report.
Impacts on Carbon Capture and Storage     Petrochemical companies have been influenced by Allen's work and the       trillionth tonne concept.
In particular, Shell has used the cumulative       carbon approach to climate change to inform their investments in carbon       capture and storage (CCS) and also their long-term energy scenario       planning.
Shell said: "Carbon capture and storage will be a critical         technology for society over the course of this century [...] more         recently its importance has been cemented in our thinking by the         `trillion tonne' work that Professor Allen and his team have delivered         since 2009" [E].
Shell has directly used the research to influence their investment in       carbon capture and storage.
They said: "The `trillion tonne stock'         approach has helped us build internal support for our CCS investments in         Canada and Norway and more recently has been used by the team leading         our potential UK CCS project."
The investments, informed by Allen's       work, are significant.
For example, the Quest CCS site in Canada is       currently under construction at a total cost of $1.35bn.
Shell is leading       the commercial joint venture (60%) with two other companies and government       funding.
The final investment decision was taken by Shell in September       2012 and the facility is due to start operating in 2015.
Shell also identified impacts of the research on their Scenarios       documents, which they have used for 40 years to challenge executives'       perspectives on the future business environment using plausible       assumptions and quantification.
"Our new Lens Scenarios makes         extensive use of carbon stock thinking as we seek to show that the         climate issue can be resolved over this century given the application of         CCS", said Shell.
In their current Scenarios document future       emissions are described with respect to cumulative emissions.
In one       future scenario "the cumulative emissions situation by the middle of         the century means an overshoot of the 2&#176;C goal, but the expanded use of         CCS as a carbon sink later in the period provides a critical component         to a potential pathway for managing net global emissions" [E].
Press coverage          Allen has given numerous press interviews on the cumulative carbon       results.
The Guardian newspaper highlighted [1] on first       publication, including quotes from Allen [F].
Later that year, at the       start of the Copenhagen conference, a coordinated editorial was published       in 56 newspapers [G], often as the front page, in 20 languages.
This       raised the issue, "how we will share a newly precious resource: the         trillion or so tonnes of carbon that we can emit before the mercury         rises to dangerous levels", with discussion of the required balance       between industrialised and developing worlds.
The text was drafted by a Guardian       team during more than a month of consultations with editors from more than       20 of the papers involved, and raised 1072 on-line comments on the Guardian       website in three days.
The editorial also forms part of a wider       sustainability campaign by the newspaper called `10:10'.
Stimulating public engagement and debate          In October 2009, alongside the final round of pre-Copenhagen talks, a       heap of coal representing the `trillionth tonne' was on display in the       Science Museum in London as part of their exhibition, `Prove It!'
(Oct       2009 - Feb 2010).
The coal is to be kept by the Museum of Oxford until its       combustion is required.
Professor Chris Rapley, then the Science Museum's       Director, told a news conference, "to avoid dangerous climate         change...we must never release into the atmosphere the carbon dioxide         from that trillionth tonne" [H].
Professor Allen explained its       purpose and significance in a `Viewpoint' article for the BBC, which was       commented on in detail by readers from a range of countries and linked to       by campaign groups.
In conjunction, a live, online countdown to emission       of the trillionth tonne is maintained by Oxford at http://trillionthtonne.org.
George Monbiot, a vociferous campaigner on the need to reduce emissions,       identified the 2009 pair of Nature papers along with one other as being       key steps towards more meaningful emission targets and concluded that "the         targets and methodology being used by governments and the United Nations         &#8212; which will form the basis for their negotiations at Copenhagen &#8212; are         not even wrong; they are irrelevant" [I].
Allen followed this with       his own critical commentary on the 10:10 campaign in the Guardian       in September 2009 [J].
Allen has also spoken on wider issues of climate policy arising from his       work at the Sustainable Planet Forum in Lyon (Sept 2010), reportedly       attended by 27,000 people, in a debate on climate politics with the former       French Environment Minister and leader of the French Green Party,       Dominique Voynet.
