     The initial clinical and cost-effectiveness results from the MASS trial       were presented to the UK National Screening Committee (NSC) in 2003-04 who       consequently recommended, in 2005, the introduction of a national AAA       screening programme for men aged 65 [impact ref 1].
Work was then       undertaken to raise the profile of AAA screening as a matter for public       debate, and in particular to increase awareness amongst policy makers and       politicians.
Also during 2006-07 Thompson and Kim refined the estimates of       the long-term cost-effectiveness of an AAA screening programme in the UK,       made the NSC aware of this work, and worked with health economic modellers       at the Department of Health to answer questions about the health service       impacts of such a programme.
In January 2008, the prime minister Gordon       Brown announced the introduction of a national AAA screening programme, in       line with the NSC's original recommendation [impact ref 2].
As a result, the NHS AAA Screening Programme (NAAASP) was initiated in       2009, in four geographical centres in England [impact ref 3].
On the basis       of the research findings, Thompson and colleagues provided advice on       issues including: training and quality control monitoring of       ultrasonographers; deployment of surgical services necessary to       accommodate the anticipated increased numbers of elective AAA repairs       undertaken; and content of the core data needed to audit and control the       programme as it rolled out.
An issue crucial to the success of NAAASP in       terms of delivering the anticipated reduction in AAA-related mortality was       that the mortality from elective AAA operations was kept as low possible,       as had been achieved in the MASS trial.
For this purpose, and after much       debate, it was decided that AAA surgery should be concentrated into larger       centres where surgical experience would be greater, excellence could be       more easily achieved, and monitoring could be more effective [impact ref       4].
NAAASP currently (August 2013) covers the whole of England [impact ref       3], with identical programmes being initiated in the devolved       jurisdictions of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland [impact refs 5,6].
It is anticipated that full UK-wide coverage will be achieved in 2015.
The       uptake of the screening invitation in NAAASP has been 75%, only slightly       lower than the 80% achieved in the MASS trial, and the elective surgical       mortality rate for large AAAs has been kept low (&lt;2%) [3].
Surveillance       for small AAAs follows the protocol and intervals developed for the       Cambridge-led MASS trial, but may be slightly relaxed in the future in       response to the publication [research ref 6] from the RESCAN Collaboration       on the effects and cost-effectiveness of alternative surveillance       intervals.
AAA screening leads to improved patient outcomes through the monitoring       of those at risk with a small AAA, and by offering elective surgery to       those with a large AAA.
Based on the MASS trial and the three other       smaller randomised trials of AAA screening that are available       internationally, it is anticipated that mortality from AAA should be       reduced by about a half in men aged over 65 through the introduction of       NAAASP.
Given current mortality rates, this corresponds to 1300 deaths       prevented per year in the UK [impact ref 3].
At international meetings in London (2012) and Budapest (2013),       representatives from 12 different countries worldwide compared their       prospects for initiating AAA screening programmes.
Outside the UK,       screening programmes have started in Sweden [impact ref 7], New Zealand       and parts of Italy, while initiation is being actively discussed in       Denmark, Norway and Finland [impact refs 8,9]; in the USA, ultrasound AAA       screening is now recommended for all men aged over 65 who have ever smoked       [impact ref 10].
These changes in international policy have been driven by       the results from the MASS trial, as well as the early experience of NAAASP       in the UK.
