     PREDICT is implemented online as a national resource with the web       interface being hosted on a NHS web-server at www.predict.nhs.uk.
The ~4000 monthly hits on the website indicate clearly the impact of the       tool.
One of the key decisions in the management of women with early breast       cancer is whether or not to offer adjuvant chemotherapy in conjunction       with primary surgery and radiotherapy.
The key output of PREDICT is the       expected absolute reduction in mortality at five and ten years associated       with adjuvant chemotherapy.
Cambridge Breast Unit (CBU)     Until 2010 the CBU estimated absolute benefits of chemotherapy were       estimated using Adjuvant!
Online.
During 2010 and 2011 both PREDICT and       Adjuvant!
Online were used in parallel.
Clinical audit     The Cambridge Breast Unit carried out an audit of the first 200 patients       discussed when both Adjuvant!
Online and PREDICT were used by the       multi-disciplinary team [6].
The chemotherapy recommendations that would       have been made based on the output from each model were then compared.
In       163 patients (82 per cent) the chemotherapy decision would have been the       same whichever model was used, but a different recommendation would have       been made for 37 patients (18 per cent), clearly demonstrating the       potential for PREDICT to change clinical practice.
Change in practice     Since 2012 PREDICT has been the only model used routinely in Cambridge       for all patients being discussed at the weekly multi-disciplinary team       meeting.
The absolute benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy estimated by       PREDICT is used to guide the use of adjuvant chemotherapy according to the       guideline described in section 2.
Other clinical departments in the UK     The impact of PREDICT on clinical practice is clearly demonstrated from       the extensive use of the web interface (see below).
We have had multiple       requests from clinicians for the incorporation of additional features       indicating that the model is being widely used.
Personal communication       indicates that PREDICT is used by the multi-disciplinary clinical teams in       Belfast, Brighton, Derby, Dundee, Oxford and Sheffield, but the web usage       statistics from 2012 suggest that PREDICT is being used widely across the       country.
Public, Patient Partnership     PREDICT has been widely reported in regional and national media including       ITV, The Times and The Daily Mail.
We have clear evidence that women with       breast cancer are using the tool to develop a better understanding of       their own risk.
This enables them to be fully informed in their discussion       with their oncologists about treatment options.
Web usage data     PREDICT was designed to have a user-friendly interface to help clinicians       in making clinical management decisions.
Informal feedback from clinicians       from both Cambridge and elsewhere has indicated that the interface is easy       to use.
The number of visits to the web site each month has increased steadily       since its launch in January 2011, with 3,266 visits in April 2013.
Monthly web usage statistics for the PREDICT website, Jan 2011-Jul 2013      There have been 54,600 visits to the web site with 68 per cent of the       visits (37,200) being accessed from UK and ten per cent (5,800) from USA.
The web site is visited from all over the UK, with London accounting for       17 per cent and Cambridge accounting for just 1 per cent of all traffic on       the web site.
