 The programme of research addressing strategies for the prevention of type 2 diabetes has had its impact through the publication of NICE Public Health Guidance in 2011 and 2012.
The NICE Public Health programme produced two pieces of guidance.
The first focussed on the prevention of progression from high risk state to diabetes (NICE guidance.
Preventing type 2 diabetes: risk identification and intervention for individuals at high risk.
NICE Public Health Guidance 38, 2012, (section 5, ref 1).
The second guidance examined population and community-level interventions in high risk groups and the general population (NICE guidance.
Preventing type 2 diabetes: population and community-level interventions in high risk groups and the general population.
NICE Public Health Guidance 35, 2011, (section 5, ref 2).
The research described in this impact statement is cited in both NICE reports.
The guidance on interventions in high risk individuals (section 5 ref 1) focused on two main activities: Identifying people at risk of developing type 2 diabetes using a staged (or stepped) approach using a validated risk-assessment score and a blood test (either the fasting blood glucose or the HbA1c test) to confirm high risk and the provision to those at high risk of a quality-assured, evidence-based, intensive lifestyle-change programme to prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes.
The NICE guidance cites evidence from the EPIC-Norfolk cohort in which the incidence of diabetes by level of HbA1c is described, justifying the category of 6.0-&lt;6.5% as a high risk category in which the risk of progression to diabetes is 15 times greater than in those individuals with an HbA1c &lt;5.0% (research reference 6).
In describing the range of possible validated risk-assessment tools, the NICE guidance cites the original paper on the Cambridge Risk Score (research reference 1) which has subsequently been shown not only to predict prevalent undiagnosed diabetes but also incident diabetes (research reference 5).
The second piece of NICE Public Health Guidance examined strategies for prevention at the population level.
Evidence of the incidence of diabetes in the UK is cited from the paper on the Ely Study by Forouhi et al (research reference 4).
The report cites the paper by Simmons et al (research reference 2) as the justification for recommending the focus of prevention at the population level on the same 5 behavioural targets that have been shown to be effective among the high risk population.
It also cites the analysis in the EPIC-Norfolk study (research reference 3) which demonstrates that although the high risk approach may be effective in the relatively small group of individuals to whom it is targeted, greater public health potential comes from the application of strategies that attempt to address the same behaviours at the population level.
The guidance concludes that when developing national strategy to target non-communicable diseases with a major link to diet, physical activity and obesity (for example, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, certain cancers), policy makers should consider integrating the strategy with other relevant national actions to prevent related non-communicable diseases addressing the key risk factors (for example, being overweight or obese, a sedentary lifestyle and an unhealthy diet) highlighting the contribution that partners in national and local government, industry, healthcare and the voluntary sector can make by working together to reduce the risk of non-communicable diseases for the population as a whole taking account of variations in different population subgroups (for example, by ethnicity, age or gender) linking to targets and outcomes for reducing the key risk factors for type 2 diabetes and other non-communicable diseases.
The work on the overall approach to prevention has contributed to strategic discussions beyond NICE through Wareham's contribution to the work of the International Diabetes Federation in formulating its Global Diabetes Plan 2011-2021 in the run up to the UN summit on non-communicable disease in 2011 (section 5, ref 3).
The research into specific risk factors also has an impact through dissemination in the public media, with the findings from the large scale pan-European cohort study InterAct led by Wareham (research reference 7) on the association of sugar-sweetened beverages and incident diabetes (research reference 8), for example, being widely discussed and informing public policy debates about actions that might limit consumption (section 5, ref 4).
