     Methodologies developed during mineral assessments 1992-5, reinforced and       updated for new       technologies in the 2003-91,2 are testament to the impact of       this research.
Potential aggregate       resources can be rapidly and cost-effectively identified in formerly       glaciated and fluvial       environments.
Approaches made were more cost-effective than widespread       drilling of boreholes,       negating the need for costly and time intensive geophysical techniques and       excavation of trial pits.
Liverpool researchers undertook mineral assessments in Northwest Wales1,2,       Lancashire3,4, and       assessments underpin activities of Regional Aggregate Working Parties       (RAWP)1.
The glacial       landform record in northwest Wales2, on the Isle of Man,       Lancashire, Cheshire and Shropshire has       guided the location of sand and gravel extraction sites.
Research also       tested and applied new       technologies e.g.
LiDAR and IfSAR digital elevation models in mineral       resource assessments, with       presentations to RAWP (Wales and Northwest England) and to the Quarry       Productions Association       Annual Conference.
The ESPEC Research Group has been a key player (PI: Plater, PI:       Chiverrell) in various research       projects funded by the English Heritage Aggregate Levy Sustainability       Fund, addressing       environmental impacts of aggregate extraction by providing a thorough       evidence base to inform       resource planning.
In southeast England, ALSF Grants (3280, 3281, and       4521) to Plater 2002-2004       explored the long-term resilience of the Dungeness Foreland depositional       complex, a region long       affected by aggregate extraction5,6.
Between 2005- 2009 two       ALSF grants (PI: Chiverrell) focused       on environmental processes, aggregate extraction and geoarchaeological       heritage of the Ribble       Valley and Kirkham Hills3,4,6.
These ALSF projects have       enhanced understanding of natural and       heritage assets in these aggregate extraction areas, archived by English       Heritage's Archaeological       Data Service4,6 as a resource for the community, extractive       industry, local authorities and       environmental regulators for future resource planning.
For example       Lancashire Country Council       states "results of both of them have been incorporated into the         Lancashire Historic Environment         Record and are made available to users of the Record" and that "It         is particularly useful in providing         a basis for assessment of areas away from those (such as Ribchester)".
In 2006 Natural England       re-designated the Dungeness SSSI on the basis of ALSF project outcomes and       required Lydd       (London Ashford) Airport to commission a study 2009-2011 (led by Plater)       that "fed into the recent         public inquiry which resulted in approval of the runway extension in         April 2013"7,8.
The current       operational policy of Natural England for the SSSI designation is to "direct         developers to seek the         advice of Andy Plater", with examples including "Parsons         Brinkerhoff and Lydd Airport on the         runway extension" and "Halcrow/CH2MHill on the Broomhill sea         defence upgrade" (2009-       2013)8.The research association with the aggregates industry       has extended offshore, with a NERC       Industrial CASE PhD 2009-2012 with Lafarge-Tarmac.
Research by Mellett,       supervised by Lang,       Mauz, Plater, investigated the drowned landscapes of the eastern English       Channel refining       understanding of controls on gravel and sand deposition and the timing of       deposition of marine       aggregates, thus indicating where likely future aggregate resources may be       present.
Robust assessment of Quaternary geology and communication with aggregate       and other resource       industries is embedded in the on-going NERC Consortium Britice-CHRONO       Project, aiming to       constrain rate of retreat of the marine-influenced portions of the last       British-Irish Ice Sheet (BIIS)       and to understand the controls on rates of ice retreat.
Direct relevance       of this research to the UK       economy is demonstrated in KE agreements with Project Partners, Scottish       Power over the       Western High Voltage Link and renewable energy companies in the UK and       Ireland (2012-3).
Extensive Round 3 Wind Development Zones (R3Z) in the Irish Sea (Centrica       Renewable Energy)       and North Sea (Forewind Consortium) overlap with the proposed       Britice-CHRONO transects.
Centrica have received reports (2013) characterising the sea floor and the       "work has provided         unique insights into the recent [Quaternary] geological setting of the         project, thereby allowing us to         make a number of useful predictions regarding potential geohazards         relevant to future construction"       wind turbines in the Irish Sea9.
Connections with terrestrial       and marine aggregate extractive       industries have continued, because improved understanding of the sea floor       condition and glacial       geology, Britice-CHRONO's deliverables, are critical for resource       appraisal (e.g.
aggregates) and       site development (e.g.
power infrastructure and renewable energy schemes).
First, informing       engineering geologists by providing direct information on the bed and       sub-surface conditions       (sediment type, geometry, bed morphology) and elsewhere with indirect,       process-based model       predictions of substrate conditions9.
These data provide an       informed basis for engineering design       and implementation, reducing development and installation costs.
Second,       we inform commercial       and regulatory bodies on the environmental history with advice on       identifying sites of potential       archaeological or geo-ecological significance.
