     The research described above has had, and continues to have, a major       impact on the treatment of PTSD in the NHS and overseas.
NICE clinical practice guidelines on the treatment of PTSD (see         Section 5, Sources 1-3)       The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has issued       guidelines for optimal treatment of PTSD.
In the current version (NICE,       2005), Ehlers' CT for PTSD, together with other trauma-focused cognitive       behavioural therapy programmes, is one of the first-choice options.
This       guidance was confirmed by a NICE evidence review in 2011, and is restated       in the 2012 NICE PTSD care pathway.
Conversely, in light of the negative       findings from the Mayou et al (2000) trial (along with similar findings       from Bisson in Cardiff, and others) NICE does not recommend the       use of psychological debriefing immediately after a trauma.
Instead,       watchful waiting is recommended for the first few weeks, followed by       Ehlers' CT, or another trauma focused psychological treatment, if natural       recovery does not occur.
Thus, Ehlers' research has had two positive       impacts: providing a novel and effective treatment for PTSD, and avoiding       provision of an ineffective one.
CT for PTSD disseminated within the English NHS (see Section 5,         Sources 4-6)       The Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) programme,       which started in 2008, aims to greatly increase the availability of NICE       recommended psychological treatments for anxiety disorders and depression       by training up to 6,000 new psychological therapists by 2015 and employing       them in specialised treatments services.
CT for PTSD is included in the       national training curriculum for IAPT (high intensity) therapists and has       been taught on 21 IAPT high intensity therapy courses.
To date around       2,200 IAPT therapists have learned the treatment, and are delivering it in       over 130 local services.
A further 900 IAPT therapists will be trained in       the treatment in next two years.
In addition, CT for PTSD is taught on       other post-graduate diploma courses in psychological therapies (at least       1100 therapists trained in the treatment approach on these courses since       2008) and on clinical psychology courses.
CT for PTSD disseminated to victims of trauma in Northern Ireland (see         Section5, Source 7)       As noted in Section 2, Ehlers' CT proved effective for survivors of the       Omagh bombing.
Presentation of the results to the Northern Ireland Office       by the Oxford/Omagh team led to funding to create the Centre for Trauma       and Transformation in Omagh.
This provided victims of numerous civil       conflict events with CT for PTSD until 2011, when its activities were       mainstreamed with the creation of a specialist diploma in CT for PTSD run       from Queens University, Belfast.
The diploma aims to spread CT for PTSD       skills to multiple clinical settings in Northern Ireland.
International recognition and dissemination of CT for PTSD (see         Section 5, Sources 8-10)       The outstanding results obtained with Ehlers' CT for PTSD have led       clinicians and health service commissioners from many countries to request       training.
Since 2008, Ehlers and her team have provided workshops on the       treatments in Australia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Norway,       Poland, Sweden and USA.
A therapist manual has been published in German       (Hogrefe; over 4000 sales since 2008).
The manual is also available in       Japanese.
The treatment is currently being delivered in a large primary       care intervention study in Stockholm.
Ehlers received the German       Psychology Prize 2013 (jointly awarded by 4 academic and professional       psychology and psychotherapy organisations) in recognition of the impact       of her PTSD research and treatment.
Clinical service design       The IAPT programme is the world's largest programme for disseminating       evidence based psychological treatments.
A key feature in the success of       the programme has been the creation of an outcome monitoring system that       is able to collect outcome data on almost everyone (&gt;90%) who has any       treatment.
This system is based on the session-by-session outcome       monitoring system that the Oxford based PTSD team pioneered in their       initial work in Northern Ireland.
