     Mellor's research and curatorial activity over the past 20 years has       ensured the preservation and presentation of Lacey's artistic heritage for       the public through its impact on the acquisition and curatorial policies       of one of the country's most pre-eminent art institutions.
As a result of       the The Bruce Lacey Experience exhibition and monograph, curators       at Tate Britain have decided to acquire several more examples of Lacey's       works of art for the gallery and the archive of Bruce Lacey for the       National Archive of British Art [see Section 5, C1].
Chris Stephens, the       Curator of Modern Art at Tate Britain, testified in 2013:     The exhibition and book greatly encouraged our recognition of the need       for Tate to extend its representation of Lacey's art, hopefully through       the acquisition of a work from the 1980s, and most importantly by the       acquisition of Lacey's archive as a record of all of his artistic       production, including the transitory and ephemeral works.
Though it will       probably take years to achieve, I am confident Tate will secure Lacey's       archive and there is no question that David's exhibition and accompanying       book will have greatly enhanced our ability to do that by demonstrating       Lacey's importance and the extent of his achievement.
The projects have       transformed the way Lacey is understood.
Such a large gallery purchase, involving, as this does, not only numerous       works by Lacey but also his archive, commonly takes some time to complete       because the negotiation for a large amount of material, often involving       significant sums, is complicated.
The enthusiasm expressed by reviewers and by Tate Britain's curator was       also found in the gallery-going public, who attended the exhibition in       both venues in record numbers.
The CAC exhibition attracted over 19,000       visitors &#8212; far in excess of the expectations of the staff and curators of       the gallery for an exhibition of this kind, which would normally be       8,000-10,000.
A similar large footfall for a gallery of its size (about       3,000), was experienced at The Newlyn Gallery, Penzance, where the       exhibition toured in October 2012 [C2].
The exhibition had a long-term       effect on some of these visitors [C3].
Some of this was expressed in the       take-up of family and other outreach programmes, which had high attendance       despite the summer dates of the show [C4].
The exhibition was widely reviewed in the national press.
Adrian Searle's       review of the exhibition (The Guardian, 6 July 2012), for example,       applauds the curating and the monograph [C5].
National [C6] and       international [C7] journals of contemporary art also reviewed the       exhibition.
Of the whimsy and dedication evident in its feats of retrieval       and exhibition, Rob Young concluded in Frieze (October 2012):     ... beneath the pizzazz of a ceiling-mounted wire-mesh penis spurting       Sindy dolls, the most evocative object in the whole show was a small,       battered handmade wooden fort, built by his father and used by Lacey as a       boy to stage miniature siege re-enactments.
It's a tatty ruin whose frayed       battlements seem to contain a lifetime of imaginative play and, as with so       many of the artefacts on display, you found yourself marveling that this       resiliently fragile trinket could have survived its owner's nomadic and       eventful life to catch up with him again, here [C5].
Unusual for art-historical projects, The Bruce Lacey Experience       was multi-platformed.
It consisted of the simultaneous publication of       Mellor's monograph study, the opening of the co-curated exhibition (Mellor       and Deller), and the release by the British Film Institute of both a       documentary film by Jeremy Deller and a retrospective of films by Lacey       himself.
The film-making and film release were directly related to the CAC       exhibition.
Dellor's work derived from the project and supported and       augmented it.
The BFI's release came about through discussions that Mellor       and Deller held with Will Fowler of the BFI three years before the       exhibition opened.
These initiated the Institute's publication of a group       of Lacey's experimental film-works from the period 1951 to 1987 in the       form of a three-DVD set, The Lacey Rituals [C8].
