     The version of the model published by Moore's group for normal hearing       was implemented in 2007 in American National Standards Institute (ANSI)       standard number ANSI S3.4-2007.1 As a result, the model is used       by companies based in the USA and elsewhere for evaluating the loudness of       their products.
The model is widely used in industry for prediction of the       loudness of everyday sounds such as noise from aircraft, traffic, inside       cars, heating and ventilation systems, wind turbines, and many other       situations.
It has also been used by government organisations.2     The Danish company Bruel and Kjaer3 (a leading manufacturer of sound and       vibration measurement equipment) uses the model as part of package of       sound-measuring equipment that is widely used in industrial applications.
A range of companies, including Boeing,4 Bose,5 Samsung,6 and Nissan7 use       the model, as implemented in a computer program, to assess the loudness of       their products, since it eliminates the need to undertake expensive and       time-consuming tests with human listeners.
The executable code of the       model for the loudness of stationary sounds is made available as part of       the ANSI S3.4-2007 standard.
Companies pay a license fee to use the       software for the model of loudness for time-varying sounds.
Examples of       applications are:     1) The model has been used by the US Department of Transportation2 and by       Nissan7 in developing the design and specification of warning       sounds to be emitted by quiet cars, such as electric automobiles.
2) The model has been used by Boeing Corporation, a major manufacturer of       aircraft, to evaluate the loudness of sounds both inside and outside of       aircraft.4     3) The model has been used by Bose Corporation, a major manufacturer of       audio systems for domestic and professional applications in developing a       variety of products.5     4) The model has been used by Samsung7 in a variety of applications       including development of more efficient perceptual coders (improvements to       MP3) and evaluation of the loudness of mobile telephones.
5) The version of the model applicable to hearing-impaired people has       been used by Moore's group to develop methods for fitting hearing aids       with multi-channel compression (essentially all modern hearing aids       incorporate such compression).
A recent extension to these methods       (reference 6 in section 3) can be used to fit recently introduced hearing       aids with an extended high- frequency response (i.e.
those that amplify       for frequencies up to 8-10 kHz as opposed to the limit of 4-5 kHz that is       common for hearing aids).
This method, called CAM2, is currently being       used in clinical trials with a novel form of hearing aid with extended       high-frequency response, called the `Earlens'.
The trials are being       conducted in Stanford, USA, with Moore as advisor.
The CAM2 method is       currently being licensed by Cambridge Enterprise.8     The model is being adapted as the basis for a new ISO standard.
Voting on       the proposed standard should take place later on this year.
The new       standard will be published in parallel with a revised version of a       standard based on the older (and less accurate) Zwicker model for a       limited period.
