     (1) Commercialization     The Bussey-Saksida Rodent Touchscreen Chamber was licensed to Campden       Instruments (CI; parent company Lafayette Instruments) on 1 February 2008;       and the company launched two commercial products, distinct chambers for       rat and mouse, in early 2009.
Additional series of tests developed by Drs       Bussey and Saksida were the subject of further licenses on 24 December       2009 and 1 July 2010.
Further task development continues by Bussey and       Saksida, and as new tasks are validated and published they are licensed to       Campden Instruments.
Drs Bussey and Saksida continue working with this       company to market the touchscreen chambers and to advise purchasers on       their setup and utilisation.
The impact on Campden Instruments has been highly beneficial.1,2,3.
The touchscreen chambers represent a significant increase in sales for the       company (they have added about &#163;400-500K p.a.
to Campden's turnover over       the last 2-3 years); broadening its portfolio in the behavioural       marketplace; and enabling this to become an export-led company.
As a       result, Campden Instruments has added three operatives to its factory       workforce.
There is a clear link between this commercial success and the       work done by Bussey and Saksida at Cambridge, specifically: (1) the       development of the prototype equipment in the Bussey-Saksida laboratory,       combined with Campden Instruments' engineering expertise leading to cost       reduction and the development of the high sensitivity touchscreens; and       (2) the on-going development and validation of the tasks.
(2) Preclinical Research: through the opportunity for translation of         the tasks, the apparatus has influenced how pharmaceutical companies         conduct CNS research.
The system is attractive to pharmaceutical companies because of the high       level of reproducibility and comparability of results between different       chambers and in different geographic locations.
Other beneficial features       are the translational potential including the fact that better preclinical       data should lead to fewer drug failures during clinical trials.
In       addition, the high throughput and automated nature of the system are       beneficial in a commercial setting, as is the fact that the system is user       friendly and relatively failsafe for non-experts in rodent behaviour.
By       March 2013, 138 rat chambers and 302 mouse chambers had been sold       worldwide to both academic institutions and pharmaceutical companies.
Two very large research consortia have featured this system as a core       component of their programmes.
The NEWMEDS consortium, one of the largest       ever academic-industry collaborations, was funded in September 2009 for 5       years by the Innovative Medicines Initiative to find new methods for the       development of drugs for schizophrenia and depression.
Ten major       biopharmaceutical companies are involved, including AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly8,       Janssen Pharmaceutica, Lundbeck A/S, Novartis, Orion, Pfizer, Roche,       Servier and Abbott.
The project focuses on developing new animal models to       identify innovative and effective drugs for schizophrenia.
The behavioural       test battery designed to characterize animal models of schizophrenia       extensively involves Bussey-Saksida touchscreen tasks.
PharmaCog, a sister       IMI-funded initiative to NEWMEDS targeting Alzheimer's Disease, also has a       significant rodent touchscreen component.
Academic and commercial members       of the consortium have purchased Bussey-Saksida chambers for use in       underpinning project work.
(3) Spinoff industry: Contract Research Organisations have included         touchscreen-based cognitive assays in their services.
Examples include Synome4 who indicate on their website that:       `The cognitive characterisation of mouse models of human brain disorders       is important for their use in screening potential therapeutic agents.'
Synome offers a battery of touchscreen cognitive tasks, designed in       consultation with both Bussey and Saksida, who act as external advisors to       the company.5     The company Transpharmation provides translational pre-clinical       pharmacology services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry,       with the aim of better understanding potential new medicines as they       transition into the clinic.
They also offer a battery of Bussey-Saksida       cognitive tests6, and Bussey provided consultancy to this       company when they were initiating their services7.
(4) Specialist advisory role in maximising the translation of         effective therapies from animal models to clinical practice.
For example, the touchscreen system featured and was demonstrated by       Bussey and Saksida at the following:     July, 2012, Washington DC: National Institutes of Health Opportunity       Network workshop, Improving Animal Models of Human Behavioral and         Social Processes.
The purpose of the workshop was to discuss       strategies for improving the design and construction of animal models for       understanding human behavioral and social processes     March, 2012, Washington DC: Institute of Medicine Forum on Neuroscience       and Nervous System Disorders workshop: "Improving Translation of Animal         Models for Nervous System Disorders".
In addition, since development of the mouse version, commercial interest       in the system has been very high.
It has been featured as a key cognitive       testing method in `What's Wrong With My Mouse: Behavioral phenotyping of       transgenic and knockout mice' (Crawley, 2007), the standard guide to       behavioural testing for mouse researchers including those in Industry.
It       has also been featured in a number of popular articles in high-impact       journals reaching a broad and non-academic readership, including Nature.
5) Impact on the 3Rs     The 3Rs are a widely accepted ethical framework for conducting scientific       experiments using animals humanely: 1. replacement &#8212; use of non-animal       methods; 2. reduction &#8212; methods which reduce the number of animals used;       and 3. refinement &#8212; methods which improve animal welfare.
Our paper in Nature         Methods (Ref 6, section 3) was awarded the `highly commended' prize       in the NC3Rs 3Rs competition, 2008.
