 Route to impact In 2003, with the assistance of Isis Innovation, Moyle founded SafeTalk Intelligent Technologies, which went on to become Secerno Ltd, a company which used ILP and the techniques described above to protect databases by making policy-based, real-time decisions to prevent unlawful access of data.
It is evident from the patent [5] that was filed by Isis to support this company that the work was based upon Moyle's earlier work on ILP as its description states "The second aspect of the invention preferably uses Inductive Logic Programming techniques (ILP &#8212; a form of machine learning), described below, to suggest new intrusion detection rules for inclusion into the system, based on examples of sinister traffic.
This not only frees the EDS administrator from having to manually analyse new attacks, but it also means that suggested rules benefit from the semantic matching referred to above."
At Secerno Moyle set out to provide a solution to the problem of database fraud, which is estimated to cost over $2bn per year.
Building on his previous work on intrusion detection, Moyle pursued a symbolic machine learning solution to a specific computer security vulnerability known as SQL injections.
Such incidents see a database subverted by someone misusing an application trusted by the database, and they continue to account for up to 25% of all data breaches.
Moyle developed an approach called grammatical clustering and produced a prototype system that took SQL grammar and examples of the legitimate SQL code sent to a database and extracted a representation of the set of permitted SQL statements.
This set was then capable of detecting all anomalous SQL statements formed by a malicious user through SQL injection &#8212; and, in turn, blocking them.
$3.8m in Series A funding enabled Secerno to create DataWall, first released in 2006, with its technology patented [A].
This second patent is based around stochastic logic programming as introduced in [3] above.
Impact since 2008 In July 2008, $16m of Series B funding was secured as a result of the initial success of DataWall.
At this time, DataWall was the only system available that could block with zero false positives, and the product had just been made available as a virtualised appliance on the Vmware platform.
The new funding enabled Secerno to improve DataWall and release a series of new versions, including one specifically designed for SMEs in December 2008 [B].
Version 4.1 in January 2010 actively monitored up to 230,000 transactions per second with the ability to block all threats in real-time.
DataWall provided machine-learning technology to observe how applications access specific databases, thereby allowing IT managers to control and protect their data assets from known and unknown, external and internal threats.
Unlike conventional approaches of the time, which permitted access to every request except those on a "blacklist", Moyle introduced the first commercial application of a "whitelist" approach where database queries are blocked in real-time unless they are on the approved list.
This would be an onerous and unworkable process were the system manager required to develop and maintain complex policy configurations for every scenario, but Moyle's work demonstrated a method of automatically generating a bespoke whitelist of permitted, policy compliant, activities for each database it was attached to.
DataWall monitored database activity on the network to prevent unauthorized access, SQL injections, privilege or role escalation, and other external and internal attacks in real time [C], thus supporting organisations to reduce security risks to their data.
As a result of the Series B funding, Secerno was also able to increase its workforce to 55 internal jobs (mostly in the UK) in 2009, and from then recruited over 11 collaborative reseller partnerships.
The further development of the product overcame initial industry reluctance to accept whitelisting by demonstrations and pre-sales trials which repeatedly illustrated the superiority of the approach whilst detecting system inadequacies and on-going but previously undetected frauds.
Customers included the Skipton Building Society who bought DataWall in November 2008 after losing an encrypted laptop with the personal details of 14,000 customers and receiving a warning from the Information Commissioner's Office [D].
Users of DataWall for SMEs included Let Check, a leading UK tenant referencing company providing instant credit checks and real-time verification on a wide range of personal ID [B].
Impressed by DataWall's ability to block unauthorised activity in real time, in June 2010 Oracle Corporation acquired Secerno for an undisclosed sum in order to obtain DataWall, which was judged to significantly complement and augment Oracle's existing products.
A senior vice president of Oracle Database Server Technologies stated that the Secerno acquisition was `in direct response to increasing customer challenges around mitigating database security risk' and that `Oracle's complete set of database security solutions and Secerno's technology will provide customers with the ability to safeguard their critical business information.'
[E] Renamed Database Firewall, the product now forms part of Oracle's portfolio of database security solutions, and is considered the company's first line of defence for both Oracle and non-Oracle databases.
Oracle is unable to divulge internal figures relating to sales, profits and market success.
However, in an industry where commercial buy-outs are often a means of eradicating competition, the Secerno acquisition has clearly been a good investment for Oracle.
Though there are no publicly available sales figures or financial breakdowns, Oracle continues to sell and develop the Oracle Database Firewall &#8212; now combined into Oracle Audit Vault and Database Firewall 12.1.1 &#8212; which indicates that it has been a successful purchase for the company.
Customers using Database Firewall are typically large corporations, such as TransUnion - a global financial services company which serves 45,000 industrial and 500 million consumer clients across 32 countries.
It uses Oracle Database Firewall as its first line of database security across all of its servers in order to analyse and log all SQL traffic, and in turn is able to develop policies that allow it to block malicious traffic and keep its customers' data safe [F].
This has reduced successful hacking incidents on their wide range of databases.
Database Firewall can provide a faster response to automatically detect unauthorised database activities that violate security policies, and thwart perpetrators from covering their tracks [G].
Another large user is T-Mobile, which uses Database Firewall to protect the personal data of their 35 million users [G].
In a February 2013 independent review of Oracle Database Firewall, European IT analysis firm KuppingerCole found that `the detection of events is based on the grammar-based approach which provides a very high level of accuracy and allows finding a good balance between avoiding false negatives at all and minimizing the number of false positives.
Due to the flexible deployment models, support for in-line blocking and monitoring, remote monitoring, out-of-band monitoring, and high availability mode, the solution is well able to support any kind of scenario' [H].
In addition to protecting data from a commercial and customer service perspective, companies are also required to comply with various regulations (such as those introduced by the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002, the GLBA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard).
Database Firewall makes this process far simpler and enables compliance where it may not have previously existed.
