     1.
Licensing of an effective therapy for multiple sclerosis: The       efficacy of Alemtuzumab, as       demonstrated in the Phase 2 and 3 trials, is unprecedented.
No other trial       of a drug in multiple       sclerosis, used as monotherapy, has shown superior outcomes in terms of       disability compared to       an active licensed drug.
Natalizumab only showed improved efficacy against       an active comparator       when added to interferon-beta (Rudick et al., New Eng.
J. Med       2006); and, in a trial of only one       year, there was no significant difference in the effect of Fingolimod on       disability compared to       interferon (Cohen et al., New Eng.
J. Med 2010).
Although the       adverse effects of Alemtuzumab are       significant, Alastair Compston and colleagues have shown that it can be       used safely, if appropriate       risk-monitoring programmes are adopted over the first 3-4 years following       treatment, as developed       in the Phase 2 and 3 trials.
Alemtuzumab offers highly-effective       suppression of inflammatory       disease activity, with consequent improvement or stabilisation of       disability over several years,       albeit with significant but manageable adverse effects.
Alternative       available treatments are       problematic &#8212; from the inferior efficacy with the well-established       Beta-interferon (Rebif) compared       to Alemtuzumab; to Natalizumab, carrying a risk of up to 1/200 for a       potentially fatal complication,       progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy.
Alastair Compston, and (subsequently) Alasdair Coles, led the clinical       development of       Alemtuzumab from first concept as a treatment for multiple sclerosis in       1991 to the publication of       Phase 3 trials in 2012.
Over that period, the drug had 11 commercial       owners, not all of whom were       enthusiastic to develop it as a treatment of multiple sclerosis.
There is       no other example, in the       successful licensing of a drug for multiple sclerosis, for all phases of       the development to have been       led by the same investigators based in an academic institution &#8212; in the       UK, or elsewhere.
In June       2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the       European Medicines       Agency (EMA) issued a positive opinion for approval of LEMTRADA&#8482;       (alemtuzumab) `for the       treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis       (RRMS) with active disease       defined by clinical or imaging features'; and a product licence was       approved by the European       Commission on 17 September 2013.1,2 Of the 100,000 people with       multiple sclerosis in the UK,       approximately 30,000 have relapsing-remitting disease and 4500 are newly       diagnosed with the       disease each year; the estimate is that 5-15,000 each year could benefit       from Alemtuzumab.3     2.
Demonstration of the importance of the therapeutic `window of         opportunity' in using         drugs in multiple sclerosis: The differential effects of alemtuzumab       on early relapsing-remitting       and secondary progressive disease shown in the pre-clinical trials work of       Alastair Compston and       Alasdair Coles (see ref 1 above; and Coles et al., J         Neurology 2006) are still widely quoted as       evidence for the importance of early treatment in multiple sclerosis: see,       for example, Stys et al.,       Nature Reviews Neuroscience 2012: 13; 507-14 and Saidha Ann New         York Acad.
Sci.
2012:       1247; 117-37.
These data have contributed to the change in basic       understanding of the       pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis from the late 1990s, alongside       histological studies from Oxford       and the US emphasising the importance of axon degeneration in the lesions       of multiple sclerosis.
It       is now axiomatic that, for immunotherapies to be effective, they need to       be given early in the       course of the disease.
It is significant that, for the first time, the       Committee for Medicinal Products       for Human Use recommendation (and the licence in the European Union) moves       away from       escalation therapy to the concept of early aggressive therapy aimed at       modifying the course of the       disease in patients not yet disabled, based on the submitted evidence from       the use of       Alemtuzumab in Phase 2 and 3 trials, and the background information dating       from 1991.
This       decision has significant commercial implications.4,5     3.
A considerable expansion of the work-force in industry and related         sectors worldwide to         develop and market this initiative: Anticipating sales in the US,       `Genzyme recently employed       about 200 people in areas such as sales, marketing and reimbursement       teams', Bill Sibold,       Genzyme's Head of MS, said in an interview to Bloomberg News (October       2012).6 Dr Sibold added       in august 2013: `Genzyme expects to employ over 400 people globally in       support of LemtradaTM by       the end of 2013.
Although Genzyme has not publicly disclosed sales       estimates for LemtradaTM in       MS, the average consensus estimates of Wall Street analysts suggest       cumulative European sales       potentially in excess &#8364;2.0B from 2013 through 2018.
After September       Genzyme will disclose more       details on total spend for the program and some other relevant facts'.
Referring to acquisition of       Genzyme and the multiple sclerosis portfolio, including Alemtuzumab, Mr       Chris Viehbacher, chief       executive of Sanofi reported that 2.5 years after buying Genzyme       Corporation for $20.1 billion, the       deal has added $40 billion to the international pharmaceutical giant's       market value: `once we had       Genzyme, that changed investor perception about Sanofi with the company's       share price climbing       more than 50 percent since the buyout.
Genzyme's experimental multiple       sclerosis drug Lemtrada       &#8212; a focal point of negotiations that followed Sanofi's takeover bid in       2010 &#8212; won approval from       European regulators and is awaiting an OK from Food and Drug       Administration by the end of the       year'.7     4.
The first tranche of revenue and a contribution to `Business and         Innovation' in the UK         from existing royalties and patents:            A proportion of earnings from the sale of Alemtuzumab is paid in         Royalties to the inventors         (each of whom is a UK resident) and to the University of Cambridge.
[Commercial           in           Confidence: the University has received a total of &#163;18.6M in         revenues since the launch of         Campath-1H for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia         (information from Cambridge         Enterprise)].
Alemtuzumab has become a significant commercial property.
When Sanofi         bought Genzyme in         2011, there was a significant difference in projections for the sales of         Alemtuzumab for multiple         sclerosis, but both were high: Genzyme at $3.5 billion a year and Sanofi         at around $700 million         a year (Reuters: 4.9.12).
This led to a complex financial agreement,         which has already `paid         out' in that Sanofi has bought $152 million of contingent value rights         from Genzyme.4,5        In 2011, Genzyme submitted a patent application for a specific dosing         regimen of         Alemtuzumab in multiple sclerosis, with Alastair Compston and Alasdair         Coles named as         inventors.
The discovery of the utility of pre-treatment serum IL-21 as a predictive       biomarker of autoimmunity       after Alemtuzumab has led to a patent filing (US 2011/0229470 A1) with       ourselves, and Dr Joanne       Jones, as inventors, through Cambridge Enterprise.
