     The Ross procedure, introduced in the 1960s, involves the replacement of       a failing aortic valve with the patient's own pulmonary valve.
This       procedure did not gain popularity until the late 1980s, when the technique       for this operation was described in detail.
The procedure became       increasingly popular during the 1990s, and a registry of patients going       under the Ross procedure was initiated.
At this point, little was known       about the long-term outcome of this procedure.
However, in the early       2000s, the fallibility of the pulmonary implant started to become apparent       [see Section 5, C1].
Dr Robinson's work on analysing data resulting from       patients undergoing the Ross procedure dates back to 2000.
The initial       analysis, however, was based on data from the Cardiac Unit of the       University of L&#252;beck alone, and was later extended to larger datasets.
Around 2007, a group of physicians and researchers at L&#252;beck (Department       of Cardiac Surgery, University of L&#252;beck, Germany) decided to address       fears about the long-term success rate of the operation.
This was       motivated by two factors: (a) the widespread interest in this procedure in       the early 1990s and (b) emerging good-quality data that could be used to       provide a quantitative analysis of the success rate of this procedure in       terms of the life expectancy and quality of life of patients undergoing       this procedure.
Using data from the large patient population of the Dutch-German Ross       Registry, Dr Robinson carried out a rigorous statistical analysis on 1,620       Ross-operated patients over a follow-up of 10,747 patient-years [R1, R2].
Dr Robinson's statistical analysis, and its interpretation by clinicians,       showed that the outcomes using this procedure compared well with the       outcomes of other approaches using artificial vales, and that the survival       rate of adult patients following the operation was similar to the expected       survival rate of the population.
In particular, the analysis confirmed that the autograft procedure is a       valid option to treat aortic- valve disease in selected patients.
Namely,       the Ross procedure works well for young patients, and active people (e.g.
sportsmen/women) who want to preserve their life quality by avoiding the       daily use of anticoagulants.
Moreover, the Ross procedure compares       favourably for patients on dialysis [C2.2, C4 and C6], where the lifespan       is reduced but there is an increase in life quality due to the avoidance       of the regular use of anticoagulants.
The result of Dr Robinson and his       co-workers have contributed (a) to changes in the current practice       guidelines of the European Society of Cardiologists [C2.1, C3 and C4 via       C7] and (b) to reversing the negative impact of papers published in the       1990s on the Ross procedure.
Dr Charitos commented that `I believe our       work has lead to a renaissance and reappreciation of the Ross procedure in       the European area' [see C5 for relevant statistics].
