     The research has made a major contribution to the management of patients       with TBI and CSF disorders in terms of scientific, clinical and social       impact.
Contribution to the health of the nation and beyond have been       demonstrated by improvement in outcome for patients with TBI and CSF       disorders.
The findings (&gt;100 Medline publications) have resulted in       changes in policy, practice and in public understanding.
Specifically this       work has resulted in the establishment of protocols and networks for the       management of ITU patients, contributions to the NICE guidelines for head       injury1 (David Menon and Peter Hutchinson Guideline Development       Group members 2013) and CSF disorders (2008)2 , and leadership       in setting up Neurocritical Care (NCCnet founded 2007), and Neurosurgical3       (British Neurotrauma Group4 founded 2010, International Society       for Hydrocephalus and CSF Disorders founded 2008) Networks.
In 2013 we       have established a National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health       Technology Cooperative for Brain Injury5.
The achievements are:     1 Novel treatment strategies       (a) Protocol driven therapy in TBI.
A rational physiological basis       for therapy targets: specifically optimal strategies for control of ICP       have been defined.
The potential use of hyperoxia has been explored.
These       targets have been incorporated within our management protocols       (established in 1997 with subsequent revisions) and adopted by several       centres nationally and internationally.
The implementation of protocol       driven therapy has resulted in continued improvements in outcome from head       injury since 1997, up to the present day.
The latest data (2013) from the       Trauma and Audit Research Network shows Cambridge achieving excellent       performance (in excess of two standard deviations expected) of adjusted       measures of outcome.6     (b) Venous stenting in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension.
This       concept was first described by us worldwide (2000) and over 200 patients       have now been stented.
Our technique has been taken up internationally and       for an expanding range of indications in Cambridge including tinnitus,       intrasinus meningiomas and complex extracranial venous disorders in       patients who have sometimes been dismissed as undiagnosable or with       functional illnesses.
Currently approximately 40 stents per annum are       performed in Cambridge and the technique has been taken up in North       America, France, Italy and Australia (&gt;100 performed).
(c) Clinical trials and registries.
The following have been led       by us:            an international RCT of decompressive craniectomy in TBI (RESCUEicp)         (385/400 patients recruited to 2013)7        a RCT of the use of drains following evacuation of chronic subdural         haematoma showing reduction in recurrence and mortality (215 patients-         completed 2009)       a RCT of silver impregnated external ventricular drainage catheters to         reduce infection (325 patients- completed 2012)       STASH, a multicentre RCT of Simvastatin in aneurysmal subarachnoid         haemorrhage (803 patients- recruitment completed 2013)       formation of the ORION platform (2012) for national clinical         registries including the UK shunt registry, acoustic schwannoma and         paediatric epilepsy surgery.
2 Advances in clinical monitoring and imaging: Monitoring of       cerebral physiology and chemistry and imaging of ventilated TBI patients       has been developed.
The use of cerebrovascular pressure reactivity and       calculation of optimal CPP to guide therapy was pioneered by us.
Cambridge       is one of the leading units worldwide in terms of applying PET and       microdialysis to monitor brain metabolism in the injured brain.
Major       achievements have been to demonstrate the relationship between brain       chemistry and outcome, demonstration that lactate may be used as a       substrate in the injured brain (13C technology) and definition       of the inflammatory response to TBI.
Microdialysis is now used in routine       monitoring of patients with severe TBI.
3 Inventions: Specialised software for brain monitoring (ICM plus)       developed by us (2004) is now used for advanced brain monitoring in       neurosurgical centres for worldwide8 (70 licences sold to date       generating revenue of over &#163;250K).
The development and implementation of       ICM+ software started in 2003 and has led to the creation of various       international collaborations both academic and commercial (Moberg Ltd,       USA, 2009; and Hemmodia [France], 2013).
A MRI compatible triple lumen cranial access device to transmit       monitoring probes into the brain (invented 1997) and a computerised CSF       infusion test (invented 1991) to assist in the diagnosis of various       disorders of the CSF circulation have both been developed in Cambridge.
The CSF infusion test is now used in Bristol, Leeds, the Hague, Tubingen,       Toulouse and Geneva; and by checking shunt function without the need for       surgery this has spared 30-50 patients from unnecessary surgery per year       in Cambridge alone.
The creation of the UK Shunt Evaluation Laboratory (founded 1992) has       enabled the evaluation of shunts providing information that is independent       of the manufacturers.
The UK Shunt Registry developed (1995) and hosted by       us has provided unique long term follow up of 70,000 operations in 35,000       patients in the UK and includes the epidemiology of different CSF       disorders, and audit of the performance of individual neurosurgery units       and shunt components.
The ORION platform for cloud-based national       registries was also created in Cambridge (Alexis Joannides, lecturer in       neurosurgery) involving the UK shunt registry, paediatric epilepsy surgery       and acoustic schwannoma).
4 Training: The research has had impact on training the next       generation of academic clinicians in acute brain injury with a program of       fellowships and lectureships including NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowships,       Clinical lecturers, Academy of Medical Sciences / Health Foundation       Clinician Scientists, MRC Clinical Training Fellowships and Royal College       of Surgeons Research Fellowships.
These staff now apply techniques       developed in Cambridge in practice throughout many centres for       neurosurgery in the UK and elsewhere.
This is particularly important given       concerns regarding the future of academic training in surgery, anaesthesia       and intensive care.
There has also been a major contribution to the       training of the next generation of basic scientists interested in CSF and       TBI.
5 Societal impact: Major contributions to two BBC television       programs &#8212; Between Life and Death (2011) and Lifesavers,9       a trauma documentary (2013) has increased public understanding of science       in head injury.
Collaboration both clinically and academically with       `Headway'10 (the charity representing head-injured patients)       and directly with patients has also raised public awareness (e.g.
co-application with Wellcome Trust People's Award &#8212; Science Made Simple).
Strategies for prevention (e.g.
use of cycle helmets) have also been       promoted.
