     In post-unification Germany the late Catholic artist, film maker, theatre       director and actor Christoph       Schlingensief (1960-2010) was considered one of the country's key cultural       figures.
According to       the Nobel Prize laureate Elfriede         Jelinek, Schlingensief was `one of the greatest artists who ever       lived' and, in recognition of his importance, much of his estate was       entrusted to the Berlin       Academy of the Arts.
His principal themes, namely the question of God,       redemption and the       meaning of art, have shaped the cultural and political discourse in       Germany for more than two       decades, and during the latter part of his life were developed in explicit       dialogue with Hoff.
Following diagnosis with lung cancer in 2008, these aspects of his work       became pronounced as       seen in his Heaven Could Not Be as Beautiful as Here: A Cancer Diary       (2009) (cf.
obituaries       Spiegel Online International 23 August 2010; The Guardian       24 August 2010, New York Times, 26       August 2010).
Upon publication of the diary Hoff embarked upon an       intensive collaboration with       Schlingensief, the impact of which contributed to the visibility of       Christian faith in the German public       space and changed the perception of academic theology in the context of       contemporary debates       on art and culture.
Hoff's collaboration fed into Schlingensief's series of public high       profile performances, including the       acclaimed staging of his oratorio `Eine Kirche der Angst vor dem Fremden       in mir' at the 2011       Venice Biennale, and his opera' `Mea Culpa' at the Vienna       Burgtheater (see       http://www.schlingensief.com/index_eng.html.)
In each the author enacted his own cancer       experience and discussed, from a Catholic perspective, the religious       questions that his imminent       mortality raised.
Through this collaboration, which made a significant       contribution to the public       perception of the artist's work, Hoff's scholarship had an impact well       beyond the academic       community.
By influencing the creative practice of a leading artist during       a critical juncture of his       development, Hoff's research has promoted new forms of artistic and       religious expression which       have enriched the lives, imaginations and sensibilities of individuals and       groups.
The impact of Hoff's collaboration is best seen in relation to       Schlingensief's production, `Sterben       Lernen' (`Learning to Die ') (see http://www.srf.ch/sendungen/reflexe/sterben-lernen-mit-christoph-       schlingensief-2).
This emerged from an initial meeting in which Hoff presented Schlingensief       with       his account of Cusa's deconstruction of narcissistic habits and `virtual       reality', typified in the       Christian concept of heaven which in turn became the basis for the title       of Schlingensief's Heaven         Could Not Be as Beautiful as Here.
His ongoing dialogue with Hoff       was shared with his audience       during a public reading of the diary in the Thalia Theatre, Hamburg.
The       discourse articulated two       arguments which form the core of Hoff's text.
It interprets modernity as       the `age of narcissism' and       criticizes the modern obsession with `virtual reality' or the will to       visualise what he saw as the       ultimately ineffable nature of faith (`K&#228;mpfe gegen die katholische       Bilderso&#223;e').
Based on audio       records, this presentation has been published in Schlingensief's       posthumous autobiography (Aino       Laberenz (ed.
), Christoph Schlingensief.
Ich wei&#223; ich wars       (M&#252;nchen: KiWi, 2012) especially p.       56), while the later chapters include further material based on the early       dialogues.
The       collaboration subsequently developed with Schlingensief's production       `Sterben Lernen' at the       Theater Neumarkt in Z&#252;rich, first performed on 4 December 2009.
The       treatment of the themes of       God, church and existential suffering explored in `Sterben Lernen' were in       response to Hoff's       analysis of Meister Eckhart and Nicholas of Cusa.
The author recounts       Hoff's role as a       `Sterbelehrer' (`a-teacher-of-how-to-die') in his controversial       `Schlingenblog'.
`This', he claims, `is       precisely not the repetition of a medical history but is about the       struggle with and for god and about       the ideas that emerged in the conversation with the systematic theologian       Johannes Hoff.
The       questions of god, the hope to find a new peace, not according to the       conventional notions of the       Evangelical or Catholic Church, but in liberation from human delusion       towards the reality of the       ineffable God'.
In the fourth act of `Sterben Lernen', Schlingensief       interrupted his own performance       on stage in order to talk about his collaboration with Hoff.
This       particular staging was followed by a       panel discussion with Schlingensief, Carl Hegemann and Hoff himself in       which these themes were       further articulated.
Hoff's further collaboration included preparatory work on Schlingensief's       celebrated `Operndorf       Afrika' project in Ouagadougou, the capital of the west African state of       Burkina Faso.
His input       included a feature article entitled `The Performance Artist Saint       Augustine' in the 'Schlingensief-       Feuilleton' (4, 5).
This appeared in the Christmas edition of the German       weekly Die Zeit in 2009       (6).
With a circulation of 488,036 and an estimated readership of two       million, it is the most widely       read German weekly newspaper.
This article drew on Hoff's academic       publication on Augustine       (`Whose self?
Which unification?
Augustine's anthropology and the       psychology-theology debate',       New Blackfriars 91 (2010)), his previous research on Jacques       Derrida (Spiritualit&#228;t und         Sprachverlust.
Theologie nach Foucault und Derrida (Paderborn:       M&#252;nchen, 1999)) and his       collaboration with the interdisciplinary Research Group `Rhetorik als       Kulturelle Praxis'.
Other       contributors included the former German President Joachim K&#246;hler, the       award-winning African       architect Francis K&#233;r&#233;, the American singer songwriter Patti Smith and the       Swedish dramatist       Henning Mankell.
Profits were directed to `Operndorf Afrika' itself while       the work drew public       attention to the artistic project.
(See the 20:00 `Tagesthemen' (`Review       of the Day') broadcast by       the German television station ARD on 19 December 2010 (9)).
After the BBC, ARD is the world's       largest public broadcaster, its programmes reaching 8.8 million households       in Germany.
The impact of Hoff's collaboration with the artist continued after       Schlingensief's death when the       jury of the 54th Venice         Biennale awarded the `Golden Lion for the best national pavilion'       (the       exhibition's highest honour) to Schlingensief's posthumously staged       oratorio `Kirche der Angst'       (`Church of Fear') (see http://www.kirche-der-angst).
Along with Dr Susanne Gaensheimer, director       of Frankfurt's Museum f&#252;r Moderne Kunst and curator of the       Biennale's German Pavilion, Hoff was       involved in the preparatory discussions about this project.
According to       Schlingensief's colleague       Carl Hegemann (Dramaturg, Thalia Theater Hamburg), Hoff's contributions to       the planning of the       Pavilion had a significant impact on the presentation of the oratorio as a       specifically religious work.
The Biennale attracts over 300,000 visitors, while the German Pavilion and       Schlingensief's work       was credited as an exemplar of how contemporary art can be cutting-edge       and morally engaged at       the same time (see         http://www.deutscher-pavillon.org).
As there are few translations,       subtitles or       English versions of Schlingensief's complex oeuvre, the Pavilion made it       accessible to an       international audience.
(For the public responses to this event cf.
'DW         Akademie and National         Catholic Register 9,10).
The accompanying publication, which is       aimed at helping visitors to       contextualise their experience, includes Hoff's essay `Leben in F&#252;lle.
Schlingensiefs       Dekonstruktion der (Post-)Moderne' (English translation 10) in which he       recounts his final       conversation with Schlingensief, a discussion of narcissistic images and       the illusionary salvation in       modern religion and art.
This rejects the traditional avant-garde       reading of Schlingensief's art and       relates it to the pre-modern tradition of philosophical theology such as       Meister Eckhart and       Thomas Aquinas.
Hoff was subsequently involved in the Saint Moritz Art       Festival 2010 where he       wrote the feature article of the accompanying journal.
The festival's       conference, organized by the       German art theorist Bazon Brock, afforded Hoff the opportunity to present       his research on Hugo       Ball and, together with Carl Hegemann, to participate in public discussion       on Schlingensief's work       at the Volksb&#252;hne Berlin and at the Berlin Hebbel Theather am         Ufer.
The impact of Hoff's collaboration with Schlingensief, and particularly       of his research on modern art       as religion, continued with his invitation to the Wagner-Council at the Akademie         der K&#252;nste in       Berlin, May 2011, and to act as critical advisor for Sebastian       Baumgartner's critically acclaimed       staging of Tannh&#228;user at the Bayreuth Festival.
In 2004 at the invitation       of Wolfgang and Katharina       Wagner, Schlingensief had staged Richard Wagner's Parsifal for the       Bayreuth Festival.
Hoff's       research fed into later discussions regarding art and religious themes in       the opera.
Following its       first performance, Hoff participated in the `Tannh&#228;user &#8212; Werkstatt der       Gef&#252;hl' symposium in       Bayreuth.
This annual conference of artists and scholars re-establishes a       suggestion made initially       by Friedrich Nietzsche, whose relationship to Wagner and Schlingensief is       explored in Hoff's       Pavilion essay.
