     The research has had 3 main impacts:            It has changed conservation policy and practice for the UK's rare         native breeds of farm animals, while feeding into debates about         conservation policy and practice internationally and enhancing         UK cultural understanding of the conservation of rare breeds       It has influenced farming policy in Herefordshire, leading to a         greater focus on diversification within the farming sector       It has stimulated debate about the place of farming within society          Conservation     The conservation of farm animal genetic resources is of great economic,       social, cultural and environmental importance.
Previously, breeds at risk       have been defined on the basis of numbers and genetic make-up.
The       research on geographical endemism led to the development of a new,       geographical measure of risk which has formed part of the RBST "watchlist"       categories since 2009 (Source A).
Tim Brigstocke, Chairman of RBST,       described the impact of the research as follows: "This research is a       breakthrough for conservation work.
RBST has recognised the problems of       geographical concentration for a number of years and has always encouraged       the widespread farming of our native breeds.
However, we now have clear       statistical information which can inform our conservation work of native       breeds and make it even more effective" (Source B).The research       subsequently fed into the work of DEFRA's Farm Animal Genetic Resources       (FAnGR) Committee on Breeds at Risk (BAR).
DEFRA's UK Country Report         on Farm Animal Genetic Resources states that: "as part of the work       in developing a revised list of breeds that meet the UK BAR criteria and       are potentially exempt from culling in the event of an exotic disease       outbreak, the FAnGR Committee also undertook some work to identify breeds       that can be considered to be at risk because they live in a concentrated       area.
This was based on independent research by the Sheep Trust and RBST'.
(Source C, p.25).
The Committee subsequently developed a definition       of geographic concentration (Source C, Appendix 1).
The UK BAR list       was also revised as a consequence (Source D).
The research has been disseminated internationally through, for example,       Rare Breeds International's 8th Global Conference on the Conservation         of Animal Genetic Resources, a conference aimed at a broad audience       of sector representatives and academics (Source E).
The research       has been further disseminated to the general public through media       appearances by Evans on TV and radio, publicising the issue of       geographical endangerment and increasing cultural understanding of the       issue (Source F).
Policy     According to a policy document produced by the Bulmer Foundation in       conjunction with Herefordshire Food Partnership, the Herefordshire Farming       Study `has influenced County policy and thinking ever since [its       publication in 2001]' (Source G, p.7).
The study's emphasis on the       importance of diversification has been particularly significant with the       document stating that some 10% of total farm incomes in Herefordshire come       from diversified activity, while the majority of farms in the county are       now classified as `other', which are those that do not fit within standard       categories.
This diversification has contributed to the rise in average       farm incomes over the course of the 2000s (Source G).
Stimulating Debate     CRR's research into socio-cultural perspectives on farming led to Evans       and Dr Peter Carruthers (Honorary Senior Fellow, University of Worcester,       2008-present) being commissioned to co-author a report for the Oxford       Farming Conference in 2013 on the value of farming to society (Source H).
The event was attended by government ministers (DEFRA), leaders of farming       organisations (such as the National Farmers' Union) and executive       personnel of agro-industries.
The report was the subject of a detailed       debate which focused on the implications of the report for farmers, for       consumers and for society more broadly.
The full extent of this debate is       reflected in a series of videos recorded at the conference (Source I).
