     To combat the devastating effect of meningococcal meningitis on       communities in the African       `meningitis belt', the international Meningitis Vaccine Project, funded by       the Gates Foundation and       the WHO, has been working since 2001 on developing an effective and cheap       vaccine to be       deployed in affected countries.
The resulting MenAfriVac&#8482; vaccine has       completed its trials; in       2010 it was rolled out in Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger and, in       October-December 2012, it was       introduced in 7 more countries.
The goal is to cover all 26 countries by       2016.
From a public-health perspective, there are two major issues with the       introduction of the       MenAfriVac&#8482; vaccine.
The first concerns the logistical constraints of       optimising a vaccination       campaign to target those individuals most at risk of infection, and the       second is the need for a       robust means of assessment of the population-wide efficiency of the       vaccine.
The model       developed by Blyuss and his colleagues is helping public-health       professionals on the ground to       address both of these issues.
Through close collaboration with the       MenAfriCar Consortium, we       have ensured that the results of the research do not remain academic but       rather are translated into       practical recommendations for the design of optimal vaccination strategies       in vaccine deployment       and for assessment of the efficacy of the new vaccine.
Experts from the       international MenAfriCar       Consortium have used the model and its subsequent developments (an       age-structured and meta-population       version of the model) to understand the prevalence, incidence and relative       impact of       different risk factors in the endemic areas.
Furthermore, they have used       this work to develop       targeted, age-structured vaccination strategies [see Section 5, C3].
Besides MenAfriVac&#8482; vaccine deployment, the results of the underpinning       research have also       been taken up by the MERIT (Meningitis Environment Risk Information       Technologies) Project       coordinated by the World Health Organization for the purposes of disease       surveillance [C4], and       epidemiologists from the GAVI (Global Alliance for Vaccines and       Immunisation) are developing       further detailed models for the assessment of effects of vaccine       interventions based on the Blyuss       model [C7].
Since its publication in March 2012, this work has received substantial       interest [C5-C8] from       epidemiologists and public-health professionals.
As, at present, there are       several alternative       hypotheses for the role of different epidemiological and environmental       factors in the dynamics of       meningococcal meningitis, the work has provided a new level of       understanding of the relative       contributions of those factors.
This has resulted in a radically improved       understanding of the       dynamics of meningococcal meningitis by epidemiologists and clinical       scientists, thus helping them       to design and deliver efficient public-health policies aimed at combating       the disease.
