     The impact of the research can be divided into four distinct areas,       although the overarching       benefits arising from the research are for those suffering from hay fever       and other allergies.
i) Public Health     NPARU produces and supplies the daily pollen forecasts for the UK (2-, 3-       and 5-day) using data       produced by the National Pollen Monitoring Network.
It provides training       for those collecting these       data with regard to air sampling and pollen assay and quality assures the       data.
It then collates the       data with geographical and meteorological information and applies       mathematical modelling       protocols developed through the research to make predictions of the amount       of pollen that will be       in the air.
NPARU was the sole provider of the pollen forecast until 2011       when a collaborative       contract was formed with the Met Office (Source A).
NPARU continues       to provide the forecasts       directly to Met Eireann, Irish Health, GlaxoSmithKline and media outlets       such as the Daily       Telegraph and MBC Netweather Ltd.
The Met Office website is in the top 150 most visited websites in the UK       according to the Alexa       Web Information Company.
The Daily Telegraph has a circulation of over       500,000.
A less detailed       forecast also forms part of, for example, BBC Weather forecasts which       regularly get upwards of 5       million viewers.
This gives a sense of the sheer number of individuals who       have access to the       pollen forecast on a daily basis.
The pollen forecast is a vital tool in the prevention and treatment of       hay fever.
The NHS provides       clear advice through, for example, its NHS Choices site on checking the       pollen forecast as part of       the recommended strategy for managing hay fever (Source B).
The       `user experience' improves       lives as sufferers are better able to control their symptoms by adapting       their medication and       behaviour.
An example of this in microcosm comes at the regional level.
A       team from the allergy       clinics at Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust and NPARU utilise       Twitter (@Worcs_Allergy)       to provide information about the pollen count to patients to enable them       to use the appropriate       medication.
NPARU has also been effective in engaging the public with its research       and specifically raising       awareness of the health implications for hay fever sufferers.
For example,       Emberlin was       commissioned by Kleenex to produce The Hay Fever Health Report 2010,       a public-facing review of       how lifestyle choices affect hay fever sufferers (Source C).
NPARU       was also heavily involved in       the development of a Low Allergy Show Garden which won a Silver Medal at       Chelsea Flower       Show in 2010 receiving extensive TV coverage.
More generally, staff       members in NPARU have       made 229 media appearances (TV, radio and press) focused on its research       during the period       2008-2013.     ii) Public Policy     NPARU's research has contributed to policy debate on allergy services and       ultimately informed the       development of quality control measures for these services.
Emberlin sat       on the Royal College of       Physicians Working Party that produced the report, Allergy: the unmet         need.
A blueprint for better         patient care in 2003 (Source D).
This report informed a 2007       report of the House of Lords' Science       &amp; Technology Committee (Source E) which set out a series of       recommendations for the       enhancement of allergy services.
It also underpinned the (similarly       titled) 2010 report by a joint       Royal College of Physicians and Royal College of Pathologists Working       Party, Allergy services.
Still not meeting the unmet need (Source F) which assessed       progress against the Science &amp;       Technology Committee's recommendations and itself made further       recommendations, one       outcome of which was the establishment of the Improving Quality in         Allergy Services (IQAS)         Registration Scheme in 2011 (Source G).
The IQAS registration       scheme is a new project from the       Royal College of Physicians (RCP) and Royal College of Pathologists       (RCPath) Joint Committee       on Immunology and Allergy (JCIA), which aims to improve the quality of NHS       specialist allergy       services.
iii) Practitioner services     NPARU's research has also underpinned training provided to health       professionals.
Feedback from       these events states that this training has improved the quality of the       services these professionals       are able to provide.
Examples of this training are: a general workshop on       Ocular, Perennial and       Seasonal Rhinitis April 2010 with attendees from 11 different businesses       including pharmacies,       surgeries and opticians; a Contact Lens seminar in February 2011 with 28       optometrists, dispensing       opticians and contact lens specialists attending; one day workshop in       March 2013 for optometrists,       dispensing opticians and contact lens specialists from 77 different       ophthalmology businesses       exploring the impact of allergies on contact lens wearers.
Feedback showed       that 80% of the       attendees found the day very useful with 15% of attendees having no prior       knowledge and 74%       having little knowledge of the subject before attending.
The seminar also       provided 11 points of       Continuing Education and Training (CET) for the attendees.
Optometrists,       dispensing opticians and       contact lens specialists have to earn 36 points over the CET cycle       (Currently1 January 2013 to 31       December 2015) with 6 points in any one year (Source H).
iv) Commerce     NPARU has brought commercial benefits to a number of companies through       undertaking product       testing of devices, such as vacuum cleaners, floor washers, washing       machines, air purifiers.
This       testing (the protocols for which were developed through research on the       immunochemical assay of       pollen) is undertaken under the agency of Allergy UK, which provides       accreditation of the products       through a seal of approval (Source I).
NPARU also undertakes       clinical trials of seven anti-allergy       products, such as bedding and hay fever treatments.
All seven products       have been       commercialised and are now in production.
A good example is the product Nasaleze&#174;.
According       to Paul Duxbury of that company, trial results from NPARU "provided         evidence that Nasaleze&#174;         reduces the need to take rescue medication for the symptoms of hay         fever.
The product now has         the clear competitive advantage in that it is the only remedy with no         adverse side effects (of         particular benefit to children, pregnancies and the elderly).
As a         result of NPARU's work,         Nasaleze&#174; has accessed mainstream marketing channels in the UK,         including Asda, Morrisons,         Holland &amp; Barrett.
In the US, Nasaleze is in CVS and Walgreen.
Nasaleze&#174; is on sale in over 100         countries (which includes all EU countries, New Zealand, USA, Eastern         Europe, and Russia and         Ukraine)" (Source J).
