     The primary beneficiaries of these studies have been patients with       chronic wounds.
With the       research aiming to improve the practice of clinicians, the care and       outcomes for patients are also       improved.
Furthermore,     The research has been widely disseminated through national and       international conferences, e.g.
European Wound Healing Association conference (Helsinki, 2009; Geneva,       2010; Copenhagen,       2013), Wounds UK congress (Harrogate, November 2011, 2012), World Union of       Wound Healing       Societies (Yokohama, 2012), and seminars and meetings for clinical       practitioners, e.g.
Annual Leg       Club workshops.
Findings have also been presented in journals, both for       academic audiences (e.g.
Journal of Wound Care, International Journal of Wound Care, and European       Journal of       Dermatology) but also for practitioners (e.g.
British Journal of       Healthcare Assistants, British Journal       of Community Nursing, Nursing Times).
In addition, web-based lectures,       Q&amp;A sessions and other       resources have been developed and disseminated world-wide through, for       example, the "less-pain"       website, a resource for clinicians that hosts a series of Upton's       presentations and publications       (Source A).
Thus every effort has been made to ensure that practitioners are aware of       the research and its       relevance for them.
The fact that psychological factors can have a       significant influence on wound       care and wound healing has demonstrated to clinicians how their practice       can affect a patient's       well-being.
As a consequence patients are treated holistically with an       increased focus on pain and       stress reduction.
The psychological consequences of wound care are more       understood by       clinicians and better care has resulted.
The patient experience has       therefore been dramatically       improved.
Evidence from national patient support groups (e.g.
Lindsay Leg       Club) has indicated that       improved patient experience has been a significant consequence of the       research (Source B).
In       March 2013, Upton and his team won the Journal of Wound Care (JWC) Award       for Patient       Experience.
These awards are designed to recognise innovation and       excellence in research and       practice related to wound care practice and in this case specifically for       improving patient experience       (Source C).
The citation noted that his "work has provided       significant insight into the patient       experience of wound healing providing clear evidence of the stress       associated with having a       wound and the impact that this may have on patient outcomes.
Through       innovative research, the       team at the University of Worcester have presented not only theoretical       findings but also practical       guidelines and recommendations".
The research has also had an impact on the economic success of an       international business       (M&#246;lnlycke Healthcare), by increasing awareness of their new technology &#8212;       the research was used       as the basis of the company's marketing campaign for Safetec (Source D)       &#8212; and increasing their       sales and market share (Sources E &amp; F).
Since the initial       research was completed in 2009, the       sales of Safetac have increased significantly and market penetration and       recognition has similarly       increased: there are now growing markets in Asia, Pacific Rim and North       America for their product       that were previously in their infancy (Source E).
Whilst there are       many factors involved in the       company's improved performance, M&#246;lnlycke Healthcare support the view that       this research has       played a significant role in the increased sales, increased recognition       and increased market share       of Safetac (Source F).
As a consequence of M&#246;lnlycke Healthcare's success in marketing       atraumatic dressings, other       medical supplies companies are also developing similar technologies in       order to improve the       experience of patients with acute and chronic wounds.
