     Influence on the global policy shift in charging for essential health         care       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have had a significant influence on       this area of policy in most low income countries.
Major influencing       bodies, such as the World Bank, UNICEF and WHO, now all emphasise the need       to make essential services free at the point of use, reflected in the       Universal Health Coverage movement and marked by the 2010 World Health       Report.
This change has influenced national policies in a range of       countries.
At the country level, a recent mapping study found that more       than half of the high-mortality countries surveyed (28 out of 50) had, in       the last few years, introduced reforms to their user fee regimes (http://bit.ly/17FUiDM).
Our citation (see below) in major policy reports of these agencies implies       use of the research in the relevant policy processes and continuous       citation over a 20 year period demonstrates sustained inputs.
Our work can also be shown to have been used in the development of       specific bilateral agencies' policy responses, including those of both       DFID and DANIDA which have both significantly supported development of       alternatives to user fees.
For example, McPake's work was the       primary basis on which Save the Children lobbied DFID to the effect that "Save         the Children UK believes that ensuring equitable financing of healthcare         is the single biggest contribution that DFID could make (to       improving reproductive, maternal and newborn health outcomes)".
McPake and Witter's work has supported Save the Children       in its advocacy and policy advisory work more generally.
The `Freeing-Up       Health Care' tool (http://bit.ly/H8HbWL)       developed by McPake and others, was commissioned for this purpose       and Witter was also commissioned to review the whole debate in       2005.
We have also undertaken specific pieces of research for Save the       Children, reviewing health insurance proposals in Sierra Leone and       documenting financial barriers to access in Tanzania.
Policy change and effective implementation in country       We have contributed directly to policy and policy implementation detail in       specific countries.
Witter has been invited to be a technical       expert supporting countries in moving towards universal coverage.
She has       provided advice to Sudan, Nepal, Ghana, Liberia and Vietnam.
In Ghana, Witter's evaluation of the maternal fee exemption       policy raised serious concerns about the funding, implementation and       sustainability of the policy.
These contributed to revision of the policy,       with financial protection of pregnant women ultimately being transferred       to the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) in 2008.
In the       first year of implementation alone, 433,000 additional women had access to       health care.
Advisory work by Witter, including heavy involvement       in annual health sector reviews in 2006, 2007 and 2009, has also       contributed to the development of the NHIS.
Since then the tools developed in Ghana have been used in adapted form in       other countries introducing similar policies &#8212; for example, in Senegal and       Mali.
In Nepal, the tools were adapted to evaluate and propose refinements       to the Safe Delivery Incentive Scheme, which has raised utilisation of       skilled delivery (http://1.usa.gov/GWCyi2)       and contributed to the decline in maternal mortality (http://bit.ly/1an6Q4D).
In Sudan, these tools were used to review the policy of free caesareans       and care of under-5s.
This was then reformed and re-launched by the       Federal Ministry of Health, with advice from Witter.
The lessons       learned on policy design and implementation are now guiding her advice to       Sierra Leone, Mali, Benin, Burkina Faso and Morocco.
Impacts for ultimate beneficiaries       The ultimate beneficiaries of these policy changes are those whose access       to care is made easier by the removal of financial barriers or who avoid       financially-catastrophic payments.
Pregnant women and young children have       often been targeted for free care and have benefited disproportionately.
According to the research conducted by McPake and Witter       among others, these groups will benefit in terms of reduced mortality and       morbidity, reduced impoverishment related to out-of-pocket payments and       mitigation of the diverse negative effects of coping strategies (debts,       sale of assets, increased work for household members).
Further work is       needed to quantify these impacts.
In addition, there are knock-on benefits for national economies.
Globally, $15 billion was estimated in 2001 to be lost every year due to       reduced productivity related to the death of mothers and neonates       (according to USAID: http://1.usa.gov/1c6YgxN).
