     The impact is best considered under two heads: industrial, and government       policy.
The microscopy facilities in the University of Ulster have a long       history of industrial collaboration, dating back to the analysis of cheese       micro-structure, as part of an IDB-funded consultancy in 1998, that was a       major factor in convincing Dairy Produce Packers Ireland (now Kerry Foods)       to move their cheese production factory from Tipperary to Coleraine, near       to the University of Ulster campus, bringing about 300 jobs with them.
Our       analysis of cheese continues [see item 1 in evidence below]     The ongoing collaboration with FEI, and our impact on their instrument       design, have been described above.
Our cooperation with them has led to       the manufacture of a novel variant of dual- beam microscopes, uniquely       suitable for detailed examination of biological cryosamples, currently       retailing at over &#163;1M each.
As FEI's European Reference Laboratory for       advanced EM techniques, we have had more than a dozen visits sponsored by       FEI from laboratories in the UK and other parts of Europe [2] This is now       being extended through our investment in a Leica tissue-imaging       laboratory, with a STED instrument capable of resolving nanoparticles at       below the normal limits of light resolution.
We led a gathering of scientists from Unilever's world-wide measuring and       instrumentation laboratories (Coleraine, 2005), and the world's first       Biological Dual-Beam EM Symposium (Coleraine, 2007).
We are currently       collaborating on dual-beam analysis of cryo-samples with Unilever, who       have funded three CAST PhD awards (2 completed)     We are also providing EM imaging and analysis, on a consultancy basis,       for a range of companies including:     Glanbia (Kilkenny): cheese analysis [1] Kara Irish Pottery (Boston and       Londonderry): natural stone imaging [3] Nanoscope Services (Bristol) a       relationship, which facilitates their customers in the oil exploration       industry and investigation of new energy sources [4] Nicobrand plc       (Coleraine): powder rheology [5] Patentnav Ireland Ltd (Belfast): cryo-EM       images of milk-derived drinks [6] Raptor Photonics (Larne): quantum dot       and nanoparticle imaging development [7] Tactility Factory (Belfast):       nanocatalyst analysis [3] Unilever, Port Sunlight, Wirral: cryo-EM images       [8] Warner-Chilcott (Larne plant of US-based company): EMs for       pharmaceutical analysis [9]     The impact on government policy has been in terms of alerting national       and EU bodies to the complex and not always fully appreciated hazards of       nanoparticles.
This first came to notice with Prof Howard's book       `Particulate Matter: Properties and Effects upon Health' (Maynard RL &amp;       Howard CV, BIOS Scientific Publishers, Oxford, 1999).
Since coming to the University of Ulster Prof Howard has made       presentations to numerous fora, national, European and global, on the       impacts of nanomaterials on health.
These resulted in his contribution, pp       35-36 and 105-108, to the Health &amp; Consumer Protection Directorate       General of the European Commission's report "Nanotechnologies: a       Preliminary Risk Analysis" [10].
This report was regarded by the Risk       Assessment Unit of the Directorate as an important first step towards       analyzing the potential risks of nanotechnologies and what they may imply.
Subsequently, he was, at the invitation of the World Health Organisation       Europe, the opening speaker at the Inaugural Meeting of the European       Environment and Health Task Force, Bled, Slovenia, 2011, and was lead       author of the subsequent draft report [11] on Nanomaterials and Health,       Policy Implications, sponsored by the EU and WHO Europe under the EU PAVEL       environmental footprinting project.
This recommends that new risk       assessments must be developed for the licensing of products containing       nanomaterials.
These recommendations have taken more concrete form in the       recent report of the WHO expert meeting "Nanotechnology and human health:       Scientific evidence and risk governance" (Bonn, 2012, of which Prof Howard       is again a main author, advising a precautionary approach [12].
Prof Howard was also a contributor, interviewed at length on the subjects       of low-dose nanotoxicology and the production of nanoparticles by       incinerators, to the documentary film "Trashed", by Blenheim Films       presented by Jeremy Irons, which addresses the way waste materials are       generated and disposed of, and the consequences to human health and       ecological problems of improper disposal.
This was selected for the       documentary section of the Cannes Film Festival, May 2012 9 [13].
