     The UK Stroke Association used our work to inform development of their       nationally provided community support services.
Specific changes based on       our work include a significant move away from input primarily from a       stroke liaison worker to a more focused patient-centred approach; and an       increased focus on identifying and addressing, on an individual basis, the       long-term problems faced by each stroke survivor and his/her carers.
This       impact has had wide reach: the Stroke Association currently provides 340       commissioned services with a contract income of &#163;12.3 million and many       thousands of clients: e.g.
in 2011/12 Stroke Association staff saw 35,940       new clients.
Our findings also have reach beyond the UK.
Based on our       work, Clinical Guidelines for Stroke in several countries (including the       UK, Scotland, Canada, New Zealand and Australia) now provide guidance to       health and social care workers on the importance of providing information       combined with educational sessions, rather than information alone.
Lack of       appropriate information is one of the commonest concerns of patients and       their families (up to 50% report lack of information) and can hinder       compliance with secondary prevention and access to relevant community       services.
We reported that information combined with educational sessions       improved knowledge and patient mood and was more effective than providing       information only.
Our findings are cited in all these Clinical Guidelines       for Stroke (A-D), among others.
Provision of information about       diagnosis and prognosis is a component of the National Sentinel Audit for       Stroke, which assesses compliance with guidelines.
The latest audit (G)       reported some improvement in communication with patients.
Clinical Guidelines for Stroke have significant influence on service       provision: for example, on development of services in London (E).
This development work, which references our underpinning research, is part       of a major initiative to redesign stroke services across London, where       6,000 people are left with impairments following stroke each year.
Assessment six months post stroke is a component of the National Stroke       Strategy, and the development of assessment procedures is informed by our       finding that outcomes following secondary care- based assessment       six months post-stroke were no different from those following usual care       (generally no formal assessment).
Our trial on which this finding is based       (8) is highlighted by the UK Stroke Improvement Programme (F),       an NHS initiative set up to provide national support for local improvement       of stroke services and the implementation of the National Stroke Strategy.
and is informing UK stroke services as they develop methods to implement       the six month assessment component of the National Stroke Strategy.
Addressing psychological need is now included in the UK National Stroke       Strategy, and in the annual National Sentinel Audit for Stroke (G)       that underpins its implementation, as an important component of stroke       care, based on our work highlighting the importance of psychological       outcomes after stroke, which raised the profile of this previously       neglected area.
House contributed to the development of the stepped care       model for psychological interventions after stroke (A) which has       been developed by the Stroke Improvement Programme for national       implementation.
Forster, House and Young are authors of five stroke-related reviews       within the Cochrane Library, the premier resource for the synthesis of       evidence-based health care, which are used across the world as the       foundation stone for clinical guidelines: these reviews provide the       evidence for and are cited in Clinical Guidelines for stroke in the UK,       Scotland, Australia and Canada (A-D) and elsewhere.
These       guidelines are the national templates for stroke service provision.
Our research was supported by (among others) the NIHR HTA and SDO       programmes, MRC and The Stroke Association, further testifying to its       direct clinical relevance, and underpinned by the development of a       nationwide stroke research network and comprehensive research network.
Forster is founding clinical director of the regional stroke network and       House was founding clinical director of the regional comprehensive       research network - so that development and implementation of our research       has been intimately integrated with NIHR policy.
Research approach       In our leading roles in the stroke research network, we have directly       evidenced the potential of research networks for stroke rehabilitation       research.
This potential has been realised in our TRACS trial in which 36       participating centres recruited 900 patient and caregiver dyads, making it       the world's largest completed stroke rehabilitation trial (5).
This       approach, novel in stroke research, has been further strengthened by       tandem economic and process evaluations.
TRACS has demonstrated that large       rehabilitation trials are feasible and provides a template for large       pragmatic trials in rehabilitation.
The study acted as an important       vehicle to engage clinical teams from across the UK in implementation and       delivery of research.
Enhancing research methodology is a policy of       charity funders, for example AgeUK and The Stroke Association.
The       importance of TRACS in the stroke rehabilitation research landscape is       evidenced by a public statement made by a former National Clinical Lead       for the NHS Stroke Improvement Programme.
"TRACS has been a very       significant study for two reasons.
Firstly, the results of TRACS should       help provide important clarity on how stroke carers can best be supported.
Secondly, the engagement of front-line clinical staff in the running of       the [TRACS] trial has been hugely successful.
Both these factors will help       raise the quality of care and support for people who have had a stroke and       their carers."
(H).
