     The research has had impact on government policies in the UK, Europe,       Australia and New Zealand and can particularly demonstrate impact on       service delivery to refugee and asylum-seeking populations in Scotland.
Benefits to these populations include improved health and psychosocial       wellbeing while the benefits associated with social cohesion accrue to       refugee, asylum-seeking and host populations.
The original IOI programme was conducted in close communication with Home       Office policy makers and completed through a series of stakeholder       consultations that enabled government policy makers, service providers and       participating communities to contribute to the final product.
The       framework, and associated indicators, were first presented to an       interdepartmental UK government meeting in July 2004 involving staff from       several branches of the Home Office, the Department of Health, Department       of Social Security and Department of Education.
The `Indicators of       Integration' framework was then published as a series of `Development and       Practice' reports by the UK Home Office (Ager and Strang,       2004a; 2004b).
Prior to the publication of this work, policy, in the UK and across       Europe, was structured around domains of service provision (`Markers and       Means'), reflecting a very `top-down' approach based on governmental       priorities and perspectives with little or no explicit reference to social       relationships.
The European Council for Refugees and Exiles, an advocacy       group, had argued that refugee integration should be seen as a `two-way       process' (ECRE, 2005).
The IOI provided empirical evidence to support this       claim and threw light on the ways in which communities themselves (both       refugees and non-refugees) experience belonging together.
Policy on refugee integration across the world now regularly demonstrates       a much broader set of parameters, reflecting the domains of the IOI       framework.
Our research has been cited widely in policy processes around       the world that have led up to this change, including in Scotland, England,       Australia, New Zealand and across the European Union as itemised in the       documents listed below to corroborate impact.
Following the dissemination       of the IntegraRef report, Strang has been invited to a       number of EU consultation events to contribute to the shaping of EU       integration policy.
Social connections in particular are given prominence       where once they were ignored, as exemplified by the most recent report by       UNHCR on behalf of the European Union (see below).
Impact on practice is most readily seen in Scotland, where we have been       working closely with both the Scottish Refugee Council and Scottish       Government to support them in the application of the research.
Following       the Scottish Refugee Integration Forum Action Plan, the Scottish       Government required that applicants for government funding should specify       how their project would contribute to the different domains of the IOI       framework.
In that way the framework directly impacted on the allocation       of funds to ensure that support projects addressed the appropriate range       of refugees' integration needs.
In 2012, Scottish Government, in       collaboration with the Scottish Refugee Council (SRC) and the Convention       of Scottish Local Authorities (COSLA), convened a consultative       cross-sector review of integration strategy using the framework as a       design principle to ensure systematic coverage of the key issues.
On the       invitation of Scottish Government, Strang is leading this process       as independent Chair.
The final strategy report will be launched in       December 2013, however it is already clear that the series of consultation       events (organised according to the themes of the IOI framework from Oct       2012 to June 2013) has improved partnership working between the public and       voluntary sector and across sectors.
The Scottish Refugee Council has used the framework consistently since       2004 to inform and evaluate their integration support and community       development programme and for staff and community training.
This has led       to an increased emphasis on promoting social connections between refugees       and established members of local communities as well as between refugees.
There are now two strong community groups run by refugees (the `Scottish       Refugee Policy Forum' and the `Refugee Women's Strategy Group') both of       which demonstrate a clear commitment to building social connections at the       level of `bonds', `bridges' and `links' as elaborated by the IOI       framework.
The Scottish Refugee Council has also invested in dialogue with       other service provider partners to emphasise the interdependence of       different services in supporting integration.
The Council has undertaken a       longitudinal study of integration from 2009 to 2012, based on the IOI       work, designed to inform their own practice and contribute to advocacy and       the evidence base on refugee integration in the UK (http://bit.ly/17y8Kif).
(Strang is on the Advisory Group.)
During 2012/13 a former student of IIHD (Esa Aldegheri) used our research       as the basis of her work with the Refugee Survival Trust to promote       two-way integration between refugees and established Scottish communities.
She initiated and led a poetry project, `Making it Home', which brought       together the refugee women of the Maryhill Integration Network (set up by       the Scottish Refugee Council) and the women of Pilton (an economically and       socially deprived established Scottish community in Edinburgh).
The       project was show-cased by the Scottish Refugee Council in their launch of       Refugee Week in the Scottish Parliament in June 2013 (http://bit.ly/GWlxnN).
Feedback from policy makers and practitioners has consistently emphasised       the importance of the domains of `social connection'.
Partner projects are       continuing to use the practical tool developed by the research team that       has been piloted in Darfur and Glasgow to gather data independently.
This       equips project staff and communities with the tools to map social       connections in their own contexts in a way that empowers decision making       and also provides robust data for funders and policy makers.
