     Brady's research has triggered the development of products that are       having a direct impact on cancer prevention, detection and treatment       regimes.
By saving lives and simplifying clinical practice, the benefits       accrue to millions of patients and thousands of healthcare professionals       worldwide.
Working with colleagues in academia and industry, Brady set up       the two spin-out companies to exploit the potential of the research, and       he continues to work closely with them:             Mirada Solutions: formed in 2000 from a merger of two previous         spinouts established by Brady (OMIA and OXIVA), this firm focused on         image fusion and underwent a series of acquisitions and name-changes         before Brady and three former colleagues bought it back.
This led to the         formation of Mirada Medical (http://www.mirada-medical.com)         in 2009, which is based in Oxford and specialises in cancer diagnosis         and radiation planning software.
Matakina (http://www.matakina.com):         set up in 2009 to exploit Brady and Highnam's breakthroughs in         mammography software, this company also harnesses the outstanding         research skills of Professor Nico Karssemeijer (University of Nijmegen,         the Netherlands) and Professor Martin Yaffe (University of Toronto,         Canada).
Health Impact &#8212; earlier diagnosis of cancer     Women with very dense breast tissue have a 4-6 times higher risk of       developing breast cancer than those with tissue consisting predominantly       of low-density fat.
Uniquely, Volpara&#8482; converts any digital breast       mammogram into a `normalised' image, presented to a clinician as a summary       screen (see photo on p. 2).
Thanks to these capabilities, the software is       used as a time-saving device in cancer screening worldwide.
In summary,       Volpara&#8482; has substantially changed clinical practice in the hospitals       using it.
Endorsements from clinical practitioners include:     - "Volpara was implemented here since October 2010, and we have found it       to be accurate and reliable" [7].
- "Volpara is easy to use with minimal training" [8].
- "Volpara has made the whole [mammogram] process much more streamlined       and convenient for women" [9].
- "Volpara has been used in a large, screening trial because of its       robust clinical record" [10].
Mirada Medical's software is delivering quicker, easier, more effective       diagnosis and monitoring for a range of additional cancers, including lung       cancer, melanoma, liver cancer and head and neck cancer.
Economic Impact &#8212; wealth creation and job generation     As of July 2013, Matakina's Volpara&#8482; software is being used in Australia,       Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia,       the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South       Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand and the US, as well as the UK.
In       2012 alone, over 500,000 women had their breast density assessed using the       software &#8212; including 72,000 at Eastern Radiology in Greenville, North       Carolina, 50,000 at Radboud Hospital in Nijmegen and 48,000 at the Samsung       Medical Center in Seoul, South Korea [11].
Mirada Medical's software is used at all major cancer centres in the US       (e.g.
the Johns Hopkins University Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, and       the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas), in the UK (e.g.
the       Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust and the Western General Hospital in       Edinburgh) and in Denmark, India and the Netherlands.
In addition, the       firm sells its products to companies such as Toshiba, Siemens, Vital,       Carestream, McKesson and Sectra who incorporate them into their own       products.
Major equipment suppliers Varian and GE Healthcare have also       placed contracts with the company to develop innovative software.
This extensive worldwide take-up of the spinouts' range of software       products has translated directly into impressive commercial performance.
Matakina has 116 installations in 20 countries and Mirada has around 1000       installations in 10 countries, with a combined annual turnover now around       &#163;5 million.
Such figures highlight the fact that Brady's pioneering       research has ultimately had a significant global impact not only in       healthcare but also in economic terms.
