     The AIRE study, which was conceived, designed and led by staff at Leeds,       showed for the first time the benefits of early initiation of ACEI       therapy for high-risk patients with clinical signs of heart failure after       AMI.
This and subsequent research has led to the global introduction of a       simple and effective treatment, improving survival and quality of life for       many thousands of patients.
Impact on health and welfare     For patients surviving AMI, the debilitating syndrome of heart failure       secondary to left ventricular dysfunction is a common problem.
The body's       production of angiotensin after AMI acts initially as a protective       mechanism to preserve blood pressure; however, prolonged angiotensin       production causes cell death.
It had been proposed that ACEI therapy would       mitigate these effects but investigators were cautious about using the       drugs in these high-risk patients.
The AIRE study was the first trial to       show survival benefits of the ACEI ramipril in these patients.
A long-term       follow up study by Leeds of the trial's UK patients showed that these       beneficial effects persisted years later.
The international adoption of the strategy of early ACEI after AMI has       made it a fundamental part of routine treatment.
In addition to       significantly changing clinical practice, the use of this simple and cost       effective treatment has contributed to the substantial decline in       mortality associated with AMI seen over the last two decades.
For       instance, figures from the USA National Registry of Myocardial Infarction       Investigators indicates that in-hospital mortality after an AMI fell by       24% from 1990 to 2006 [A].
This trend due to improved care for AMI,       including the adoption of early secondary prevention such as ACEI       treatment, is reflected in data from other countries around the world.
In       the UK, a study looking at trends in 3 year mortality in 3 month survivors       of AMI in the UK, demonstrated that between 1991 and 2002 the use of ACEI       increased from 11% to 71% and during the same period mortality fell by 28%       [B].
More recent data from the UK Myocardial Ischaemia National       Audit Project (covering England, Wales and Belfast) showed a continued       increase in the prescription of ACEI, from just over 80% of patients with       AMI in 2003 to 94% of patients with AMI in 2011/12 [C, figure 15].
In 2011/12 there were 79,433 individuals sustaining an AMI; in England,       95% of patients received ACEI treatment, Wales 90% and Belfast 98% [C;       table 7].
At a UK population level there has been a year-on-year fall in       the percentage of patients with AMI who die within 30 days of admission to       hospital [C; figures 19 and 20].
The observed improvements in       mortality are not solely attributable to use of ACEI; however, ACEI       therapy is a fundamental element of modern treatment strategies for AMI [D-F].
The AIRE study has had major reach and significance, as evidenced by its       recognition as one of the "Landmark Heart Failure Treatment Trials" [D]       which made "a fundamental contribution to international clinical       guidelines, implementation of which has delayed or prevented morbidity and       death for millions of people worldwide."
[E].
"Two decades later       the results of this study still have a major impact on current guidelines       underscoring that this study significantly changed treatment of       cardiovascular high-risk patients."
[F].
The importance of AIRE in contributing to the routine adoption of ACEI       therapy in patients sustaining an AMI is evidenced by the continuing       citation of this study in international clinical guidelines.
The first       recommendation for the routine adoption of ACEI therapy in patients with       AMI who develop signs and symptoms of heart failure or who have reduced       left ventricular ejection fraction, the protocol used in the AIRE study,       was in the American College of Cardiology/ American Heart Association       guidelines in 1996, which cited AIRE as supporting evidence.
Since the       publication of AIRE, ACEI use after AMI has become standard practice       globally and is established as a class IA recommendation by, for instance,       the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association [G]       and the European Society of Cardiology [H] guidelines for       management of acute myocardial infarction.
The AIRE Study is an       underpinning reference for this therapeutic strategy in both guidelines.
In the UK, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE)       recommendation for secondary prevention following AMI, published in 2007,       has guided clinical practice during the current REF period and emphasised       the prescription of ACEI as a key priority [I, page 10].
This       guidance cites Leeds research on the efficacy of long term ACEI therapy as       supporting clinical evidence for the recommendation that: "After an MI,       all patients with preserved left ventricular function or with left       ventricular systolic dysfunction should continue treatment with an ACE       inhibitor indefinitely, whether or not they have symptoms of heart       failure."
[I, page 127].
Furthermore, cost effectiveness analysis       based on AIRE contributed to the conclusion that long-term ACEI was cost       effective in patients with and without left ventricular dysfunction [I,       pages 145-151].
A partial update of these guidelines released in June 2013       for consultation continues to emphasise ACEI as a key priority in       secondary prevention in patients with AMI and includes additional priority       recommendations on correct dosing of ACEI in acknowledgement of their       ongoing importance [J].
The updated guidance emphasises the       importance of rapidly achieving the target dose, based on relevant       clinical evidence, including AIRE, for specific ACEI (e.g.
ramipril 10       mg/day, as per AIRE): "Titrate the ACE inhibitor dose upwards at short       intervals (for example, every 12-24 hours) before the person leaves       hospital until the maximum tolerated or target dose is reached.
If this is       not possible, this should be completed within 4-6 weeks of hospital       discharge."
[J].
