     Chronic pain is common, affecting up to 40% of the population in       community samples (Croft, P. R., Blyth, F. M., &amp; van de Windt, D.
(Eds.)
(2010).
Chronic Pain Epidemiology: From Aetiology to Public         Health.
Oxford: Oxford University Press), and is caused by a wide       range of medical conditions including back pain, fibromyalgia and chronic       musculoskeletal pain.
For 25% of the population chronic pain interferes       with life and for 10% it is disabling (Croft et al.
2010).
In the UK back       pain is estimated to cost the NHS &#163;1 billion per annum, with primary care       management of patients with chronic pain accounting for 4.6 million       appointments per year, equivalent to 793 whole time general practitioners       (GPs), at a total cost of around &#163;69 million (Phillips, C. J.
(2009).
The       cost and burden of chronic pain.
Reviews in Pain, 3(1), 2-4).
Morley et al.
's findings were disseminated to healthcare       professionals and policymakers through a series of high-profile       presentations, including plenary lectures at the The World Congress on       Pain (IASP) 2010 Montreal, The British Pain Society (2009) and The Dutch       Rehabilitation Society (2011), as well as numerous talks to national       meetings.
Morley conducted a refresher course at the IASP World       Congress on Pain in 2008 and the Cochrane review [5] gave an       authoritative overview of the efficacy of CBT to a wide clinical audience.
Morley also engaged directly with patients and the general public,       as a member of the steering group for the production of the chronic pain       section of the Database of Individual Patient Experiences database (DIPex:     http://www.healthtalkonline.org/chronichealthissues/Chronic_Pain),       contributing to a PainConcern.co.uk podcast on the topic, and delivering a       series of public outreach talks.
Impact on policy and practice     The underpinning research and this dissemination effort has played a key       part in changing practice in the UK and internationally.
Morley's       research [1, 2, 5] has been specifically referenced in, and made a       significant contribution to, health guidelines within the UK.
Conclusions       from these publications, which indicate that CBT is a beneficial form of       treatment for chronic pain, have contributed to NICE (National Institute       of Clinical Excellence; CG88, Low back pain [A]), SIGN (Scottish       Intercollegiate Guidelines Network; SIGN106, Cancer Pain [B]),       GAIN (NI Guidelines and Audit Implementation Network, palliative care)       guidelines and Health Commission Wales directives as well as Royal College       of Physicians' and Anaesthetists' guidelines.
This work has also       demonstrated substantial reach, influencing American National Institutes       of Health (NIH) [C] guidelines on the non-pharmacological       treatment of persisting pain and is the only work referenced in relation       to CBT for a pain treatment guide published by the WHO [D].
The British Pain Society is the largest multidisciplinary professional       organisation in the field of pain within the UK, bringing together       doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and other healthcare professionals.
Morley       and Eccleston were on the working party that produced its Recommended         Guidelines for Pain Management Programmes for Adults [E].
The executive summary states:     "Pain management programmes (PMPs), based on cognitive behavioural         principles, are the treatment of choice for people with persistent pain         which adversely affects their quality of life."
The second item referenced Morley et al.
's review in 1999 [1]       in support of this central statement.
Publications [1] and [2]       were referenced throughout the 22-page document (8 times) in support of       specific claims of effectiveness and recommendations about delivery [E].
Impact on outcomes for patients     Pete Moore is the author of the Pain Toolkit, a book and website (www.paintoolkit.org)       aimed at helping people self-manage their pain using CBT principles.
He       suffers from chronic pain and describes the profound significance of       chronic pain for the individual patient and the fact that programmes based       on cognitive-behaviour therapy (CBT) have helped change his life [F].
He has played an important role in promoting this approach in the UK and       internationally and from 2002 - 2011 worked for the UK Expert Patient       Programme as a Senior Trainer.
Since 2009 more than 200,000 copies of the       Pain Toolkit have been printed and are in circulation in the UK, and it       has been translated into German, French and Italian for use       internationally.
Moore describes Morley et al.
's work as critical       to convincing professionals and patients to adopt the CBT approach:     "The scientific paper by Stephen Morley, Christopher         Eccleston and Amanda Williams (1999) played an invaluable part in         documenting the evidence for CBT" [F].
The widespread introduction of CBT (according to the 2009 National Pain       Audit at least 108 pain clinics throughout the UK employ a psychologist)       has improved pain management outcomes for patients.
There is evidence that       drug treatments have limited effectiveness.
Success rates were above 50%       for only four drugs in postoperative pain and one in migraine.
Many       conditions have painkiller failure rates of more than 70% [G].
The       use of CBT alongside, or to replace, drug regimens as recommended by       National guidelines described above [A, B, C, D, E] that draw on Morley's       research [1, 2, 5, 6] has significantly improved clinical pain       management and has the potential to significantly reduce opiate use and       dependence (Naylor, M. R., Naud, S., Keefe, F. J., &amp; Helzer, J. E.       (2010).
Therapeutic Interactive Voice Response (TIVR) to reduce analgesic       medication use for chronic pain management.
The Journal of Pain, 11(12),       1410-9).
Morley's recent research [H] has created a tool with       evidence-based benchmarks against which local services can evaluate their       delivery of CBT for pain relief.
Using data from routine clinical       services, they then demonstrate that these benchmarks can indeed be used       for local evaluation in order to improve services offered to patients.
Impact on the cost of health provision     Cognitive behavioural treatment of pain is cost effective.
A 2010 trial       of group CBT treatment of low-back pain in primary care in the UK showed a       sustained effect of CBT on subacute and chronic low-back pain at a low       cost to the health-care provider; the cost per quality-adjusted life year       for a CBT intervention is half that of alternatives [I].
A       subsequent systematic review found evidence supporting the       cost-effectiveness of guideline-endorsed treatments of interdisciplinary       rehabilitation, exercise, acupuncture, spinal manipulation and CBT       for sub-acute or chronic LBP [J].
Morley's own work has       shown that use of CBT improves social role performance, reduces distress [1],       and that the adoption of CBT in routine clinical care has a positive       impact [4].
