     The research has had significant policy impact in terms of enhancing the       visibility and policy role of the European Bank for Reconstruction and       Development (EBRD); legitimating the financial viability of co-financing,       and changing the operational practice of the European Court of Auditors.
This impact can be attributed to the fact that Robinson's research was the       first to explore in a systematic way the implications for the EU budget of       working with the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the EBRD for the       delivery of EU policy objectives.
Enhanced policy role of European Bank for Reconstruction and         Development (EBRD)     The impact of Robinson's research can be clearly demonstrated       through specific changes implemented by the EBRD &#8212; which lends &#8364;10bn per       year to transition economies &#8212; to improve its visibility within the EU.
As       his research concluded that although many EU actors were familiar with the       EIB, much less was known about the EBRD in terms of its capacity and       capabilities, Robinson advocated the creation of a specific post       to raise the EBRD's profile and liaise between the EU and the EBRD.
As a       direct result of his research, EBRD's vice president, Jan Fischer,       announced they would be employing an EBRD Representative for EU Affairs,       who has been in the post since May 2011:     "as requested in the [Robinson] report, we are taking steps to       enhance our visibility in Brussels, including through the appointment of       the new special representative of the EBRD in Brussels, that is Madame       Mandeep Bains who is sitting on my left-hand side here in this meeting"       (speech to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, 2nd May 2011).
[A.
See also B; F]     Members of the European Parliament Secretariat have corroborated       Robinson's impact in terms of this policy recommendation as follows:     "From the perspective of the European Parliament secretariat, we would       argue that this appointment has significantly increased the visibility of       the EBRD.
In policy terms, this has resulted in a significant number of       visits and policy exchanges between members of the EBRD and the European       Parliament, with MEPs now more aware of the possibilities that exist from       working with the EBRD.
The implications of this have been extremely       significant, with the EBRD now increasingly seen as a crucial policy       partner for the EU, particularly in its lending operations outside the EU"       [B].
Following the success of the appointment of the EBRD Representative for       EU Affairs, the EBRD is now establishing a permanent office in Brussels       [F].
Directorial level staff from DG Development and Co-operation (DEVCO)       described the legacy of the research's recommendations as having brought       `significant added value' [C]:     "The impact of the increase in visibility of the EBRD has been important       in policy terms, serving to enhance the status of the EBRD in lending       operations outside the EU [the EBRD lends approx.
&#8364;10bn per annum] and       increasing their role in policy discussions" [C].
From the EBRD's point of view, the implications of this have been to       `significantly raise the status of the EBRD ... making us a formal policy       partner' [F].
For example, in the ongoing review of the Existing Blending       Mechanism, the EBRD is now working alongside the EIB in the Technical       Group of the EU Platform for Blending in External Co-operations `which are       working on improving the quality and efficiency of EU blending mechanisms'       [C].
Furthermore, Key EBRD staff have been seconded to DEVCO.
This is       unprecedented.
Acceleration of co-financing strategy     The impact of Robinson's work has been to vindicate and       legitimise DG Economic and Financial Affairs' (ECFIN's) strategy in terms       of co-financing, through his assessment of the extremely low risks       presented by the instruments.
Robinson's research &#8212; located       outside the inter-institutional relationship between the European       Parliament and the European Commission &#8212; demonstrated to the European       Parliament the limited liability posed by the use of these financial       instruments in an unequivocal fashion.
This had significant policy       implications:     "Dr Robinson's research has had a considerable impact on the       subject at stake...The confirmation through Dr. Robinson's       research that these financial instruments did not pose any threats to the       EU budget in terms of financial liability had significant policy       implications.
Had his study reached the opposite conclusion this would       have been very problematic for us and would have affected the       implementation of the Commission's proposals for financial instruments"       [D].
Changes to audit culture           Robinson's research concluded that co-financing posed problems for       the EU in terms of transparency &#8212; a key concern of the European       Parliament.
Ivailo Kalfin (MEP appointed to follow the study) publicly       identified that the study clearly raised critical issues which would need       further investigation and explicitly states that the study had and would       inform the nature of policy debate.
[E]     To this end, Robinson's research `prescribed a different type of       evaluation for co-financing, strongly advocating an emphasis on asking       difficult questions of instruments, rather than the existing pattern of       audit that was focused on EU `success stories.''
[B] The impact of Robinson's       work can be clearly illustrated by the European Parliament's decision to       commission four subsequent studies (total cost approx.
&#8364;250,000).
MEPs       have also responded directly to Robinson's research, authoring       numerous reports on co-financing [B].
Given that a central theme of Robinson's research was       transparency, the report made an explicit recommendation for a more robust       form of audit by the European Court of Auditors, which included a review       of the contribution made by the EIB and EBRD:     "Dr Robinson's research made specific recommendations in relation       to the way in which the European Court of Auditors undertakes to audit       co-financing.
As officials from the European Parliament, we have seen a       significant change in ECA audit culture following the publication of Dr.       Robinson's research.
The ECA now undertakes a much more wide-ranging form       of audit, auditing all of the funds spent as part of the co-financed       instrument rather than just the contribution from the EU budget, which was       historically the pattern.
This change reflects the recommendations made in       Dr. Robinson's research" [B].
