     The TRG has been active since 1992.
Total income to date is &#163;3.9M       (&#163;185k/yr), with up to 14       companies supporting each of two three-year phase; income during the REF       period (2008-2013)       has grown to &#163;1.9 million (&#163;380 k/yr).
Some (BP, BG,       Concoco/ConocoPhillips) have been       members through each phase.
The impacts detailed below focus on examples       of direct       consultancy applying TRG research results, as these are most easily       quantifiable.
i. TRG research outputs were incorporated into workflows for appraisal       and development of       the Britannia Field by Britannia Operator Ltd (BOL: jointly owned by       ConocoPhillips and       Chevron).
Reservoir complexity and potential reservoir variability away       from well control       have been key issues on Britannia, accounting for significant volumetric       uncertainty and       representing the primary risk for new drilling opportunities.
TRG research       [5] led to a new       model for the spatial variation of rheology within the particulate       sediment gravity flows       responsible for depositing the main reservoir interval, which directly       impacted predictions       of spatial variation in primary rock quality.
These anticipated variations       were explicitly       incorporated into the reservoir model rebuild, providing a more robust       depositional       framework upon which to base new well prognoses.
New well locations have       been       planned under the guidance of this improved depositional framework.
Because infill wells       cost upwards of $20M each, the decision to sanction each new one is       significant.
Significant new reserves were booked as a result of this programme.
To       date,       subsequent drilling has corroborated the revised depositional framework in       the upper       reservoir intervals.
TRG research also [6] led to a reassessment       of the significance of       debris flow deposits interleaved with sand beds in the lower Britannia       reservoir intervals       and a greater appreciation of the potential role of large-scale       remobilisation processes.
To this end, revisions to the existing correlation scheme were made and       incorporated into       the subsequent reservoir model updates for the Britannia field.
These       changes represent       a significantly improved representation of the field's depositional       architecture, and have       aided its profitability [A].
ii.
Research results from the TRG field programme [1,2] played a       key role in the sanction       decision and modelling of the BG-operated Blake Field.
TRG provided a       field workshop       for the asset team, and company geologists used TRG field data to gain       management       support for the geological model and sanction development.
Sanction       involves the       decision to go forward and develop a discovery for production - an       investment of       hundreds of millions of dollars.
The Blake Field has subsequently been a       production       success [B].
Additional consultancy work was focused on building a       model to justify       extension drilling in the field "Blake Flank" (2005-present).
The key       insights were based       upon the constraint of excisional channel geometries, the anisotropy of       the depositional       elements comprising the channel fill and the nature of the contacts       between the channel       fill and substrate sheet-form sandstones into which the channel incised.
iii.
The TRG was commissioned to review two cores taken from an oil field       off Australia and       investigate the impacts of any revision in interpretation upon the       inherited model       (deposition in a relatively small sandy turbidite fan).
The TRG core       review, drawing upon       underpinning research [4, 6] resulted in two new insights into the       sedimentology of the       field, which contributed to a re-interpretation of the depositional model       in terms of a       hybrid-event-prone fan.
The revised depositional model raised concerns       regarding the       abundance and continuity of net pay within the reservoir.
TRG insights       contributed to the       operator's internal assessment, which culminated in the proposal of a       single well       development plan focusing only on the gas contained in the field.
Given       the improved       geological understanding of the field, appraisal was not seen as a viable       economic option       and development was only considered feasible in the context of the       operator's other       close-by assets and infrastructure.
The TRG's work thereby contributed to       making multi-million dollar decisions such as avoiding the costs of       drilling an additional appraisal well       and, potentially, of committing to an uneconomic oil development [C].
Approach to following through on impact:     The TRG business model entails the development of research and       consultancy, and the       provision of bespoke databases that allow structured access to the       literature and to       metadata on sedimentary architecture.
Sponsors have joined and re-joined       the TRG       because of their perceived benefits in each of these categories.
TRG       outputs are       delivered via a KE-oriented website, described by sponsors as       industry-leading through       its impact on key workers.
This model has been cloned to develop three new       industry-facing research groups at the University of Leeds; the Fluvial       Research Group (FRG), the       Shallow Marine Research Group (SMRG), and the Basin Structure Group (BSG).
The       effectiveness of this cloning in widening research impact is illustrated       by the level of       company support for these new ventures; the FRG is now in its second       three-year phase,       currently with seven sponsor companies, and the SMRG and the BSG have just       launched, with one and four sponsor companies, respectively.
