     The research has influenced policy and practice within civil society       organisations at the national and international levels, as well as       individual aid workers.
The impact has been achieved not only through       research publications and Kim's participation in important international       fora (as outlined in section 2), but also through the dissemination of       this work in journals aimed at a more general readership (in both Korean       and English), and through her active involvement as a policy advisor and a       senior research fellow, as outlined below.
i.
Changing Organisational Policy and Planning     As a result of Kim's research on assessing Japan's climate financing in       Africa [output 5], ReDI invited her to work as an independent       consultant on the evaluation of the East Asia Climate Partnership       programme (EACP).
This evaluation study of a US$200,000,000 climate change       financing project commissioned by the KOICA (Korean Grant Aid Agency)       included critical feedback and suggested amendments to the policy and       practice of KOICA's climate change financing.
This subsequently resulted       in proposals to establish a policy agenda for KOICA's climate financing       and the creation of an evaluation framework for EACP and new evaluation       guidelines for KOICA's future multilateral climate funds.
Kim has worked       with a group of researchers from ReDI, who have commented on the       significance of Kim's research for proposal design as well as the ways in       which her findings gave substance to policy and programmes: `In Korea,       there are very few people who (...) critically engage the issues of       environment, climate change and ODA architecture.
(...) Soyeun has not       only informed us about the internationally debated issues including       changes in debates, various standard/norm settings, but also has offered       directions on how to contextualise and understand those issues       structurally at policy level.
(....) She has (...) enabled us to balance       between a rather technical nature of project evaluation (consultancy) and       a more theoretically oriented academic research through her research       (analysis and review) on evaluation frameworks developed and used by       international climate change initiatives, and turning those findings into       designing of an evaluation framework that is specific and suitable for the       EACP.
[A]     The Head of Evaluation &amp; Consulting Office at ReDI further identifies       as important impacts Kim's contribution to the development of EACP's       strategy for future evaluation of multilateral projects through       identifying in her research the `need to reduce admin burden on the       multilateral organisation by working with their monitoring and evaluation       cycle (...) need to focus on a broad development result rather than       individual outputs' and for `the importance of follow-up research on the       possible changes in Korea's Green ODA and EACP climate finance' [A]     ii.
Influencing Public Bodies     Kim's research outputs [1 &amp; 2] have been circulated widely to       both think-tanks and aid-agencies, where they have shaped thinking around       emerging donors within the mainstream aid architecture debates.
For       example output [1] was cited in a special issue of the Japanese aid       agency JICA's internal policy briefing reports in 2011, which formed part       of the materials used to prepare JICA officials for negotiations on       agreeing new aid-effectiveness indicators during the 2011 High Level Forum       4 in Busan, South Korea: `Her work has provided an analytical [reference       point] to evaluate the emerging donors &#8212; which is extremely useful in       comprehensive understanding (and reviewing) of the various arguments and       debates on emerging donors, via her conceptualisation of DAC-ability.
In       doing so, the nature of emerging donor issues/debates became clear which       then has assisted JICA staff build their arguments (and also test the       feasibility of those arguments) in preparation for Busan'.
[B].
As a policy advisor to ODA Watch, the only Korean NGO dedicated to aid       monitoring, and as Senior Research Fellow for the ReDI, which aims to       promote global development beyond bilateralism and donor-centred       practices, Kim's research and consultancy has been used by both of these       organisations to inform their thinking and practices especially in       relation to aid- ethics and environmental sustainability in aid practice.
Her outreach activities based on her research have led to changes in their       policies and practices: `The field of aid ethics is not popular in Korea,       thus her expertise on this issue contributed to raise this in this society       by ODA Watch'.
`Her presentation on development ethics in 2010 at ODA       Watch policy forum and her column in 2011 in OWL (ODA Watch Newsletter)       [led to ODA Watch deciding this issue would be] included in major advocacy       items in 2012.'
[C]     Based on her suggestions, ODA Watch have recognised the importance of       ethics, principles and philosophy of aid ethics which `is not familiar to       Korean international development society.
'[C] By raising awareness       of the fundamental consideration of ethics and morality in aid provision,       Kim's research enables ODA Watch to present arguments based on `quality of       aid' in their campaigning on aid accountability and transparency, to       counter the currently dominant `quantity of aid' trend within Korea that       is fixated on increasing scale and volumes of aid provision.
[C].
Kim runs free lectures and seminars on behalf of ReDI based on the issues       and themes addressed in her research, thereby building and strengthening       the analytical capacity of young researchers.
[A]     iii.
Enhancing the Understanding and Practice of Aid Workers     The wide distribution of Kim's research through regular contributions to       the ODA Watch newsletter (OWL) [3] drawing on her research,       has helped the organisation to achieve increased understanding and       exposure of the issue of aid ethics for their core readership of c.5000       subscribers, [C] ` her paper and professional advice contributed to       ODA watch, raised the aid ethics as a significant issue in Korea (...) her       ideas on aid ethics definitely contributed to ODA watch's advocacy work' [C]       feedback on the newsletter article [output 3] has shown       that the research has given individual Korean aid workers a deeper       understanding of these issues, which subsequently informs their practice.
One worker, a Team Leader for Humanitarian and Emergency Affairs at World       Vision Korea, wrote that Kim's article had influenced his perspective on       his work leading him to become `increasingly interested in ethical issues       in aid (...) and [give] serious consideration for ethics in international       development.'
As a result he states that he has now integrated these ideas       into his frontline work `for my job, I often give lectures &#8212; and I have       shared my ideas and thoughts on ethical consideration with my audience.
That is why I sincerely hope your article would create positive       repercussion in the Korean society'.
[D].
