     Innovative research described in this Case Study has led to generation of       a strong portfolio of IP including the granting of 12 patents since 2008,       which themselves demonstrate that our scientific discoveries have hit the       impact target of fulfilling the minimum legislative criteria of being non-       obvious, novel and capable of being applied in trade/industry.
Outcomes of       our scientific discoveries also include the attraction of venture capital       funding and other investment, formation of the start-up company Diabetica       Ltd and creation of 3 jobs together with substantial productive and       on-going interactions with industry (see Section 5).
Our activities have       influenced drug discovery programmes and development of clinical product       pipelines in major pharmaceutical companies worldwide (see Section 5 for       Testimonials).
We have also undertaken significant contract research with       [text removed for publication] on incretin mimetics       and GIP antagonists, employing 2 other post-doctoral scientists.
Our IP on GIP agonists was licensed by IUL/Diabetica Ltd. to Amylin       Pharmaceuticals Ltd (now BMS) in March 2006, [text removed for       publication].
This includes 2 patent families covering GIP analogues as       treatments of diabetes, obesity and related metabolic disease, with 11       granted patents, including 4 in USA and Canada since 2008.
As testimony to       our impact in this field, GIP agonists are now pipeline products of Ipsen,       Eli Lilly, and Amylin (now BMS) targeted for full clinical development as       evidenced by their more recent IP filings.
Highly positive results of late       preclinical work on N- terminally modified GIP agonists have been       published recently by Amylin (BMS) scientists (Tatarkiewicz et al,       Diabetes Obes Metab.
2013 Jul 16, doi: 10.1111/dom.12181; see Section 5).
We have executed separate evaluation licenses for our IP on GIP       antagonists for the treatment of obesity-insulin resistance, to [text       removed for publication].
Our ground-breaking research has also driven       industry to make their own IP filings and undertake related drug       development on GIP receptor antagonists, including Ipsen, Amylin, Sanofi       Aventis and Zealand Pharma.
Further, Zealand has recently announced a       partnership with Lilly to optimise new peptide candidates for diabetes.
As       clear evidence of impact, our IP has been cited against their patent       filings, being included in numerous International search reports as `prior       art'.
Further, we have now partnered with the field leader, [text removed for publication], to develop receptor-specific       peptidergic therapeutic GIP antagonists through a Research Collaboration       Agreement executed on 21/09/12.
We were also early leaders in the development of GLP-1 therapeutics,       where our innovative approach and published work informed the field of the       significant potential of the GLP-1 receptor as an important drug target.
Indeed, GLP-1 mimetics now represent a major success story in diabetes       therapy.
Furthermore, our subsequent discovery and patent filing of stable       GLP-1 and GIP therapeutics for neurodegenerative disease has resulted in 6       granted EU patents since 2012 with a further 7 pending in Europe, USA,       Canada and Japan.
This IP is being further co-developed under a Research       Collaboration and License agreement with [text removed for publication] executed on 8/3/12.
In addition, [text removed for       publication] has also contributed [text removed for publication] awarded       by Alzheimer Society for a clinical trial of liraglutide (stable GLP-1       mimetic) in patients with Alzheimer's disease, which is currently       recruiting for patients.
As a result of our research, other pharmaceutical       companies with GLP-1 agonists in their pipeline, [text removed for       publication] are also now exploring stable GLP-1 for treatment of       neurodegenerative disease.
Inherently drug development is a lengthy and perilous process, with low       success rate.
In this context, the achievements described above plus our       significant contract research with industry on the development of GLP-1       and GIP mimetics are significant indicators of impact.
More recently, we       have focussed attention on preclinical development of stable CCK-8       therapeutics for obesity and associated metabolic disease [6], with 7       granted EU patents, plus 2 further patents granted in USA and Canada since       2008.
Our data have been replicated independently by a commercial CRO and       we have engaged with more than 30 potential industry partners and executed       2 contractual agreements ([text removed for publication]) to progress       commercial development.
A significant contribution to this case study stems from the formation       and subsequent commercialisation efforts of Diabetica Ltd. which was       founded in September 2004 as University start-up Company.
This Company was       registered in Northern Ireland under number NI051793, as a vehicle to work       alongside IUL to help commercialise technology generated by DRG.
Initial       investment of near &#163;1m was from IUL and the venture capital company Seroba       Bioventures, with subsequent employment of 3 personnel and turnover of       over &#163;600,000 from 2004 to 2011.
Academic founder members of Diabetica Ltd       (Professors PR Flatt, FPM O'Harte and NH McClenaghan (employed at Ulster       since 1998)) were winners of the prestigious inaugural Academic Enterprise       Awards (ACES) Europe for Life Sciences presented in Stockholm, December       2008.
Diabetica Ltd. and IUL continue to work together in exploitation of       research conducted and interactions with industry.
Our work in the area of novel peptide therapeutics for diabetes and       interactions with industry has been recognised internationally also by       prestigious personal awards.
Professor PR Flatt was elected Member Royal       Irish Academy (2006) and awarded Dorothy Hodgkin Lecture of Diabetes UK       (2007).
Other prizes include Biochemistry Society Medal (Professor PR       Flatt, 2005), Endocrine Society Nordisk Medal (Professor FPM O'Harte,       2006) and European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) Rising       Star (Professor VA Gault, 2009).
Professor PR Flatt was also member of the       influential international working group of Juvenile Diabetes Research       Foundation Ltd (JDRF) formulating the 2013 roadmap for the direction of       future UK research funding in type 1 diabetes.
