     The impact arising from this strand of research has been as follows:            Evidence-based policy-making (local, regional authorities and         agencies)       Evaluation of policy interventions and investment appraisal       Creative firm (SME) cluster formation (innovation/knowledge transfer).
Users of this body of research welcomed the international comparison and       empirical application of geographical methods to the emerging study of       city creative economies.
The thorough documentation of international       comparisons of clusters and cluster strategies in the cultural and       creative sectors as well as the rigorous study of creative clusters in       London provided critical evidence at a time when policy claims for both       clustering and the cultural and creative industries were commonplace.
One       user stated "The combination of data-based GIS methods, comparative       analysis, and systematic data-gathering, made the Institute's work so       useful.... this is standard practice elsewhere, but in the specific field       of culture and creativity, it really was very novel".
Indeed the time of       the research and its dissemination was particularly relevant: it came       immediately post the first flush of creative quarter experiments when       there was no adequate methodology or causal model for understanding what       would lead to successful support of either creative clusters at the city       level or creative industries at the national level, nor what the       connection was between the two.
Our work allowed city policy makers,       particularly in the UK at the GLA and LDA and in Canada in Toronto, to       formulate locally informed understandings of what leads creative       enterprises to cluster.
It also highlighted the essential role of the       detailed collection of evidence in successful policy formulation.
This       research "allowed us to think in a systematic way about which initiatives       would work and which would not."
This early research lent itself to       positive economic spatial planning approaches, unlike other leading       approaches which advocated the prioritisation of local community-cultural       development.
Policy practitioners were not only interested in SMEs       but in all sizes of investors taking a lead from the research which       pointed to the roles of both large and small investors in generating       spatial clustering of economic activity.
Policy frustration with the       limited impact of policies directed only at small cultural businesses was       challenged by the research's recognition of the critical role of anchor       institutions.
A further key impact of the research was the conclusion that       practical planning decisions (zoning, permission, strategic directives)       were critical in mobilising and retaining creative enterprise within       established and emerging cultural- creative clusters.
The cities of London       and Toronto were at the forefront of practical development of creative       cluster policies (an approach which had widespread international       influence) and this research was closely related to that process.
Indeed       "Creative London and Creative Toronto were at the cutting edge of the most       advanced policy initiatives of the time.
Examples and evidence of these       impacts and their dissemination are noted in 5. below.
These include the       Creative London (LDA) and Toronto/Ontario collaborative research producing       a series of six city case study reports, Lessons Learned and international       scoping studies, widely cited in policy, strategy documents, as well as       academic sources.
These were also used by UNESCO in their new Creative       Cities Network.
Baseline and periodic longitudinal impact and evaluation       studies for the City Fringe area City Growth strategy provided in depth       qualitative and quantitative/ spatial data analysis of clusters and       cluster based local economic development initiatives for local and       regional (London) decision-makers.
With the support of HEIF project       funding, local area analyses directly engaged and supported small firm       support and investment strategies elsewhere in London (Creative Lewisham,       2009) including direct collaboration with creative firms (e.g.
Cockpit       Arts, 2009) on the effectiveness of their property and enterprise       development activities.
The expertise gained through the research insights led to the appointment       of Evans by the OECD to their Territorial Review of the Copenhagen Capital       Region where he led on the creative economy assessment and review (2010).
Similar reviews were undertaken for Gimhae and Seoul (`cities of design'),       S.Korea (2011).
In addition to extensive international academic       conferences high profile dissemination to policy-makers, practitioners and       firms took place at public and invited events in Toronto, New York       (2005/6) as well as London.
Presentations of this work has been made to       successive international Creative Clusters conferences (2004/6/8/10) and       to the Evaluation Society, ISBE and RENT (Maastricht), conferences       reaching policy makers and practitioners in economic and enterprise       development.
The impact of the research on the creative digital cluster       primarily highlighted the new hybrid digital economy and the role of       self-organising clusters and research outcomes have been incorporated in       cluster activities at the Digital Shoreditch Festival/Summit (May 2011,       2012 and 2013), on public videos (YouTube), the Parliamentary Roundtable       on Design and Innovation (Nov.2011, with Dianne Abbott MP); and East       London Summit Tech City Panel (Nov.2011, with Cisco and Tech City) at       which contributions were made to the debates on new forms of arms-length       policy intervention as well as impact on local communities.
Interest in       the findings of the detailed analysis of creative and digital clusters in       London has led to citation in debates about Tech City in east London (see       Nathan, Vandore and Whitehead below).
Furthermore interest in the       methodological approach has led the regional economic development agency       for Paris, IAU Isle de France to embark on a joint study with ourselves to       replicate the London cluster analysis for Paris to provide a new       international comparative analysis.
This will form part of the evidence       base for economic policy formulation in Paris, particularly on the digital       economy.
