     Impact was achieved via four main routes:            A non-technical report summarising the research findings, sent         directly to interested parties (e.g.
UK and international law         enforcement, Home Office, Trading Standards, dating companies).
Targeted briefings (e.g.
to Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA),         Home Office, UK and overseas dating industry).
Direct work with law enforcement (especially SOCA), including         Buchanan's external collaborator acting in consultancy roles &#8212; in that         way the research done at Westminster was exploited externally to achieve         impact.
Press releases to generate publicity.
The research impacted on practitioners and services, with professionals         using the findings in their work.
[text removed for publication]     [text removed for publication]     Research findings on victim experiences (potential for repeat       victimization, disbelief that they were being defrauded &#8212; Buchanan &amp;       Whitty, 2013) informed a SOCA initiative, with Devon and Cornwall police       in spring 2013, trialling a new way to treat romance scam victims.
Following intelligence-led identification of likely victims, letters       (content of which was informed by the research) were sent to 200 likely       victims with the goal of preventing further financial loss.
Feedback       suggested the letters were effective in preventing further small sums       being lost.
Subsequently, victims losing large amounts of money, plus       associates such as family, were invited to a meeting with SOCA officers,       police and Victim Support to receive information and peer support.
Several alerts and advisories drawing on the findings have been issued.
SOCA alerts sent to online dating companies (May 2011) and Neighbourhood       Watch (July 2011) were informed by the research, as were other materials       (Metropolitan Police fraud alert web pages; Action Fraud web pages).
Additionally, professional training has been influenced.
City of       London Police (national lead force on fraud) run 3-week intensive National       Fraud Courses for groups of 30-50 officers.
The findings were included in       two sessions in 2012 and 2013, with advice given on dealing with romance       scam victims (e.g.
considering psychological impact, revictimisation).
The findings impacted the National Policing Improvement Agency (NPIA)'s       design of a Fraud Learning Programme for delivery by the National Centre       for Applied Learning Technologies to police forces across England and       Wales.
Buchanan's input to an NPIA meeting led to the learning descriptors       for "First Responders" (the first Police officer / employee a victim comes       into contact with) changing to include how to treat / support victims,       including information about re-victimisation (Buchanan &amp; Whitty,       2013).
A scenario based on romance scams is also incorporated in course       materials.
There was also impact on society, culture and creativity.
In       2011, the prevalence findings were covered in newspapers (e.g.
Guardian,       Telegraph), online (BBC News, Channel 4 News, Sky News websites), radio       (e.g.
Buchanan was interviewed on BBC Radio London Breakfast and Dublin's       Phantom 105.2, and a number of other broadcasts covered the findings) and       television (e.g.
BBC Breakfast, The One Show) coverage.
On 28/11/2011 an       article about the research was the 3rd most read on the BBC       News website.
As a consequence, public understanding improved.
Following the       main television and radio coverage, a YouGov survey found the proportion       of respondents knowing about online romance scams who had heard about them       via these media had increased compared to an earlier survey.
The       proportion of people made aware of romance scams by television rose from       48% to 52%.
The proportion hearing via radio rose from 11% to 15%.
Beyond reporting of the findings, public debate was stimulated       without input from the researchers (e.g.
discussion on Vanessa Feltz' BBC       Radio London phone-in show), and even satirical comedy (Radio 4 News Quiz)       drew on the work.
Media coverage also led a number of victims (or their relatives) to       contact the researchers seeking advice.
Direct guidance was provided to       such individuals (e.g.
they were fraud victims and should contact police).
