     Microsoft Research has supported, built, and collaborated on a large       number of Office extensions in a number of scientific domains, but the       Chemistry Add-in for Word remains the most highly downloaded project       developed to date, that number exceeding 400,000 as of July 2012.
(See       Corroboration Letter LC1).
Chem4Word enables both humans and machines to understand the underlying       semantics of the documented chemistry and expose semantically rich       chemical information across the global chemistry and chemical information       community.
The Chemistry Add-in for Word has been widely recognised by educators,       publishers and software developers as making it easier for students,       educators, and chemists to insert and modify semantically searchable       chemical information, such as labels, formulae and 2D depictions, from       within Microsoft Office Word.
Designed for and tested on both Word 2007       and Word 2010, it makes chemistry documents open, readable and easily       accessible, not just to other chemists, but also to other (robotic)       technologies using the widely adopted extensible markup language (XML).
The Chemistry Add-in supports both publishing and data-mining scenarios.1     Impact on Publishing       Chem4Word has been widely welcomed by publishers.
The following       testimonials serve as an example of this: "The future of research will be       powered not only by ever more rapid dissemination of ever large quantities       of data, but also by software tools that 'understand' something about       science.
These tools will behave intelligently with respect to the       information they process, and will free their human users to spend more       time doing the things that humans do best: generating ideas, designing       experiments and making discoveries.
Chem4Word is one of the best examples       so far of this important new development at the interface between science       and technology."
Managing Director, Digital Science, Macmillan Publishers.2     "The IUCr is delighted to see the release of v.1 of Chemistry Add-in         for Word under an open-source development license &#8212; this has great         potential for authors to enrich the semantic content of their articles,         and for publishers to leverage this semantic content in creating ever         more useful and powerful active publications."
Research and       Development Officer, International Union of Crystallography.2     Impact on Education       Chem4Word is promoted by Microsoft as a tool for teachers and students as       a Chemistry teaching and learning aid.3 &amp; 4     Impact on Open Source Publishing       Much of the work of science depends on having appropriate tools available       to analyse experimental data and to interact with theoretical models.
The Chem4Word research collaboration was unique at the time, with       software development happening both within Microsoft and the University of       Cambridge, and it provided a model for future collaborations between       Microsoft Research and academic institutions worldwide.
Additionally, the       Chem4Word project was one of the first Microsoft Research projects for       which it sought public release under an open source licence from the       project's inception.
Releasing software in this way was extremely rare for       Microsoft at the time, but was recognised as an important component in       building long-term collaborative development communities.
The Chem4Word       project was instrumental in formulating new policy at Microsoft Research       to define and grow a broader open-source strategy, and contributed to the       establishment of the Outercurve Foundation, whose mission is to enable the       exchange of code and understanding among software companies and open       source communities.
As a direct result the source code for the Chem4Word       Add-in was released under an open-source licence and the intellectual       property was assigned to the Outercurve Foundation to facilitate broader       community involvement and governance, leading the way for future releases       of Open software via Microsoft and other previously closed vendors.
"Releasing software under open source licenses was extremely rare for         Microsoft at the time, but was recognized as an important component in         building long-term collaborative development communities.
The Chem4Word project helped Microsoft Research to define and grow a         broader open-source strategy, which has led to a large         number of open source releases, and ultimately to the establishment of         the Outercurve Foundation."
Quote from Director Scholarly       Communication Microsoft Research (see Corroboration Letter, LC1).
Impact on Chemical Informatics       In 2012, Peter Murray-Rust was a joint recipient (with Henry Rzepa) of the       Herman Skolnik Award presented by the American Chemical Society Division       of Chemical Information, an award that recognises outstanding       contributions to and achievements in the theory and practice of chemical       information science and related disciplines.
According to the ACS "Their         work has had a huge impact in the fields of chemical document analysis,         chemistry on the Internet, and in the orchestration of a viable strategy         for making electronic chemistry information as widely accessible and         usable as possible in our information age.
"5
