     Chemical synthesis is at the heart of modern society, being essential in       the development and       manufacture of everything from modern electronics to pharmaceutical       agents.
The research       programme started by Ley in the mid 1990s sought to provide a sea change       in the way molecules       could be assembled in a multi-step fashion.1 Key to the success       of the approach was the use of an       ensemble of immobilised reagents and scavengers to synthesise molecules       without the       requirement for extensive downstream processing techniques, which are       wasteful in terms of       materials, energy, time and labour costs.
Moving from conventional       batch-mode chemical       production to continuous flow-based processing has had worldwide impact,       with companies across       the chemical space &#8212; from research operations to full-scale production &#8212;       now realising the benefits       and implementing continuous flow processing techniques within their       facilities.
Substantial benefits       have been accrued in terms of safety, energy savings, scale-up and low       solvent usage, all leading       to more sustainable chemical practices.
Technology Seeded New Companies     This technology helped to seed the formation of a number of UK start-up       companies largely       focused on flow methods.
Many new UK start-up companies, such as Vapourtec       (2003, Suffolk,       UK), Uniqsis (2007, Cambridge, UK), Cyclofluidic (2008, Welwyn Garden       City, UK), Microsaic       (2004, Woking, UK), and HEL (1987, Borehamwood, UK) were set up to exploit       the potential of       flow chemistry.
These companies continue to trade and the UK is now       leading the world in       developing new, innovative equipment for flow chemistry.
Ley has had       direct input into Cyclofluidic       as a member of its Scientific Advisory Board.
In 2005, Steven Ley set up the spin-out company Reaxa to exploit work on       the nickel, palladium,       platinum and osmium encapsulated reagents EnCat, and QuadraPure reaction       clean-up       scavengers.
These provide a unique solution to minimise waste during       chemical reactions, and       allow precious spent catalysts to be easily recovered, facilitating       recycling and being ideal for flow       chemistry applications.
The scavengers are now sold by Johnson Matthey       after it acquired the       patent in 2011, and Reaxa itself was acquired by Indian company S. Amit       Speciality Chemicals Pvt       Ltd, also in 2011, which has continued to support and promote these       important reagents, now sold       through Sigma-Aldrich.
Adoption and Application of Technology in the Commercial Sector     There are numerous examples of the use of these reagents in the       commercial sector.
Two       examples published in 2012 are Pfizer's use of palladium EnCat to effect a       Suzuki cross-coupling       reaction in the synthesis of potent inhibitors of LpxC that have potential       as antibiotics2, and the use       of the same EnCat in the synthesis of a range of orally available CHK1       inhibitors by a team at the       Institute of Cancer Research.3     The QuadraPure scavengers have also been employed in industrial       processes.
Novartis, for       example, published work on the clean-up of Heck reactions in 2008, which       concluded that       QuadraPure TU was the most effective adsorbent.4 Another       example is Pfizer's use of QuadraPure       TU to remove traces of palladium in the process scale-up of       [beta]2-adrenoceptor agonist PF-00610335.5     New Products Created and Commercialised     Further evidence of the impact of Ley's work on polymer supported       reagents and scavengers       under flow chemistry conditions is that a local company, Cambridge Reactor       Design have       commercialised two products which had their genesis in his laboratories.
These are the       "Gastropod" for conducting mixed gas/liquid flow reactions with in-line       supported catalysts and       "Polar Bear" for achieving low temperatures (-89&#186;C) without cryogens for       flow mode multi-step       synthesis.
Both these units have attracted wide interest as judged by ISI       citations to this work       (Gastropod 145, Polar Bear 30).
Similarly, in collaboration with Mettler Toledo, Ley's flow chemistry       techniques have driven the       need for improved in-line analysis, which has resulted in further       commercial products for flow IR       monitoring being introduced to the market.6 The impact on his       work in this area has also aided the       development of mini-mass spectrometers for in-line flow analysis.
The       details of this joint       collaboration with Microsaic Systems are reported.7&amp;8 This       equipment is now commercially       available giving the UK a lead in the development of these new advances in       mass spectrometer       design.
