     The research has had clinical, scientific, policy, and societal impact     Clinical practice:     The knowledge that some patients who clinically satisfy criteria for VS       are capable of complex cognition has transformed the attitude to such       patients in long-stay residential homes where they are cared for, and       reduced clinical nihilism regarding the condition.
These changes in       clinical attitudes represent a paradigm shift in the history of the       condition, and have encouraged novel research (see media references and       discussion below).
This knowledge has been disseminated beyond the       clinical centres directly involved in our research through involvement of       members of our group in professional symposia and conferences, where our       research results and clinical protocols are presented to practicing       clinicians in neurology, neurosurgery, intensive care, and rehabilitation       medicine (see, for example, Reference 1 below).
At an individual patient       level, our functional imaging results already provide data that inform the       management of patients who are referred to us.
We see two patients per       week, and of the last 100 referred for the study, approximately a fifth       (20%) have shown covert cognition.
Impacts on medical research:     Since there are likely to be less than 500 patients with VS in England       and Wales at any time, if research is to progress further a close       collaborative relationship is essential between academic centres and NHS       clinical units that care for these patients.
This need was addressed by       establishing strong national and international networks with common,       integrated research programs.
Scientific collaborators include the       MRC-CBU, Liege University, Cornell University, and University of Western       Ontario.
National clinical collaborators include the Royal Hospital for       Neurodisability; The Royal Leamington Spa Rehabilitation Hospital; The       Coleman Centre, Norwich, The Jacob Centre, Sawbridgeworth; and Leicester       Royal Infirmary.
Apart from impacting on routine clinical care, this       latter network represents a key resource for current research recruitment,       and has enabled recruitment to many of the studies cited in Section 3.
It       also provides an essential framework for future dissemination of best       practice and novel clinical management paradigms.
Impact on public policy and services:     This research has also informed the debate on national legislation.
Original drafting of the Mental Capacity Bill and implementation of the       Clinical Trials Directive contained highly restrictive provisions for       research in people without capacity, which would have made it illegal to       undertake research in diseases resulting in loss of consciousness, thereby       preventing rational improvements in care for patients suffering from VS       and related disorders.
Menon, along with Dr Kathy Liddell (Faculty of Law,       University of Cambridge) and Dr Ron Zimmern (Department of Public Health,       University of Cambridge), made substantial contribution to this debate,2       which influenced the drafting of final legislation and regulation of the       Mental Capacity Act (2005) and UK implementation on the Clinical Trials       Directive (2004), both of which remain current to date.
This input was       informed by our experience, and the narrative of Kate Bainbridge &#8212; the       subject of the original Lancet paper on residual cognition in the       vegetative state in 1998 who has since made a substantial cognitive       recovery.3,4 These contributions at Parliamentary committee       stages of the Mental Capacity Act and during the implementation of the       Clinical Trials Regulations helped convince Government that research in       individuals lacking capacity was clearly ethical, and resulted in       important modifications ensuring continuation of vital research in       critical care and emergency medicine.
Impacts on society, culture and public understanding of medicine and         science:     Our research on disorders of consciousness has already had substantial       societal impact.
Our contributions to national broadcast media have       informed public knowledge and debate in this area.
In 2010, The       Neurosciences Critical Care Unit at Addenbrooke's Hospital hosted a BBC       television team, who produced a programme addressing the difficult area of       poor quality survival from brain injury.
Between Life and Death5,6,7       was broadcast on BBC1 in July 2010, and won the Royal Television Society       Award8 and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts       (BAFTA) Award9 for best single documentary.
More recently a       Panorama programme (The mind reader: unlocking my voice), recorded       in Cambridge and London (Ontario) and broadcast in November 2012,10       documented many of the scientific underpinnings of our research over the       last ten years in a format that was accessible to the lay public.
This       received enormous public interest, with 247 comments on the programme       website, and over 1000 views on `YouTube'.
