 The Process: The project began by photographing, measuring and describing all the known examples of medieval stained glass in Norfolk, while also undertaking the necessary archival research for the accompanying commentaries.
It was soon possible to start making the most significant entries from the gazetteer available online, so that they could be freely consulted by the public, as well as specialist users, such as conservators and art historians.
The necessary IT support was provided by the Computing Centre at King's College London and the organisers of the CVMA website, which acted as host.
The value of this digital resource is underscored by the fact that a good deal of Norfolk glass remains in remote locations, sometimes locked away from view, while even the best- known examples benefit from on-screen magnification.
The resulting website is both innovative in design and appearance and widely used by the general public (many thousands of 'hits').
It is indeed the most visited web resource for stained glass not only in the UK but internationally.
It now constitutes a valuable resource for museum curators and administrators, both at home and overseas.
It has also had commercial impact via the contacts established between the project and the new Hungate Medieval Art Centre, itself Heritage-Lottery funded and opened in central Norwich in 2009.
Claire Daunton, the research student attached to the project, was invited to organise the Centre's first exhibition, which attracted considerable media attention and has since toured to two other venues in the county.
King played a leading role in producing the Centre's online and printed material designed to foster an appreciation of medieval glass.
Thus has a research project, originally geared towards the needs of scholars, been calibrated to ensure maximum impact, scholarly, public and commercial.
The project website is a world class show-case, transcending what might otherwise seem rather dry and dusty localism.
The Hungate exhibition demonstrated a willingness to engage with tourism and the local community.
As a practical illustration of the quality, vibrancy and influence of England's medieval stained glass, and as a means of advertising the expertise of UEA's historians to the very widest of constituencies, the project has achieved truly international reach.
Impacts and Benefits: A website (incorporated in that of the CVMA) now offers high-quality digital photographs of all the medieval glass in the fifty-eight Norfolk churches most noted for their glazing, along with information about the context, location, patronage and subject matter.
This material is interdisciplinary, innovative and freely available to the general public to consult and to download.
It today constitutes a significant part of the CVMA online archive: the largest and most widely consulted of all such image banks, and a resource of internationally recognized authority and significance.
Cultural capital is thus interpreted, and the public informed of its heritage.
The new HLF-funded Hungate Medieval Art Centre has drawn heavily on the expertise of those involved in the project: Rawcliffe has acted as vice-chair of the Trustees from the Centre's inception onwards.
The Centre's opening exhibition in 2009, `Journeys through the Light', on Norfolk stained glass, was curated by Daunton.
King helped to train the volunteers involved in running the Centre and provided information for other displays, including complimentary booklets, educational packs and materials targetted both a schools and the general public.
Rawcliffe, Daunton and King have all delivered public lectures at the Centre.
The resulting exhibition of stained glass continues to be widely visited and admired.
Education is informed and influenced, wealth is created, and tourism stimulated.
In collaboration with Hungate Medieval Art and as a direct spin-off from the project, King wrote descriptions of the glazing in forty Norfolk churches for a series of ten lavishly illustrated `Hungate Stained Glass Trails' booklets.
These are provided free of charge to visitors to the Centre; they are also freely available in each of the churches and may be downloaded freely from the internet (see http://www.hungate.org.uk/Learning.aspx).
Throughout the duration of the project (and after its conclusion), lectures and talks have been delivered to a wide variety of non-academic audiences, including local historical societies, groups of conservators, and archaeological associations.
Thus, once again, tourism, education and public heritage are all served.
The project has impact on other institutions.
King, for example, assisted the Norwich Castle Museum in its successful bid for funding to acquire important examples of Norwich medieval glass, and helped with the preparation of the new medieval gallery where it is exhibited.
The project has enjoyed international reach, so that King was consulted by staff of the Schn&#252;tgen Museum, Cologne, during the preparation of an exhibition on `Rheinische Glasmalerei'.
Thus public bodies are informed, and their policy is influenced.
Having supplied the information necessary to prevent the export overseas of the historic archive of G. King &amp; Son, Norwich, Ltd, the leading British firm of glaziers and glass conservators, David King assisted Norfolk Record Office staff and a team of volunteers in photographing, conserving and cataloguing this unique collection.
Support from the Norfolk Medieval Stained Glass Project played a major part in the NRO's successful bid to The National Archives for a grant of &#163;31,000 towards the costs involved.
This archive will itself have long-term impact on scholarly and public understanding of the trade and its products.
In 2011, it was the subject of a public exhibition at the Archive Centre in Norwich (the former Norfolk Record Office): 'Leading the Way: the Archive of G. King and Son (Lead Glaziers) Ltd', with more than 20,000 visitors (see the testimonial from the county archivist below).
King has also provided art-historical reports and made several consultative visits to the studios of the glaziers, Devlin Plummer, to assist in their conservation of Norfolk medieval stained glass.
Thus heritage is preserved and the public interest maintained.
