 Heady's research was used and cited by HM Treasury in its `Plan for Growth' report, published at the time of the March 2011 budget statement (source 1).
Specifically, HM Treasury made reference to the research result about the growth impacts of moving from income taxes towards consumption and property taxes.
In this way the research contributed to government's understanding of the issues and shaped the policy approach to economic recovery.
The impact of Heady's work has reach and significance beyond government.
He has informed and stimulated expert debate, for example through presenting his findings of the link between tax policy and growth at a conference of the International Tax Dialogue, an organisation that includes most of the major tax authorities in the world (source 7).
The ITD is a collaborative arrangement between the EC, IDB, IMF, OECD, World Bank Group and CIAT to encourage and facilitate discussion of tax matters among national tax officials, international organisations, and a range of other key stakeholders.
He has also contributed to public understanding of the issues via his media work, including a major press briefing organised by the Royal Economic Society which was used to disseminate his findings to key national and international economics correspondents.
The briefing led to significant international media coverage, including articles in the Wall Street Journal (source 4) and the BBC (source 5).
His article for Vox (reference 4) has been accessed nearly 9000 times and has also been picked up and reproduced on the US-based website, Global Economic Intersection (source 2).
This site features original economic commentary, debate, and economic analysis of the economic effects on finance, investing, social interactions, and politics / public policy.
The research has impact on international organisations.
It has been cited by the OECD as a basis for policy reform to increase employment (source 6) and the IMF as the basis for its analysis of tax composition and growth in a wider range of countries (source 8).
A further example of the work's international impact is provided by a paper on `Tax Policy and Economic Growth' in Jamaica from the Bank of Jamaica (source 9), which cites the methodology and analysis of reference 3.
Heady's research continues to influence government policy on taxation.
Recent evidence of this continuing Treasury interest is contained in source 10.
