     Three main areas of impact are presented below: Knight Crew's       impact on its young performers; the impact of its performances; and the       on-going impact of Knight Crew after its initial season of       performances.
Together these form the multi-stranded "significant       enhancement of cultural life" described in the Impact Template (REF 3a,       section d) and which are placed in a more general context in the Impact       Template (REF 3a, context).
Knight Crew's impact on its young performers     One impact of the practice-based research process that led to Knight         Crew was felt by those who contributed to its development.
These       included fifty-two young people recruited to the chorus and another       thirty-eight who augmented the professional orchestral musicians.
Additionally, twenty adult amateur singers formed a mothers' chorus.
The       impact on these performers is evidenced by the three-part BBC Television       documentary, screened in 2010, that charts the development of the opera       and the experience of the participants from first workshop to first night.
In summary it shows the initial surprise of the young participants that       their contribution to the genesis of Knight Crew was not only       requested but vital, through to nervousness and excitement as the       performances became closer.
A second, less mediated, set of participant       reactions was seen on the Knight Crew pages of social media.
Running parallel to these formal and personal processes of documenting       the impact on the young people was a study carried out with relevant local       authorities on the barriers to participation in opera experienced       particularly by 14-19 year olds.
An additional report (2010) was       commissioned by Glyndebourne from Dr Richard Ings.
This was preceded by an       Arts Council assessment from David Richardson.
From these formal reports, evaluations and personal commentaries it is       possible to draw three major strands of conclusions about the second order       impacts Knight Crew had on its younger participants: a sense of       enhanced self-worth at the realisation that they had a creative ability       that was valuable and valued; an understanding of the operatic process       stripped of its private languages; and the realisation that opera can       speak directly to them about subjects important to them.
References to reports cited here appear in Section 5.
The impact of Knight Crew's performances     The four performances of Knight Crew were attended by 4,536       people, 44% of whom were new to Glyndebourne Opera.
Ticket sales exceeded       company expectations by &#163;11,000.
In addition to the live performances, a web-based micro-site, maintained       for three years after Knight Crew's first production, allowed       downloads of the complete opera; 600 were made.
The impact of Knight Crew after Knight           Crew     The innovative involvement of young people in the creation and       performance of Knight Crew was immediately understood as a       significant development.
This was recognised by the BBC in its decision to       make the documentary already described, but also by the       composer/researcher and his team.
An event was therefore held after the Knight         Crew matin&#233;e at Glyndebourne that encouraged experts from various       institutions to reflect on the development of new opera and its       relationship to opera education work.
This event was followed in February 2011 by an international conference       on new opera development.
The event, led by the composer/researcher, used       lessons learnt through Knight Crew as its starting point.
The       conference welcomed key figures from the British education sector and       representatives of leading UK and European opera companies.
The impact of Knight Crew was further enhanced by an agreement       between the BBC and Glyndebourne that the company could use additional BBC       footage to chart its own process of commissioning and developing Knight         Crew.
This extends the impact of the opera, and its innovative       developmental process, to the wider international operatic community.
Another impact of Knight Crew has been the influence its creative       process has had on other projects by other teams.
The composer/researcher       has been invited to advise various groups intent on staging new work using       variants of the approaches pioneered in Knight Crew.
These include       W11 Opera, Welsh National Opera, and The Opera Group.
Additionally, plans       are now (2013) nearing completion for new performances of Knight Crew       in New Zealand.
Further impacts prompted by Knight Crew have included numerous       invitations the composer/researcher has received to join bodies       responsible for commissioning new work (Sound and Music, Royal Opera       House, The Opera Group, Royal Philharmonic Society, British Association of       Songwriters, Composers and Authors) and to speak at conferences on future       directions of opera (European Network for Opera and Dance Education (March       2010), Opera for Young People (2011), Royal Musicological Association       (July 2012) New Operatic Forms for Participatory and community opera (July       2012).
The success of Knight Crew has led to the composer/researcher       receiving further commissions for his work that builds on the practices       developed in the opera.
These include Good Intentions (W11 Opera,       December 2012), How the Whale Became (Royal Opera House, December       2013), and Fern Hill (Welsh National Opera, 2014).
