     The impact of the research falls into the category of better informed       public policy-making and the beneficiaries are the Indian Government and       people living with HIV/AIDS in India.
The HIV epidemic has been evolving in India since the first detected case       in 1986 and India is among the top three countries in the world in terms       of HIV burden.
As a result, there has been sustained activity from the       Indian Government to implement effective control and prevention       strategies.
From 1998 to 2005 the number of people living with HIV/AIDS       rose from an estimated 3.5 million to 5.206 million with significant       variations from state to state.
After two initial stages of control       activities, NACP III was launched in 2006 for a 5 year period with the       goal of reducing new infections by 60-80 percent in different regions in       India.
Pathway from Research to Impact:       The research carried out by Maini and his colleagues had a direct impact       on the Indian Government strategy for NAPC III.
One of the novel features       of the modelling approach was to incorporate the effects of preventive       measures on people already infected with HIV.
For example, the modelling       showed that treatment with anti-retroviral therapy could actually increase       HIV prevalence because it would prolong the life of those infected with       HIV, potentially leading to them passing on the disease.
The research       considered a number of levels of future responses which were being       proposed by the Indian Government, and made predictions about the number       of people living with HIV/AIDS in each case.
Maini helped to formulate the model and to lay down the plan of model       validation and interrogation, and then assisted in the interpretation of       results.
In particular two figures (3 and 6) and tabular data in [1] were       used for the Strategy and Implementation Plan [A] (and appear explicitly       as figures 2.4 and 2.7 in that document) as part of the NACP III for the       period 2007-12.
Figure 2.7 in [A] is shown above as Figure 1.
Through       collaborations during the period 2005-2012 Maini's role was pivotal in       extending the model building to enable further strategies to be considered       which accounted for variations in behaviour on a district level [B], and       the effects of anti-retroviral therapy [A], in addition to the published       work [1].
A member of the NACP III and IV planning teams (and co-author of       [1]) reports [C] that "The output of these models were used extensively         in finalizing the implementation plans for the country.
[...] We         are grateful to Professor Maini and Dr Rao for their continued         assistance in guiding these policy decisions and their contribution to         enabling scenarios to be assessed and results to be evaluated and help         those working in these difficult areas".
In addition to presentation directly into the NACP the research work was       circulated more widely into Indian AIDS prevention activities [eg D,E].
It       was presented at a collaborative meeting between the Indian Clinical       Epidemiology Network, a network of academic health care researchers across       135 Medical colleges/Institutions in India, and the Indian Statistical       Institute, Kolkata, which was providing technical assistance to NACP.
It       also formed part of a Capacity Building Workshop on Operations Research in       HIV/AIDS for the Northeast States during September 2010.
The research was       further disseminated through activities of the Postgraduate Institute of       Medical Education and Research School of Public Health, first at a       Technical meeting in June/July 2009, and then in their School of Public       Health Impact Study in June 2010, and also at the Indian Council for       Medical Research Institute in Kolkata in December 2009.
The direct impact of the research was facilitated by two of the       co-authors of [1] who were members of the NACP III planning team.
The work       formed the cornerstone of documents and presentations produced by this       team, including predictions directly from the paper [1], forming a central       element of the Strategy and Implementation Plan [A].
Nature and Extent of the Impact       One of the key outcomes from the research was to influence the       recommendation in the Strategy and Implementation Plan [A] based around       the groups modelled as high risk, specifically commercial sex workers,       injecting drug users and men having sex with men.
In 2007, the model       projections indicated that, should the interventions of NACP II be       continued, there would be 2.08 million people living with HIV/AIDS by the       end of 2011.
This value is very close to the data for 2011 released by the       Indian Ministry of Health in 2012 showing the number of people living with       HIV/AIDS was 2,088,642.
Subsequently the model predictions helped inform       the mid-term review of the NACP III plan initiated by the National AIDS       Control Organisation (NACO) of the Ministry of Health in 2009.
The       mathematical model predictions, including using the model to predict AIDS       levels at a district level [B], exploited data collected by the NACO from       May 2009 until the beginning of 2011.
These predictions were presented in       2011 [F] to the Director General of NACO and the Heads of Department and       then to the NACO All Stake Holder meeting, and served as a source of       reference in developing the follow-on programme NACP IV (2012-17).
In       particular, a member of the NACP planning team at the time (and co-author       of [1]) reports [C] that "This model was used in quantifying the         benefit and impact of different intervention of NACP lll in 2009 and         prioritizing the programs for NACP lV during 2012.
Different scenarios         were considered and presented by the team at meetings of relevant lndian         Government Health Department ministers with great effect.
As a         consequence of this input government decided to extend full support for         the program during the next 5 years in spite of pressure from many         quarters to scale down the interventions due to competing priorities.
Resulting policy proved that the planned interventions to be [sic] very         effective with AIDS prevalence in India reducing from 23.95 lakh       [hundred thousand] in 2009 to current level of 20.89 lakh."
The success of this modelling study has resulted in Dr Rao being invited       to serve on the planning team for AIDS policy for the fourth phase       (2012-2017).
Maini, who serves the planning team as a consultant,       continues to provide crucial input in relation to model formulation and       papers presented to government.
