     Dr Swenson-Wright's research and related-activities have had an impact on       five broad categories of actors: business and the private sector;       government; the military; the media and the general public; and       nongovernmental organizations.
Much of this impact has been generated by       the research that he has conducted during periods of extended research       leave in the ROK and the DPRK.
4.1 Business and the Private Sector     a. WEF and the Korea Global Agenda Council.
The WEF is actively       considering the possibility of using its considerable international       influence and prestige to engage directly with the DPRK and to foster       cooperative dialogue between China, the ROK and Japan to alleviate       regional tensions.
Since 2010 Dr Swenson-Wright has been centrally       involved in both these initiatives and his research findings have helped       to shape the deliberations and findings of the GAC and in turn the       position of the WEF through direct discussions with senior figures in the       WEF, including Klaus Schwab, Executive Director of the WEF.
(See 5.1)     b. Dr Swenson-Wright has also provided consultative advice over the past       two years to two key private organizations that have been involved in       direct talks with the DPRK, viz.
The Elders, an independent group,       established in 2007 of former global leaders, including Kofi Annan and       Jimmy Carter; and Intermediate, a UK based private consulting firm headed       by Tony Blair's former Chief of Staff.
(See 5.2)     4.2.
Government     a. Dr Swenson-Wright has routinely provided direct advice on Korean       issues to research staff in the UK Foreign Office, across Whitehall       departments, to outgoing UK ambassadors to Seoul and Pyongyang, and       occasionally to the Policy Planning division of the Foreign Office.
(See       5.3)     b. Dr Swenson-Wright has testified on two occasions (in 2008 and 2006) to       the UK Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee and his advice has been       directly cited in the reports of the committee that in turn have formed       the basis for the committee's recommendations.
(See 5.6 and 5.7)     c. Dr Swenson-Wright has worked in close collaboration with the UK       Embassy in the DPRK and the British Council to facilitate the Chevening       Scholarship scheme, enabling two DPRK students/officials to study at       Cambridge in 2011-12; a further two students are expected at Cambridge for       the 2013-14 year under the same scheme.
(See 5.3)     d. Via his membership since 2008 of the UK-Korea Forum for the Future, Dr       Swenson-Wright's has helped shape the annual policy recommendations that       the Forum provides to the UK and ROK governments.
These have included       recommendations supporting the promotion of Korean studies in the UK and       educational exchange between the UK and the DPRK.
(See 5.3)     e. Through the presentation of his research on Korea to the 2013 meeting       of the UK-Japan 21st Century Group, Dr Swenson-Wright has       similarly shaped the policy recommendations on regional security of the       UK-Japan 21st Century Group to the UK and Japanese governments.
f. Through two visits to the DPRK in 2004 and 2012, Dr Swenson-Wright was       able to liaise directly with DPRK government officials, academics and       representatives of the DPRK Writers Union, thereby facilitating academic       exchange and establishing the foundation for the planned Literary       Festival.
Through a visit to Chatham House by former speaker of the DPRK       Supreme People's Assembly, Mr. Choe Tae-bok, Dr Swenson-Wright secured Mr.       Choe's official role as Patron of the Literary Festival, a step that was       critically important in persuading the DPRK government to endorse the       festival.
(See 5.3)     4.3 The Military     a. Dr Swenson-Wright has been a regular guest lecturer on Korean security       issues at the Joint Services Command and Staff College, of UK Defence       Academy, in Shrivenham, since 2007.
He has lectured to senior staff       officers from more than 100 countries, to audiences in excess of 200.
He       also has been a regular lecturer at the Royal College of Defence Studies,       lecturing to senior military staff officers from a wide number of       countries.
(See 5.5)     4.4 Media and the General Public     a. Dr Swenson-Wright's research has directly informed the interviews and       analytical pieces he has provided to the international media.
For example,       the BBC has commissioned numerous opinion pieces from him and these are       accessible to a global audience online, along with broadcast television       and radio pieces.
Such commentary is also available to BBC journalists who       have used his expertise in their reporting on Korea and East Asia.
(See       5.8 to 5.15 inclusive)     b. Dr Swenson-Wright has also provided "expert commentary" on Korea and       Japan, online, via the Asia Program at Chatham House, to which he has been       affiliated since 2002.
At Chatham House he has hosted a number of       international conferences, most recently in 2013 on Japan, which have       typically attracted audiences (composed of the general public) in excess       of 200 people.
His specialized briefing and research papers are available       online to a global audience and to the General Membership of Chatham       House.
(See 5.4)     c. Public lectures at the Frontline Club in London and a keynote speech       to more than 500 guests at a ceremony in Seoul in 2012 commemorating       former President Kim Dae-jung's Nobel Peace Prize, have allowed him make       the argument for pragmatic engagement with the DPRK to large and diverse       audiences in the UK and ROK.
(See 5.15)     4.5 Nongovernmental Organizations     Through his work exploring the issue of Human Security and the DPRK, he       has been able to contribute to the important public advocacy work of       organization such as the Citizens Alliance for Human Rights in North       Korea, the RAFTO Foundation for Human Rights in North Korea, Amnesty       International, and the East West Coalition, a Canadian NGO that promotes       knowledge exchange and development in the DPRK.
