 Research conducted by Professor Anton Muscatelli and others has directly shaped a key piece of UK legislation (and from 2015 will influence the way in which Scotland's budget is financed) and resulted in the largest transfer of financial powers from Westminster since the creation of the UK.
Financial accountability under devolution The 1997 devolution arrangements allowed the Scottish parliament very limited accountability for the fiscal resources which it spends.
All of the resources are currently handed down through a UK central government grant, and the Scottish Government has effectively no borrowing powers, producing one of the least fiscally autonomous systems within the OECD among different tiers of devolved government.
Establishment of the expert group on financial accountability The establishment of the Commission on Scottish Devolution arose from a Scottish Parliament debate in December 2007.
Members of the Scottish Parliament felt that an independent review was necessary to examine the 1998 Scotland Act and the experience of devolution 10 years on, and to suggest ways in which the Scottish government could "serve the people of Scotland better, improve the financial accountability of the Scottish Parliament, and continue to secure the position of Scotland within the United Kingdom."
[Remit of the Commission on Scottish Devolution] The UK Parliament endorsed the proposal and by April 2008, Sir Kenneth Calman had been appointed as chair of what became known as the `Calman Commission'.
Professor Muscatelli was appointed by the UK Government to chair an independent expert group to formulate recommendations and advise on Financial Accountability; the group comprised economists, political scientists and taxation experts from the UK, Europe and North America.
This appointment was the result of research conducted on alternatives for fiscal autonomy and financial accountability conducted by Muscatelli and colleagues in Economics at the University of Glasgow in the preceding years.
Changes proposed by expert group are adopted into law The proposals produced by the independent expert group brought together and chaired by Muscatelli in 2007-09 in support of the Calman Commission, produced a set of recommendations for the extension of several taxation powers to Scotland, looked at the practical implementation of this through the tax coding system, and proposed an extension of borrowing powers to Scotland.
The independent expert group also analysed the consequences of alternative fiscal regimes to that embedded within the Scotland Act (2012), thus setting out the key elements of future debate on further devolution in Scotland or elsewhere in the UK.
The work led to a number of recommendations by the expert group for the extension of fiscal (taxation) powers to the Scottish Parliament which were fully adopted by the Commission.
This is evidenced by a number of reports prepared by Professor Muscatelli's expert group.
It is also confirmed by the oral evidence presented to UK and Scottish Parliamentary Commissions by Professor Muscatelli and members of his group.
The recommendations of the Commission adopted almost entirely by the UK government in 2011, and have been implemented in the Scotland Act which received Royal Assent in 2012.
Specific changes to the financial authority of the Scottish Parliament based on the underpinning research include:  As a result of University of Glasgow research which established an extension of income taxation powers as the most promising way of providing greater financial accountability for the Scottish Parliament, the Scotland Act 2012 introduced a new Scottish rate of income tax.
This will affect the amount paid by Scottish taxpayers and the amount the Scottish Government will have to spend in Scotland (to come into force ~April 2016); The research focused attention on devolving taxes without impact on mobile factors of production which allowed stamp duty and landfill tax to become devolved issues, giving Scottish ministers the authority to raise money from land transactions and on waste disposal to landfill (to come into force ~April 2015); The research established the need for borrowing powers to provide greater flexibility for the parliament and the Act approved the introduction of a new &#163;2.2bn capital borrowing power (to come into force ~April 2015 with a limited version of the power in place from April 2013 to fund &#163;100m of pre-payments allowing early work on the Forth Road Bridge to get underway; Current borrowing powers exercised by the Scottish Parliament were also extended, allowing the Scottish Government to help manage volatility in tax receipts and the creation of a new Scottish cash reserve to manage the new revenue receipts.
When combined with the existing tax raising powers of the Scottish Parliament, the UK Secretary of State for Scotland Michael Moore estimated in June 2011 that the new provisions in the Act would provide Scottish Ministers with a total of &#163;12bn worth of financial powers.
