     This systematic programme of research is the first to explore how       prostheses interact with functional mobility among amputees during       activities other than walking.
The research is furthering our knowledge       and understanding of how amputees turn, negotiate stairs, jump and run,       and is having a significant impact in two areas:     Impact 1: Improved prosthetic design by a leading prosthetic limb           manufacturer     Our research has led to clear indications of the limitations of       prostheses and the pathomechanics adopted by amputees.
Identified       adaptations which compensate for the lost function include the altered       motion at the ankle, the reduced involvement at the residual knee, the       compensatory role of the residual hip and the implications for the intact       limb.
The inability of the prosthetic ankle to function effectively and to       allow the foot complex to absorb and return energy efficiently, both in       terms of the magnitude and timing, was first identified very early in the       programme of research (Strike and Hillery, 2000).
Continuing this       research, but focussing on recreational rather than elite athlete       amputees, enabled identification of other activities that have been       analysed in collaboration with our industrial partner (Blatchford).
The       research using the `Tele Torsion' device, developed to absorb vertical and       rotational shock, indicated that this device produced energy efficiencies       in turning activities, and it was marketed worldwide on this basis.
The       findings fed into the development of the `TT Pro' prosthesis, which had       altered twisting angles and torsion resistance to more closely reflect the       requirements of human movement.
The research on dynamic activities       increased our knowledge of amputee movement patterns in sport, and in turn       into design requirements of the `Elite VT', `Echelon VT' and the       forthcoming `Elan VT' prosthetic feet/ankle complex to enhance their shock       absorption capacity.
The intention behind the design modifications is to       adapt the magnitude and frequency of the forces and moments generated       externally.
Most recently, the research has highlighted the different       requirements of prostheses across a range of movement types including       running, walking, standing and cornering.
This research is feeding into       the development of a new product by Blatchford, the `Blade XT', which aims       to enable more amputees to participate in exercise.
This research approach       has enabled the facility to become an internationally renowned centre       specialising in amputees and exercise, and with unique experience and       expertise in amputee turning and rotational biomechanics.
Impact 2: Raising Amputee and Practitioner Awareness of Exercise           Therapy     In order to raise amputees' and practitioners' awareness of the role of       exercise therapy for both recreationally active amputees and those who are       fallers, a number of strategies were implemented.
First, the research       findings were fed back to the participants and the professional       organisations involved (i.e.
Blatchford, Clinical Provision), who in turn       informed their colleagues.
Second, to reach a wider audience, the authors       published the findings in professional practice outlets, including       non-peer reviewed articles for BACPAR (2011), a book chapter in Ergonomics         for Rehabilitation Professionals (2009) and presentations and       conferences for prosthetists through the International Society for       Prosthetics and Orthotics (presentations at the ISPO triennial conference       over the period) and study days (Royal Free Hospital and BACPAR).
To raise the awareness of the role of exercise therapy for amputees, and       the need to engage safely in exercise, the University of Roehampton sought       collaboration with Limbpower (a leading amputee charity) to promote       effective participation in prescribed exercise to improve functional       ability.
Following a number of in-depth discussions with the charity, it       was decided that producing a DVD would provide the most effective resource       for amputees to observe and learn the evidence-based exercises safely and       with maximum benefits, whilst avoiding potential long-term damage.
The       specific exercises are aimed to improve balance and proprioception and,       particularly, to enable effective use of the hip musculature.
The       exercises are demonstrated and performed by amputees, with key pointers to       ensure correct execution.
The research-informed DVD has impacted on the       reach of the charity by contributing to and complementing their expertise,       and lends weight to the advice and support they give in reaching out to       new amputees and encouraging them to exercise.
To evaluate the effectiveness of the DVD, feedback from the charity and       the amputees themselves was sought.
Amputees identified that the DVD gave       them a good place to start exercising and removed the fear around       beginning dynamic movement, which they felt might break their prosthesis       or injure their intact limb and joints.
Amputees also indicated that it       was exactly what was needed to point them to a starting place for exercise       and that it allowed them to move beyond basic rehabilitation administered       in the limb fitting centres.
In turn, this resulted in the research team       running sessions at the Amputee Games (May 2013), where they met with the       amputees, discussed their research, and evaluated the effectiveness of the       DVD, receiving feedback and positive comments.
Following the success of       the DVD with the amputees at the games, another leading charity &#8212; The       Limbless Association &#8212; has invited us to publish an article about it in a       forthcoming newsletter, which has several hundred subscribers.
