     The main non-academic beneficiaries of this case study include (1) older       people, Parkinson's patients and their carers, (2) health professionals       (e.g.
physiotherapists) and professional dance teachers, (3) user groups       (e.g.
UK Dance for Parkinson's Network) and (4) English National Ballet       (ENB), which is funding our research and is our active research partner.
The underpinning research has generated a wide range of significant       impact including:            developing dance as a novel physical activity intervention in the         management of Parkinsonism;       collaboration with charities/dance organisations, enhancing and         facilitating their public services, and;       promoting the benefits of dance for Parkinson's sufferers, which has         raised awareness among the general public, Parkinson's patients, and         health professionals about the benefits of dance.
The research into ageing started to generate impact through the Shape       Arts event called "Specimens to Superhumans" which was funded by the       Wellcome Trust Public Engagement People Award.
This event was held in       September 2011 (source 1, section 5), and provided initial dissemination       of the findings of the underpinning research to over 80 people who were       professional dancers, elderly dancers, dancers with disabilities,       choreographers, and digital artists.
It explored what elderly dancers       could do, despite the decline in motor functions, in order to to unlock       their body's potential and perform to full capacity.
The event included       workshops, demonstrations, and data capture using video analysis and       skin-mounted sensor technologies that we have developed in our research.
Six participants of the above event were invited to attend focus group       meetings in June 2013.
They reported that one key impact of the event was       to motivate them to continue to engage in dancing, despite ageing.
The       event also allowed us to further develop dance as a novel form of physical       activity intervention, and to look at how it may bring benefits to older       people and specific clinical populations such as those with Parkinson's.
A major pathway to impact has been through the partnership with the       English National Ballet (ENB), which is also a key beneficiary of our       research.
Our research has influenced ENB in building a Dance for       Parkinson's programme, which is now one of its public services.
The ENB       has benefited from this knowledge transfer by successfully acquiring       funding support from the Paul Hamlyn Foundation (&#163;97K).
Some of the funds       (&#163;10K) were used to support our ongoing research to study the effects of       dance on Parkinson's, and the remaining funds used to develop more dance       programmes in various cities in the UK.
The ENB project involves the use       of techniques that we have already established in our laboratory to look       at how dance influences motor function and everyday activities of       Parkinson's patients.
The underpinning research has provided data about       the benefits of dance, and the ENB project allows the translation of these       findings to reach a wider community of beneficiaries.
The significance of the impact has not only been recognised by the BUPA       Foundation and the Paul Hamlyn Foundation, but can also be demonstrated in       the many positive comments of the participants in, and blogs associated       with, the ENB project (see sources 4-8).
They show how the programme has       increased the awareness of the public of the physical and psychological       benefits of dance, and how it has improved the perception of the       Parkinson's patients about what they can do, their health and well being,       making a real difference to their lives.
A support worker of Parkinson's       UK commented that the project "has made my job much easier", and "has had       a profound effect on the participants in so many areas &#8212; and not just the       mobility issues for the hour and a half they're in the studio ... and       that's priceless."
(source 9)     An indicator of the reach of the project is that more than 100       Parkinson's patients have already directly benefited from the dance       programme, showing significant improvement in their physical and       psychological well-being.
The programme is rapidly expanding, and we are       now increasing our areas of coverage from London to many other parts of       the UK such as Cardiff, Liverpool and Oxford.
The reach of the impact is       not limited to those who participated in the ENB programme, but includes       also patients, dancers and health professionals in many overseas       countries.
Our report, published by the ENB (`Dance for Parkinson's'), has       received international attention (source 10).
We have received more than       45 requests for full details of the report from dance teachers and health       professionals in Canada, USA and Australia, seeking advice about the       research methodology and pedagogic tools for the dance classes.
Our work has not only benefited the ENB but also many other       organisations.
For instance, the Hamilton City Ballet, Canada, has       referenced our work and, based on our framework, secured funding to start       its own programme.
Their programme manager pointed out that "it has played       a crucial role in the success of Hamilton City Ballet's preparation to       launch our own programme" (source 11).
The Queensland Ballet is planning       to launch similar programmes, and has requested our research team member       Houston to act as a member of their Advisory Board.
The Jewish Family and       Children's Service, Boston, USA, is also seeking help to launch their       dance programme.
It commented that our work "is extremely interesting and       very applicable" (source 12).
Moreover, in the past, there has generally       been a lack of interest among therapists to use dance as a therapeutic       intervention; however, as a result of our high-profile research, the       Chartered Society of Physiotherapy has referenced our work, and       physiotherapists have started to use dance in their clinical work (source       2).
In order to ensure that the various beneficiaries identified above fully       understand the benefits of dance and promote its use in clinical practice,       we have delivered workshops and talks in various cities in the UK (e.g.
Cardiff, Bristol, Chesterfield, Oxford and London).
A UK Dance for       Parkinson's network has been established, through which we contribute to       improving the knowledge of the health benefits of dance among       professionals (source 3).
The collaborative work between ENB and our       research team has already attracted much media attention, including the       BBC, BBC News online and major newspapers such as The Telegraph       and The Daily Express (sources 4-8).
This high-profile coverage       extends the reach of the research and impact.
Through the continuing engagement and support of the key stakeholders,       including ENB, and the collaboration of professional and patient user       groups that we have already established, the impact reported in this case       study represents significant and wide ranging benefits of our research to       society.
