     Cowie's research has had national and international impact through the       development of strategies to address bullying, through informing the       training of teachers and other professionals, and through shaping       anti-bullying guidelines.
This research provided key findings to inform       evidence-based programmes of prevention and support as well as providing a       platform for subsequent research.
The impact started in the period prior       to 2008, during which Cowie's research informed her writing of two       accessible and much cited publications:     Cowie, H., &amp; Wallace, P. (2000).
Peer support in action: From         bystanding to standing by.
London: Sage Publications.
Cowie, H., Jennifer, D. &amp; Sharp, S. (2001).
Violence in schools: the       United Kingdom.
In P. K. Smith (Ed.
), Violence in Schools: the         Response in Europe.
London: Routledge.
plus a further book published in the current period:     Cowie, H.,&amp; Jennifer, D. (2008) New Perspectives on Bullying.
Maidenhead: Open University Press.
These works informed NSPCC guidelines concerning bullying, underpinned       training for the ChildLine in Partnership with schools programme (CHIPS),       and informed a Children's Commissioner's report.
The impact of Cowie's       research while at Roehampton has continued and been further developed       since 2008.
The work by Naylor and Cowie (1999) and Cowie et al.
(2002) showing that       the effectiveness of peers in providing support for children affected by       bullying has directly contributed to the wide use of these strategies,       which have been successful in both primary and secondary schools in       England.
For example, according to a 2011 report for the DFE (RR098), peer       support schemes to tackle bullying were rated by school staff as positive       or very positive across 1273 mainstream schools in 47 different local       authorities, and furthermore, peer support schemes were perceived as       having a positive, preventative effect.
Case study school staff viewed       these schemes as "the foundation of the school's anti-bullying work"       (Secondary assistant headteacher) [1, p. 36].
A distinctive component of       peer support, identified by Cowie's work, and also emphasised in the       report, is the engendering of a sense of responsibility and belonging,       which remains a crucial component of the effectiveness of these schemes.
This was echoed by case study school staff: "It's about encouraging pupils       into positions of responsibility and to be responsible for other pupils"       (Primary headteacher) [1, p. 37].
The impact of the CHIPS programme since 2008 is demonstrated by       testimonials asserting that it has had a positive impact on children ("I       am really glad I went to see a peer supporter because it gave me the       confidence I need to go into school clubs and meet new friends.
Now I am       really enjoying school and having friends around.")
[2, p. 3]), on       individual schools, and on the management of anti-bullying programmes       ("The impact of the peer support at our school has been amazing!"
[2, p.       4]).
This programme has extended into other forms of peer support.
For       example one headteacher described how, following work in partnership with       CHIPS, she developed an extensive and successful peer support scheme [3].
From 2011, the Mentoring and Befriending Foundation has incorporated CHIPS       into its programme of activities, and Cowie's work continues to be an       important resource in its school-based peer support work [4,5].
For       example, CHIPS' Primary School Peer Support Resource Pack (2008)       [5] is informed by Cowie and Wallace (2000), which has been described by       Andrew Mellor from the Anti-Bullying Network as "the best source of       information" regarding the use of peer support methods for tackling       bullying [6].
Cowie's work has also been used by UK local authorities.
For example, the       bullying prevention information provided by Hammersmith and Fulham Local       Authority and London Borough of Greenwich is informed directly by Cowie       and Jennifer (2008) [7], stemming from earlier work carried out at       Roehampton.
Cowie's research has had an impact on the strategic       recommendations made in guidelines aimed to make transformative changes to       the Pupil Referral Units in every London borough.
These specifically draw       on Cowie and Wallace (2000) in recommending the need for a culture change       in the management and implementation of interventions to prevent       school-based bullying.
For example, the emphasis on the active       participation of children and young people often involves a major shift in       adults' ways of relating to them as competence partners whose contribution       should be valued [8].
At an international level, the materials generated by Cowie and       colleagues in the EU-funded VISTA project (Violence in Schools Training         Action, http://www.vista-europe.org/),       including face-to-face and online training resources aimed at reducing       violence in schools, constituted one of the key resources for a further       European-funded project, VISTOP (2006-2008) [9], which developed a series       of on-line modules for teachers, parents and policy makers.
For the period       01/2008 - 04/2009, presentations and workshops in Spain, Portugal, Germany       and Ireland reached over 1850 teachers, parents, policy makers, educators,       social workers, psychologists, counsellors, paediatricians, politicians,       IT professionals, whilst the internet portal has reached 300-500 users per       day.
Cowie's research has been a resource outside academia beyond Europe.
For example, Cowie et al.
(2001) is drawn on in a current Canadian Public       Safety website, which specifies that peer support programs for secondary       school pupils are an effective intervention for dealing with bullying,       particularly when part of a whole school intervention [10].
In addition to       being a key reference in the scientific literature, the definition of       bullying advanced by Smith et al.
(2002), has been used beyond academia.
For example a 2011 report overviewing bullying in schools for the US       Department of Justice (Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency       Prevention) makes use of this definition as part of a demonstration of the       pervasiveness of bullying [11].
Professor Cowie's research-based expertise in anti-bullying interventions       is much sought after.
Since 2008 she has given 11 keynote presentations to       non-academic audiences, including the Teachers' Summer School (Hiroshima),       and more recently she joined the Advisory Group of the Anti-Bullying       Ambassadors programme, which trains young people in over 600 schools       across the UK to be anti-bullying ambassadors both in their schools and       their communities.
Through its impact on guidelines, training and       implementation, Cowie's research in this Unit is widely recognised as       having an on-going and pervasive impact beyond academia in informing the       understanding and skills of children, teachers and policy makers in       addressing and preventing bullying [12,13,14].
