     The underpinning research has had a significant impact through (1) its       direct use by Essau in supporting the work of the Catholic Children's       Society-Westminster (CCSW) to provide training for their staff and to       develop an intervention programme, (2) contribution to the DSM-5, and (3)       through its utilisation by international research councils and researchers       internationally.
Essau was approached by the CCSW in late 2009 to develop a school-based       intervention programme to prepare children for the transition of primary       to secondary school.
This resulted in a long-term partnership during which       Essau developed Continuing Professional Development (CPD) for CCSW staff       and designed and implemented an anxiety prevention programme for school       children.
1.
Contribution to public understanding and skills through         presentations and training, and the development Super Skills           for Life, an anxiety preventing programme for children:     Essau's research underpinned the CPD that she developed and provided for       approximately 40 staff of the CCSW (February and July 2010).
Underpinned       by Essau, 2005, 2007a, 2008, the CPD initially focused on developing       knowledge of the frequency of anxiety disorders in children and the risk       factors and comorbid patterns, as well as mental health service       utilisation.
The CPD then focused on CBT-based intervention for childhood       anxiety (e.g., effectiveness of CBT-based intervention in reducing anxiety       disorders symptoms in children; factors that moderate the intervention       outcome) which was underpinned by Essau et al.
(2012).
This CPD has       increased staff skills, knowledge and experience, and as such it has       enabled CCSW (a) to offer an increased range of solutions to a variety of       problems, including emotional and behavioural problems among children; (b)       to reduce costs and enable a wider reach; and (c) to increase capacity to       deliver training.
This CPD complements the work of CCSW, which provides a       counselling service in over 30 schools in 11 London boroughs [1].
Essau contributed to the development of a survey of approximately 220       head teachers to establish relevant training needs.
Essau was a partner in       a successful bid that the CCSW won from a London borough which supported       the development of Super Skills for Life (SSL; Essau &amp;       Ollendick, 2013) an evidence-based prevention programme to help children       cope with anxiety- provoking situations and to counteract anxiety       disorders.
The SSL has three key features, each underpinned by Essau's       research.
Firstly, it focuses on children at Key Stage 2 to provide       invaluable support as they approach the often-difficult transition to       secondary school.
This feature is underpinned by the finding that       stressful life events are associated with emotional problems (Essau,       2007a).
Secondly, it was designed for delivery in a group format in       schools in order to maximize access, prevent anxiety disorders (Essau et       al., 2012), and help to reduce stigmatization.
This feature is based on       the low utilisation rate of mental health services among adolescents with       anxiety disorders (Essau, 2005).
Thirdly, SSL teaches children generic       skills (e.g.
social skills, cognitive restructuring) that help to promote       psychological wellbeing.
This feature is underpinned by the finding that       cognitive dysfunction is linked with emotional problems (Essau et al.,       2012).
Finally, SSL also includes three group sessions for parents, which       are conducted at separate times from the child sessions.
These sessions       provided parents the opportunity to learn about the SSL programme and to       discuss parenting and reinforcement strategies such as praise for facing       feared situations.
This feature is underpinned by the finding that       parent's participation in the CBT plays an important role in children's       therapeutic outcome (Essau et al., 2012).
Before delivering the SSL, Essau       conducted a workshop for selected teachers from the participating schools       (Autumn 2011) in order to develop their understanding of childhood anxiety       and to explain the basic components of SSL.
The SSL programme was delivered in 12 London primary schools, reaching       190 children and 24 teachers (between September 2011 - October 2012).
Results showed that anxiety symptoms were significantly reduced at       post-test and follow-up assessments.
SSL also had a positive effect on       hyperactivity, conduct, and peer problems although it took longer for       these effects to occur.
Behavioural indicators of anxiety during the       2-minute speech task decreased, indicating that the independent raters       noticed behavioural change in the children from pre-treatment to follow-up       [2].
The programme has been endorsed by teachers [3, 4] and       parents [5, 6].
As schools continue to deliver the SSL, the reach       and significance of SSL's impact continues to expand.
Following a visit by       Essau to the Fatima Jinnah Women's University, in Rawalpindi, Pakistan,       the SSL has been adopted by a team for delivery in Spring 2014 [7].
SSL has also been adopted as the first choice of treatment for children       with an anxiety disorder at the Psychiatry and Mental Health Department of       Centro Hospitalar do Algarve - Portim&#227;o, a unit with which Essau has had       links since 2005.
In addition to the impacts that Essau has achieved through partnerships       which she has developed, her work has also been a resource for others, and       has had an impact in two areas (1) through its contribution to DSM-5, and       (2) through its contribution to the development of policies and       interventions on adolescent behaviour internationally.
2.
Contribution to DSM-5       Essau's research has contributed to two new features of the fifth edition       of the key international reference work &#8212; the American Psychiatric       Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders       (DSM-5).
Firstly, supported by Essau's research in callous-unemotional       traits (CU; Essau et al., 2006), the DSM-5 has integrated CU traits into       its criteria for the diagnosis of conduct disorder by including the       specifier "With Limited Prosocial Emotions".
This specifier applies to       individuals whose behaviour pattern is characterized by a callous and       unemotional interpersonal style across multiple settings/relationships.
Secondly, supported by Essau's work on somatoform disorders, the DSM-5       section on somatic symptom disorders has moved away from "medically       unexplained" symptoms as the core diagnostic feature to "any severely       distressing somatic symptoms".
[8]     3.
Contribution to policies and interventions on adolescent behaviour         internationally.
Essau's work has been of practical benefit internationally.
For example, a       South African Medical Research Council report on adolescents' behaviours       (Morojele et al., 2013) draws on Essau et al.
(2010) in order to       understand gender differences in behavioural problems [9].
Two additional       international interventions draw specifically on Essau's research: (1)       Calear et al.
(2013; Australia National University) reports a trial       involving 30 schools with approximately 1500 students and 60 teachers       (`Y-Worri') [10].
The `Y-Worri' project drew on Essau (2008) to establish       that anxiety disorders are amongst the most common psychological problems       in adolescents which can lead to depression, and Essau (2005) to establish       that low rates of help-seeking behaviour by adolescents underpin the       importance of school-based anxiety intervention programmes.
The       Internet-version of `Y-Worri' (i.e., "e-couch Anxiety and Worry module")       is part of the e-hub Online Self-help Programmes for Mental Health, which       can be accessed, free of charge, from anywhere and has over 3000       registered users.
(2) Stephan et al.
(2012; USA) draws on Essau (2005) to       argue for the need to enable evidence-based practice to be more accessible       in school mental health (SMH) programmes [11].
One hundred clinicians       participate formally in the SMH programme to deliver empirically supported       interventions to students in general, and special education programmes,       and it is estimated that more than 5000 students are benefitting (Weist:       personal communication).
