     Conceptualising the 'Green Economy':     Cato's research on green economics has made influential contributions to       public discourse around the understanding of alternative economic models,       and has directly influenced the policy of the Green Party in the UK, and       at a European level.
This work has had international reach: Cato's book Green         Economics has been translated into Greek and Chinese and she has       received media coverage in the USA, Latin America, China, India,       Lithuania, Finland, and Canada.
[1] This has shaped public discourse       globally about the economics of sustainability and challenged existing       norms of economic success.
This work has also contributed to reframing       what is meant by economic sustainability.
Cato engages with policy debates at the national level through her role       as Economics/Finance Speaker for the Green Party.
She advises party leader       Natalie Bennett [2] and acts as a consultant in the writing of policy       proposals and documents.
She has helped to influence government policy       through written and oral evidence given to the Inquiry into the Green       Economy by the House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee and written       evidence on their Inquiry into Green Finance [3] &#8212; evidence that drew on       her theorization of a green economy.
At the European level, Cato has       influenced the Green European Foundation and the thinktank Green House in       developing a Post-Growth project [4], an attempt to reframe understanding       of the green economy based on her theoretical work about the need for a       green economy to respect planetary limits.
Arising from her own experience of community-level processes to       facilitate the transition to a sustainable economy, Cato has taken a       leadership role in pioneering sustainable communities and is part of a       movement to develop an alternative economic model known as `the       bioregional economy'.
She has also been a key actor in the development of       local currency initiatives, helping to design the Stroud Pound, which drew       on her study of the work of Silvio Gesell and other monetary theorists,       and launching the Totnes Pound [5].
She has spoken in numerous Transition       Towns and to other community groups supporting the growth of the green       economy, such as West Midlands New Economics Group in Birmingham and the       Small is ... Festival.
Her theoretical work is used to support the       approach of a number of grassroots organisations committed to education       for sustainable development, including the Centre for Alternative       Technology, through her convening of training courses and workshops.
Economics Embedded in Land and Place:     Cato's work on the bioregional economy focus on land ownership, taxation       and use, has influenced and contributed to policy changes in a range of       contexts.
She has a longstanding commitment to the campaign for a Land       Value Tax including writing for the Tax Justice Network and speaking at       conferences of the International Union for Land Taxation in July 2013.
She       advised Caroline Lucas MP, who put down a bill on Land Value Taxation in       2012 [6].
At the invitation of Mark Drakeford AM, she spoke to senior       Welsh policy-makers at Ideas Wales about the potential of Land Value Tax;       he is now campaigning for such a tax at Welsh Assembly level [7].
In July       2013 Cato was interviewed for a film called The Taxing Question of         Land, which was launched at the Royal Society of Arts in September       2013 with the participation of Business Secretary Vince Cable [8].
The       Liberal Democrats have since expressed public commitment to land as a       source of tax revenue.
This work has also shaped public discourse on a more local level.
Cato       has been invited to present her idea for a bioregional economy to a range       of audiences including Cambridge Carbon Footprint Group [8], Swindon       Climate Action Network, and the Co-operative Congress Women's Challenge       Event in Cardiff in June 2013.
The reach of this work has been       complemented by interviews for the Lithuanian magazine Eurozone, the       Montreal Review, the Shanghai Bund magazine and the UK magazine Resurgence.
Self-Organised Resilient Local Provisioning:     At the annual conference of the International Co-operative Alliance in       Mikkeli, Finland in 2011, Cato gave a keynote address explicating the       theoretical link between co-operative economics and sustainability, which       was later published as part of the special issue of the Journal of         Co-operative Studies that she guest edited.
She has been a member       of the Welsh Government's Co-operative Commission since December 2012,       where her theoretical work is being used to inform the Commission's work       and report [9].
As a result of her expertise in food co-operatives, she undertook (with       Myers) an evaluation of the Plunkett Foundation/FARMA &#163;1m Making Local       Food Work Collaborative Farmers' Market project.
The research involved a       qualitative exploration of ten markets in different regions and settings.
The conclusions focused on the ability of the MLFW programme to maximise       incomes of local producers and thus support the health of rural economies.
This has achieved impact directly through the research, as conversations       with stallholders, and those food experts who work with them, have       influenced the way they perceive their role as part of the local economy       and intensified their focus on maximising the retention of value by       producers [10].
