     Howlett's research has had direct and significant impact on third sector       policy and practice, informing numerous NGOs' working approaches and       operational understandings, funding allocations, human resources, and the       development of training materials to support change.
Howlett's work has       provided the research, and demonstrated impacts, on which the sector in       the UK and internationally has drawn for further development.
Shaping Policy and Practice in Volunteer Organisations:     In 2010 the National Council for Voluntary Organisations (NCVO)       commissioned Howlett to evaluate a set of time limited projects, funded by       Capacity Builders, that provided information, workshops and dissemination       on good practice in management capacity to second tier voluntary       organisations.
Data were collected on campaigning, social change, HR and       employment, and leadership work streams (in which volunteering was       crucial).
The report highlighted for NCVO which of the partnerships that       they had created to deliver work were providing what was needed to build       capacity within the sector.
The report noted and recommended that NCVO       should more clearly target their work to smaller organisations beyond       second tier organisations.
These findings informed NCVO's choices on which       elements of the work streams were to be integrated into the NCVO structure       after the demise of Capacity Builders.
Moreover, the report provided the       data on which strategic decisions were made at NCVO.
For example,       encouraging them to target smaller organisations beyond the organisations       that the work streams had initially focused on.
In his 2012 Claire House Hospice study, Howlett mobilised theory-based       notions of volunteers as a wholly different sort of workers which       generated organisational change.
The volunteer programme was stultified       and ineffective against the hospice's strategic plan, with an ageing       volunteer profile that largely failed to reflect the diverse local       community, whilst the volunteers' skills were being extensively       under-utilised.
Howlett's recommendations were debated and accepted by       management and trustees.
This research had a significant impact on the       organisations, and the hospice implemented a programme of change       management based on the report in order to bring in a new volunteer       programme, including the key recommendation to employ an experienced       strategic volunteer manager.
As a result of the research, the hospice has       also identified a trustee to act as a volunteer champion.
The new manager       is working with the chief executive to produce a three year, fully-costed       plan to expand volunteering, and a change management model that ensures       that volunteers and paid staff are involved in discussions as new       volunteer roles are implemented incrementally, service by service.
Similarly, in 2012 Howlett was commissioned by the national children's       hospice charity Together for Short Lives to investigate volunteers in       hospices for children.
This work builds on the Claire House study themes;       despite a positive picture of over 17,000 regular volunteers in children's       hospices across the UK, with volunteers donating the equivalent of &#163;23m       per annum in time, volunteers do not display sufficient diversity in terms       of ethnic origins, age and gender..
Using Howlett's research insights,       TFSL have profiled a notional `typical' hospice as a benchmark for change.
The recommendations, disseminated to all TFSL members, challenge them to       invest in volunteer management and development.
Influencing approaches to volunteer management:     Howlett's work and experience in the area of volunteer management has       been collected, and the significant practical and theoretical elements       highlighted, in two books.
This research is having an impact on a much       broader scale, and is influencing approaches to volunteer management       across a variety of organisations internationally.
The reach of Howlett's research is exemplified by Volunteering in         Hospice and Palliative Care, which supports practitioners' work by       aiding understanding of work contexts.
The handbook is extensively quoted       in the 2013-2016 Palliative Care Strategy for Victoria, Australia, which       uses Howlett's notions of professionalisation of volunteering to argue for       a review of volunteer management frameworks to ensure volunteering is well       resourced, managed and supported, including strengthening volunteer       manager networks (Reference 2).
The book and its ideas are referenced in       training material for volunteer spiritual support developed by the Quality       Palliative Care in Long Term Care Alliance in Canada (Reference 3).
Volunteering and Society in the 21 Century has also sold well to       universities and other training providers, and was positively endorsed by       David Horton Smith and Lester Salamon, leaders in this field, and by Volunteering         Magazine, a major practitioner publication who all provided       recommendations for the cover of the book highlighting the usefulness of       the material to practitioners as well as researchers of volunteering.
The       book is utilised in a variety of documents that inform practitioners'       work.
A strategy report by the Red Cross uses it to frame the challenges       faced by organisations in providing quality volunteering opportunities,       while the Mentro Allan Big Lottery-funded project in Wales (which       encourages active lifestyles in Wales) uses definitions of volunteering       and the model of volunteering as unpaid work/activism/leisure from the       book to frame views of volunteers' work on the project (Reference 4).
In addition to NGOs commissioning Howlett's work, the significance of       Howlett's research impact is evidenced by further engagement with       practitioners.
Howlett was a director of the Association of Volunteer       Managers between 2007 and 2012, assisting in founding and developing the       organisation and providing workshops and panel sessions at events.
As a       board member, Howlett was the only academic representative among       practitioners and contributed by adding findings from his research and       that of others to the discussions and debates.
Howlett was invited to       speak at the 2013 conference of the Association of Volunteer Managers.
In       2011 Howlett made a presentation on volunteer mega trends to       practitioners, academics and policy makers at the 21st International       Association for Volunteer Effort world volunteer conference in 2011 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KsIUQ-l_tJY).
In 2012 he gave an invited presentation at a meeting of the Commission       into the Future of Hospice Care on the strategic importance of volunteers.
This, and other presentations on the day, provoked discussion which became       a working paper to the Commission as it goes about its work of looking at       how volunteering meets new challenges in hospices (reference 5).
