     Older facial composite systems perform poorly as they rely on the memory       of victims or eyewitnesses under the guidance of trained police officers.
However, in the absence of forensic evidence, facial composites often       provide the only means of establishing leads in police investigations.
The       introduction of EFIT-V has revolutionised the production of       realistic facial images of criminals in the UK and worldwide.
Two       representative testimonials are given below:     "We decided after these tests [initial trials of EFIT-V] to have a         "leap of faith" and go with EFIT-V... since then our naming rate has         increased dramatically to around 55%" West Yorkshire Police 2009.
"I thought it would be appropriate to let you know as soon as possible         about the new product [EFIT-V].
Put simply, I love it...This has led to         6 cases so far getting "near as damn-it" likenesses."
Metropolitan       Police (New Scotland Yard) 2010.
Beneficiaries and Impact     The impact of EFIT-V is summarised in the following points:     (1) The use of EFIT-V is quicker and better matched to the natural       cognitive processes of witnesses, so officers can produce more accurate       likenesses rapidly.
As a result, it has become the new industrial standard       used in 85% of the 51 police forces in the UK.
(2) The technology has led to a major increase in reported         identification rates from police forces using the system.
The       feature based approach described above has historical identification rates       at 5% [Tanaka and Farah J.
Experimental Psychology 225 (1993)], whereas       rates as high as 55% are reported with the use of EFIT-V as       commented on by West Yorkshire police.
Overall, since its release in early       2008, licensees have seen increases of more than 100% in useful       intelligence (as reported in the Investigative Practice Journal of Police       Professionals, the largest circulation police weekly).
An extended study       of its performance in the field involving more than 1000 interviews       resulted in an exceptional 40% naming rate [Driver and Rowbotham, E-FIT       user conference 2009].
Construction is also up to 100% quicker than for       traditional, feature-based systems.
(3) It has spawned a successful spinout company, Visionmetric,       which has exported the technology to countries around the world including       Sweden, Singapore, Jamaica, Canada, Ghana, Colombia, Botswana, Malta,       Chile, Macedonia, Canada, Slovenia, South Africa, and the USA.
The       company's current turnover exceeds &#163;250K p.a.
and is projected to reach       &#163;600K p.a.
by 2015.
Visionmetric's directors, Solomon and Gibson, are Kent       SPS academics and the prime contributors to the underpinning research.
(4) It has played a key role in apprehension of hundreds of       criminals, many involving very serious crimes.
