     Impact on Public Policy and Services (UK)     Bowen's research on domestic and interpersonal violence has       delivered impact by changing the       policy, practitioner training and offender interventions and the practice       and methodology for       evaluating programmes.
This is at a national level with the Ministry of       Justice and the National       Offender Management Service (NOMS), and with a specific set of packages       developed for       Wiltshire Probation Service that has changed the way perpetrators of       domestic and interpersonal       violence are dealt with.
This programme is now being rolled out across       Wiltshire and Dorset.
In       addition, the quality, accessibility, acceptability or cost-effectiveness       of rehabilitating domestic       violence perpetrators has been improved.
The Research-to-Impact Process and Associated Dates: Bowen's       publications in practitioner       and academic journals, along with her book, are widely known and used by       practitioners working in       domestic violence.
In 2011 Bowen won a competitive tender from the       Ministry of Justice to       conduct a review of empirical and theoretical research on risk factors,       protective factors,       desistance and strength-based approaches to intervening in domestic       violence.
This review, which       drew on Bowen's previous research, was used by the Ministry of       Justice to inform the design and       development of their new domestic violence perpetrator programmes.
In addition, Bowen integrated the knowledge gained from this       review and research she conducted       funded by Wiltshire Probation Trust, to develop four innovative packages       [a] that have been       introduced throughout Wiltshire Probation Trust, namely: a group-based       holistic assessment of risk       and need; a group-based solution focused package for individuals who are       violent in intimate       relationships and a similar package for individuals who are violent       outside and within intimate       relationships; and a package for women offenders.
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Justice, National Offender       Management Service, Wiltshire Probation       Trust, offenders and staff associated with these organisations     Nature of the Impact and Evidence       Sinead Bloomfield of the National Offender Service (NOMS) stated that Bowen's       literature review       provided the Ministry of Justice with a strong theoretical basis for the       new nationally accredited       `Building Better Relationships (BBR)' domestic violence perpetrator       programme for use in prison       and probation.
It guided the priorities and design of the programme, which       is preferable to       previously existing programmes as it takes a broader approach to domestic       violence than the       traditional feminist approach, whilst also being more individualistic and       having the flexibility to be       tailored to individual need, which was not possible in the previous       `single standardised' approach       [b].
This new approach was required as evidence had shown that the       existing programme was not       effective.
Bowen's review features in the programme manual [c] and       has changed the way in       which domestic violence perpetrators are rehabilitated throughout England       and Wales.
When this       programme was reviewed by the UK National Corrections Accreditation Panel,       it praised the       literature review for its `range and breadth' of content.
BBR was piloted       between April 2011 and       March 2013 in 3 prisons and 5 probation areas.
A total of 114 offenders       completed the programme.
A total of 246 offenders started BBR during this time in the community; a       total of 85 offenders       started BBR in custody with 77 of these completing it.
This represents a       completion rate of 90.6%       in custody.
Feedback from staff and offenders was extremely positive, in       particular the       individualised and strength-based approach to treatment was praised.
Staff       found the programme       more engaging for offenders.
Within Wiltshire Probation Trust the change in policy using Bowen's       packages means that all       convicted offenders given a community sentence (up to 1,800 offenders who       are on the caseload       at any one time) are now assessed using the new approach [d].
This       facilitates the collation of       more in-depth information about risk and need to complement and enhance       the standard national       OASys offender assessment system.
The offenders who do not meet the       criteria for nationally       endorsed programmes now attend one of the two new programmes developed by       Bowen.
The       implementation of this novel assessment framework has increased the       accuracy of referrals to       sources of help both within and outside the Trust.
Moreover, the       availability of the new intervention       packages has enabled the Trust to fill a gap in their provision by       addressing previously unidentified       and unmet needs in their offender population.
Evaluation shows that a       higher proportion of       offenders are completing programmes (90% completion rate in contrast to       60% for alternative       programmes); persistent offenders are more engaged in and compliant with       their orders; staff are       positive about delivering the packages; and offenders are positive about       the overarching approach       to intervention.
All staff within the Trust have been briefed on the new       packages/approach, and all       eligible staff (90% of offender managers and programme tutors) have been       trained by Bowen and       colleagues, who have developed additional training materials to enable the       Trust to train its new       staff in the future.
This work has resulted in the transformation of the       philosophy of work with all       offenders in the Trust to reflect a collaborative, solution-focused       approach.
In 2012, this approach       was also adopted by Dorset Probation Trust and all relevant staff (12 in       total) have been trained on       these packages.
Impact on Public Policy and Services (Europe)       Bowen's research on adolescent dating violence has delivered impact       by increasing awareness       and has initiated a debate among EU directorate, teachers, parents,       adolescents and practitioners       about how to address the issue.
In addition, the development of a       research-based serious game       has provided an effective intervention for teachers and curriculum       authorities.
The Research-to-Impact Process and Associated Dates       The research highlighted that between 12% and 48% of adolescents       experience some form of       adolescent dating violence in Europe [5].
The research identified that       adolescents in the four       partner countries generally viewed violence in relationships as wrong, but       also identified a range of       situations in which violence was completely acceptable.
Help-seeking is       likely to involve peers       rather than adults, and to be contingent on the perceived seriousness of       the incident [6].
These       data validated the need to challenge attitudes towards dating violence in       adolescence.
A novel computer-based serious game, teacher training materials and an       online teacher support       package, which is the first ever serious game designed to tackle       adolescent dating violence, was       developed in 2011/2012 by Bowen and colleagues.
Pre- and       post-measure comparisons of pro-violence       attitudes show that the serious game has reduced attitudes supporting such       behaviours       among adolescents in Europe as well as increasing knowledge about dating       violence.
Focus       groups with young people have revealed that they believe the game to be an       effective means of       raising awareness and teaching about dating violence.
It is also       identified as a mode of education       which is preferable to standard school lessons on this topic, due to the       higher level of privacy it       offers.
So far the rollout of the project has engaged 900 children who       have used the game across       the four countries.
Beneficiaries: Adolescents, Secondary School and College       Teachers, Youth Services, Local       Government Agencies, European and UN Policy Leaders, Community Safety       Organisations     Nature of the Impact and Evidence       The `Changing Attitudes to dating Violence in Adolescents' project has       raised awareness of       adolescent dating violence and the potential application of serious games       for its prevention.
It was       presented at eight international practitioner events in 2012 and 2013 with       a combined audience of       700 social work, psychology and education practitioners and EU policy       makers.
Two UK events       were held in 2012 with delegates attending from education and community       safety organisations.
In       Sweden considerable media attention was given to the project in October       2012 with the project       featuring in a 30-minute prime-time national news item.
In 2013 the game       was integrated within a       cross-curriculum information technology platform which is being used by       all schools within       Belgium.
The project has raised awareness in teachers, practitioners and       children, and wider       society in the UK and Europe and has been commended by Ms Rashida Manjoo,       UN Special       Rapporteur on Violence against Women at a meeting held in Brussels on June       21st 2011 [e], due to       its focus on prevention rather than intervention after violence has       occurred.
In addition, Mr Sergej       Kopadek, advisor to DG Education in the EU, at a meeting held in Brussels       on January 30th 2013,       praised the project for raising awareness of the issue as well as adopting       a highly innovative       technological solution to a primary intervention.
At the same meeting Ms       Collette Dutroy, Director       of the EU Observatory on Violence Against Women, also supported the       project and particularly its       emphasis on prevention which is viewed as critical in combating violence       in relationships.
Conclusions     Bowen's innovative research on combating interpersonal violence       has had impact on practitioners       and policy makers.
Her research, in collaboration with NOMS, has changed       the way perpetrators of       domestic and interpersonal violence are dealt with.
Her Europe-wide       research on adolescent       dating violence has increased awareness of the issues within the EU and       led to a novel serious       game designed to tackle the problem.
