     1.
Gill provided advice and expertise on national policies on HBV, FM         and domestic violence to national policy-makers in government, the Crown         Prosecution Service and IPCC, contributing to enhanced service         provision.
Gill's research has been used in the development of national policy       relating to VAW, FM and HBV, including the Forced Marriage (Civil       Protection) Act (2007) and the National Police Honour-Based Strategy and       two-year action plan (2008-2010).
On 26 May 2011, Gill was invited by the       steering committee of the Forced Marriage Unit to produce an independent       report on whether FM should be criminalised.
Based in part on her       recommendations, the Forced Marriage Unit concluded that criminalisation       would be counterproductive: Gill's research demonstrates that the Crown       Prosecution Service can already prosecute cases of FM under existing       criminal offences, including rape, kidnap and assault.
Instead, Gill       argues that there is a far more urgent need for better training for       professionals dealing with FM cases.
She also recommended a comprehensive       awareness-raising campaign aimed at affected communities and the wider       population as a far more effective way to combat the problem.
The Forced       Marriage Unit used these key findings on behalf of the UK Coalition       Government in their response to the Eighth Report of the Home Affairs       Committee (Session 2010, 12 HC 880) (Evidence 5a).
Gill's research has significantly contributed to the range of policies       aimed at prevention of HBV and FM.
The broad range of beneficiaries       include the police, Crown Prosecution Service, local and national       government bodies, programmes working with victims of violence,       commissioners and funders of services, service referrers, children, and       victims.
In February 2009, a public meeting was held between the       Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) and the Iranian and       Kurdish Women's Rights Organisation to discuss police failures to protect       a young Kurdish woman, Banaz Mahmod, who had been murdered in a so-called       `honour' killing in January 2006.
In July 2009, the IPCC adopted a number       of the preventative strategies recommended in Gill's research publications       (see Reference 3).
As a result, the IPCC designed new preventative       strategies to encourage informal, proactive community responses to HBV.
Gill's research also highlights the need for a better understanding of the       ways in which `honour'-based communities interface with public       institutions in order for support agencies to effectively confront       perpetrators and also support and protect victims.
Gill also recommended       that expert panels be introduced to scrutinise IPCC inquiry reports in       cases of police failures to protect victims of domestic violence and       `honour' killings.
The IPCC introduced such panels in 2009.
Gill's research on `honour' killings also led to positive collaborations       with a number of individual IPCC Commissioners in connection with the       policing failures that failed to prevent the murders of a number of women.
In October 2012, Gill drew on her research when delivering IPCC training       seminars for operational staff and investigators across England and Wales:       this fostered an ongoing exchange of knowledge on domestic violence, HBV       and FM as part of IPCC Continuous Professional Development days.
In turn,       in May 2013 this led to an invitation to join the small reference group       assisting an IPCC Commissioner by providing recommendations regarding a       case of domestic violence homicide where the victim (Mrs Susan Forster       from Durham) was unwilling to press charges or co-operate with police       action.
Tragically, 27 days after this, Susan was attacked again by her       husband and died.
In this case Gill advised the IPCC against the use of       restorative justice intervention in domestic violence cases.
In July 2013,       the IPCC recommended that Gill's position on restorative justice be       codified and included in the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO)       `Guidelines on the use of Community Resolutions incorporating Restorative       Justice'.
Gill's research also offers perspectives for understanding VAW and FM to       the police and the criminal justice system, aiding them in serving the       victims and to prosecute perpetrators more effectively.
For example, in       October 2011, Gill was asked by the Crown Prosecution Service to provide       expert evidence about so-called `honour' killings and forced marriage in       the Shafilea Ahmed case (R v Ahmed and Ahmed 2012).
This       contributed to the successful conviction of her parents for her murder in       August 2012.
Gill's research findings about the problems of criminalisation of forced       marriage were used by Helen Grant MP in the 8 March 2012 parliamentary       debate on violence against women and girls in the House of Commons       (Evidence 5b).
Subsequently, Gill was asked to attend a meeting on 27th       June 2013 with the Shadow Minister for Equalities, Kate Green MP.
She       discussed how the current legislation on FM is working and how the       Government might increase the effectiveness of existing civil responses,       before new forced marriage legislation is adopted in autumn 2013, that may       make it harder to protect victims and prosecute perpetrators.
2.
Gill produced reports and other documents for NGOs, service         providers and policy makers, that have informed good practice guidelines         for supporting victims of HBV and FM.
The NHS, the Department for Education, and a range of third sector       organisations have used Gill's research to produce good practice       guidelines for supporting victims of HBV and FM.
Professionals and       voluntary sector workers have drawn upon this research for improving their       engagement with perpetrators, victims and their families.
For instance,       between November 2012 and July 2013 Gill was commissioned to develop a       safeguarding toolkit for Birmingham Women's Aid to help relevant       professionals both to identify FM and to better assess risk factors in       individual cases.
The guide sets out the legal parameters of Forced       Marriage Protection Orders in simple terms to enable victims to make more       informed choices.
Gill also delivered a number of training days about FM       to teachers, police officers, lawyers and social workers in Birmingham to       discuss the toolkit.
In addition, she ran training events with staff from       Birmingham Women's Aid focused around sharing information about how best       to meet the diverse needs of victims: these sessions explored existing       legal provisions, measures, campaigns and initiatives from across the UK.
In May 2009, the United Nations Division for the Advancement of Women and       the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa invited her to       contribute to an Expert Group Meeting on developing legislation to address       harmful cultural practices, she offered recommendations and commentary on       examples of good practice in the UK and Europe regarding the design of       effective legislative frameworks for addressing VAW committed in the name       of `honour'.
In December 2011, Gill was part of a delegation of       twenty-five international experts who met at the first international       `honour' killings conference in Canberra (Australia) to share and       disseminate expertise about FM and HBV.
3.
Gill's research has contributed to public discourse, and has raised         awareness of VAW, HBV and FM amongst public audiences.
Gill has communicated her research to broad public audiences through both       traditional and social media outlets, contributing to and shaping public       discourse.
She has appeared on Sky News, Al Jazeera and the BBC (including       Crimewatch, Radio 4 Today, Breakfast, World Tonight, World Service, BBC       Asian Network and the Politics Show) to present her work.
This       contribution to public discourse has impacted on the approach of different       campaigns and individuals towards VAW and HBV.
For example, the `Ending       Victimisation and Blame' campaign draws on Gill's media work.
Gill has       also taken part in a special Australian radio debate about researching       `honour' killings (see `The Law Report': Evidence 5e), and in November       2012, contributed to a BBC Crimewatch documentary about the murder of       Shafilea Ahmed (Evidence 5f).
