     Marvin's anthropological perspectives on human-animal relations have       informed his engagement       with key research users over a sustained period.
Through communication of       research insights to       these individuals and institutions, he has enhanced socio-cultural       understanding of human-animal       relations in a variety of contexts and with a broad range of associated       impacts.
Increasing public understanding of the wolf     Fieldwork with shepherds in Albania formed the ethnographic basis of       Marvin's academic piece       `Wolves in Sheep's and Other Clothing'.
This, and other fieldwork,       particularly with hunters in       Europe, was incorporated in Marvin's more wide-ranging book on humans and       wolves, Wolf (see       below, this section).
Research into human-animal interactions through the       prism of the wolf has       demonstrated that perceptions of the animal were specific to a range of       social, cultural and       historical factors that have changed over time.
In particular, the focus       of Marvin's interest is the       concern that people express for a dangerous predator that intrudes into       human concerns       (particularly in terms of livestock predation) and is seen as a potential       predator on humans.
In order to promote this research to as broad an audience as possible,       Marvin has since 2009       given a range of public lectures at the UK Wolf Conservation Trust (UKWCT)       during their annual       Wolf Awareness Weeks, and has written a number of high-profile       public-orientated publications.
For example, he contributed an article entitled `Wolves: now at our door'       to The Guardian (27 July       2011) on this theme, which prompted debate (343 online comments) about the       reintroduction of       wolves, and animals of prey more broadly, into Britain.
In January 2012,       Marvin published Wolf       (London: Reaktion Books), a text based on original research aimed at a       wide public audience,       exploring scientific understanding and cultural perceptions of this       animal.
The reach of the book is       indicated by sales figures to 31 July 2013 of over 3000.This research has       contributed to wider       public discourse and understanding around wolves, as evidenced by critical       reception in       newspapers (The Guardian, Globe and Mail [Toronto]), specialist       magazines (BBC Wildlife         Magazine, Wolf Print) and the blogosphere.
In particular, frequent       recognition of the socio-cultural       contexts in which the wolf is understood attests to the impact of the       research, for example: "...it is         clear from this exquisitely researched and carefully structured book         that our perception of Canis       lupus is a complex one .
.
.
it probes much deeper and into a         fascinating well of ideas, namely how         cultural beliefs shape our opinions and emotions when it comes to this         particular carnivore" (from       Wolf Print, magazine of the UKWCT).
Marvin undertook research at the UKWCT for the section of the book       exploring themes of re-valuing       wolves.
Following publication of Wolf he was invited by Tsa Palmer       (Director of the Trust)       to become an Advisor to the UKWCT.
In this capacity, he has also donated       the library he acquired       through the research to the Education Department of the UKWCT.
The UKWCT       is now able to       offer access to this resource to a wide range of school, college and       university students, as well as       other interested parties.
Influencing understanding and provoking debate amongst foxhunting           groups     Marvin's research on cultural aspects both of foxhunting, and of the       hunting of animals more       generally, has also had significant impact.
Throughout the research       process, Marvin has had       access to a number of foxhunting communities in the UK.
As well as these       groups being engaged       through research, a number of the resultant book chapters and journal       articles have been       circulated prior to key strategy and policy meetings, and have provoked       and contributed to debate.
New research insights into foxhunting as intangible cultural heritage, and       the effects of the Hunting       Act of 2004on rural communities, have contributed to these individuals and       groups placing their       own hunting practices and traditions in a different socio-cultural       context.
For example, Captain       Brian Fanshawe, a senior member of the Council of Hunting Associations,       has drawn on Marvin's       research, particularly on the "perception of the living human to animal         relationship that exists         between huntsman, hound and the quarry and, second, to his vision of the         community aspect of         hunt followers `belonging' to their local hunt" which has changed       his own views "on how foxhunting         might be conceived and perceived by others".
As a result, Marvin was       invited to discussions on the       group's policy strategies, as his analysis of foxhunting as a ritual       community event that is openly       accountable, and the nature of the relationships that constitute its       parts, were viewed to have been       particularly pertinent and helpful in explaining hunting to the public,       media and politicians.
Stephen Lambert, Chairman of the Masters of Foxhounds Association, the       controlling authority of       UK foxhunting, has confirmed the broader influence of this work, stating       that "...my colleagues         have made use of this work in discussions and in their writings".
Similarly, James Barrington, a       prominent animal welfare consultant in parliament, has drawn extensively       on Marvin's research in       political briefings and lobbying.
Following the circulation of Marvin's       research at meetings of the       Masters of Foxhounds Association and the Countryside Alliance, his       insights were incorporated       into campaign material produced by the Countryside Alliance in seeking the       repeal of the hunting       ban in 2011(http://www.countryside-alliance.org.uk/ca/file/Case_for_Repeal_2011.pdf).
Preservation and creative presentation of cultural heritage     The third element of Marvin's impact relates to his research into the       public exhibition of animals by       taxidermists and in zoos; this has led to significant changes in the       preservation and creative       presentation of cultural heritage.
Since 2010, Marvin has acted in an advisory position as a trustee of the       Powell-Cotton Museum at       Quex Park in Kent.
He has drawn on his research on the cultural status of       taxidermised animals to       advise on several aspects of the museum's collections, in particular on       its anthropological       significance and the cultural understanding of taxidermy in different       contexts.
This has had a direct       impact on the management of the collection, as indicated by Karen Botha,       the director of the       museum: "his knowledge has influenced my approach to the management of         our collection".
It has       also "transformed [the] team's awareness of how taxidermy is perceived         in various communities".
Ultimately, this work has influenced the organisation's understanding of       the relevance and       importance of its collection.
This understanding has, in turn, had a       significant impact on the       museum, and has led to the creation and appointment of two new posts in       2011 &#8212; a specialist       taxidermist to maintain the collection and a new collections manager.
More recently Marvin's research has been utilised in creative contexts.
In April 2013, he was       approached by Andy Hall, the producer for the BBC documentary series Timeshift.
He was aware       of Marvin's publications on zoo animals and approached him to contribute       to the programme in       May 2013.
This consultation directly informed the content and form of the       documentary in terms of       changing perceptions of zoo animals and the cultural significance of zoos.
The documentary was       broadcast on BBC Four in November 2013.
Similarly, Marvin was approached by Bill Mitchell, the artistic director       of the international theatre       company WildWorks, to consult on the production of their performance CHIMERA       in spring 2013.
This arose after members of WildWorks had drawn insights from Marvin's Wolf       on human-animal       transformations, in particular that of the werewolf.
Following initial       consultation, Marvin provided       detailed feedback, informed by his own research, to develop and refine the       project, and the       company's understanding and approach to human-animal interactions more       broadly.
This also       included advice based on Marvin's knowledge of the processes and       performance of hunting, which       fed directly into the production, and is contributing to the ongoing       development of WildWorks'       practice beyond July 2013.
Significantly, the theatre company is now       presenting cultural heritage in       a more accurate manner following this consultation, and to a wide public       audience.
