     The three key papers underpinning this case study provide novel insights       into the potentially detrimental effects of tourism on wild primates.
Findings have been communicated to a diverse audience of non-academic       parties, have informed development of evidence-based guidelines relating       to Barbary macaque tourism in Morocco, and to primate tourism generally,       and have provided the basis for the regulatory framework and impetus to       implement mitigation measures.
Promoting the research to enhance public understanding     Following a proactive and focussed press engagement campaign in June       2011, designed to maximise the reach of our communication, the research in       Mar&#233;chal et al.
(2011) was featured on the websites of news,       travel and environmental organisations, including the front page of       Channel 4 News, BBC Science and Environment, and Wanderlust.
We also       secured coverage by environmental bloggers, and online and in print in New       Scientist magazine.
We communicated the coherent set of findings of all       three pieces of research underpinning this case study to a range of       organisations.
We wrote an opinion piece on primate tourism for the       website of the UK charity, Care for the Wild, for their campaign `Right         Tourism'; this piece was also included in the Summer 2013 newsletter       sent out to the 9,730 members of Care for the Wild.
We contributed a blog       piece on this work to the Moroccan Primate Conservation Foundation, an       organisation working to conserve Barbary macaques in their native habitat.
In addition, we wrote material about our research for the website of       Trentham Monkey Forest, a conservation park holding a free ranging captive       population of Barbary macaques (Stoke-on-Trent, UK).Following a meeting       with the Director of Trentham Monkey Forest in April 2013 to discuss our       findings in relation to effects of tourism on wild Barbary macaques, the       results of these studies have since that time been included in the       educational talks at the park given to school, college and university       students as well as members of the general public.
Informing guidelines for primate tourism &#8212; Barbary macaques           (Morocco and Gibraltar)     Following an invitation from the Moroccan Primate Conservation       Foundation, Semple contributed to the Conservation Action Plan         for the Barbary macaque (Macaca sylvanus) in Morocco, a plan       drawn up for the Moroccan government by organisations including government       authorities (Minist&#232;res de l'Agriculture et de la P&#234;che Maritime; Haut       Commissariat des Eaux et For&#234;ts), conservation NGOs (International       Federation of Animal Welfare, Moroccan Primate Conservation Foundation),       and academic institutions (Institut Scientifique de Rabat, Centre National       de la Recherche Foresti&#232;re, University of Roehampton).
This Action Plan       was drafted following a meeting in Azrou, Morocco, in October 2011.
Semple       attended this meeting to describe the key findings of our research on       tourism, and to facilitate the translation of these findings into the       practical recommendations of the Action Plan.
The final Action Plan       detailed a number of activities to reduce human impacts on Barbary macaque       populations, including specific recommendations related to mitigating       impacts of tourism that were based on our research findings outlined       above.
The Plan is now being implemented by government authorities and       conservation NGOs in Morocco.
Semple was invited to a meeting in Azrou in January 2013, to       discuss development of tourism related to wild Barbary macaques in       Morocco.
This invitation was from the Director of Ifrane National Park       (where our field studies were carried out), who explicitly expressed an       interest in hearing about the research findings in the three core studies       underpinning this case study.
The meeting was attended by senior officials       from Ifrane National Park and from Haut Commissariat des Eaux et       For&#234;ts,and by representatives from regional tourism organisations and       environmental associations.
A presentation and contribution to panel       discussions by Semple provided attending parties with information       and empirical evidence about the potential negative effects of tourism on       wild Barbary macaques, and how such effects may be avoided.
Since May 2012, Semple and MacLarnon have been       collaborating with the Moroccan Primate Conservation Foundation as it       develops a new eco-tourism project &#8212; Monkey Watch &#8212; in Ifrane       National Park, Morocco.
The Foundation have drawn on our research on       primate tourism throughout the early planning stages of this project, and       we have worked closely with them to ensure all appropriate steps are being       taken to avoid negative effects on wild Barbary macaques of this new       tourism venture.
In April 2013, Semple was invited by the Minister for Health and       Environment in the Gibraltar Government, Dr John Cortes, to join a panel       to advise on matters relating to the conservation and management of the       Barbary macaque population in Gibraltar.
Interactions between tourists and       macaques are extremely frequent in Gibraltar and represent a key issue for       the management of this population.
Semple is providing expertise       on this matter, and on others relating to conservation and management of       these animals, in support of the Gibraltar Barbary Macaque Management       Team.
Informing guidelines for primate tourism &#8212; general     Semple was invited to contribute to the Association of British       Travel Agents (ABTA) Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism       (ABTA, 2013).
He provided material on the welfare implications of wildlife       viewing, covering three areas of tourist impact on primate welfare:       impacts on stress levels, behavioural change and disease risk.
For these,       all three core studies described above were used to highlight key issues       and contribute to the guidelines proposed as means to mitigate tourism       impacts on wild primates.
The findings of these studies were used as       systematic evidence to inform the report's primary recommendations on the       need to: 1. enforce a minimum tourist distance from wild primates; 2.       prevent any physical interaction, even `low level' forms, between tourists       and primates; 3. mitigate or minimise the effects of tourist presence       and/or behaviour on primates.
The Global Welfare Guidance for Animals         in Tourism was launched in June 2013.
Key ABTA Member organisations       &#8212; TUI Travel, Thomas Cook, Virgin Holidays and Cosmos &#8212; have committed to       using these guidelines to ensure that any wildlife tourism attractions       that are offered in their holidays meet the minimum benchmark       requirements.
In addition, ABTA is distributing this document to       governments and tourist boards in destination countries, and it is       available to ABTA's 1,200 member organisations.
