     The roots of impact from 1995 to 2007:     The research on babies and young children in nursery education started       with the Esmee Fairbairn       funded study `Every Day Stories &#8212; Relationships for Learning' (1995-1999)       funded by Esmee       Fairbairn).
This study was influential in media debate (see for example Sunday         Times, 4th January       1998).
It challenged a popular view of nursery as automatically a negative       place for very young       children.
Further, it documented the importance for each child of an       individual relationship with       mainly one member of staff in nursery &#8212; the `key person' (see Elfer and       Selleck 1999).
The       research led to Elfer being invited to contribute to the drafting of the       first UK Government guidance       on working with under threes in nursery, the `Birth to Three Matters       Framework (DfES 2002), which       incorporated the `key-person' role.
The research also underpinned a       practice guidance book for       nursery staff on implementing the key-person role (Elfer, Goldschmied and       Selleck (2003) Key         Persons in the Nursery.
London: David Fulton, 6000 copies).
In turn,       the book helped raise       awareness of the research and facilitate its translation into practice.
Elfer gave evidence as an       expert witness to the House of Commons Early Education Select Committee       (8th November 2006),       and reported on the research for a Channel 4 Dispatches Programme (27th       April 2007).
Contributing to and influencing Government curriculum guidance and           requirements:     At the end of 2007, the Government replaced the Birth to Three Matters       Framework with the Early       Years Foundation Stage (EYFS), implemented in 2008, and raised the status       of the key person       role from guidance to statutory requirement.
Elfer was asked to draft the       guidance on attachment       and the `key-person' role, made available on the Department for Education       and Skills (DfES)       website (2007).
Continuing research on the impact of the role in nurseries       (Elfer, 2006) helped       underpin this.
Elfer was also a contributing author of further Government       guidance issued to the       early years sector by the DfES (Social and Emotional Aspects of       Development (SEAD) Guidance:       2009 HMSO).
In 2010, the new Coalition Government commissioned a review of the EYFS       against the backdrop       of a commitment to de-regulation.
It was feared that the key person       requirement would be lost or       down-graded back to guidance only.
Elfer coordinated and drafted a       submission of the evolving       evidence on the key-person role to Dame Clare Tickell, who led the review.
Her final report       recommended retention of the `key person' duty.
This was accepted in the       Coalition response and       the `key-person' role remains a statutory duty.
As a result, Elfer's       research began to focus more on       issues relating to the implementation of nursery attachments.
It has shown       (Elfer 2006; Elfer 2007;       Elfer and Dearnley 2007; Elfer 2012) how, following the key-person       requirement, making       professional but emotionally close relationships with individual children       can be stressful.
The       research has shown the value of reflective support to nursery staff as       they engage more closely       with children.
The Tickell review, as well as recommending retention of       the key-person duty, has       responded to these findings and a new duty has now been included in the       revised EYFS for all       early years staff to have regular supervision (professional reflection)       time.
Enhancing professional development:     The foundation Esmee Fairbairn study, the Everyday Stories of the       15 children researched and the       evaluation framework developed by the study, continue to be available on       the National Children's       Bureau website as an open access resource for professionals.
In addition to establishing the key-person role in government guidance,       the programme of research       has also evaluated models of supervision (professional reflection).
It has       underpinned two       programmes of continuing professional development (CPD) to support staff       implementing the       supervision duty.
The first is a programme of CPD to help staff stay       engaged with and responsive       to individual children and to base the details of their interactions on       close observations.
This       programme has resulted in over 16 contracts in English LEAs over a five       year period (2007-2012)       extending as widely as Kent, Bristol, Birmingham and Wigan.
Each contract       involves 10-12 senior       nursery staff, each responsible for an average of 8 children.
The CPD has       therefore directly       impacted on well over a 1000 young children, but has been shown to have       continuing impact (Elfer       and Dearnley 2007) so that this number will grow.
The programme has       generated a combined       income of around &#163;200k and joint work with a commercial national nursery       chain to examine the       implementation of attachments between practitioners and children within       its nurseries.
Elfer has also been commissioned by the South London NHS Health       Inequalities and Education       Cluster group to use the research for the development of e-learning       materials for senior staff to       facilitate professional reflection with more junior staff.
These materials       have now been developed       and piloted in one nursery school and children's centre and already       commissioned in three others.
The practice book `Key Persons in the Nursery' continues to be the       primary source of guidance       being used by practitioners, as evidenced by its prominence on nursery and       children's centre       websites.
The book has been developed as a second edition (2011) and       extended for use by       teachers in schools as well as nurseries.
It has also been translated into       Italian (Persone chiave al       nido) and Elfer was asked to present the work at its launch in Trento,       Italy in October 2010 as key-       person practice was taken up in Italy.
Impact on evolving UK government policy     The UK Coalition Government is committed to increasing the quality and       reducing the cost of       nursery provision.
Its initial plans of how to do this were issued in a       consultation document `More       Great Childcare' (MGC).
MGC sought to reduce costs by increasing       child-nursery staff ratios and       cutting the role of local authority advisers in providing support to       nurseries.
The programme of       research enabled an intervention in the policy debate around MGC in the       form of a `briefing paper'       for politicians and practitioners and two shorter statements of the key       research messages for       nursery in the form of letters in the national press (The Guardian,       16th January 2013; The Times       31st January 2013).
The briefing paper shows the research       evidence for the critical value of       maintaining child-nursery ratios as a pre-requisite of consistent,       sensitive and responsive       interactions with babies and young children in nursery.
The briefing has       been widely circulated on       social media sites, (Twitter, Facebook and MumsNet), and has helped       stimulate debate.
As the       policy debate picked up speed, the prominence of the briefing resulted in       Elfer's contribution to a       number of high profile activities &#8212; including addressing the All Party       Parliamentary Group on       Children (APPGC) and an individual meeting with Lord Listowel, Deputy       Chair of APPGC, who       subsequently used the briefing in the Queen's Speech Debate, 4th       day, 14th May 2013).
The       briefing has also been taken up by the Office of the Shadow Secretary for       Education as part of the       development of their alternative Labour Party policy on nursery provision.
Finally, the research has       been used to write a briefing by the Minister of Children and Youth       Affairs in the Irish Republic, Mrs       Frances Fitzgerald, who has written to advise of its use in the Irish       Strategy Expert Group as they       evolve Irish early years policy on nurseries.
The proposal to increase       nursery ratios has now been       rejected by the UK Coalition Government.
