     Sounds of Intent originated in a need identified by Adam Ockelford     among teachers working with children with learning difficulties, principally     the lack of a suitable music curriculum, particularly for those with severe     or profound intellectual impairment.
The promise of `entitlement for all'     that had been enshrined in the National Curriculum had failed to deliver and     the so-called `P'-Levels (subsequently devised for those with learning     difficulties in mind) lacked the necessary specialist subject content in     music (see Ockelford, 2008).
Hence, in 2001, Ockelford set up Sounds of       Intent with the aim of constructing a developmentally-based curriculum     framework, with supporting materials for teaching and learning, tools for     assessment and for the recording of attainment and progress.
Sounds of       Intent has entailed rigorous academic research, because the work     involved gathering data from teachers and therapists active in the field,     using their experience and professional judgements to inform the analysis     and development phases.
The task of embedding Sounds of Intent     thinking in practice was identified at the outset, and consequently its     impact has been significant.
Although a number of practitioners had informally begun to use the       website before the national launch in February, 2012, the impact of Sounds         of Intent really began to be felt following this event, which around       100 practitioners, music service managers, music-education coordinators       and policy-makers attended from across the UK.
In terms of reach, as of       August 2013, there were over 350 registered users (who can undertake       assessments of children using the proprietary software), a number that is       growing all the time, with 100 schools actively entering data (the target       is to have 80% of special schools for children with learning difficulties,       ie.
400 in the UK, signed up by 2015), over 1,000 pupils being assessed       and over 2,000 session forms completed.
Not everyone uses the site for       assessment, but many use the resources that are available (for which       registration is not necessary) and, since the launch of the website in       February 2012, there have been over 2.5 million unique visitors and over       370,000 people have downloaded at least one resource.
As the corroborating       sources indicate, the impact on practice and provision is already being       felt on a broad scale and, in light of Sounds of Intent, at least       one school has re-evaluated its entire early communication curriculum.
Since the majority of the 40,000 or so children with severe or profound       and multiple learning difficulties (SLD or PMLD) in England are educated       in around 500 special schools, it is on music coordinators in these       establishments that Sounds of Intent has initially focused its       efforts at building take-up.
To this end, there is a strategy whereby       Soundabout (a UK-wide special needs music charity chaired by Adam       Ockelford) is leading on the Sounds of Intent roll-out.
To support       this work, they have won bids amounting to over &#163;200,000, including       &#163;75,000 from the John Ellerman Foundation and &#163;10,000 from the Council for       Disabled Children.
Soundabout have a three-year plan in which 12 Sounds of Intent       associate organisations will be identified, each of which will hold a       regional conference in England and a national conference in Scotland,       Wales and Northern Ireland.
By August 2013 there were eight such       Associates, and five regional conferences have taken place - in the North       East (at the Sage, Gateshead) and Yorkshire and Humber (in Leeds),       Liverpool, Oxford and London.
In addition, a national presentation was       made at the `NAME' (National Association of Music Educators) Conference in       October 2012.
The Sounds of Intent Associates are working within       their region to set up local seminars for schools, music hubs and other       music education providers.
To date, 70 seminars have taken place       (involving around 2,000 people) and a further 50 are scheduled.
Two schools, which were involved in the Sounds of Intent       development, are particularly advanced in their use of the scheme.
Brays School, Birmingham, as well as utilising Sounds of Intent to       underpin its new music curriculum, has used it to formulate programmes of       early communication, while St Hugh's School in Scunthorpe has a `whole       school' approach to Sounds of Intent, captured in a `Music       Manifesto', in which Teaching Assistants have been trained to use the       assessment tool and to devise `next steps' in the children's music       curricula, based on the framework.
The use of Sounds of Intent in       Whitefield School in London, which was also involved in developing the       framework, came to the attention of Ofsted, which refers to Sounds of         Intent in written and video documentation, as an example of good       practice (see http://www.ofsted.gov.uk/resources/music-schools-wider-still-and-wider).
Much music provision for children with learning difficulties comes       through organisations such as `Live Music Now', which employs 100s of       musicians across the country.
`Jessie's Fund' and `Drake Music' are major       players too.
All three organisations are using Sounds of Intent to       evaluate the impact of what they do.
The significance of this take up is       that, for the first time, visiting musicians can integrate their delivery       and assessment with a school's curriculum, as opposed to adopting an ad       hoc approach &#8212; an area of weakness highlighted in Ockelford, Welch and       Zimmermann, 2002.
