     The socio-cognitive framework has been foundational in the benchmarking       of existing tests and test design on an international scale.
The       framework, initially developed by Weir and O'Sullivan at the University of       Roehampton, has continued to evolve as it is operationalized through       commissioned research projects undertaken by CLARe (Centre for Language       Assessment Research at the University of Roehampton) and CRELLA (Centre       for Research in English Language Learning and Assessment at the University       of Bedfordshire).
Since 2008, O'Sullivan and CLARe have undertaken a total       of ten research, validation and development projects in over a dozen       countries.
Projects underpinned by the framework have include a range of       leading examination bodies, governments, institutions and organisations,       all of which have had associated benefits for candidates taking the tests.
1) Impact on testing bodies, organisations and test takers since       2008:     In the globalised economy increased mobility and English language skills       are desirable in a range of contexts.
Through the application of the       socio-cognitive framework alternatives to expensive and generic       international tests are seen as crucial, in order to assess the       subject-specific and transferrable skill sets.
One of the earliest applications of the research was the EXAVER project       (2005-8).
Working with a team from Universidad Veracruzana, and initially       in partnership with Cambridge ESOL, the project led to the development of       a full suite of language tests.
In 2008, O'Sullivan took over management       of the project and substantially refined the foundations of test       development using, and in the process refining, the socio-cognitive       framework.
The Secretariat of Public Education in Mexico now accredits the       tests for national use, and the impact of the research was two-fold.
Firstly, the tests were made culturally appropriate for the people of       Central and South America, and secondly, they cost less than one fifth of       equivalent assessments making them much more accessible to local people.
The development of an advanced level test for the International Council       of Ophthalmologists (2009-10) is one example that demonstrates the impact       of the framework and the associated benefits for test takers.
Through the       research, the test was developed for specific-subject knowledge in       English, and tested particularly for both precision and accuracy, which       were seen as important characteristics for professional competency.
The       successful completion of the test now leads to recognition as a Fellow of       the International Council of Ophthalmology, and is recognised as a       "revolutionary examination" (Taylor and Quilter, 2011: 2).
Growing pressures for those operating English language tests to       demonstrate validity have resulted in a series of commissioned projects in       which the framework has been applied to ensure that the tests are       appropriate and useful to the needs of examiners and testers.
Examples       which have been underpinned by the socio-cognitive framework since 2008       include Cambridge ESOL, and a range of examination boards that required       their tests to be theoretically linked to the Common European Framework       (CEFR), in the UK, Turkey, Mexico, Taiwan and Japan.
The benchmarking of       City and Guilds English language tests (2008-9), in line with the CEFR, is       one example that has been completed by O'Sullivan.
This project critically       reviewed City and Guilds examination in the light of the socio-cognitive       framework, reworking test specifications and empirically benchmarking       against CEFR criteria.
This was vital for the recognition of these exams.
Moreover, the reports, recommendations and reviewing framework provided       the expert advice required to navigate the changing policy environment and       steer the continuing professional development of the organization.
The       project is now registered with the Council of Europe as one of the       official linking projects.
A further example of the application of the socio-cognitive framework is       the development of the International Language Assessment (ILA), in       collaboration with CRELLA at the University of Bedfordshire, for the       British Council (2007-9).
This innovative assessment tool measures levels       of English so that learners can continue their language learning at the       appropriate stage.
Not only does it ensure that students are able to       register for the appropriate level of English language instruction, but it       is also an affordable test.
In the Ukraine, for example, it costs less       than &#163;4 (50UAH).
O'Sullivan continues to work on the ILA, monitoring the       test and conducting analyses of results by country as requested.
The       300,000+ individuals who have taken the ILA test, to date, indicate the reach       of this impact.
2) The development and delivery of APTIS with the British Council:     Since 2012 O'Sullivan has worked with the British Council as the Senior       Advisor for English Language Assessment.
O'Sullivan is driving the       application of the socio-cognitive framework on a much wider scale and       innovation in the development of a new testing system.
The significance       of the research is demonstrated by the British Council's recognition of       the framework as `the most influential test validation theory in modern       assessment' (http://www.britishcouncil.org/exams/aptis/research).
O'Sullivan's version of the socio-cognitive framework has now been       formally adopted by the British Council and is currently being developed       for use in teaching as well as in relation to assessment.
This research       has had a significant impact on the British Council, as the       organisation now has an agreed approach to language assessment, which is       underpinned by a coherent philosophy and approach built on the       socio-cognitive framework.
This has acted as the foundation stone for a       new direction in the organisational approach to the development of testing       products.
This change is evident in the development of a new `testing system',       APTIS, which is underpinned by the socio-cognitive framework.
This is the       first time the British Council has developed its own testing products,       rather than acting as the distributor of other products.
As a result there       have been tangible economic benefits, as the product has created a significant       new revenue stream.
The APTIS service is a business-to-business product       that is both flexible and accessible providing the British Council with an       innovative and highly marketable English Language testing system.
Because       of its innovative modular structure, adaptable delivery system and       customizable content, the APTIS service is appropriate for a wide range of       contexts.
Launched globally in August 2012, APTIS helps organisations       benchmark and assess the English language skills of their employees,       prospective employees, students and teachers.
The test can also be used to       conduct `language audits' to identify language training and development       needs.
The benefits of the APTIS service which are underpinned by the framework       are that 1) it can be completed quickly (a maximum of seventy-two, and       normally twenty-four hours) and, 2) it is affordable (&#163;30 for the four       skill test), which means that organisations are able to bear the cost.
It       is a modular system, with 15 different configurations of four fundamental       elements (reading, writing, speaking, listening).
Clients can choose       precisely what they need to assess and tailor components to local       contexts.
The system is also innovative in its delivery as it can be taken       over the phone, on computer, or with pen and paper.
This key development       means that the test is suitable for a much wider range of applications       than traditional instruments and that it can be used to access even remote       and isolated communities.
The reach of this impact between the launch of the product in       2012 and 31 July 2013 is indicated by the 90,000 individuals who have       taken the test, and its usage in over 40 countries, and a range of       contexts including: a DFiD funded project in Rwanda, to assess English       teachers' baseline competencies; the Malaysian Education Ministry, for the       development of English language assessment and teacher training; Adecco in       Poland, for recruitment purposes; the Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Oriente in       Columbia to evaluate graduating students' English; Ci&#234;ncia Sem Fronteiras       (Science without Frontiers) Brazil, as a gateway to this programme, which       facilitates the international training and mobility of science students;       Petrobras, Tanzania, to assess training needs; the Ministry of Foreign       Affairs, Republic of Kosovo, for recruitment of foreign diplomats and       consular staff; the Universidad de Alcal&#225; de Henares, in Spain, to       evaluate students' English.
In Egypt, it is used by Pfizer and KPMG, in       Hungary by MPS Group Henkel and in Brazil by Siemens.
The reach of the APTIS product continues to grow, and will also       contribute to the refinement and development of the socio-cognitive       framework.
