     The long legacy of Humble's research has enabled her to present cultural       heritage in the form of       under-read culinary and middlebrow texts to new and expanding audiences,       which has inspired       new forms of literary engagement.
As a result, there is a significantly       increased public awareness       of the literature of food and of the middlebrow, both of which are       frequently discussed and       understood in terms derived from her research.
Humble's three major books each had an immediate popular impact on first       publication, with       mainstream engagement in the form of radio and television exposure (e.g.
Radio 4's Open Book,       BBC TV's Food and Drink), and popular newspaper and magazine       reviews and articles.
They have       continued to have a sustained popular presence in the years since.
The       lasting significance of the       research is indicated by the naming of Culinary Pleasures as one of       the `best food books of the       decade' by The Guardian's Word of Mouth blog (23.12.09) in a       selection judged by major food       writers and critics, where it is described as "an immensely readable       history of the cookery book"       (Tim Hayward) and, a "scholarly volume [which] offers a feast of diverting       information" (Will       Skidelsky).
The high-profile public recognition of Humble's work has legitimated the       discussion of both cook       books and middlebrow fiction as literary texts, changing the ways in which       these texts are       discussed by journalists.
For example, Rachel Cooke, writing in the Observer         Magazine on `Why       there's more to cookbooks than recipes', (15.8.10) uses Culinary         Pleasures to provide a historical       account of cook book publishing.
Similarly, An extract on the subject of       Nouvelle Cuisine was       included in How the British Fell in Love with Food (Simon &amp;       Schuster, 2010), a collection to mark       the best writing of members of the Guild of Food Writers in the last 25       years, and was singled out       for praise by a number of reviewers (`sharp and brilliant', Sam Leith, Mail         Online, 12.3.10).
Complementing this high-profile impact is widespread reference to       Humble's research in blogs and       web forums.
The term `feminine middlebrow' for example, coined by Humble,       is now widely used in       popular as well as academic contexts.
The reach of this impact is       indicated by the range of food       blogs (Poires au Chocolat, DollyBakes), reading blogs (20thcenturyvox,       dovegreyreader),       `domestic' blogs (Yarnstorm) and web forums on topics as diverse as book       collecting, parenting,       feminism and food culture (including LibraryThing, Mumsnet, thefword and       egullet) that have       referenced and discussed different aspects of this research.
A theme that       repeatedly emerges in       online discussions is the readers' surprise and pleasure at finding cook       books and middlebrow       novels discussed as literary and historical texts.
Many bloggers comment       specifically on a sense of       recognition and relief in finding books they love named, organised and       given a cultural identity in       Humble's work.
Humble broadened the reach of her food research to a wider       audience with Cake: A Global History       (2010).
A popular microhistory in Reaktion's new `Edibles' series, this       publication drew extensively       on Humble's earlier research, and explores the genesis of cake, its       history across the world and its       cultural identity through literature, art, psychology and ritual.
The       series won a Special       Commendation at the Andre Simon Awards 2010.
This edition has sold 2,133       copies worldwide.
Humble discussed the contemporary phenomenon of the cupcake on Radio 4's Woman's         Hour       (17.3.11), and wrote on `Women and Cake' for the popular history journal Herstoria       (3.11).
Helen       Rumbelow drew on this work for an article on the new baking culture and       its gender politics in the       Times (18.10.12).
The Japanese translation of this publication has sold over 2,200 copies.
The impact of this work in       Japan is further indicated by Humble being interviewed by the editor of       national newspaper Yomiuri         Shimbun (reputedly the paper with the world's largest circulation)       for an article on British food       culture (4.10) and being invited to write the preface for a series of       nineteenth-century British       cookery books for Eureka Press, Kyoto (1.11).
There was also considerable       interest in Cake in       Australia and New Zealand, where Humble was interviewed on Radio New       Zealand National       (13.6.10) and on `Book Show' on ABC (Australian national radio, 1.9.10).
Both broadcasts drew       comment in the blogosphere, and particular interest was shown in the       history of the Lamington, an       iconic Australian cake.
This presentation of cultural heritage to wide audiences through popular       publishing has not only       inspired new forms of litereary engagement, and increased public       awareness, but has also had a       range of practical impacts.
For example, Nigel Slater devoted a column to       the book in the Observer         Magazine (20.6.10): `I had been awaiting Nicola Humble's Cake &#8212;         A Global History with as much       anticipation as a warm Dundee cake coming out of the oven on a winter's       afternoon ...
I have       found it as difficult to put down as a slice of village-f&#234;te chocolate       cake.
This sliver of a tome is       testament to research.'
His inclusion of a recipe from the book and       suggestion that readers try it       broadened the impact and had practical applications.
Humble has actively sought new audiences and forms of engagement, which       has continued since       2008, including speaking at libraries (such as Earlsfield on food in       Dickens, 19.4.12) and literary       and food festivals (for example, `Toast', Shoreditch, 2.6.13).
This type       of work has been       complemented by frequent invitations to write, speak and broadcast on       these topics.
The 2000       edition of Beeton's Household Management was reissued by Oxford       University Press in 2008, and       Humble wrote a blog for their website in response to Sophie Dahl's BBC2       programme on Beeton       (3.2.11).
The edition generated massive publicity on first publication       (including a Martin Rowson       cartoon in the Independent on Sunday), and continues to be       referenced in popular books and       articles as well as in academic texts (for example, Panayi, Spicing up         Britain, Reaktion, 2008).
Humble has also contributed to the third series of BBC TV's The Great         British Bake-Off as an       expert consultant.
Drawing on her research, in June 2013 she filmed a       segment on the National       Loaf in WWII for the fourth series (broadcast 8.10.13).
In her involvement       with the programme,       Humble has consulted with producers and researchers about many aspects of       the history of baking       which have led to changes (most recently on baking techniques, the reasons       for the loaf's dryness       and public reactions to it).
Humble's impact is ongoing, and her research continues to reach broad       public audiences.
