     Reading groups have been the success story of literary culture but       largely ignored &#8212; even shunned &#8212; by the academy.
Publishers recognise       their worth and potential, and consult Hartley and Turvey frequently, as       do UK public libraries.
Reader Development initiatives include the huge       expansion of public library reading group provision across the UK over the       past decade.
Invitations to run workshops and events for local authorities       (e.g.
Surrey and Hampshire) took Hartley and Turvey's work directly to       public librarians setting up groups.
The research is still frequently       referenced in the national press; a recent example is Brian Viner, Sunday         Telegraph, 13/03/13.
The Prison Reading Groups project (PRG) and its       phenomenal expansion in this arena brought Hartley's and Turvey's research       to a new audience.
This was a highly original application of the research,       and has subsequently been developed and expanded by them.
Reach:     PRG began in 1999 with just five groups but, following an AHRC KTF grant,       numbers expanded between 2010 and 2012.
Since 2010 PRG has exceeded the       initial target of ten groups, and has set up and supported 44 groups in 31       prisons across the UK, as well as three community-based groups for       ex-offenders or those in danger of offending.
With expansion has come       variety, as volunteers and facilitators rise to the challenges and needs       of their particular constituency.
Some groups meet weekly, some       fortnightly and some monthly; all get free books provided by funding       sourced by PRG.
The emphasis in the model is on reader choice.
PRG       supports an ad hoc poetry group, a weekly group on a mental health wing,       groups for Family Visit days, elderly prisoners, emergent readers, the       visually impaired, and foreign nationals.
Over 3,000 prisoners have       participated in the programme since 2010 and PRG further extends its reach       to all prisoners in the UK through its monthly `Reading Group Round-Up'       column in Inside Time, the newspaper distributed to all UK       prisons, and the Bookclub on National Prison Radio, which was established       with PRG support, and often records PRG groups for broadcast on NPR.
PRG has had an impact on approximately 200,000 UK prisoner hours since       2008.
Each group lasts more than an hour, with an estimated 36,000 contact       hours to date (including the estimated 4 hours reading time in preparation       for each session).
The reach also extends beyond group members: along       prison wings as books and discussions are passed on, and outwards to       prisoners' friends and families &#8212; notably at prison Family Visit days.
Significance:     The immediate benefits of the PRG are felt by prisoners, prison       professionals and volunteers.
For the prisoners there are two key impacts:       1) the take-up and expanded range of reading, from Othello to Gone         Girl; 2) the development of the soft skills vital for employability       post-prison.
One prisoner reported: `Today we have not been in a prison,       just a library.'
The effects can be empowering, as described by another       prisoner: `for one hour a month the walls of my confinement crumble to       dust and I feel respected.
Not just by fellow inmates, but by citizens       from the wider community, members of the society into which I'll one day       be released &#8212; by the two women who run the group, and by the visitors they       invite.'
Benefits can also be felt by those close to the prisoners.
For       example, one prisoner recorded how his daughter 'shadow-reads` the same       books, with the result that she `feels closer to me when she feels that       she "shares" an evening with me.'
The longer-term benefits for prisoners       who partake in PRG are difficult to assess, however some participants have       gone on to join book-clubs or go to university when they have left prison.
Prison librarians, who assist with logistical arrangements inside the       prison (a challenging but necessary task), support the scheme because they       recognize the gains for members, including more openness and empathy among       prisoners, and a `willingness to see other points of view'.
There are       associated benefits for prison professionals and volunteers who help to       coordinate and run the PRG.
The research and ensuing practice are       communicated to prison professionals through professional and       practitioner-oriented publications, such as Hartley and Turvey's `What Can       a Book Do Behind Bars?'
(The Reader, No 32, Winter 2008),       commissioned research for the Prison Service Journal, and What         Books Can Do Behind Bars, Report on the work of PRG 1999-2013       (University of Roehampton 2013, 71).
Professor Robert Waxler, pioneer of       the US `Changing Lives Through Literature' prison scheme, described the       2013 report as `an impressive work - as is the program itself,' adding       `You are doing important work.'
The report was described as `inspiring' by       film-maker Carol Noble, who is developing a script based on it and       meetings she has had with PRG.
The volunteers PRG recruits to facilitate the groups are supported and       mentored; PRG ran a series of annual workshops, and maintains an extensive       e-list in order to disseminate best practice to all volunteers and       professionals involved, along with interested `fellow travellers'.
An       evaluation of the volunteer experience demonstrated that: two-thirds of       them felt they had acquired new skills from running the groups; 77% had       met and discussed books with people they would not normally meet, and all       volunteers benefitted from hearing the views of prisoners, gaining new       knowledge and insights into prisons and the prisoner experience.
Similarly, prison governors recognize institutional benefits from the       `positive interaction between a diverse mix of cultures, backgrounds and       experiences, united in the enjoyment of reading.
The book club is of a       huge benefit for the establishment, enabling women to learn, share       experiences and unite in their enjoyment of books' (Deputy Governor, HMP       Send).
Another indicator of the significance of the PRG is the high-profile       endorsements of its work.
The groups meet the criterion of the Prison       Inspectorate for `purposeful activity' among the prison population, and       this has been endorsed by the Shadow Justice Minister Sadiq Kahn, who       visited the HMP Wandsworth group in May 2012, and referred to PRG as 'an       invaluable contribution'.
John Hayes MP, Minister of State for Further       Education, Skills and Lifelong Learning, Department for Business       Innovation and Skills wrote in 2012: `I was particularly pleased to see       that Prison Reading Groups enjoy volunteer support'.
Authors who have       attended groups include Boris Johnson, Dame Penelope Lively, Howard       Jacobson, Nicci Gerrard, Sean French, and Deborah Moggach.
In 2011, PRG       was nominated for a PrisonerActionNet award, sponsored by the Monument       Trust `to recognise outstanding services that have strengthened a sense of       identity and belonging for prisoners and ex-offenders'.
In 2013 PRG was       nominated for a Royal Society for Public Health Arts and Health Award       which focused on Creative Arts and the Criminal Justice System in Secure       Settings and the Community.
Beyond PRG:     PRG also extends its reach and has increased its significance beyond the       project.
It acts as the `informal learning' arm of its project partners       the Prisoners Education Trust (PET), and is represented on the influential       new Prisoner Learning Alliance set up by the PET `to provide expertise and       strategic vision to inform future priorities, policies and practices       relating to prison education, learning and skills'.
PRG is instrumental in       offering a model of reading groups as central for the provision of       education in prison.
PRG has provided training for PEN authors visiting       prison groups, and help, advice and contacts for literacy organisations       (`What a joy to walk away from a meeting feeling informed and inspired!'
&#8212;       Cathy Rentzenbrink, Project Director, Quick Reads, Sept 2013).
PRG is       frequently consulted by agencies such as World Book Night, CityRead, The       Reading Agency, and the National Literacy Trust, all of whom recognize the       value of reading groups and want to learn from PRG how to maximize their       reach and effectiveness within the prison environment.
PRG connects with       publishers via the Reading Partners network, and contributes to government       policy initiatives, for example the 2011 BIS consultation on Informal       Adult and Community Learning (IACL).
In promoting the recognition of the       value of reading groups PRG facilitates its further reach by providing       training, mentoring and advice to these groups.
The PRG model is now being applied elsewhere, extending the reach of the       impact geographically and beyond prisons into new contexts.
For example,       Dr Carol Finlay has established an initiative in Canada on the PRG model,       which now has eight reading clubs in penitentiaries in Ontario.
The PRG       team also mentors groups in other community settings, such as mental       health, hostels for the homeless, cancer therapy centres, who have       similarly established groups on the proven PRG model.
PRG has also been       consulted by UK philosophy lecturers about starting prison philosophy       groups.
PRG's Give A Book website, and a constant stream of personal appearances,       have together enabled PRG to extend the reach of its impact beyond the       field of prison professionals to academic societies (SHARP, International       Society for the Empirical Study of Literature), educational associations       (London Association for Teaching of English, National Association of       Advisors in English 2009, Prisoners Education Trust, PrisonerActionNet),       universities (University of Utrecht, Edinburgh Napier University, Oxford,       Bristol) and literary associations (PEN, Chipping Norton Literary       Festival, London Book Fair).
It is supported by publishers Random House,       Profile Books and Harvard University Press, and the charity Give A Book       has ensured PRG's viability for the next 4 years.
