     Beattie's high public profile and impact on public discourse has been       sustained through non- academic publications, the communication of her       research more broadly, and collaboration with NGOs (CAFOD, Joint Learning       Initiative, Progressio, QUEST).
These research-driven interventions have       been a key resource in challenging cultural values around some of the most       neuralgic issues affecting Catholics in contemporary society.
Reach:     Beattie is committed to engaging with wider publics in ways which draw on       her body of research.
Since 2008, public lectures and media appearances       have reached a wide international audience.
She has participated in       debates about changes in civil law relating to same-sex marriage,       including the Westminster Faith Debates in 2013, and a debate between the       British Humanist Association and Catholic Voices when she was part of the       BHA panel in 2012.
Beattie has also contributed to online debate in The         Guardian, including an online series of eight articles on Thomas       Aquinas for The Guardian.
Based on the research for Theology         After Postmodernity (2013), the series attracted over 3,000 comments       from registered website users, and stimulated debate about the rationality       of religious faith and differing interpretations of Aquinas.
Media       appearances include BBC, Sky, RT&#201;, Al Jazeera, Australian Broadcasting       Corporation, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and various American news       and television outlets, which have contributed to public awareness and       discourse.
Beattie is also consulted and widely quoted by journalists (The         Washington Post, The Guardian, The Independent, the BBC).
Her writings have been translated into Norwegian, Spanish, Italian, Dutch,       French and Romanian.
As a member of CAFOD's Theological Advisory Group, Beattie's research on       Catholic social teaching and women's rights reaches beyond public       audiences, and has informed CAFOD policy relating to the development and       promotion of the `Live Simply' campaign, and the implementation of       Catholic Social Teaching in policy and education.
She writes for CAFOD       publications and contributes to CAFOD'S awareness-raising campaigns,       including the World Social Forum in Nairobi.
She is also a Director of and       theological advisor to the influential Catholic weekly, The Tablet.
She has acted as an advisor to various women's religious orders (such as       the Little Sisters of the Poor and the Society of the Sacred Heart), in       helping them to develop their charisms and formulate their visions through       an informed dialogue with feminist theology.
Significance:     The significance of Beattie's research-led intervention in public       discourse is illustrated by one high-profile example.
In August 2012, she       and twenty-six others signed a letter to The Times, arguing that       Catholics could in good conscience support same-sex civil marriage.
Her       decision was informed by her research and demonstrates its social       relevance.
A complaint was made to the Head of the Congregation for the       Doctrine of the Faith in the Vatican (CDF), who instructed the Bishop of       Clifton to cancel a public lecture Beattie was due to give in Clifton       cathedral.
This unprecedented intervention with regard to a lay theologian       in a secular university caused widespread protest.
No other signatory was       censured, despite the fact that these included several priests and       theologians.
Beattie might have been singled out because of her high       public profile and the nature of her research, which has also been the       target of conservative Catholic bloggers, and is evident in commentary on       the range of public engagement activities she undertakes.
Following this event, in November 2013, Beattie's visiting fellowship at       the University of San Diego (USD) was cancelled at short notice by the USD       President, after a campaign by a powerful coalition of funders and       Catholic public figures, supported by a senior Vatican official (full       report in the National Catholic Reporter: http://ncronline.org/news/theology/theologians-disinvite-linked-vatican-supported-group).
The extensive media coverage prompted       on-going international debate.
USD students formed a Facebook group &#8212;       `Toreros Stand With Beattie' &#8212; attracting over 500 supporters, with       demonstrations and debates on campus, and public lectures.
The faculty of       the College of Arts and Sciences passed a vote of no confidence in the       President, and several senior faculty members and alumni called for her       resignation.
The American Association of University Professors (AAUP) with       47,000 members, wrote to the USD President expressing serious concern       about the violation of academic freedom, and in September 2013 the       President of the AAUP took part in a debate about the case at USD,       organised by concerned faculty and students.
The controversy generated widespread discourse not only about the nature       of academic freedom, but also around Beattie's theological perspectives on       homosexuality in particular.
Since the cancellation of Beattie's lecture       and visiting fellowship, it has become evident that her work on religion,       sexuality and gender has become a valuable resource &#8212; extending and       increasing the quality of debate and discourse within the Catholic church       and increasing the possibilities for more informed debate.
For example,       she has been approached by an Ambassador to the Holy See for advice on       Catholic theological attitudes towards women, sexuality and reproduction
