     Initial contact with the Bible Society was through partial funding of the       first research phase.
Andrew Rogers started working for Bible Society in       March 2009 fulfilling the role of `ordinary hermeneutics researcher'       (until August 2011).
The Bible Society was interested in the findings of       the first phase of research and asked Rogers to explore the range and       quality of biblical hermeneutics resources for `ordinary' Christians.
This       led into the second phase of the research from September 2009, where       Rogers began preparing a hermeneutics course for churches which drew on       both first and second phase research.
The pilot project, known as `Pathfinder', involved nine churches around       England engaging with a number of Bible Society offerings, especially the       hermeneutics course which became known as h+: Making Good Sense of the         Bible.
Rogers wrote and taught the course in a London church between       January and April 2011, and trained a Bible Society colleague, Mike       Simmonds, to teach h+.
h+ was then taught at eight further churches over       the next year across a range of denominations.
Beyond Pathfinder, there       were a number of iterations of revision and development for h+ up until       its publication as a facilitator's guide and participant's guide in       September 2011.
The Bible Society also invested in a video to accompany       the course, which included illustrative material and expert opinion on       hermeneutical matters.
From March 2011, h+ moved towards a facilitator       model of delivery, starting with a training day for the Anglican         Diocese of Coventry.
Church leaders were invited to attend with a       view to becoming facilitators of h+ themselves.
The training day was       refined for a more general church audience in Swindon in June 2011.
Subsequently, Mike Simmonds has taken over the training programme for h+       facilitators, with over 250 church leaders having undergone such training       in England, Ireland and the Balkans (to July 2013).
In its final form h+ constitutes a 10 session course on biblical       hermeneutics for Christian communities.
The stated aim is `to enable       participants to make good sense of the Bible for themselves, in the church       and in the world, through learning, practising and mediating key       hermeneutical virtues and skills'.
The virtues of perseverance,       confidence, honesty, faithfulness, humility, courage, openness, and       community structure eight of the ten sessions.
`Passing it on' is a theme       running throughout h+, since it is designed to have an impact beyond its       immediate participants.
The main topics include: making the case that       hermeneutics is an indispensable element of Christian discipleship;       introducing the notion of hermeneutical virtue; addressing some standard       objections to hermeneutics; examining one's own horizons in relation to       the Bible; introducing key hermeneutical concepts; looking at the world       behind, within and in front of the text (i.e.
the emphases on author, text       and reader); putting hermeneutical virtues and skills together to tackle a       contemporary issue (e.g.
homelessness); and learning hermeneutics from the       whole body of Christ.
The impact of h+ demonstrates broad reach and marked significance for its       beneficiaries.
In terms of reach, the key outputs are the published h+       guides (657 participant guides sold so far); the h+ website and blog; the       h+ booklet distributed in the Bible Society's Bible in Transmission       journal (circulation to approximately 17,000 church leaders); Word in         Action features (60,000+ circulation); the Deep Engagement Fresh         Discovery report of the Anglican Communion (1,500 print copies);       article on the Anglican Communion news service website; article in the       Church of England Reader magazine (circulation 10,000); and all those who       have participated in the course or training events so far.
The beneficiaries of h+ are the participants, trained facilitators,       congregations and their communities, and denominational and parachurch       organisations.
Many of these beneficiaries have spoken of the significance       of h+ for them and their churches or organisations.
The Anglican         Communion News service speaks of h+'s educational and spiritual       benefit through enabling participants to `think for themselves' and take a       `greater, deeper part in the life and mission of their churches' (S2).
There are many testimonials about h+ from participants, some noting the       course as `an accessible focus for Christian discipleship', others noting       the need for more advanced courses such as h+ that `treats the ordinary       reader as a thinking being' (S3).
From the earliest pilot stage of h+,       feedback indicated evidence of significant impact on understanding and       practices (IC2).
For example, one participant changed their Bible reading       practices, whilst another spoke of the course turning the Bible from 2D to       3D, making the `text alive', leading to a stronger relationship with God.
Others found the latter a `liberating' aspect of h+.
Some participants       noted the change in Bible engagement in the church after h+, so context       and critical reflection were mentioned.
One leader spoke of the confidence       h+ had given him in his preaching, and others spoke of its impact on their       preparation (S8).
Those training to be facilitators largely provided evidence of       congregational impact, particularly in terms of Christian discipleship       strategies at the congregational level.
There have been many examples of       facilitators planning to incorporate h+ into training for leaders in their       congregation(s), deaneries, circuits and ecumenical groups.
One life coach       spoke of running h+ to help people `use the Bible more intelligently in       their lives at work' (S13).
Text and video testimonials from congregants,       leaders and academics speak of h+'s broader significance.
One church       leader commented `I've seen the impact not only on myself, but also on       people in the congregation' and another spoke of h+ extending his social       life and `inquisitiveness' about the Bible.
David Roche recommends h+ for       all church leaders since h+ has `listened to what is happening in our       culture' and so enables Christian communities to `get a grip of what we       are doing with the Bible'.
Another thought it would `grow biblical       literacy' in their church.
Darren Blaney appreciated h+ particularly for       moving participants to action in the later sessions through using the       pastoral cycle (S4).
At the denominational and parachurch level, the Bible Society is       a key beneficiary of the research.
h+ was run at their HQ with a very       positive response (IC4&amp;5), and they have made h+ a key plank of their       Bible advocacy strategy (S3, 4, 6, 9, 11, 12).
h+ is one of their core       responses to declining biblical literacy and engagement in England and       Wales, and as such there is significant benefit in terms of facilitating       engagement with a key text in our cultural heritage.
The Anglican         Communion's `Bible in the Life of the Church' (BLC) project ran from       2009-2012 in eight regions around the world (S1, S2).
With a strong focus       on process, the final report `highly recommended' h+ which it described as       `ten steps towards a deeper engagement with Scripture', and reported       testimony from participants saying h+ `freed them up to ask questions' and       gave them `curiosity and confidence to dig deeper into the text' (S1,       IC3).
The reach of the impact is indicated as follows: `the Bible Society       in conjunction with the Bible in the Life of the Church project is       inviting Anglicans across the world to join in the h+ programme' (S1:p49,       IC3&amp;5 for on-going situation).
Dr Helen Cameron, head of public       affairs at the Salvation Army, attended one of the first h+       facilitator training events.
She then ran h+ twice for her senior       colleagues with a particular focus on theological reflection, starting       with homelessness (S5).
The effect on participants was `a sense of       confidence that theological reflection is something that employees can       take part in'.
h+ drew attention to the hermeneutical skills they already       had, which could also be `put to the service of theological reflection'.
It is noted of Cameron that `after doing the h+ session on homelessness,       her church paused to take stock of their own response to the issue' (S12,       IC1).
Finally, the Congregational Federation's theological       programme runs a Level 6 module on Ordinary Theology, in which h+ and the       research outputs underpinning it feature (S7).
Further indicators of reach include the fact that 250+ facilitators have       been trained and 657 participant guides have been sold to date, which       indicates that h+ has run in many more locations beyond the initial 9       pilot churches.
The nature of the impact, as has been seen, is spiritual,       in terms of a deepening of faith; educational, in terms of enriching the       hermeneutical practices of Christian communities; and cultural, in terms       of enhancing engagement with the Bible which forms a significant part of       British cultural heritage.
