     Through her impact upon selected publications, media outlets, dance       groups and artists, Jordan       has challenged preconceptions about how music and dance work together and       consequently       enhanced the knowledge and experience of audiences and critics.
This       impact is achieved through       direct engagement with Jordan's research publications, as well as articles       and public presentations       drawing on that research and on her long career as a dance       journalist/critic.
Promoting the Royal Opera House strategy of extending ways of engaging       and educating       audiences, Jordan has contributed ten Royal Ballet programme notes since       2008 (plus two       reprints), applying her Ashton, Balanchine and Stravinsky research       (distribution 28,490).
Advocating the `particularly important symbiotic relationship with music',       commissioning editor John       Snelson welcomes Jordan's rare ability to negotiate a broad aesthetic and       cultural context (a prime       example, her piece on Rite, extending from ballet into conceptual       choreography) and her unique       discussions of choreomusical detail.
Jordan supports the similar editorial       strategy of Dancing         Times (DT, readership 25,000), the UK's leading dance       magazine, contributing four articles since       2010, while Stravinsky Dances, very unusually for an academic       publication, was seen as       warranting (positive) reviews in both DT and Dance Now       magazines.
Regarding the education of critics, Alastair Macaulay, the New York         Times Chief Dance Critic       (arguably the most influential in the world), frequently consults both of       Jordan's books, singling       them out for radically shifting his thinking about music and dance.
Citing       four ballet reviews as       examples (2008-12), he notes Jordan's ideas of mutual reinforcement and       contradiction between       media, referring to her work's impact as having one's `eyes and ears newly       made keen...
I       continually recommend Moving Music to other writers and dance       enthusiasts as a primer of great       intelligence and acuity'.
Spanish critic Maria Torija chose to interview       Jordan for her Por la Danza       article on Rite, because of the `unique information' she provides       about Stravinsky's ballets.
Jordan's Stravinsky research also informed discussions with Zachary Woolfe       in preparation for his       New York Times feature on Rite and Robert Craft.
Since 2008, the Mark Morris Dance Group have seized upon Jordan's       research as the opportunity       to address the grave under-representation, and misunderstanding, of the       key, musical aspect of       Morris's work.
Executive Director Nancy Umanoff stresses that Jordan's       ideas on the range and       cognitive effect of Morris's musical approach play a crucial role in       developing audiences       outside the `dance ghetto', also in re-educating dance audiences and       critics who reject his       emphasis on music to appreciate multiple approaches and re-evaluate their       prejudices.
Jordan's       contributions have driven the expansion of the MMDG's styles of       educational material,       demonstrating that academic depth should be made accessible to a broad       readership.
`This kind of       work has opened a door and makes us re-think what we can offer', says       Umanoff, recognising a       wealth of expertise useful to audiences.
Jordan has tailored her research       ideas specifically for the       MMDG website (articles on Italian Concerto and the revival of Four         Saints&#8212;a link sent to all 6,000       ticket-holders), playing a key role in the website's conceptualisation for       enhanced access prior to       its autumn 2013 re-launch.
She also did so in speaking about the breadth       of Morris's musical       approach to the Friends of Pacific Northwest Ballet.
Furthermore, her       original research writings on       his Dido and Aeneas, Frisson and Four Saints since       2007 have contributed to press-publicity       materials sent to promoters abroad, for instance, in Germany and Korea.
In       the US, this includes,       significantly, the circuit of university-based presenters who answer to       academic communities and       their funding streams.
Umanoff considers that Jordan's work `raises the       bar...deepens the       understanding of producers, press, and potential sponsors, and re-affirms       the seriousness of       Morris's work, which helps sell it'.
Similar support relationships have       been forged with Richard       Alston's company, extracts from Jordan's Shimmer article included       on TheAlstonStudio.com (183       views to date, ranking 22 out of over 400 webpages, publicised in the       programme note for the UK       tour 2012-13).
Jordan's research has helped shape recent commemorations, within the       media, for instance, the       100th anniversary of the Ballets Russes (2009).
Radio 3 invited her to       speak on three occasions       (2008-9) about their musical innovations (BBC RAJAR stats, based on       quarterly averages for       broadcast slot: 85k, 115k, 129k; iPlayer total: 2,496).
One of these was a       live public interview prior       to a Promenade Concert, broadcast during the interval and also filmed as       podcast.
After her       keynote at a public conference in Australia, ABC Classic FM interviewed       her for a programme in       their series `The Astonishing Ballets Russes' (2009).
Such impact escalated with the 2013 Rite centenary.
The 45-minute BBC       Radio 3 Rite       documentary (May, 2013), presented by Jordan, enjoyed a range of       beneficiaries: the producers       (Just Radio (JR)&#8212;Susan Marling and Paul Smith), critics, promotional       publications, as well as the       listening public (RAJAR: 100k; iPlayer 3,531).
The programme was listed as       `choice of the week' in       the Times and Radio Times, and highlighted in reviews in The         Daily Telegraph and Stage.
Unusually, an account of the score's legacy from the dance point of view,       it drew extensively from       the Rite chapter of Jordan's Stravinsky Dances, `the story       of the programme'.
It also featured her       recent research and public outcomes derived from research publications (a       Royal Ballet       programme note and April 2013 DT article).
Supporting JR practice       of moulding academic ideas for       a larger public, Jordan's research was used from the start, in preparing       the initial proposal,       identifying artist interviewees and framing questions, editorial planning,       incorporating prose from       research publications within the script, and checking script accuracy.
JR       rate Jordan `a natural       presenter', able to translate her knowledge into an `accessible,       enlightening and entertaining'       programme.
BBC commissioners are keen to run more programmes on dance.
JR       immediately       invited Jordan to work with them again on ideas for 2013-14.
Meanwhile, Jordan's Stravinsky database and book have been widely       consulted for figures and       information on dances to Stravinsky, especially (in centenary year) on the       200 plus Rite entries: for       articles, e.g.
Le Figaro (Bavelier), Sunday Times (Jays),       Por la Danza (Torija); for public talks and       V &amp; A seminars (Pritchard); for programme notes (Konaev, Bolshoi       Theatre).
The database is also       valued within undergraduate and graduate teaching (e.g.
Penn State,       Indiana, Oregon, Temple       and Kingston university music departments, the University of Michigan       dance department and       Royal Academy of Dancing).
In Dance Now magazine, Jonathan Still       recommends Jordan's book       `unreservedly...courses in music theory for anyone working in dance,       whether they are an hour or       a year long, should be geared to understanding her analytical       approaches...' Choreographer       Wayne McGregor used her Rite chapter: `a rich source of       inspiration, seminal in preparations for       my own Rite at the Bolshoi'.
The kinds of impact discussed are on-going: public Rite symposia       in Madrid and Berlin (2013);       programme notes and magazine articles; radio (Morris documentary, Radio 4,       confirmed for 2014);       as Jordan's book nears publication, a DT article and interview       (Sadler's Wells, 2013) promoting       Morris's work, and a website of clips (hosted by the MMDG) illustrating       for a wide audience       different choreomusical practices mentioned in her book; and engagement       with dance audiences       and professionals, as specialist in music and dance, speaker at the Royal       Ballet's Ashton       symposium (2013) and Visiting Scholar, San Francisco Ballet (2014).
Jordan's research and       Impact work continue to be highly mutually supportive.
