     Working with artists, public dance organisations and NGOs in the UK and       overseas, the focus of our research on cultural life also benefits the       communities that it investigates.
Making South Asian dance more visible       within the artistic landscape, it engages with civil society and helps       artists thrive.
We have engaged in long-standing dialogues, formal when       mentoring or sharing a platform, and informal through discussions with       those who have attended events we participated in and/or who read our       research publications.
Our research has benefitted both individuals and       organisations.
Our research is embedded in our contributions to the professional       magazine Pulse and the widely-read newspaper CONFLUENCE: South         Asian Perspective, enriching discussions on South Asian dance.
Moreover, the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing (ISTD) acknowledges       our work and commissioned Meduri (2008) and David (2013) to write for DANCE         Magazine.
Aimed at their 7,500+ members in 75 countries and drawing       on the team's research (e.g.
issues surrounding the term South Asian dance       or the global reach of Indian dance), the articles share ideas that are       relevant to the Classical Indian dance faculty, but also inform a wider       dance audience.
Our research has also reached the mainstream media, for       example, we have worked alongside journalists, enabling their access to       our field sites and presenting our research through their reporting, such       as David's contribution to a BBC News audio slideshow in 2008.
Through communicating our research to broader constituencies, we are       contributing to the development of a framework for dance criticism aimed       at the next generation of writers/critics coming from the South Asian       dance community.
We formalised our collaboration with Kadam, the       publisher of Pulse.
The magazine and its associated social media       outputs reaches 1000+ dance enthusiasts.
We helped set up Critical         Writing 2 in collaboration with the well-known dance critic Sanjoy       Roy and dancer Mavin Khoo (with whom we have been working for over a       decade).
This workshop was aimed at a small group of aspiring dance       writers, enhancing their skills and increasing their confidence to write       for Pulse.
Prickett delivered the workshop, drawing from her       research into institutions, politics of funding and relations of power       (2013, from project 2).
Two writers were subsequently published in the       September 2013 issue.
There were also contributions to dance blogs       including writingaboutdance.com and http://abundantart.net.
The collaboration will continue in 2014, linked to the residency at       Roehampton of US-based artist-scholar Ananya Chatterjee.
Kathak practitioner Sonia Sabri noted that Prickett's research helped her       to better articulate the distinctiveness of her work within the British       cultural landscape.
In 2009 she asked Prickett to join and chair the board       of her company, Sonia Sabri Dance, thus ensuring continued collaboration.
Ongoing dialogue saw her present with Prickett at the Women in Asian         Theatre Symposium, University of Lincoln (2013), an encounter valued       by the artist for illuminating and communicating the uniqueness of her       practice.
Prickett had also articulated the particular negotiations       involved in presenting the body, in dance, in environments where neither       is promoted.
She contributed to Sabri's conceptualisation, with due       cultural sensitivity, of her highly successful 2011 performances and       workshops in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
In 2012, the company became a       National Portfolio Organisation, funded by Arts Council England, a process       assisted by Prickett's analysis of funding for dance companies outside the       mainstream canon.
The resulting financial stability allowed Sabri `to plan       for three years in terms of artistic vision'.
Shalini Bhalla, the creator of Just Jhoom!
(an accredited       Bollywood and bharatanatyam-derived fitness genre copyrighted in 2012),       notes how our research challenged her assumptions and inspired her to       think about cultural activity within an entrepreneurial framework.
She had       `focused on Bharata Natyam...only exploring avenues within that       discipline' as she had `an internal conflict - some would say snobbery -       between the classical and the popular'.
She felt empowered to reassess the       hierarchies within South Asian dance, reflecting on 1.
Grau's observations       (1993) that western classification of dance, into classical, folk and       primitive, tells us more about class and race than dance 2.
David's       analysis of Bollywood within diasporic communities (2010) 3.
Meduri's       investigation of Rukmini Devi's cultural vision (2005).
She `became less       rigid in [her] thoughts about classical versus popular' and started a       Bollywood dance class.
Our research helped her find the right niche for Just         Jhoom!.
Becoming one of the Asian Women of Achievement 2013,       the judges commented: `Shalini [...] turned an art form into a very       successful business and is making a huge contribution to bringing an Asian       dance form to the wider community and to a full range of generations -       from the very young to the elderly.'
Our research also contributed to the development of the work of       independent artist Anusha Subramanyam, in her capacity as bharatanatyam       Programme Leader at the Centre for Advanced Training (CAT) for South Asian       and Contemporary Dance (funded by the Department for Education and hosted       by Birmingham's DanceXchange).
Prickett's analysis of the ISTD syllabus       (2007) and Meduri's discussion of the dispersal of the Rukmini Devi legacy       in the diaspora (2005) helped her contextualise her teaching within a       global context.
Subramanyam noted that David's research and ongoing       dialogue on dance in Indian UK society has shaped her thinking in her own       community work.
Grau's work on the Sarabhais' social commitment through       dance (2013) validated Subramanyam's own artistic engagement within an       ethos of social justice.
Through such recognition she feels empowered to       explore the emotive and gestural grammar of bharatanatyam and combine it       with a contemporary dance style that generally shies away from such       movement material.
Urja Desai Thakore, director of Pagrav Dance Company, came to our       research initially through an Arts Council sponsored mentorship for       research and development towards Baharan &#8212; Spring (2009).
Mentoring by David in 2008 started a journey that took her artistic output       into new directions.
David's research helped illuminate and challenge the       cultural values and assumptions that she held about the place of kathak       and how it might be viewed.
Today Thakore sees multiculturalism or the       global reach of South Asian dance forms as potential subject matters.
Fellow artists have noticed a marked shift in her work, commenting: `This       is something we never expected from you'.
Similarly advised by Meduri through an Arts Council mentorship in 2011,       Divya Kasturi drew upon our research dealing with identity construction       when she devised NowHere, a work that articulates two       sensibilities of `nowhere' and `now here' and negotiates boundaries       between the classical, traditional and contemporary aesthetics.
Our       reflections helped her articulate such issues within her artistic       practice.
The work toured internationally and was well received.
A Dublin       critic described NowHere as `an interesting fusion of cultures       ...[it] depicts a journey in search of one's identity'; whilst another       critic wrote that Kasturi appeared `to shed her past upon entering a       multilayered examination of her tradition and identity'.
Long-established choreographers have also been keen to engage in       intellectual dialogue with us.
Shobhana Jeyasingh, for instance, invited       Meduri as a consultant to help her unpack the way in which her       choreographic work could be analysed within a broader framework of       globalised dance and diasporic dialogues (from projects 2 and 4).
The       impact of this work was such that when, for the first time since its       inception, her company was invited to undertake a ten days tour in India,       she asked Meduri to contribute to this HOME meets HOME project.
The result was the essay `Traces and Trails' (http://www.rescen.net/Shobana_Jeyasingh/HmH/delhi.html),       which not only provides new spectatorial theories based on the `look' and       `trace effects' in world choreographies but also makes academic theory       accessible to a broad audience.
