 PM enacted knowledge exchange between international specialists from different sectors of the academy and of cultural production, resulting in a series of public-facing events over four years in which academics and cultural workers presented, discussed and evaluated key insights on the cultural value of performance.
Further documentary, textual and filmic outcomes of this research were disseminated to new audiences and readerships internationally.
Contributors were leading figures in the practice and theorisation of the visual arts, dance, theatre, live art, political activism and club culture.
The interdisciplinary and dialogic model deployed by the curators generated dynamic exchanges between previously discrete areas of thought, critical vocabulary and practice: it identified formative agreements, differences and paradoxes, resulting in unique contributions to a range of current cultural debates.
Curatorial, aesthetic and critical agendas initiated and promoted by `Performing Idea' such as `Living Archives', `Reciprocal Aesthetics' and `Other Durations' have since become recurrent themes of cultural and critical discourse.
These public research exchanges had a resounding impact on the gathered audiences at the events, including early-career artists and diverse cultural practitioners, alongside frequent attendees of performance.
The initial reach of the discussions in `Performing Idea' was significant and is evidenced in audited audience figures produced by the respective box offices of partner venues: 1,413 people attended symposia events and performances over five days; 270 people consulted the digital archive of performance-lectures at Whitechapel Gallery with a further 104 attending an accompanying archival screening event.
For the project as a whole, spanning two five-day international events in October 2010 and 2011, and one two-day event in October 2012 attendance figures were: workshops 64; symposia, talks and performances 3,920.
[source 2] Wider dissemination of the findings of these exchanges took place through the production of comprehensive DVD documentation located in 15 archives globally, securing lasting international public reach.
Deeper specific influence across cultural and institutional divisions was later achieved through a series of films published and distributed on DVD with associated knowledge exchange activities with key media professionals.
The award of AHRC follow-on funding to facilitate these impacts, alongside the evidence of the AHRC evaluator's assessment, indicates the cultural significance of the existing funded research.
[1] Direct impact on the work of the main cultural sector partner LADA, as evidenced through the Director's statement, includes the development of its educational and artistic training programmes; the generation of partnerships with major new organisational collaborators; the growth of its archival resources, media strategy and commercial publishing activities and a considerable expansion of its user community in terms of its reach and interdisciplinarity.
[3] These shifts in the organisation's cultural activities and engagements meant that PM was `one of the most significant and instrumental projects that the Live Art Development Agency has undertaken since it was established in 1999.'
[3] The events cemented the Agency's status as an influential organization in artistic development and support.
Other cultural sector collaborators, including Artsadmin, recorded impacts in terms of programme development and audience expansion, with the Director noting that `the packed week-long programmes turned Toynbee Studios into a public venue, modelled new forms of public engagement with critical ideas, and gave us a taste of our potential to be a key venue for ground-breaking work in London.'
[4] Leading international arts figures commissioned as `Performing Idea' participants experienced dynamic benefits in terms of their development of new creative and critical practices that have subsequently circulated around the globe.
[5] A prominent participant dramaturge and writer remarks that the events produced `landmark works that I return to repeatedly for guidance in my dramaturgical role of interfacing with audiences', whilst a leading participant performance artist states that the project's facilitation of rich dialogue across generations of artists and thinkers `not only enriched my own practice but led to new contacts, connections and energies' directly engendering new professional collaborations and new artworks.
[5-6] Specific targeted impacts were delivered for a group of early career artists who underwent transformative training experiences with these leading individuals.
[7] In `Performing Idea' 41 early-career artists undertook intensive workshop processes with three influential art practitioners and three critical interlocutors.
Renowned interlocutors were drawn from distinct terrains of practice or thinking thus enhancing the knowledge exchange dynamics of the process.
[5,6] These workshops have had lasting impact for participating early-career artists in terms of their innovation of new forms of expression, as well as providing high-level access to key figures in their professional milieu.
[7] The influential quality and significance of these training interactions is evidenced in impact statements from both participants and leading artists, with two participants naming this experience `a pivotal moment in the development of our artistic careers.'
[7] Of the overall curatorial impact, a prominent performance artist remarks, `Theirs is the work of connection via relationship-building, movement- making, space exploration, legacy, agency, as well as independent and lively scholarship.'
[5] Heathfield worked as Lead Curator of year one `Performing Idea', with Butt lead curator of year two `Trashing Performance'; PM's two doctoral students, one of whom is based in the UoA, collaboratively curated year three.
A wider body of research spanning the four and a half years of PM includes numerous other outputs and impacts curated and realised in collaboration with Butt (Goldsmiths) and Keidan (LADA).
Except where there is overarching co-authorship of the curation of the whole project, the references and impact cited here relate to the specific activities curated by Heathfield in the first and the final year of the project.
