     White's research and research-driven practice engages with existing       fictional texts or documentary materials, is realised in collaboration       with a broadcasting organisation, radio producers, actors and audiences       and with representatives of trusts and estates, making for a wide range of       potential impacts and beneficiaries.
This case study addresses three       specific areas of impact, and the significance and reach of each, focused       on the research imperatives behind the subject matter and innovative form       of The Unfortunates.
i) Contribution to the preservation of cultural heritage     The adaptation of The Unfortunates brought the fictional       innovations of BS Johnson to renewed and wider public attention,       contributing to the preservation of the work and innovative formal       practices of the author, one of the leading British experimental novelists       of the twentieth century.
In finding an updated dramatic equivalent to       Johnson's fictional strategies through the use of online forms and the       randomising of the broadcast's structure it also helped to support       awareness of the close relationship between the writer's experimentation       and the complexity of the subject under analysis in his novel &#8212; the       processes of memory.
The recovery and preservation of this influential       novel's achievement was further enhanced by White and Steven Johnson, BS       Johnson's son, and a representative of the Johnson estate, appearing on       BBC Radio 3' `literary cabaret' show The Verb in the run-up to the       production to stage a draw which would determine the random order of the       sections for the radio broadcast.
Ping-pong balls were given the name of       fictional footballers featured in the book.
Each name was linked to one of       the sections and the order in which the studio guests drew the balls       decided the order in which the sections would be broadcast.
The show also       featured a discussion of Johnson's career, work and approach to writing.
In addition, White contributed a Blog for the BBC Radio 3 website which       demonstrated the manner in which Johnson's fictional techniques found an       updated equivalence in radio studio practices.
The beneficiaries in this       case were the radio audience (the audiences for BBC Radios 3 and 4, as       well as the public who had access to and visited the websites associated       with these stations) and, as an indicative example of how impact regarding       the promotion and re-presentation of the work of cultural heritage might       function, the BS Johnson estate.
White's wider project of adapting a range       of texts concerned with the performance of memory and/or of subjectivity       has also aided the preservation of cultural heritage in bringing to       further public prominence the work of Henry James and JG Ballard.
ii) Contribution to processes of memorialisation     White's underpinning research exploration of the presentation of memory       informed the dramatisation of The Unfortunates and impacted on the       radio audience through the broadcast, the adaptation foregrounding the       exploration of the processes of memory both in its subject matter and in       its dramaturgy.
In the case of The Unfortunates the decision to       adapt a text concerned with finding an innovative structure to highlight       the processes of memory was in part a result of strategies employed in       White's previous ...Angry Brigade drama, bringing contrasting       narratives to the fore and playing out through the arrangement of textual       elements a collision between conflicting accounts of events, moments and       their significance.
In addition the online version provided a direct,       interactive audience encounter with a shifting text and its meanings, both       as an exploration of memory and as a demonstration of the challenge to       conventional linear narrative of experimental techniques.
In this case the       beneficiaries were the public audience, though the work also impacted on       the BBC and the BS Johnson estate.
White's adaptation of Henry James' The         Ambassadors also foregrounded the processes of memory &#8212; James'       protagonist, Lambert Strether, played in the production by Henry Goodman,       is, like Bryan in The Unfortunates, forced to confront the       disjunction between past and present in another city, Paris.
A review of       the production by Moira Petty for The Stage stated that `Graham       White has excavated deep into the archaeology of The Ambassadors... and       come up with an exquisite and subtle drama...built up in layers and daubs,       like oil on canvas, until the glistening accretion becomes quite mesmeric'       (21/11/11).
iii) Contribution to formal innovation in broadcasting     In this case the beneficiaries were both the audience and the BBC itself,       whose editorial and broadcast practices were adapted as a result of The         Unfortunates' formal innovations.
The randomised broadcast was       available for the usual week after transmission on the BBC iPlayer, but       the provision of the online version required changes to usual broadcasting       practices.
This included, the extension of the availability to three       months and the devising of a new form of website presence for the drama &#8212;       the carousel of images allowing the audience to scroll through the       sections of the production.
The significance of the innovative form was in       part evidenced by critical responses to the production, for example `a       remarkable radio play; moving, tender, thought-provoking, reminiscent of       Joyce's Ulysses but easier to grasp.
The memories, evocatively       dramatised as short audio flashbacks, soon came flooding back in no       particular order, which is the point of the book's structure; and, in a       clever post-broadcast addition that I'm keen to try, the play's dedicated       Radio 3 website now offers listeners the option of hearing 18 of the       individual segments in any order' (Pete Naughton, Daily Telegraph,       17/10/10).
Such critical responses provide a record of the impact of the       work's approach to questions of narrative and memory.
Further evidence of       the significance of the work includes the winning of the 2012 BBC Audio       Drama Award for Innovation for the production.
The citation for the award       described this as a `beguiling blend of great storytelling and an       innovative approach to structure' which `pushed the boundaries of audio       adaptation'.
While other of White's adaptations during the census period       appeared in more conventional broadcast slots and forms, the work       contributed to innovation in content &#8212; both The Drowned World and       Concrete Island brought the work of JG Ballard to mainstream radio       in the context of BBC Radio 4's `Dangerous Visions' season of dystopian       dramas in 2013.
