     Colusso's practice as research &#8212; as exemplified across various formats       and outlets including TV       and documentary film, social media, academic publications and       participation in various public       forums &#8212; has led to enhanced audience awareness of the relationship       between politics, hierarchies       of power and resistance.
Her work demonstrates extensive public       engagement, reaching and       impacting on social activists, opinion formers and policy makers, as well       as the communities with       which they collaborate.
Reach:     The reach of Colusso's research is evidenced by the range of       international broadcasters and       festivals that have showcased her work.
In 2007 ABC Colombia was       screened in France and       Germany on ARTE and More 4 in the UK.
Since 2008, it has been broadcast on       Yle TV in Finland       in May 2008 and PBS World in July 2008 in the USA as part of the `Global       Voices' series.
The film       has also been available online via amazon.com, Hulu, iTunes, and YouTube,       with a total of       200,744 streams on this platform alone.
Home Sweet Home was       broadcast in France and       Germany on ARTE TV on the 18th and 31st October 2012       respectively, and is also available in       these countries as video on demand.
Significance:     In addition to high-profile broadcasts and online streaming, which has       broadened public awareness       of these issues, Colusso has screened ABC Colombia and Home         Sweet Home to community       audiences and to policy makers to influence change.
This direct engagement       with the communities       affected and those who govern them has had a significant impact on both as       evidenced in the       following examples.
Shaping public discourses and enhancing understanding of issues         surrounding disenfranchised         and marginalized communities:     Organisations such as Children of the Andes and Justice for Colombia have       benefited from public       screenings of ABC Colombia which have increased awareness of the       situation for children in       Colombia, as well as by fundraising generated by the screenings of the       film (for example, 16       November 2008 Latin American Film Festival).
As Heidi Araque, Events       Community Fundraiser for       Children of the Andres (COTA), explains, the film helped "reach a number       of people who were       unaware of our work to support children at risk and to re-engage existing       supporters, making them       reflect on some of the obstacles that need to be overcome if Colombia is       to be a more peaceful       and secure country."
Similarly, Eva Tarr-Kirkhope, Director of the London       Latin American Film       festival (LAFF), states that "COTA &amp; LAFF see ABC Colombia as       a great instrument to raise       awareness about the situation of some of the most disadvantaged       Colombians.
Part of the       proceeds of the night will go to the charity Children of the Andes."
Selections of Colusso's work-in-progress of Home Sweet Home were       screened for a series of       events exploring urban regeneration and the processes of social       transformation in one of the most       deprived areas of central London.
These included her participation in The         Elephant in Time (18th       June 2009, organized by the British Film Institute).
The event brought       together architects,       documentarists, historians and local residents to explore the past,       present and future of this part of       London, allowing for a multidisciplinary and lively debate on the reality       of the regeneration and the       role of media in documenting and critically representing change.
Colusso       also participated in the       Open City/Design for London City Visions Exhibition (May 2010) which       showcased her film-in-progress as part of the exhibition's closing event.
Since the film was completed in June 2012 it has been presented to       various audiences in London:       from the wider community at Open City Docs Film Festival to the local       community (Tate Film Club,       and Pembroke House screening organised by UrbanLab Films UCL and Open City       Docs), to more       specialized groups such as urbanists, architects and policy makers,       facilitating open debate and       discussion of the issues of urban regeneration.
Audience feedback from Home         Sweet Home       screenings within local communities demonstrate that the film changed       perception and raised       awareness of the complexity of the issues affecting residents, as       illustrated by the following       examples:     "I've realized there are many conflicting views coming from different         realities"         "I am more conscious than ever to hear about how the people removed are         coping in their         new homes.
I am more keen than ever to see the situation resolved"     Influencing and empowering local community action:     The various constituencies who are the subject of - and participants in - these films are the ultimate       beneficiaries of this practice-as-research, as the work enhances public       and political awareness,       which is forging new paths to social change.
For instance, after the filming of ABC Colombia a 17 year old       participant decided (with the       filmmaker's support) that he would not join the paramilitary after all.
He       is now living in Bogota,       happily married and working.
Similarly a local residents' participant and       social activist can attest to       Home Sweet Home's impact on local councils and decision makers, as       well as its value as a       `truthful' and detailed record of the process and a work which challenges       the clich&#233;s about people       living in council estates, and its impact on both individuals and the       community (source four).
As some of the viewers of both films have also stressed, one of the       strengths of Colusso's work is       the powerful voice they give to people who would otherwise not be heard.
This has a significant       impact on the people filmed, by fostering their sense of worth and       self-awareness, and on the       different constituencies and institutions responsible for addressing the       root causes of the violence,       as it provides invaluable access to the reality on the ground.
An indicator of the significance of this impact is evident from       personal testimony by Oscar Teran, in       a personal email to Colusso after watching ABC Colombia on 31       December 2010: "Not only have         you created a beautiful film but you have given a powerful voice to your         subjects."
Informing &amp; influencing policy:     ABC Colombia was selected to be screened to members of the USA       Congress examining       Colombian paramilitary communities to inform votes on an aid bill (Hewlett       Foundation Report       2008).
Similarly, in October 2008 the film was selected to be shown in the       Cultural Educational       Film Symposium organised by the Independent Television Service (ITVS), the       Naval Postgraduate       School, the Defence Language Institute Foreign Language Centre and       Monterrey Institute of       International Studies.
The purpose of the symposium and accompanying       screening was to explore       the use of documentary films to train future military and civilian leaders       in cultural awareness and       international affairs.
It was also screened at the Geneva Forum on Social Change organised by       ITVS and Geneva       University (June 2009) and was accompanied by a panel discussion in which       Colusso was an       invited panellist, which took place at USC and was streamed live in Geneva       as part of this Forum.
The forum focused on the use of documentary film as a tool for education,       cultural diplomacy and       policy making in international public affairs.
