     This project sets out through a process of making and reflecting on       images to deepen our understanding of rights violations and to increase       our collective resources to promote and protect fundamental rights.
The       release of The Act of Killing (2012) internationally and its       clandestine circulation in Indonesia has led to an intense and       unprecedented debate on the 1965-66 genocide, after 40 years of disavowal       and impunity for perpetrators.
Reach:     The film's high-profile screenings at festivals around the world, as well       as theatrical distribution in the UK and the US, attest to the reach of       this impact.
The film has been screened at over 90 films festivals in 2012       and 2013.
It is being distributed in over 12 countries and has been       screened in 88 cities (112 cinemas) across the US.
The film was featured       on The Daily Show in the US (13/8/2013) and BBC's Newsnight       (25/6/2013).
Furthermore, as part of an anonymously funded outreach       programme, 1,096 DVDs were distributed through the film's production       company to 118 cities in 29 of the 33 provinces in Indonesia.
This form of       unofficial distribution enabled the film's dissemination to the widest       possible national audience in Indonesia, without necessitating an official       release which would have resulted in the film being banned.
The reach of       this impact is indicated by over 500 clandestine screenings in over 95       cities across the country.
Such community screenings varied in size from       30-700 people.
The screenings have created a space in which the public       discourse on the genocide has been transformed, leading to demands for a       historical re-examination of the killings of 1965-66 that would have been       inconceivable before the film's release.
The success of this distribution       plan has lead to the production company, along with Drafthouse Films,       Vice, and VHX, to develop a plan to make the film available for free in       Indonesia via download in Autumn 2013.
Significance     It has had a significant impact in the following areas:     Reframing critical understandings of the documentary genre:     One of the reasons for the film's profound impact is its innovative and       disturbing form, influencing creative documentary practice and criticism       by opening up critical expectations and understandings of the documentary       to a new structural form and format of political intervention.
Renowned       filmmaker, Errol Morris, wrote of The Act of Killing, `Every now       and then a non-fiction film comes along that is unlike anything else I       have seen.
[...] And it asks the central question: what is real?
Gabriel       Garcia Marquez, in a Paris Review interview, wrote about reading Kafka's       "Metamorphosis" for the first time, "I didn't know you were allowed to do       that."
I have the same feeling with this extraordinary film.'
Werner       Herzog claims simply, "The Act of Killing invents a new form of       cinematic surrealism."
Both Morris and Herzog were so impressed by the       film in its editing stage that they joined the production as Executive       Producers in order to help facilitate the film's theatrical distribution.
The significance of the impact is evident in the global critical       reception of the film.
Major articles have featured in the New York         Times, Washington Post, Der Spiegel and the Guardian,       each praising the film for its experimental form, in particular the use of       re-enactment that not only allows for a glimpse into the minds of the       killers but forces them to confront the horror of their actions.
As Mark       Kermode explains, the event becomes `real only when unreal' (The         Observer 29 June 2013).
In an indicative response to the film, Ann       Hornaday writes in the Washington Post (25 July 2013), `This       audacious, horrifying, boldly experimental plunge into the mind-set of       murderers and the culture of impunity breaks so many rules of documentary       decorum that it virtually creates its own genre [...] The Act of         Killing is a brilliant, powerful reckoning with the wages of       history, mendacity and denial.'
Furthermore, the film has repeatedly won       awards at internationally recognized documentary film festivals including       CPH: Dox 2012, Best Feature Documentary at the Danish Film Academy 2013,       First Prize of the Jury and Audience Award at the DocumentaMadrid 2013,       and the Grand Prize and Audience Award at the Sheffield Doc/Fest 2013.
Enhancing public understanding and provoking unprecedented public         discourse on genocide:     Writing for Tempo &#8212; Indonesia's premier news magazine &#8212; Ariel       Heryanto, historian and cultural critic, claims, `The Act of Killing is       the most powerful, politically important film about Indonesia that I have       ever seen.
The arrival of this film is itself a historical event almost       without parallel.'
Following screenings for Indonesian press at the       National Commission on Human Rights, the editors of Tempo decided       to publish a double edition [7 October 2012] devoted to the film and the       events it engages with.
Their aim was to repeat the experiment of the film       by sending their own journalists [47 journalists, 4 project managers, 12       editors, 3 researchers, 2 photo researchers, and 3 translators] around the       country in an attempt to identify and interview perpetrators of the       genocide, further unlocking this history of violence.
They gathered over       1000 pages of testimony, edited down to 75 pages published alongside       reviews, interviews and essays about the film.
The aim of the issue is       clearly explained in the opening editorial which states: `Readers, no       matter how tragic and painful, the mass murders of 1965-66 must, at one       time or the other, be re-examined.
Remembering, in the long run, is better       than forgetting'.
In the space of this unprecedented debate and historical re-examination,       the National Human Rights Commission of Indonesia released the following       statement: `If we are to transform Indonesia into the democracy it claims       to be, citizens must recognize the terror and repression on which our       contemporary history has been built.
No film, or any other work of art for       that matter, has done this more effectively than The Act of Killing.
[It]       is essential viewing for us all.'
Indicative of the significance       of this research to the process of historical re-examination now underway       in Indonesia is the fact that the findings of the North Sumatran section       of the National Commission on Human Rights' 12 July report on the       massacres are drawn from a review of the production company's archive and       transcripts of The Act of Killing.
According to the Margareth S.       Aritonang of The Jakarta Post, this report resulted in the       Commission declaring that `the state sponsored purge that followed the       1965 aborted coup met all the criteria of a gross violation of human       rights' (24 July 2012).
Screenings of the film at International Human Rights Film Festivals,       including Prague, Geneva, Romania, and Myanmar have positioned the       Indonesian genocide within global discussions about human rights       violations.
International screenings of the film have also been used to       initiate discussion and debate about similar, often hidden, histories of       political violence, corruption, impunity and genocide in countries such as       Spain, the Philippines, Turkey and Denmark.
Organisers for the !F Istanbul       Independent International Film Festival toured the film through Turkish       Kurdistan, Armenia, Jenin, Ramallah and the West Bank, provoking debate       among Turkish audiences about the genocide in Armenia.
In the Philippines       screenings of the film have been used to spark debate about the country's       own history of political corruption.
Tapol the Indonesian human rights       NGO, co-sponsored a 10-day tour of the film and director around the UK,       launching a petition demanding an apology for the atrocities.
The petition       has been taken up by human rights NGOs in the US in conjunction with the       film's American release.
