     Impact 1. International impacts on practitioners and services:         clinical practice guidelines and health care policies have been informed         by the research.
Our research has directly enhanced professional practice and enabled the       delivery of optimal evidence-based patient care through the effective       management of patients with painful conditions.
There are clear examples of where our research is being used, at an       international level, to inform best clinical practice.
Our Cochrane review of non-invasive brain stimulation techniques [3.6]       has achieved substantial international impact.
Domestically it has been       summarised by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence       (NICE) in a document for the Quality Innovation Productivity and       Prevention (QIPP) initiative to help the NHS identify practices that could       be significantly reduced or stopped completely, releasing cash and/or       resources without negatively affecting the quality of NHS care [5.1].
Similarly it formed a substantial amount of the evidence guiding the       recommendations of a commissioning report commissioned by the West       Midlands Specialised Commissioning Team [5.2].
These are clear examples       where the high quality evidence generated by this research impacts on       healthcare policy and provision in the UK.
At an international level, last year the South African clinical practice       guidelines for the clinical management of neuropathic pain were published.
These guidelines are endorsed by the Neurological Association of South       Africa (NASA), the South African Society of Anesthesiologists (SASA), the       South African Spinal Cord Association (SASCA), Pain Interventions and       Regional Anesthesia (PIRA) and painSA [5.3].
They cite our Cochrane review       of non-invasive brain stimulation for chronic pain [3.5] as their sole       source of evidence regarding these treatment approaches, recommending that       the evidence of efficacy is very limited.
A number of US health insurance       providers have directly used our research to guide policy on whether to       fund such treatments [5.4, 5.5, 5.6] and partly as a result of our       research do not fund transcranial magnetic stimulation for chronic and       neuropathic pain syndromes including fibromyalgia.
The NICE consultation on low back pain ran from 1 October to 26 November       2008 and aimed to provide a guideline which offered best practice advice       on the care of people with non-specific low back pain.
Both Addenbrookes       Hospital and the British Society of Rehabilitation Medicine (BSRM) cited       pain research from Brunel [e.g.
3.1, 3.3] in their response to the       consultation.
NICE's comments indicated that as a result of the responses       to the consultation which cited a cohort study [3.1] from Brunel which       found no patients with rheumatoid arthritis presenting with low back pain,       they had changed the title of the guideline, removing rheumatoid arthritis       from a list of specific causes and noted a suggestion that no mention had       been made of prolapsed lumbar disc as a cause of low back pain [5.7, 5.8].
In these ways it can be seen that our research is directly impacting upon       the delivery of optimal patient care by providing evidence which informs       national guidelines.
Impact 2.
Impacts on health and welfare: the public have become better         informed about the management of painful conditions through campaigns         based on our research evidence.
Our research has also been used by external agencies in efforts to       directly inform clinicians and the public about painful conditions.
In       2012 the National Ankylosing Spondylitis Society in collaboration with the       Abbott Healthcare Company produced an educational booklet aimed at       improving the diagnosis of inflammatory back pain [5.9] citing our       research [3.3] illustrating the significant burden of back pain on society       and on individuals relationships and family roles.
Our presentation of new       potential models of chronic low back pain, derived in part from existing       evidence and our own research into the perceptual correlates of the       condition has been cited by a major public health campaign directed at       patients and clinicians in the Republic of Ireland.
The "Move4Health 2011:       Challenging back pain myths" campaign [5.10] aimed to engage the public in       the process of debunking commonly held myths regarding low back pain that       may be detrimental to recovery.
The information brochure that is publicly       available cites a review paper [3.4] co-written by one of our research       team to challenge the myth that "the more back pain I have, the more my       spine is damaged".
This is an example of how our research has been       directly used to promote better public health.
The campaign disseminated       through press release, radio adverts and web-based content and was covered       on popular health related websites.
Overall these are clear examples where our research has had direct impact       on policy, health provision and efficiency at an international level, and       has been used by external agencies to enhance practitioner knowledge and       public health.
