     Regional/Governorate level       Wadi Allaqi is a `protected area' under the control of the Egyptian       Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) within the Ministry of State for       Environmental Affairs (MSEA), and it is a UNESCO-designated biosphere       reserve.
The region's significance lies in its arid environment and the       combination of two ecosystems (extreme arid desert and the shores of Lake       Nasser) inhabited by semi-nomadic Bedouin people.
Wadi Allaqi is located       in the Governorate of Aswan, the southernmost governorate in Upper Egypt,       where the planning executive had historically based its approach to       development on the use of scientific and technological solutions to       poverty reduction.
This approach had ignored the knowledge underpinning       indigenous Bedouin everyday practices, denying that the Bedouin were       capable of defining their own needs and priorities.
Challenging these       assumptions, research from the mid-1990s by Briggs (later with Sharp) has       demonstrated that the Bedouin possess a detailed, practical and often       sophisticated understanding of environmental resources available in the       region.
The Director of the Aswan Regional Planning Centre was convinced       by the robustness of the research findings, and in the late-1990s       introduced the principle of incorporating the views and knowledge of       Bedouin communities into all regional planning decisions.
This inclusivity       was incorporated into the management structure of the Wadi Allaqi       Biosphere Reserve when it formally became a protected area under EEAA       auspices in the mid-1990s, and so "the impacts of the Glasgow research       project have very much continued to be felt up to the present day" (Aswan       Director [elect] of the EEAA: e-mail letter, 23/10/2013).
In further research conducted through to 2005, Briggs and Sharp have       shown that women in these communities, usually `invisible' in economic,       political and social terms, have specific local environmental knowledges       with unrealised potential.
On a practical level, the findings influenced       the establishment and development of small farms in Wadi Allaqi, initially       by two pioneering widows in 2001.
Other women became involved, and       eventually, by the time of writing, every family group in the area (around       20 families) has taken up crop production based on Lake Nasser irrigation       water.
Explicit recognition of the possibilities for small-scale farming &#8212;       latent within the long-standing knowledge base of the Bedouin, especially       the women &#8212; was pivotal to the Glasgow research, and this recognition has       guided more recent research and pilot schemes (source 7).
From the       situation where the Bedouin of Wadi Allaqi had never cultivated land, the       ongoing impact of the Glasgow research is hence that every family group       now has a small irrigated plot of land growing food and fodder, which       contributes significantly to food security in the region.
Growing confidence underpinned by recognition of their contribution also       led the Bedouin women, supported by the researchers, to request basic       literacy classes for their children.
They secured classes for all children       in the area, 45 in total (22 girls and 23 boys), and classes have since       extended to approximately 130 women in the Wadi Allaqi community (sources       4, 5, 6 and 8).
The strengthened role,       economic contribution and position of Bedouin women in Wadi Allaqi was       paralleled by the establishment of an active women's NGO in 2003.
This       NGO, chaired by a former research collaborator with Briggs and Sharp (see       below), has continued to participate in educational and training       activities, most recently in handcraft and literacy classes.
National level       The research conducted in Wadi Allaqi was carefully monitored by the EEAA       as a pilot study for how the principles of environmental management in       Egypt might be revised to include local people's knowledge, needs and       priorities.
The researchers duly influenced a significant shift in       national policy from the traditional development or conservation model to       one involving greater partnership between `experts' and the inhabitants,       notably the women, of the `protected areas'.
Following an Allaqi         Project workshop in December 2002, attended by the then Director of       the Nature Conservation Sector in the EEAA, the policy approach shaped by       the Glasgow research was rolled out to all of Egypt's Protected Areas and       Reserves, now numbering 30 with the addition of one further area in 2012,       creating a positive impact that persists today for approximately 10,000       inhabitants of these areas occupying around 15% of the country's total       land area.
In 2003 a specific EEAA set of actions called `The Contribution of the       Local and Urban Community' was reported, the third initiative of which       stated that "the Ministry [MSEA] is interested in the gender issues and       its relation with the management of the natural resources" (source 9).
In May 2005, the Egypt State of the Environment Report 2004, was       explicit about bringing women and children into the heart of both its       `biodiversity' (Chap.6) and its `human resources development' (Chap.13f)       strategies, with mention made of how "[p]rotected areas give special       concern to Bedouin women who are the real cornerstone in such communities"       (p.80: source 10).
The Director who attended the 2002 Allaqi         Project workshop was a key participant &#8212; with a particular brief for       both biodiversity and `protected areas' &#8212; in preparing The National         Environmental Action Plan of Egypt 2002/17, which has set the frame       for the country's environmental policy to the present.
That Director is       now (at the time of writing) a Ministerial Advisor on Biodiversity in the       Egyptian Cabinet of Ministers, and he has explicitly stated that the       ongoing national policy changes outlined here resulted from his encounter       with ideas and findings from the Allaqi Project: "This policy       change was based on my being informed and influenced by the research       evidence base produced by the Allaqi Project Research Team" (letter to       Principal, University of Glasgow, 14/02/2012).
Capacity-building       As a deliberate strategy, the Glasgow researchers have always collaborated       closely with local academics, seeking to foster two-way knowledge exchange       and to assist in capacity-building for researchers from the Global South.
Around 50 Egyptian students and early career researchers have benefitted       from a late-1990s to mid-2000s DFID/British Council academic link grant       scheme between South Valley and Glasgow Universities.
A botany PhD student       was sufficiently influenced by her involvement with the women's       development aspect of the Allaqi Project to adopt it as a guiding       light for her subsequent career in both research and policy.
She is about       to become the Aswan Director of the EEAA, acts as the Chair of the       above-mentioned woman's NGO and has also taken on other roles in       conserving the natural and cultural heritage of Upper Egypt.
She has       coordinated research for two recent reports (Agropastoralism and Informal         Education: both 2012 [sources 7 and 8]), the       recommendations from which continue the approach to Bedouin `farming' and       girls' education fostered by Briggs and Sharp from the mid-1990s     She herself embodies and actively builds upon the ongoing impact of the       Glasgow research, securing and extending the legacy of that research, as       well as serving &#8212; through her EEAA post and also networking/providing       training on an Egyptian and international stage (in Jakarta, Indonesia and       Washington, DC) &#8212; as another vector for scaling up the impact of the       Glasgow research from regional to wider levels of policy and practice.
As       she reflects upon the overall role that she has acquired: "This is a role       that is very rare for women to have in Upper Egypt and I see it as having       come directly from my initial involvement in the research project with       Profs Briggs and Sharp" (e-mail letter, 23/10/2013).
The impact claimed in       this case study thereby ranges from the most personal, as in the instance       of this particular individual, through the regional transformation of Wadi       Allaqi to that of changing Egyptian national environmental and development       policy.
