     The southern-route `out of Africa' theory of human dispersal developed by       University of Glasgow research has sparked huge ongoing public interest       since its publication in 2005.
The idea has been discussed in the TV       series and popular science book The Incredible Human Journey by       Alice Roberts in 2009/10.
University of Glasgow research has also led to       the creation of a revised timeline (based on a time-dependent molecular       clock) for linking DNA changes with locations and times, which has been       adopted by companies such as BritainsDNA,       which offer DNA tests for people seeking information about their recent       and deep ancestry.
The 2013 TV programme Meet the Izzards is       another high-profile show which used the Glasgow research in part to trace       Eddie Izzard's ancestry back to the evolution of modern humans in east       Africa.
The Incredible Human Journey was published by Bloomsbury in 2010.
Roberts describes the `out of Africa' theory in an accessible manner for a     lay audience, and quotes the research papers by Macaulay et al.
for those     looking for more details.
One reviewer on Amazon says, `I am gripped by the     central idea that only about 200 families originally emerged out of Africa     and between them populated the whole world', one of the statistical     inferences made by Macaulay.
The TV series was broadcast on BBC 2 from May-June 2009, as a 5-part       series following the routes of the families who populated the world.
The       first part is titled `Out of Africa' and gives a full picture of the       earlier theories prior to the Macaulay et al paper in 2005, but each of       the episodes recounts the general theory for viewers who had not seen the       first one.
The later episodes follow Macaulay et al.
's theory of the       dispersal of humans across the planet.
Over 10.2 million viewers watched       the series when it was aired on the BBC, with Part 1, `Out of Africa',       being shown on 10 May and achieving an audience of 2.22m.
Part 2, `Asia',       reached 2.34m; Part 3, `Europe', was watched by 1.66m; Part 4, `Australia'       attracted 2.11m viewers; and Part 5, `The Americas', reached an audience       of 1.86m.
The series is currently available to view on YouTube and the       first episode has been viewed 101,562 times since it was added to the site       in August 2011.
It has also been widely reviewed as a series and book,       with The           Observer noting that it provides `an easily digestible       introduction to a complex but fascinating story.'
Meet the Izzards is a 2-part documentary, which aired on BBC 1 at       a prime-time slot of 9pm on 20 and 21 February 2013, and was available on       iPlayer.
It was broadcast to an audience of 2.62         million (figures for Part 1 only).
In the documentary, Izzard       explains the `out of Africa' concept to the audience: `we all come out of       Africa, and we come from the same people.
So we were a small group of       10,000 people and then we've turned into seven billion people on the       planet.'
The programme received widespread press coverage.
The consultant       scientist acknowledges the programme's debt to Macaulay's work, stating       that his mtDNA genealogy discoveries; `...define a scientific         framework for a number of documentaries, including Meet the Izzards but         also other series which seek to educate the public and disseminate human         population genetics to the lay public'.
The consultant to the BBC programme is also Chief Scientific Officer       (CSO) of BritainsDNA, one of a number of companies which have sprung up       around the combination of DNA analysis and the public appetite for       genealogy.
BritainsDNA, established 2011 as ScotlandsDNA, draws upon the       `out of Africa' theory to analyse DNA samples from the public.
This has       tapped into the huge public interest in tracing their ancestors, allowing       members of the public to trace their genetic lineage through DNA testing.
BritainsDNA draws upon Macaulay et al.
's work to allocate dates and       locations in history to the mtDNA samples taken from the public.
The CSO       for the company states:     Dr Macaulay's work underpins a significant part of the genetic         ancestry testing business.
Specifically his contributions to the         understanding of the mtDNA genealogy &#8212; the topology or shape of the         tree, the timing of many of the splits in the tree and the distribution         of the groups across geography are the bread and butter of the         interpretation of mtDNA lineages.
This impact is felt not only at         BritainsDNA but across all companies offering genetic ancestry testing         involving mtDNA &#8212; a multi-million dollar global industry.
