     The early stages of writing the opera included composer and librettist       consulting       representatives of 11 anti-trafficking organisations (principally City       Hearts, which also later       facilitated a meeting in sheltered housing between trafficking victims and       opera cast members).
These organisations gave valuable feedback to ensure that the content of       the opera was as       accurate as possible.
Meanwhile, the wider potential of the opera to       effect change in public       attitudes was part of the agenda from the beginning.
A website, YouTube channel (3000 hits), and Facebook page (160 followers)       were set up.
Introductions to senior policy-makers were made through the offices of       Kaye's MP, Bob Walter,       who backed the project (http://tinyurl.com/qfabfsr)       and subsequently arranged a meeting       between librettist and composer, and the Immigration Minister, Damian       Green, at a reception       hosted by the Prime Minister at 10 Downing Street to mark Anti-Slavery       Day, 17 October 2011.
They also met other politicians and NGO leaders at the House of Lords,       including Sir Anthony       Steen, Chairman of the Human Trafficking Foundation.
Representatives of       the UN Global       Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking (UN GIFT) were quick to endorse the       project,       understanding its potential: Siria Gastelum, UN GIFT's Public Information       Officer, said: `We       commend this effort to engage and inspire the anti-trafficking community       while raising       awareness about human trafficking'.
Tony Lloyd, MP for Central Manchester,       visited rehearsals       at the RNCM and recorded an interview (http://tinyurl.com/p2ht7e6),       in which he talked about       the potential for the opera to make an impact on people beyond `just       entertainment': `If it takes       things through to people who've not thought about these issues before,       it's an amazing       service... On the night the production goes live, there will be women       working on the streets of       Liverpool, Manchester, all our big cities ... this show is, in the end,       about making this stop'.
Further support was given by Catherine Bearder, MEP.
Media preview coverage picked up on the significance of the opera as a       way of discussing       wider issues.
For example, a story by Glyn Mon Hughes trailing the       performances in The         Liverpool Daily Post on 1 March 2012 was run on its Arts pages on 4       March 2012       (http://tinyurl.com/o6c3rq2),       quoting statistics on trafficking and comments from the Director,       Caroline Clegg, about the meeting between the cast and victims of sex       trafficking.
Two days       later, The Independent carried an article quoting Sir Jonathan       Miller, who said that `the project       showed no subject should be off-limits', and also Iqtadar Hasnain, a       spokesman for Anti-Slavery       International, who said `As far as we're aware, there has never been an       opera on this       subject.
We hope that people will see it and realise that this is a form       of slavery that is       happening on their doorstep today'.
On 6 March, Liverpool Confidential (monthly unique visitors,       c.24,000; monthly page views,       c.50,000) ran an on-line story sub-headed `United Nations backs opera       about Europe's &#163;20bn       dirty secret' (http://tinyurl.com/nme9jqj).
On the day of the Liverpool premi&#232;re, the mainstream       news programme, BBC North West tonight (live audience: c.500,000) felt       able to broadcast a       feature report (2' 17"), including rehearsal footage and interviews with       cast members, intercut       with an interview with Brenda Gardner of Stop the Traffik Campaign, in       which she talked about       the realities of human trafficking in Liverpool.
By the opening night, the following organisations had formally endorsed       the opera: Anti-Slavery       International; City Hearts; ECPAT UK; Human Trafficking Foundation; Purple       Teardrop       Campaign; The Salvation Army; Stop the Traffik; Stop UK; Unseen UK;       Unchosen; and UN       Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking (GIFT), who were designated       `official supporting       body'.
The latter's involvement included an extended Twitter interview       with the librettist       (http://tinyurl.com/oavdpja).The       organisation provided `How to Respond' packs that were       distributed at the Liverpool premi&#232;re and they also helped with PR.
Purple       Teardrop had an       information stall in the foyer at the RNCM performance, and were supported       by volunteers       from Soroptomist International, which also endorsed the opera.
A       spokesperson from Purple       Teardrop reported that for them, being `partners' of the opera helped them       `extend the public's       awareness of human trafficking and its victims to both organisations'       followers and supporters', and       they used Twitter, Facebook and their own website to promote their       partnership.
Following the       second performance of the opera, a member of the audience blogged: "I saw       this performance       last night at the RNCM.
It was an incredibly powerful and moving piece ...
This thought-provoking       opera deserves a much wider platform as it demonstrates how modern opera       can,       and should be used."
A short film of rehearsals of Anya 17 had had       700 views on YouTube by       31 July 2013.
The two performances were seen by live audiences totalling       632 people, with a       further 812 viewings of a YouTube `showreel' (http://tinyurl.com/pjjplk3)       by 31 July 2013.
Anya17 was positively reviewed in the Sunday Times and       subsequently won 'Best Stage or       Film Production Dealing with Human Trafficking, 2012', presented by John       Bercow, MP at the       Speaker's House on 17 October 2012 in the presence of British MPs,       parliamentarians and       former ministers from across the EU, as well as journalists, police and       border agency staff, and       NGOs.
Among those who attended the first performance was the Chairman of the       Friendship       Foundation (UK-Romania).
The Foundation is active in increasing public       awareness of human       trafficking, seeing it as vital to changing policy: "that's how       governments get cajoled into       making laws".
The Foundation immediately saw the potential of taking Anya17       to Romania and       presenting it to policy makers and campaigning organisations as an       innovative way of       promoting a strong message from a `receiving' country such as the UK to a       `source' country       such as Romania.
A successful application for funding was made to Arts       Council England for       &#163;5k a further award of &#163;1,860 from the RNCM in June 2013, so that a       performance of Anya17       could be part of the Third International Symposium on Human Trafficking in       Arad, Romania, on       17 October 2013.
Immediately following the 2012 premi&#232;re, two international opera       companies became aware of       the work and decided during the course of their planning for the 2013-14       seasons during       summer 2012, to stage the opera.
Arrangements were made for the first       fully-staged run, at the       Stadttheater, Meiningen, Germany (November-December, 2013), and for the US       premi&#232;re at       Opera Parall&#232;le in San Francisco (June, 2014).
The Executive Director of       Opera Parall&#232;le, Tod       Brody, describes how `the opera company's first focus is the artistic       quality of the work, but the       power of art to bring awareness, and to change minds, is something that's       of great interest and       concern to us'.
In preparation for the production, they assembled a       Community Taskforce of       organisations, including the SAGE project (www.sagesf.org),       whose `mission is to improve the       lives of persons who have experienced or are at risk of sexual       exploitation, human trafficking,       violence and other forms of trauma'.
They are working with the German       consulate in San       Francisco to organise a reception with celebrity speakers, including local       political figures to       enlist support for the cause, and for the Anya17 performances'.
Talks began with David       Pountney at Welsh National Opera in January 2013 about possible       performances there in       2014/15 and these are now well-advanced.
