     A brief overview of the field provides a context for the impact of       research at the RNCM.
Symphonic wind orchestras and bands are ubiquitous in many countries of       the world, including most European countries, North and South America,       Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Australia.
For example, most high       schools, colleges and local communities in the US have at least one wind       orchestra, and for many school students and communities, bands are the       primary form of music-educational experience.
Youth and school ensembles       at local and national level are a feature of the musical life in all the       countries listed above.
There are secular professional, and many       elite-level military wind ensembles in many countries, as well as a       thriving music publishing and commercial recording sector servicing these       markets.
WASBE is a key force in developing standards and promoting       innovative new musical works; it has a membership of over 1000 individuals       and organizations in more than 50 countries from throughout the world.
It       is `completely dedicated to enhancing the quality of the wind band       throughout the world and exposing its members to new worlds of repertoire       and musical culture'.
Likewise, the British Association of Wind and Brass       Ensembles (BASBWE) includes in its objectives the following: `The wind       band/ensemble has been the fastest growing medium in `classical'       music-making in the latter part of the twentieth century [...] A crucial       role has been in developing awareness of repertoire and ensuring that       there is a constant supply of new music, without which the whole movement       could stagnate'.
And in the words of William V. Johnson, president of       WASBE, `The RNCM has done much more than helping to change behaviours and       impacting the international field of wind orchestras.
It is the birthplace       of the modern international wind band movement' - the organisation was,       indeed, founded at the RNCM in 1981, largely thanks to the influence of       one individual, Tim Reynish, who remains one of the international       movement's leading directors, educators and commissioner of new work'.
In       2000 the RNCM was awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and       Further Education for `the outstanding and pioneering work of its Wind       Orchestra'.
1.
Composition (examples)     It is against this background that many new works for wind orchestra       (including those listed above) have been created, mostly developed through       rehearsal, performance and recording by the RNCM's own world-class       ensemble under its various staff conductors, and then disseminated into       the wider movement through publication, advocacy, educational events and       continual take-up by ever more ensembles around the world, contributing to       the stimulation of innovations in their repertoire.
For example, between       1993 and 2013, Adam Gorb published 25 works, ranging from pieces       specifically designed for youth and other beginner ensembles (6 of his       works are in the top 35 downloads from the specialist publisher of sheet       music for amateur wind ensembles, G &amp; M Brand), to sophisticated and       demanding commissions for professional ensembles.
Examples of the later       are Towards Nirvana (for the Tokyo Kosei Wind Orchestra), and Adrenaline         City, commissioned and performed by a consortium of major US College       ensembles, later programmed by the elite US Marine Corps Band in 2011.
Farewell       is a symphonic-length work commissioned by the National Youth Wind       Orchestra of Wales that has since been widely taken up internationally by       upper-level ensembles.
It was featured at the WASBE conference in Taiwan       in 2011, performed by Philharmonic Winds, Singapore - one of south-east       Asia's leading wind orchestras.
Professor Eugene Corporon, one of the US's       leading wind orchestra conductors and teachers, says `I consider him to be       one of the most important Wind Band composers of our time.
Many of his       contributions have broadened our repertoire and become well respected as       legacy works that have advanced the medium'.
2.
Performance (examples)     Reliable evidence of performances worldwide that can be evidenced is       impossible to achieve; recordings and YouTube viewings can help give       snapshots of impact.
Among Gorb's most widely-performed works are the       intermediate-level Yiddish Dances and senior-level Awayday.
The former has been issued on CD 5 times, 2 since 2008; currently on       YouTube are recordings of 21 performances by different high school and       college bands in the US, UK, Italy, Spain Mexico, Korea, Austria and       Germany with a total of 139,353 viewings between 2008 and July 213;       equivalent figures for Awayday are: 5 CDs (1 since 2008) by some       of the leading professional ensembles in the world, one of which features       as the soundtrack to a YouTube videogame (20,578 viewings).
22       performances in the US, UK, New Zealand, Thailand and Germany with a total       of 29,419 viewings     A different kind of impact was achieved by Gorb's Eternal Voices,       `dedicated to all Royal Marines and their families who have given the       ultimate sacrifice and have been affected by modern conflicts since the       year 2000'.
The work combines symphonic wind orchestra with a full chorus,       soloists and a narrator.
It was first performed in Exeter Cathedral in       November 2010 and mixes texts by the poet, Ben Kaye, with excerpts from       BBC news bulletins: `a haunting, sobering, and beautiful piece' said one       reviewer; another blogger wrote `Exeter audiences are not given to many       standing ovations, so they were obviously delighted with the evening'.
It       was attended by 1,020 people and later repeated at Coventry Cathedral in       October 2011 (attendance c.500) and Chichester Cathedral in October 2012       (attendance c.487).
After the latter, a comment was posted on the Royal       Marines' website: `I ... was completely blown away with the whole evening       ... everyone in my group agreed it was one of the most poignant and moving       events they had been to in recent years'.
The main beneficiaries of educational work are players and young       conductors introduced to new works and coached at numerous courses of by       conductors Clark Rundell and Mark Heron and RNCM instrumental specialists.
RNCM Wind Orchestra, with its two conductors, Rundell and Heron, together       with composers Gorb and Carpenter, and Senior Oboe Tutor, Melinda Maxwell       (oboe), were in residence at the 2009 WASBE conference in Cincinnati, OH,       attended by 12,000-15,000 students and adult band members.
Over the course       of six days, they performed works by five RNCM composers (Carpenter, Gorb,       Gregson, Horne and Emily Howard).
In addition, there was an open       rehearsal; a repertoire session and another on `Effective Rehearsal       Strategies' led by Rundell; an oboe master-class by Maxwell; `composer       drop-in sessions'; and a pre-concert talk.
Public concerts included the US       premi&#232;re of Carpenter's Doubles concerto for oboe and clarinet       (REF2), the world premi&#232;res of Gorb's Tranquility (Festival       commission), David Horne's Waves and Returns, Emily Howard's, Deep         Soul Diving, and Edward Gregson's classic, Metamorphoses       (with electronics).
Live CD of the 8 July concert: Mark Custom, Inc.       8469MCD.
The RNCM has hosted intensive Wind Weekends biennially since 1981.
The       2009 Weekend was specifically devoted to Wind Orchestras (in collaboration       with BASBWE) attended by 370 band members and a further 164 individual       players (excluding RNCM students), who participated in a total of 19       workshops given by College staff and international `star' teachers.
Another 918 non-student audience members joined them at five public       concerts.
All the music played and workshopped over the weekend was       demanding contemporary works, including the world premi&#232;re of Gorb's Freedom,       as well as Towards Nirvana and Farewell.
The Oct. 2010 the       RNCM/BASBWE Wind and Brass weekend included c. 20 workshops and       master-classes for ensembles, and for all individual wind orchestra       instruments at both senior and junior levels, as well as 13 concerts:       attended by 2,400 in total (excluding RNCM students); in Nov. 2012 the       Wind Weekend was devoted to double-reed instruments, and included       master-classes and performances by 13 international oboe and bassoon       celebrities, all sponsored by major European instrument manufacturers:       attended by 1,052 people (excluding RNCM students).
Mark Heron exemplifies the RNCM's approach to invigorating repertoire and       standards in wind orchestra practice through his work as a course director       and conductor, introducing new works including by RNCM composers: at       Canford Summer School, with a 50-strong ensemble and 20-30 student       conductors, every year since 2008; as guest conductor of the National       Youth Wind Orchestra of Israel (April and June 2011); as lecturer and       conductor at national wind festivals in Ireland (April, 2009), Spain (Nov.       2009), Portugal (March 2011), London, Royal Academy of Music (Feb. 2008);       he led advanced conducting schools in Melbourne for 30 students (Jan.       2013) and another in Slovenia for 10 students (July 2013).
