     In order to make the insights revealed by the project available to policy       makers, the FCMAP team       supplied Demos with regular analytical reports, which culminated in an       intense collaborative       drafting of a 200 page report Coming of Age, 2011, published both       in paperback form and as a free       online download (comparable Demos publications achieve download rates in       excess of 80,000).
The report focuses on the FCMAP research insights revealed by separating       older people's self-understanding       of their ageing from the surrounding dominant cultural narratives; and       applies these       insights across the major social policy areas affecting the old.
In       particular, the research       questioned a number of assumptions such as that older people are       disproportionately concerned       with crime and disproportionately prone to feelings of isolation and       loneliness.
Such staple media       representations, which frequently inflect on public and policy debate,       were demonstrated to reside       in the circulation of a set of culturally dominant narratives and shown to       return to levels in line with       the rest of the population in cases where older people were able to       separate their personal       narratives from those surrounding them.
Policy-makers and public audiences       (see below)       immediately saw the potential benefits of being freed from such       stereotypical structures.
The report       also includes a prominent section, `Older People's Experiences of Ageing',       which directly quotes       from FCMAP respondents and thus gives direct voice to older subjects at       the heart of the policy       debate.
Coming of Age was launched at a public-day event opening the FCMAP       `New Cultures of Ageing       Conference' (Brunel University, 8-9th April 2011).
An audience       of over 120 was able to respond to       panel debates on `third age subjectivity' and `ageing policy' featuring       Hubble, Tew, Pat Thane,       Dorothy Sheridan (MO), Keith Richards (U3A), Holden and Bazalgette (who       can corroborate the       subsequent demand in public and policy circles for briefing on the       research findings).
The day       concluded with a separate evening event featuring Will Self and Fay Weldon       discussing ageing       and fiction before an audience of 250, which Self described in a       widely-read review in The         Guardian: http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2011/may/01/looking-very-well-lewis-wolpert-review.
Subsequent public dissemination of the report findings included: Suffolk       County Council       considering its possibilities at a July 2011 meeting with its partners and       older people's       representatives as featured by the Surrey Lifelong Learning Partnership;       and a one hour talk show       on LBC radio on 4th December 2011 concerning later life working and       increases to the state       pension age.
An earlier series of FCMAP public events in which authors discussed the       representation of ageing       in their work: Jim Crace and David Lodge (3rd February 2010 at       Brunel University), Caryl Phillips       (19th March 2010 in Central London), Trezza Azzopardi (10th       June 2010 at Brunel University)       attracted 450 participants.
On the 16th May 2011, the Brunel team and Demos researchers       presented the FCMAP research       findings to national, regional, local government and third sector       stakeholders at the `Coming of       Age Policy Roundtable' hosted by Demos at their Tooley Street offices in       London.
Speaking       alongside the presenters, the Head of Pensions, Ageing Strategy and       Analysis Division at the       Department for Work and Pensions, described the FCMAP research as       beneficial and excellent,       outlining how the report's recommendations were relevant to current policy       developments.
Three       key stakeholders then responded to the report under Chatham House rules,       all engaging with the       implications of the research and all praising the innovative nature of the       research.
As one said, `It's         a really fantastic, very detailed report.
I thought there were several         particularly useful aspects of         this research.
I found the use of narratives as a research method         particularly helpful, in providing a         rich, bottom-up take on issues that are often dealt with in a very         top-down way.'
Subsequent policy dissemination of the report findings include reviews,       summaries and links in       such influential locations as Social Policy Digest, the DEFRA Sustainable       Development in       Government website, the Centre for Policy on Ageing website, the Local       Government Chronicle,       and other bodies.
The Centre for Policy on Ageing nominated FCMAP for the       ESRC Celebrating       Impact prize in the category of Outstanding Impact in Public Policy.
The Centre for Policy on Ageing endorsed FCMAP for the nomination of the       ESRC Celebrating       Impact Prize in the category of Outstanding Impact in Public Policy.
The       Director, in its       endorsement letter, stated that `Among policymakers and stakeholders like       myself the project's       method of giving voice to older subjects has achieved a concrete and       immediate impact, allowing       politicians to realize the kinds of prejudices that have been commonly       circulated even by       bureaucrats and politicians involved with policies concerning older       people.'
She also said that the       report `has become a standard text for all those concerned with policies       concerning the welfare and       well-being of older people, and has been widely cited and recommended.
The       report has       contributed to a better understanding the issues relevant to older people       such wellbeing and       human rights as regards older subject, and it has helped to shape the       political agenda regarding       older people's rights.'
On 15th November 2011, the Liberal Democrat Health Committee, chaired by       the Minister for Care       Services, on policy proposals for 'Healthier old age' considered the       research findings in Coming of         Age.
In Ireland, the report was summarized with a link by the Ageing       Well in Ireland Network and       the Centre for Ageing Research and Development in Ireland, as well as       being quoted in the latter's       April 2011 Report.
On 12th February 2013, Tew and Hubble took part in the       Birmingham Policy Commission       workshop, submitting a position paper and a sample of salient respondent       diaries, on ageing and       cultural attitudes.
This submission was included in the report produced by       the by the Birmingham       Policy Commission.
The economic and societal impact has been largely through the       dissemination of recommendations       for policy in Coming of Age.
For instance, all major political       parties in the UK have adopted its       appeal for targeting spending so that unnecessary universal benefits may       be phased out to aid       public spending targets, and help foster a sense of intergenerational       justice.
Among policymakers       and stakeholders the method itself of giving voice to older subjects       rather than ventriloquizing their       perceived concerns seems to have a concrete and almost immediate impact.
The Coming of Age       report has become a standard text for all those concerned with a variety       of provision focused on       older subjects.
It has been widely cited and recommended.
