     The recommendations of the Country Reports have had a far-reaching impact       on the treatment of       prisoners, from top-level regulatory and legislative change to encouraging       investment in training       and awareness-raising.
In the Ukraine, this has resulted in concrete       institutional efforts towards       transparency and fairness, supported by a number of initiatives such as       free Legal Aid and the       introduction of recording equipment to interrogation rooms.
Furthermore,       the reports provided the       evidence-base for an extensive training and capacity building programme       across the Ukraine,       South Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia), and Moldova.
Georgia       In spite of the political sensitivity relating to the disclosure of the       specific findings and       recommendations made by Murdoch in the Georgian Country Report, an       evaluation report of Joint       Programmes between the Council of Europe and the European Union published       in May 2012       shows that the Georgian authorities initiated a number of legislative and       structural changes in line       with the recommendations in the country report.
As part of these changes       the Georgian authorities       established an Inter&#8212;Agency Coordination Council against Torture as well       as establishing a       strategy against torture.
The working group drafted this directly on the       basis of the       recommendations set out in the detailed Country Report.
The Georgian       authorities also adopted an       Action Plan (2011-13) against torture, again in line with the Country       Report and its       recommendations [1].
Additionally, as part of its response to the recommendations in Murdoch's       Country Report, Georgia       adopted a new Criminal Procedure Code in 2010 which introduced new       safeguards against ill-       treatment and other human rights violations [2].
Ukraine       As recommended by the Country Report, a Presidential Working Group on       Criminal Justice Reform       was established and tasked with developing an independent mechanism for       investigating       allegations of ill-treatment.
The Commission for the Prevention of       Torture was established in the       Ukraine by Presidential Decree in September 2011 [3].
Ukraine's Minister of Internal Affairs picked up several more       recommendations from the report.
In       August 2010 the Minister issued a memo instructing that all detainees       receive an information       leaflet about their rights, whilst in March 2011 a new Regulation was       issued to combat ill-treatment       and ensure its effective investigation.
This new regulation requires the       inspection of all detention       facilities by Ministry staff and the installation of video recording       equipment to all interrogation       rooms, along with the continued distribution of the information leaflet [4].
At the time of writing, the Ukraine is working to have free Legal Aid       Centres established in every       region [5], as outlined in the Ukrainian Law on Free Legal Aid       adopted on 2 June 2011 following       the recommendation of the Country Report.
In addition to this new law, November 2012 saw the implementation of a       revised Ukrainian Criminal       Procedure Code which asserts witness' right to a lawyer, establishes an       independent mechanism       to investigate ill-treatment and renders confessions obtained where the       defendant's lawyer was       absent as inadmissible [6].
The commitment to also addressing Murdoch's concerns about cultural       change is evident in a letter       from Ukraine's Deputy Prosecutor General to all Regional Prosecutors,       which emphasises the       importance of the Joint Programme.
The letter requires prosecutors to       "apply a systemic approach       to an effective use of all their statutory powers in order to prevent and       to counteract illegal violence       by the law enforcement personnel.
Every investigation conducted on the       basis of a grounded       allegation of ill-treatment has to lead to establishment of the truth and       to punishment of those       responsible" [4, at p15].
The Council of Europe has since noted improvements to the quality of the       Prosecutor General       Office's statistical data as well as a gradual increase of judgements on       satisfaction of claims       concerning alleged torture [7].
Training Across Regions       The reports produced by Murdoch and his colleague also provided the basis       for an extensive       training programme for legal professionals, state officials and civil       society groups in the five       beneficiary states, which launched in 2010.
As part of this campaign the       Council of Europe and the       European Commission provided an additional &#8364;1.5m for a follow-up       programme, `Reinforcing the       fight against ill-treatment and impunity in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia,       the Republic of Moldova       and Ukraine', which included training on the European Standards for       protection of rights of       detainees and effective investigation into allegations of ill-treatment [8].
This extensive training programme was delivered to:            2500 prosecutors over 3 international, 26 regional and 13         inter-regional seminars during the         period of March 2009- June 2012 [9];       60 Human Rights Lawyers and 30 Human Rights NGOs [9];       200 Militia Officers over 5 thematic seminars [9]; and       1500 Judges through 1 international, and 30 regional, seminars [10].
As well as these seminars and training sessions, the National Academy for       Prosecutors in Ukraine       extended its curriculum to include an additional lecture on issues       relating to ill-treatment and       torture and their relationship to the European Convention on Human Rights       [4, page 8].
