     This programme of interlinked studies has had a significant and sustained       impact on government       policy and professional practice in promoting and safeguarding the       wellbeing of children in need.
Evidence of its international significance and reach is demonstrated by       the fact that practice tools       developed from our early research findings (the Looking After Children       programme) have been       implemented by all child welfare agencies in Ontario [5.1], are       being utilised by all youth services       in Quebec [5.2], and support approximately half of all children in       care in Australia [5.3]; and that       the costing methodology is being adapted for use in the United States [5.4].The       programme's       reach includes policymakers, practitioners and children and families       receiving social care services       in Australia, Canada, France, the Ukraine and the USA as well as in the UK       [5.5].
Its national       significance is evidenced by the award of a CBE for services to children       and families to Ward in       2012.
The findings from the cohort studies concerning children's extensive       needs at entry to care,       unstable placements and insufficient attention to their education       complemented those of other       studies and informed the NICE guidelines on the Health and Wellbeing of       Looked After Children       [5.6] and the revised Guidance on the Children Act 1989; Ward was       commissioned to draft parts of       this Guidance [5.5].
The first cohort study identified relationships between poor planning,       instability and adverse       outcomes for infants in care and led to a subsequent interlinked study on       outcomes for infants at       risk of abuse.
The research classification developed for this study has       been translated into a       practice tool for assessing risks of future harm, which is currently being       piloted by the NSPCC with       practitioners in eight local authorities.
This study was also featured on       a recent BBC Panorama       programme (Baby P: In His Mother's Words, December, 2010) and is included       in the Department       for Education Overview of recent research on safeguarding children       (co-written by Ward), 2000       hard copies of which have been distributed to all relevant agencies       throughout the country to       inform ongoing professional development programmes.
The study has also       informed the Munro       Review of Child Protection [5.7], the Family Justice Review [5.8]       the current adoption initiative       [5.5] and the fourth report of the House of Commons Education       Committee [5.9] to which Ward       gave written and oral evidence, by invitation.
Following the Family       Justice Review [5.8] examples       from the study are now used in the training of family justice       professionals.
The linked cohort study exploring the relationship between costs and       outcomes for looked after       children led to the construction of the Cost Calculator for Children's       Services, now developed as a       computer application for use in agencies in England.
The underpinning       methodology and tool is       being used by US researchers to measure changes in the child welfare       system in California, pre       and post implementation of new practice [5.4].
The ensuing programme on costing children's services has added       transparency to national       debates concerning value for money.
The research team has been       commissioned by the Fostering       Network, the Local Government Association and Action for Children to       utilise their innovative       costing methodology to calculate the national costs of foster care       provision and support foster care,       the costs of implementing the Laming recommendations for improving the       child protection service       and the costs of providing short breaks for disabled children [5.10].
The team are also routinely       invited by the Department for Education and the Ministry of Justice to       update the costs of care and       care proceedings to inform estimations and calculations submitted to       comprehensive spending       reviews; and statutory guidance such as that on the sufficiency       requirement [5.5].
In the 1980s, children in care were regarded as a separate group for whom       the state's       responsibilities were largely assumed to be confined to meeting their       basic physical needs.
In       Britain [5.5], Canada [5.1; 5.2] and Australia [5.3],       the research has been influential in moving the       debate forward to considering outcomes of care in terms of children's       developmental progress and       capacity to meet their potential.
New evidence concerning the long-term       consequences of abuse       and neglect have enabled us to argue that the poor outcomes of care are       related to the inability of       the system to compensate for previous adverse experience and to call for       more specialist provision       for those who remain looked after, more proactive decisions for those for       whom adoption is the       best option, and more effective services to safeguard those who remain at       home.
The research       has provided policymakers and practitioners with the evidence supporting       these arguments [5.5,         5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.10].
