     Our main funders, JRF, allocate resources allowing us on an on-going       basis to disseminate our work on MIS and use it to influence policy and       practice.
This has produced a chain of impacts, starting with the       engagement of the public and social commentators in recognising a socially       acceptable minimum, then followed through into analysis of the policy and       practice implications, and finally into specific changes in practices.
1) Engagement of the public, commentators and analysts in debate about         a socially acceptable minimum     - IMPACT 1.
The influence of the research on public thinking       about minimum needs has been underpinned by an exceptional amount of press       coverage for all four of the main research studies (A to D in Section 2).
On each occasion, the final report was featured on national television, on       BBC radio 4's today programme, in at least 20 other media interviews and       very extensively on the web and in newspapers.
Two examples of evidence of       direct public engagement with the research findings are: 2000 comments       posted on the BBC website debating what should be considered as essentials       in 12 hours following the publication of Reference [3.1]; in the       nine months following the publication of [3.2], 35,000 unique       users accessed the on-line Minimum Income Calculator [5.1].
- This has been followed up by extensive use of the benchmark in policy       analysis and comment by social policy analysts, recognising MIS as a valid       benchmark For example:     - IMPACT 2 The Progressive Conservatism project at the Demos       think-tank produced a report arguing for a raising of personal tax       thresholds to the Minimum Income Standard for a single person, thus using       our research (Study B; finding 2) to benchmark a major policy proposal [5.2].
This has contributed to the rationale for the present government's policy       of raising tax thresholds.
- IMPACT 3 The Pensions Policy Institute used MIS as a key       benchmark in a report (2009) considering how high pensions need to be in       order to meet minimum needs in retirement [5.3].
In 2010, the       Treasury's consultation paper on annuities reform suggested MIS as one       potential criterion for a "minimum income requirement" [5.4].
These analyses related to Study A, finding 1.
2) Use by charities in means testing (IMPACT 4)     Various charities use the MIS as a threshold to determine whether to       assist people in hardship (using Finding 1, Studies A to C above).
For       example "Independent Age", use it to determine the distribution of &#163;6m a       year in grants to older people [5.5].
3) Use to campaign for and set a "living wage" (IMPACT 5)     Living wage campaigns have been growing in the UK, but have not hitherto       systematically produced and updated evidence for what is an acceptable       wage to live on.
Secondary analysis of MIS has allowed us to produce       living wage figures rooted in public acceptability (based on Studies A to       C, Finding 2).
These have been taken up by campaigners and used as a       benchmark in wage-setting practice.
The Living Wage Campaign has adopted a       Living Wage level for outside London based explicitly on MIS [5.6].
By November 2012, 30,000 employees outside London had received pay       increases worth a total of &#163;33 million directly as a result of employers       adopting the living wage level based on MIS, according to an estimate made       by Queen Mary University of London.
The living wage based on MIS has been adopted by Birmingham, Glasgow,       Newcastle and other local authorities, in some cases applying to       procurement of services as well as directly applied staff.
The MIS work       has been central to local analysis of the case for the living wage [5.7].
The living wage is also being used by the Government of Scotland for its       own staff.
Donald Hirsch gave evidence to the Scottish Parliament about       MIS and its relevance for wages at the time that this was being adopted [5.8].
The trade union side of pay negotiations for local government staff (NJC)       used MIS as a basis for negotiating a pay settlement for England, Wales       and Northern Ireland for 2010-11 [5.9].
In 2012, the General Synod       of the Church of England voted to encourage all C of E churches to pay the       Living Wage, stating in the paper supporting the resolution: "The       independent Centre for Research in Social Policy at Loughborough       University conduct thorough and rigorous research to work out what is       needed for an adequate standard of living" [5.10].
