     The Loughborough Communication Research Centre research has had an impact       both on the BBC's coverage of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the       Arab Spring and the media debate about how these conflicts are reported by       media institutions.
Review of the Coverage of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict     Impact 1: Improving the impartiality of the BBC's coverage     Sir Quentin Thomas (then President of the British Board of Film       Classification and previously Political Director in the Northern Ireland       Office and at one time civil servant in the Home Office responsible for       broadcasting policy) was chair of a 5 member panel conducting, on behalf       of the BBC Governors, the 2006 Impartiality Review of coverage of the       Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The Panel found the LCRC report very helpful       and the Thomas report was informed by it in making its four main       recommendations: 'the BBC should provide more consistently a full and fair       account'; 'the BBC should provide an editorial 'Guiding Hand''; 'the BBC       should get the language [of the conflict] right'; and 'the BBC should make       purposive and not merely reactive efforts to explain the complexities of       the conflict' [5.1, Chairman of panel; 5.2, member of       panel].
In response to the report the BBC Executive proposed an 'enhanced role       for our Middle East editor [Jeremy Bowen] in helping to       formulate...overall coverage strategy'; the appointment of a West Bank       correspondent; the development of an approved lexicon of the conflict for       use by journalists and made partially available to the public; and to       commission a new website that will provide background and context to the       conflict.
These proposed changes were accepted by the BBC Governors and       subsequently implemented by the BBC.
These changes to BBC structures and       practices in Middle East reporting are still in place in 2014.
Impact 2: Contributing to public debate about media coverage of the         conflict     Coming on the heels of the Hutton Inquiry the review based on the       research cited in section 2 aroused considerable attention internationally       in public spheres as a subject for news and comment (as well as coverage       in the 'quality' and mid-market UK national newspapers it was reported on,       amongst others, in The Economist, The Jerusalem Post, The Washington Post,       The Australian, The Irish Times).
Two headlines capture the aftermath of       the report.
In The Economist 'the BBC shrugs off criticism of its coverage       of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict' (22/6/2006) and Martin Walker in The       Times 'The BBC pro-Israeli?
Is the Pope Jewish?'
(11/5/2006).
Clearly the       review challenged dominant perceptions of BBC coverage both within the BBC       and within the industry more generally and continues to affect media       debate about the BBC's reporting of the conflict (for example, Jonny       Paul's article about the BBC's reporting of Israel in The Jerusalem Post       (16/4/2009)).
[5.5, 5.6, 5.7].
Review of the Coverage of the 'Arab Spring'     Impact 1: Improving the impartiality of the BBC's coverage     In 2011 the Trust appointed Edward Mortimer (former Times and FT leader       writer, highly-respected expert in the field, and former Director of       Communications to Kofi Annan while he was General Secretary of the United       Nations) to review the BBC's coverage of the Arab Spring...his report drew       substantially on LCRC findings [5.3, independent expert appointed       by BBC Trust; 5.4, BBC Trust Head of Editorial Standards].
As a result of the research as cited in section 2, the BBC Trust       concluded (after taking into account the BBC Executive response) that: 1.
'The BBC's coverage of this series of events was generally impartial.
There were, however, points where coverage could have been fuller in       various geographical areas at different times.
Some countries had little       coverage, others could have been followed up more fully and there could       have been fuller examination of the different voices which made up the       opposition to various incumbent governments.
In addition a broader range       of international reaction could have been covered.'
2.
'The Trust welcomes       the Executive's recognition that the BBC could have made better use of       references to the website within broadcast items for those interested in       more information or background, and encourages its use in particular on       those outlets which attract younger audiences.'
and 3.
'In order to       safeguard audiences' trust, the BBC should consider how it might better       share more effectively with the audience the rigorous vetting process to       which all User Generated Content (UGC) is subjected.'
The BBC's Director       of News updated the Trust on progress made in implementing changes to       structure and output in summer 2013.
Impact 2: Contributing to public debate about media coverage of the         'Arab Spring'     The public reception of the Arab Spring impartiality was less heated than       the 2006 review.
The findings were reported on widely in the UK 'quality'       and mid-market newspapers and in industry journals such as Broadcast and       The Hollywood Reporter.
Most of the press reaction focused on the use of       User Generated Content and the lack of background and context, issues       brought to light by LCRC's content analysis (for instance, see Ben       McDowell's Guardian article referencing the LCRC research on 22/6/2012) [5.8].
