     The research cited in Sections 2-3 underpinned impacts corroborated in       Section 5.
Impact on communication skills training methodology     CARM's reach and significance (inter)nationally is evidenced by the       delivery of 130+ CARM workshops to 60+ organizations across UK/Ireland and       USA, totalling 1000+ individual participants who are beneficiaries.
Many       events were organized in response to repeat/unsolicited requests [5.1-5.4].
CARM has been awarded Continuing Professional Development accreditation       status by the College of Mediators [5.7].
Stokoe was invited to       join the College's Board of Directors (October 2012), to provide expert       advice and influence policy.
The Ministry of Justice uses her work in its       public information about mediation [5.10]     CARM has spread into other domains of communication training and is       generating not-for-profit income as a sustainable social enterprise       (www.carmtraining.org).
CARM's reach has spread into the legal, medical       and commercial sectors [5.5] and is also in high demand from UK,       US and other overseas academics, beyond the submitting HEI, to use in       their own work [5.6].
Feedback from workshop participants often focused on CARM's use of       recordings of real mediators rather than traditional `role-play'       approaches.
1000+ items of feedback demonstrate CARM's impact on       awareness, thinking and understanding in training practice [5.8]:       "The fact that it was `real', as opposed to role-play was a relief" (Mediator,         Glasgow Community and Safety Services); "Having the ability to       listen to actual calls ... was very innovative ... versus a typical role       play environment" (Family Mediator, DC Superior Court, Washington, DC,         USA).
Capacity-building in mediation services     CARM has impacted the `syllabus' of mediation training because it       includes, uniquely in the sector, training for initial telephone inquiries       which involve critical points at which prospective clients are won or       lost.
As one user said, "it is so useful to see what subtle ways there are       to ... convert callers into clients" (ESRC Case Study respondent) [5.8].
CARM's capacity-building with community mediators has spread into family       mediation services.
Many of the workshops delivered in 2013 were in       response to invitations from national, regional and local family mediation       services [5.3].
Stokoe was invited to provide expert advice in the       launch, development and service delivery of a new family mediation       organization [5.4].
Culture and attitude change in mediation training     CARM has impacted on attitudes towards traditional training and the value       of academic research.
One beneficiary said of CARM: "(the fact that it is)       grounded in reality impresses people and they see the value of it ... it       is certainly not my experience with a typical academic" [5.8].
CARM involves genuine knowledge exchange.
It mattered to stakeholders       that workshops were grounded in research ("The nature of the workshops is       very important; they are very much evidence-based; the evidence gives it       quite an impact").
Users saw an inherent complementarity, with one       effectively defining `Knowledge Exchange': "a full, rounded engagement of       what we have to bring, she takes that and gives from the academic side ...       We have benefited, as part of her wider family" [5.8].
Sustainability and connectivity in mediation training     CARM is sustainable and has long-term impact, building capacity in       mediation services where personnel change regularly resulting in a       continuous demand for training evidenced by regular invitations to run       workshops from new and existing organizations [5.1-5.4].
The project has generated enduring connections with mediators across the       country, by organizing the first national training workshop for mediators       who currently have no such forum for meeting and training (June 2012) [5.8].
The project has also generated a 600+ member international online       mediation discussion forum [5.9].
As one user said, "[Liz] has had       a big impact on mediation in UK and Ireland already, not only through       workshops but also through putting people together and creating networks       ... she has helped to fill a vacuum" [5.8].
Another user said,       "Liz has worked relentlessly hard, bringing mediators, services together,       establishing links online, raising awareness of CARM ... [and has made]       seamless connections linking services and mediators together.
After       Mediation UK collapsed, we were all working in silos and suddenly we are       now talking to each other in a true mediation fashion!"
The selection of CARM as an ESRC Impact Case Study     CARM was selected as a case study in an ESRC "Research Impact on       Practice" impact evaluation [5.8].
The report describes CARM's       impact and summarizes extensive user feedback.
Awards and external visibility     CARM won the Loughborough University Social Impact Enterprise Award       (April 2013).
Stokoe was awarded a British Psychological Society       award (September 2011) for her applied work.
Stokoe's CARM was the focus       of BBC Radio 4's `The Life Scientific' (June 2013).
