     The depth and diversity of the research differentiated it from the       largely incidental treatment of territoriality in the existing literature,       communicating a new understanding about the relationship between young       people, place, and violent behaviours to both policy makers and the       public.
Transforming popular understandings of youth gangs and violence     The research significantly contributed to public understandings about the       roots of youth gangs at a time when there was rising concern about rates       of violent deaths.
This impact was achieved through a range of publicity       activities and substantial media coverage.
The project pages on the Joseph Rowntree Foundation website have received       15,500 hits, with approximately 1,600 copies of the report downloaded.
On       publication the research was featured by over 300 media outlets, including       The Daily Mirror, The Independent, The Daily Express, The Times,       and The Herald.
The Guardian (G2) published a two page       spread on territoriality based on the report, as well as news coverage and       a comment column in the main paper.
Kintrea gave live news interviews to BBC Radio Cambridgeshire, BBC Radio       Leeds and LBC (London) and interviews were also included in the TV       documentaries War on Knives (Sky 1, 14 and 21 October 2008) and Stabbed:         The Truth about Knife Crime (BBC 1, 20 January 2009).
War on         Knives was the biggest-ever televised campaign to tackle knife       crime.
Kintrea featured in the first of two 2-hour live programmes which       outlined the scale of the problem through films and expert interviews.
Kintrea was interviewed alongside a representative from the Violence       Reduction Unit and a victim of knife crime.
Stabbed examined the       reasons behind knife crime through interviews with police, youth workers       and researchers, as well as teenagers and families of victims.
Kintrea's       interview was used as context for footage of territorially-impacted young       people discussing why they carried knives.
In addition, a special exhibition, Nothing in the World but Youth,       at Turner Contemporary in Margate in 2011, featured cognitive maps drawn       by young people as part of research focus groups.
The exhibition attracted       123,000 visitors and nearly 1,000 copies of the exhibition catalogue,       which included a contribution by Kintrea, were sold.
The Scottish Government research received significant media attention,       particularly in relation to findings about female gang members.
It was       reported in articles in The Herald, The Sun, The Scotsman, and the         Evening Times as well as by Scottish Television (STV).
Informing policy on Gangs and Knife Crime     The research impacted on understandings of youth gangs held by policy       makers.
Before the research was published, there were no national policy       interventions targeting the territorial aspect of gangs.
In 2008 a series of fatal stabbings urged the House of Commons Home       Affairs Committee to launch an Inquiry into Knife Crime, which reported in       June 2009.
The research formed the basis of discussions at an       evidence-gathering seminar in Leeds, contributing to the Inquiry's       conclusion that `the rise in violent knife offences seen over the past         few years is associated with street violence between groups of young         people who share a territorial identity, often referred to as 'gangs'.
During the period of the Inquiry, the researchers delivered two seminars       at the Home Office (October 30th 2008; March 12th       2009).
The first addressed civil servants from The Home Office and the       Department of Communities and Local Government, while the second,       organised by the Tackling Gangs Action Project (TGAP) within the Home       Office, was delivered to senior police officers, youth practitioners,       senior civil servants and partner agencies.
Researchers also gave a       presentation to the Youth Justice Board in February 2009.
During this       period, the research was quoted in the politically influential Centre for       Social Justice report Dying to Belong (2009).
According to the Head of Public Space Violence at the Home Office at the       time, the research contributed to their understanding of the nature of       gang violence, with its emphasis on how territoriality fuels much of this.
This helped to improve initial Home Office understanding of the problem at       the important stage of building an evidence base and formulating strategic       plans for TGAP.
There is now clear recognition of the central role of territoriality in       gangs, with the most recent policy document Ending Gang Violence: A         Cross Government Report describing case studies in exactly the same       terms as Kintrea et.
al (2008).
The introduction of gang injunctions in       England in 2011 is a direct response to the need to tackle territorial       violence.
Informing Scottish Government Policies on Young People and Knife           Crime     Prior to the research, there were few large-scale empirical studies of       gangs or knife carriers in the UK, and none in Scotland.
The research       reports therefore filled important information gaps for the Scottish       Government and shaped its approach.
New insights included: statistical data about the backgrounds of gang       members and knife carriers; the different aetiologies and risk factors for       the two groups; and information about young women's involvement in gangs,       which is characterised more by victimisation than aggression.
These       research findings have become reference points in policy meetings and       briefings within the Scottish Government.
In addition, Jon Bannister was       invited to participate in a Scottish Government debate into knife crime in       January 2009.
During the debate he drew from both research projects to       highlight the significance of territoriality to gang behaviour and also to       urge for more sustained funding to be dedicated to early intervention       projects.
According to Senior Researchers at the Scottish Government, the research       gave confidence to policy development around the Scottish Government's `No       Knives Better Lives' campaign, elements of the Community Initiative to       Reduce Violence (CIRV) and the Cashback for Communities programme.
The       CIRV, in particular, has had great reported success in reducing the rate       of gang violence in Glasgow by 50% between 2008 and 2011.
