     Our ongoing programme of basic science, translational and clinical       research has underpinned substantial advances in understanding vascular       complications of SSc and has directly informed the development of new       effective therapies.
The best example for this is the targeting of       endothelin receptors.
ET-1 is a vasoconstrictor peptide implicated in SSc       pathogenesis and ERAs have been developed that are now licensed therapies       for PAH in SSc and also for digital ulcer disease.
The latter represents       the first ever SSc-specific licensing indication.
Use of ERAs for PAH in SSc     PAH is a complication that affects about 10% of SSc patients.
As a result       of the research described above, use of ERAs has become standard practice       in the management of PAH related to connective tissue disease       (specifically complicating SSc) [a].
Our work specifically defined       tolerability and efficacy in SSc cases with PAH.
The FDA and EMA approvals       of Bosentan in 2002 were dependent on the BREATHE-1 study to which we       contributed [b, c].
The use of Bosentan is now recommended in       European guidelines [d] and our studies provided key evidence used       in guideline development.
Worldwide, many thousands of patients have now benefitted from treatment       with bosentan for PAH.
Actelion (the company that markets bosentan)       reported that in one year alone (2012) 44,000 patients were currently       receiving the therapy.
It is estimated that around a quarter of PAH       patients have connective tissue disease (see Badesch et al.
2010), so we       can assume that around 11,000 of these treatments were for SSc patients [e].
Endothelin antagonism with bosentan in SSc patients with PAH reduces       death rate by 30%.
Thus the average survival for pulmonary arterial       hypertension in SSc has improved from less than two years to more than       five years from diagnosis [f].
This can be estimated to have saved       around 30 lives a year in our cohort of SSc cases and perhaps 150 lives       per year in the UK [g].
Furthermore, there is an important benefit       in terms of quality of life and symptom burden as most patients with PAH       treatment improve their functional class to grade II, representing minor       breathlessness that allows them to participate in normal activities.
This       benefit was demonstrated by the improvement in the heath transition domain       of the SF-36 heath status measure in the TRUST clinical trial that our       centre led [see reference 4 above].
This has been possible due to       the pivotal work that our centre undertook in defining a role for ET-1 in       pathogenesis and also in defining benefit in terms of mortality and       efficacy of ERA.
Licensing of bosentan for digital ulcer disease     Digital ulcers are a significant complication of SSc.
They are painful,       and may take between three and 15 months to heal.
Secondary infections may       occur in 50% of cases, and recurring ulcers can be a major source of       disability, interfering with the patient's daily activities and capacity       to work.
Digital ulcers can also lead to the chronic use of analgesics and       antibiotics, and sometimes to hospitalisation and surgery (including       digital amputation) [h].
In May 2007, Bosentan was licensed by the       European Medicines Agency (EMA) as a preventative treatment to reduce the       number of new digital ulcers in patients with systemic sclerosis and       ongoing digital ulcer disease.
As well as the research provided above,       Black and Denton made the presentation to the EMA on the clinical impact       of digital ulcer disease that underpinned the approval [i].
Our work defined the patients most likely to benefit from this high cost       therapy, in order to facilitate targeting of appropriate cases where       clinical impact and economic considerations are favourable.
This treatment       is now recommended in consensus guidelines issued by the UK Scleroderma       working group [j].
European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) and the EULAR Scleroderma       Trials and Research Group (EUSTAR) recommend: "Bosentan has confirmed         efficacy in two high-quality randomised controlled trials to prevent         digital ulcers in diffuse systemic sclerosis patients, in particular         those with multiple digital ulcers.
Bosentan should be considered in         diffuse systemic sclerosis with multiple digital ulcers after failure of         calcium antagonists and, usually, prostanoid therapy" [d].
In 2012, Actelion (manufacturers of Bosentan) reported that over 5,000 DU       patients were currently on this therapy [k].
Trial results showed that the use of bosentan for digital ulcers reduced       the incidence in SSc patients by 50% [l].
A 50% reduction in new       digital ulcer formation is a tangible impact on a non- lethal burden of       SSc that affects up to 50% of cases.
It has been shown in recent work from       the DUO register that ulcer number correlates with inability to undertake       employed work and also the need for paid help, specifically that having       more than two digital ulcers is associated with reduced work participation       [m].
Reduction in need for hospital admission for intravenous prostcyclin has       been a specific benefit of the availability of oral therapies for severe       digital ulcers in SSc.
This is exemplified by the approved algorithm for       ulcer use that defines the need for three or more annual admissions for       inpatient treatment as a threshold for funding application for ERA.
This       is based upon predicted per patient annual saving of around &#163;3,600.
Thus,       with around 30 cases per year in our centre fulfilling this standard, that       has now been adopted by UK Scleroderma Study Group (chaired by Denton) as       part of their "best practice recommendations" in 2012, would save the NHS       in our hospital an estimated &#163;100,000 and nationally a predicted &#163;500,000       per year.
