     The last 15 years have seen enormous changes in telecommunications, with       global impact.
The       rise of voice-over-IP (VoIP) has caused the wholesale replacement of large       parts of the traditional       telephone network and the rapid deployment of 3G and 4G mobile telephony       systems that       embrace VoIP building on the 3rd Generation Partnership Project       IP Multimedia Subsystem.
We       are seeing similar changes in other industries: video conferencing and       telepresence is now       commonplace; IP-based TV set-top boxes are replacing traditional cable TV       systems; digital       distribution is disrupting the cinema industry; and IP-based distribution       is widely used for       surveillance cameras and security systems.
Perkins' work has been to       build, and improve, protocol       standards that allow vendors to make interoperable systems, to help build       and move towards a       single protocol framework for internet-based real-time multimedia, rather       than balkanised non-       interoperable proprietary systems.
Two network protocol standards underpin the overwhelming majority of       these deployments.
The       Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) provides the transport layer that       delivers audiovisual data       across the network, while the Session Description Protocol (SDP) forms the       basis of the signalling       mechanisms that describe the format of the media data and the destination       of the media flow.
The       Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), the main international technical       standards body governing       the Internet, developed both RTP and SDP.
The RTP and SDP protocol standards are essential components of 3G and 4G       mobile phone       standards [9], implemented in hundreds of millions of devices around the       world.
They form the       infrastructure for many fixed telephone networks, as part of equipment       that is rapidly replacing the       traditional circuit switched telephone network.
They are implemented in       Apple's Mac OS X and       iOS, in Google's Android operating system, and in Microsoft Windows as       core telephony and video       conferencing frameworks [10].
They are implemented in TV set-top boxes       distributed by many       ISPs.
And they form the basis of many commercial security camera systems,       and other       surveillance applications.
As co-chair of the IETF's Audio/Video Transport Working Group from       1998-2008, Dr Perkins       managed the evolution of RTP from a proposed standard protocol, primarily       of interest to       researchers and with minimal deployment, to a full Internet standard [7]       with numerous commercial       implementations that is now deployed in billions of devices worldwide.
He       has contributed to       numerous standards relating to robust multimedia transport, media quality       feedback and       monitoring, and security of voice telephony, video conferencing, and IPTV       systems, and has       written the definitive book on the protocol [8].
Research at Glasgow       extended early standards on       robust VoIP transmission [RFC2198] with more recent standards for reliable       text conversation for       hearing-impaired users [RFC4103], for forward-shifted redundancy       [RFC6354], and in-progress       work on temporal and spatial redundancy for video streaming.
University of       Glasgow work on       monitoring fed into two international standards [11, 13] that provide       guidelines for the development       of monitoring features of RTP, and further standards [12, RFC4585]       optimising those monitoring       features.
Working with industry to transfer these ideas, the University of       Glasgow are credited in       the development of a further nine monitoring standards [RFCs 6776, 6798,       6843, 6958, 6990,       7002-7005], and research on scalability of the RTCP monitoring framework       for IPTV systems ([4],       above) showed that such monitoring can scale to multimillion-user       populations, supporting       adoption by widely deployed commercial IPTV set-top box implementations.
Dr Perkins served as co-chair of the IETF's Multiparty Multimedia Session       Control working group       from 2000-07.
One of his main contributions in this time was to act as       editor for a significant       revision and clarification to the SDP signalling standard (2,861         citations in Google Scholar since         the 2006 version [14]; updated version in progress, aiming for         publication late early 2014).
This has       a successful aside, based on the need for signalling to support research       in IPTV, robust media       transport, and congestion control.
Since 2011, University of Glasgow researchers contributed to the Web       Real-time Conferencing       working group of the IETF and the associated working group in the       World-Wide Web Consortium       (W3C).
These groups are bringing standard native video conferencing       features to web browsers, to       allow features without plug-ins such as Adobe Flash Player or Google Talk.
Based on his research       experience, Dr Perkins became co-author of the draft specification for       Media Transport and the use       of RTP in web browsers [14], ensuring they will support robust media       transport and effective quality       monitoring.
Based on prior multimedia congestion control research, and       on-going research on       circuit breaker algorithms for multimedia transport protocols ([6],       above), Dr Perkins is now       developing a draft [15] that will form a normative part of the Web       Real-time Conferencing       standards to ensure safe media delivery that doesn't congest the network.
These specifications are       currently incomplete drafts, but they are already giving guidance to and a       framework for       development for many companies.
In addition, they are already implemented       and deployed at       Internet scale in the Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox web browsers [16].
These two browsers       alone represented ca 60% of the browser base in June 2013, and are used by       millions of people.
The immediate beneficiaries of this work are the Internet standards       community, and implementers       of the various protocol standards.
Glasgow research has helped ensure the       maintenance of a       consistent and coherent protocol framework, providing a clear direction       for the growth of the       protocol standards at a time when the industry was expanding massively.
This has brought       research insights directly into the standards process, and perhaps as       importantly, has provided a       neutral voice &#8212; untainted by allegations of favouritism or commercial       interest &#8212; at the heart of the       standards process.
All the standards developed are available online and       free of charge, and most       are open to implement without fear of IPR restrictions.
The open and       participatory nature of the       process, and the global deployment of the resulting standards, shows the       benefit of this approach.
