     The following examples represent the reach and significance of our       research for medicines' policy       across the UK:     Value based pricing       The Department of Health (in England) made its recommendations (in June       2013) on how value is       to be defined within the value-based pricing scheme based on research,       including ours, which       identified circumstances in which funding should be preferentially       targeted to some treatments at       the expense of others.
Our research was independent, timely and       authoritative.
Commenting on       our research, the Department of Health's economic advisor noted that our       study "provided an       important corroboration and reference point which complemented and       enhanced the work directly       commissioned by the Department to understand societal valuation of       treatments".
"It improved the       confidence in the evidence base underlying the system of Value Based       Pricing", and has made "a       really valuable contribution to development of VBP" [5.1].
Our research       findings supported the       notion underlying the burden of illness weighting of health outcomes,       which has consequently       become a central component of the methods for value assessment under value       based pricing [5.3].
The implications of these recommendations are significant given that the       NHS spends about &#163;9bn       a year on branded prescription medicines in the UK, the distribution of       which is thus directly       influenced by our research.
Cancer drugs fund       The decision by the Welsh Government not to establish a Cancer Drugs Fund       (May 2012) was       linked to our research which demonstrated that the public does not support       the premium pricing of       treatments for cancer over other, equally serious conditions [3.3].
Referring to our work, former       Welsh Health Minister, Lesley Griffiths said: "This research clearly shows       the public supports our       evidence-based approach to providing excellent, high quality care for       cancer patients in Wales.
That is why we have rejected the notion of a Cancer Drugs Fund in Wales"       [5.4].
This research       was also cited by Alex Neil, Scotland's Cabinet Secretary for Health &amp;       Wellbeing [5.5], during       parliamentary debate that led the Scottish Government to conclude in July       2013 that "the       establishment of a cancer drugs fund in Scotland would not be the answer"       [5.6].
Cancer Drugs       Funds in Scotland and Wales would have cost about &#163;32m annually, at an       opportunity cost (i.e.
the       health benefits forgone) of around 1,000 Quality-Adjusted Life-Years       (QALYs).
Biosimilars       Our research findings on biosimilars [3.4] were adopted as AWMSG policy in       2010: "Cost-       minimisation analyses are appropriate for biosimilars only when the       reference product has been       recommended by AWMSG or NICE for the intended indication; or when the       reference product is       already in widespread use for the indication" [5.7].
Biosimilar versions       of somatropin, filgrastim and       epoetin have subsequently been appraised.
Since the introduction of       biosimilar filgrastim, the       overall prescribing of filgrastims has more than doubled.
However, because       of the lower cost of       biosimilars, total expenditure has fallen by 30% (from &#163;0.5m) and the       market share of the originator       product has reduced from 90% to less than 20% [5.8].
With 7 of the top 10       medicines by spend       globally being biopharmaceuticals, and patents due to expire imminently       for enoxaparin, rituximab,       imatinib, and others, the importance of biosimilars, and their impact on       drug budgets, will become       ever more significant.
Ultra-orphan drugs       Our research recommendations for a compromise between utilitarian and       non-abandonment       approaches to appraising ultra-orphan drugs [3.5] formed the basis of the       July 2012 AWMSG ultra-       orphan drug appraisal policy [3.6, 5.9].
This has facilitated patient       access to high cost medicines       that would not be considered to be cost-effective according to the       standard methods of appraisal; 5       of 8 ultra-orphan drugs appraised between 2007 and 2009 were recommended       for use, bringing       their approval rate in line with non-orphan medicines.
The AWMSG policy       for appraising ultra-       orphan drugs acknowledges their higher incremental cost-effectiveness       ratios, and allows the       AWMSG to consider factors besides clinical and cost-effectiveness.
This       policy was considered by       NICE during its initial scoping of ultra-orphan drug policies in December       2012 [5.2], as it took over       the responsibilities of the Advisory Group for National Specialised       Services for the commissioning       of highly specialised treatments in England.
The Welsh ultra-orphan drugs policy, based on our research, is also       referenced in April 2013       review of the Scottish Medicines Consortium [5.10], which recommended that       it should develop a       policy specifically relating to the appraisal of ultra-orphan medicines.
The Scottish Parliament       Health and Sports Committee accepted the review's recommendations,       believing they would       ensure a better and more transparent system for accessing new medicines       [5.6].
Our work       continues to impact on medicines' policies in England, Wales and Scotland       and points to increased       future benefits to patients throughout the UK.
