     From the outset, the Bengal diaspora project was conceived as a new way       of conducting cutting-edge research in partnership with the subjects of       that research.
This produced a sense of widely-shared ownership of the       project, which in turn, propelled its impact and benefits along several       different axes.
The 'Bangla Stories' website is a key example of this.
Developed in 2009       as a unique partnership between Chatterji, the Bengal diaspora team, the       Runnymede Trust, the LSE's Heif4 Knowledge Transfer fund and the       Swadhinata Trust (a Bengali heritage organisation), the website was       designed to disseminate the research findings outside academia, and to       engage with schools and community groups.
The LSE's Heif4 fund also       supported the project as Alexander was then based there; she has since       moved to Manchester University.
'Bangla Stories' brought the history of migration into British classrooms       through the personal perspective of eight individuals, whose life       histories provide an intimate portrait of their experience of       displacement.
It enables young people of different backgrounds to       understand the flow of history and movement that shapes their world.
Bangla Stories' key beneficiaries are 11-15-year-olds, mainly from       migrant backgrounds.
It provides them (and their teachers) with basic       information and training in research and digital media skills to       investigate the histories of their families and communities.
By giving       them the tools and incentive to `interview' their parents and grandparents       about their experiences of migration, it encourages dialogue across       generations and fosters a better understanding between them.
This helps       ease some of the deep tensions that often characterise relations between       `first generation' migrants and their British-born children.
Although focused on Bengali Muslim communities, the website and       accompanying educational resource pack have provided an exemplary template       of how to engage young people of all backgrounds in history at Key Stage       3.
"The Bengal Diaspora research has had an enormous impact on young         people from a broad range of ethnic backgrounds right across the UK.
The       project led to the development of the Banglastories website (www.banglastories.org)         the aim of which was to bring these stories of migration, history,         movement and identity outside the academy and into the classrooms of the         next generation of British schoolchildren."
(5A) Dr Debbie       Weekes-Bernard, Senior Research &amp; Policy Analyst, Education, Runnymede       Trust.
The Runnymede Trust, Alexander and Chatterji have gained substantial       follow-on funds from the AHRC to `roll out' the project at four schools       across Britain, to train pupils to do their own historical research into       community stories of migration and belonging: Cardiff High School, Cathays       High School (Cardiff), Parkwood Academy (Sheffield) and Judgemeadow       Community College (Leicester) (5B).
One teacher at Cathays       described the impact of the project on her students as `a life changing         experience for them in that it has ignited a real passion for research         and has raised the aspirations of these young people' (5C).
Cardiff High School (where one Welsh pupil charted his family's history       back to 1809!)
embedded Bangla Stories into its Year 7 history curriculum       in September 2012.
In Leicester, parents' associations working with Somali       children have used the website and a community development consultant       commented on the impact of the research training that `the opportunity         for the young people to research and make short films and recordings         about their histories offered an opportunity for bolstering pride,         self-esteem and consequently confidence in their right to belong and         participate in the city' (5D).
In Sheffield, the work of       pupils who engaged with the project will be archived in the Sheffield       Archives (5F), and it is intended to archive the Welsh pupils'       projects at the Cardiff Story Museum and the St Fagan's National History       Museum.
The project has been praised by the Chair of the North       Hertfordshire Interfaith Forum for `addressing difficult history in a         powerful and innovative way'; it is, he writes, `extremely bold         and innovative to address [the missing history of the Asian diaspora] by         getting children to engage in their own family migratory history',       and he considers it `a very good model for enhancing community         self-understanding through the history curriculum' (5G).
The website to date has logged over 50,085 `Absolute Unique Visitors'.
It       has attracted approximately 1,600 new visitors per month.
10% of them have       returned to the site at least once.
1,908 people have visited the site       over 200 times.
19.7% of the site's visitors are from the UK, many are in       schools.
The site has had 2,502 visits to the page `For teachers'.
17% of       unique visitors are from South Asia &#8212; India (7.6%) and Bangladesh (9.1%) &#8212;       demonstrating the links the project has forged between UK's research       community and civil society in South Asia.
The remaining visitors are from       the United States (5.7%), Italy, the UAE, Canada, Germany, Finland,       Singapore and Australia, demonstrating the global reach of the project's       research and disseminating strategies for its results.
`The         Banglastories site told the stories of less well known Bengali         communities across Britain and also provide a unique comparative         dimension, telling the stories of those migrants who remained in South         Asia.
The work was thus global in its reach, as well as telling more         national and local stories, and this can be seen from the global         audiences for the website.'
(Swadhinata Trust, 5E)     The significance of the website is illustrated by the willingness of the       academic journal Ethic and Racial Studies and the Runnymede Trust       to fund its launch in December 2009.
Baroness Uddin hosted an event to       launch the site and associated education pack at the House of Lords       (2012).
This event was attended by a class from Mulberry School, Tower       Hamlets, community activists and the media and received widespread       coverage from BBC Asian Network, the BBC World Service, and four Bengali       TV channels (Channel S, Channel I, ATN Bangla, NTV).
Articles on the       website appeared in Eastern Eye (July 2010) and the Runnymede Bulletin       (3,000 online subscribers, including government departments and `third       sector' organisations).
Significantly, `Bangla Stories' has been selected       as a `Curators' Choice' of the British Library for long-term preservation       in the UK Web Archive.
Chatterji is also a member of the Brick Lane Circle, which promotes the       understanding of migration to London's East End, and has spoken about her       work at this forum as well as others in the UK and in South Asia (e.g.
`Network Bangla', a community networking organisation in the UK; the       Community Development Organisation, Dinajpur, Bangladesh; Nijeri Kori, a       `self-help' community organization in Bangladesh).
In these ways she has       helped build enduring links between Britain's research community and civil       society, not only within Britain itself, but also in South Asia (5F).
One of the key benefits of her work to the United Kingdom has been that it       seeks new ways to engage with a region of ever-increasing global       importance, as highlighted in a recent AHRC report on `high-impact       research' relating to India that profiled `Bangla Stories' (5A).
