     Memories of a Lost Shark is a project in which text and image       combine to explore the role of       photography and literature and the way in which these two mediums may both       complement and       invade each other's spaces &#8212; a construct that allows for us to deal with,       and make sense of, the       various themes we attach to Cuba.
In the project, the correspondence       between a series of black       and white photographs and texts invites the spectator to enter a       conversation with both       photographer and writer in an act of imaginative solidarity with the       content revealed in both the       texts and images.
The project offers alternative ways of seeing Cuba's       past, present and future,       presenting an opportunity for the rethinking of different myths and       realities which have formed       (and, at times, distorted) representations of the nation over the course       of the last century.
In doing       so, it also uncovers and contests new and different knowledges relating to       Cuba and the city of       Havana by mapping out new imaginaries and narratives via a form of visual       storytelling.
In       Memories of a Lost Shark, these different realms are informed,       first and foremost, by the passing       of time and by our memories of it, but also by the way in which these       memories are evidenced and       recorded by both the photographic and written text.
Through engaging with       the public in       photographic exhibitions and talks, the project develops understanding of       the processes by which       visual imaginaries are constructed and communicated, and raises public       awareness of the       idealisation and metaphorical imaginaries of space and place.
This has       been enabled by the       application of theories and ideas relating to documentary photography and       psychogeography,       previously explored in Kent's research in the field of Cuban and visual       culture studies (as noted       above), that are now being made visible through his touring exhibition.
Kent's collaboration with Edmundo Desnoes has developed directly out of       his discussions with the       writer regarding documentary photography (September 2012 &#8212; September       2013), with a focus, first       and foremost, upon the way in which both the photographer and the writer       deal with the key       themes and ideas relating to psychogeography and urban experience.
Desnoes' review of a re-       publication of Walker Evans's Cuban portfolio in Aperture magazine       (Summer 1990) formed the       basis for this exchange.
In his review, Desnoes commended Evans's       photographic style at this       formative stage of his career, which he saw as bearing `no theatrical       dramatization of       underdevelopment,' in turn uncovering a more transparent representation of       city-life which forced       the viewer to `contemplate with a poignant and indifferent eye the       poverty, the flow of quotidian       existence.'
This reading of the role of the documentary photographer       markedly informed the shape       of the research project in terms of its theoretical and visual formation,       and the resultant exhibitions       have been acknowledged by experts in the field as a product of this       dialogue.
This has been       reflected in the project, for instance, through both Kent and Desnoes'       continuous recalling of       Evans's influential and self-penned "documentary style" in their       collaboration.
This is illustrated       within the framework of the exhibition itself, in which Desnoes'       meditation on the photograph El         vagabundo (The Wanderer) reflects upon the image in question       as redolent of the representation       of poverty depicted by a number of influential documentary photographers,       including Walker       Evans, Cartier-Bresson, Capa and Frank; `[this photograph] keeps us aware       of the heartrending       plight of those that ironically survive thanks to our crumbs.'
As noted above, Memories of a Lost Shark has been made accessible       through travelling       international public exhibitions, gallery talks and events, as well as       through online galleries       available on Kent's website, jckent.com.
Combined, these have had an educational impact upon       public discourse and have raised cultural awareness of the project's main       themes.
His exhibition at       Oriel Colwyn, North Wales (approximately 30-50 visitors daily, open daily       1000-1700, 1-21 June       2013) represented the first public display of the project.
This exhibition       was accompanied by a       series of public events, the first being an opening reception alongside a       screening (31 May 2013)       of Memories of Underdevelopment (directed by Tom&#225;s Guti&#233;rrez Alea,       1968) with approximately       150 members of the public in attendance (150 tickets sold via Theatr       Colwyn and Venue Cymru).
A       second event, a photographer's talk, which was open to the public       (audience of 25, 19 June 2013),       brought together scholars, practitioners and the local community.
The       follow-up exhibition to this       first show took place in La Habana del Este, Havana, Cuba, at the Galer&#237;a       Fayad Jam&#237;s: Centro de       Arte y Literatura (approx.
30-50 visitors daily, open daily 1000-1800,       1-24 July 2013), with an       opening reception taking place to mark its inauguration (2 July 2013, 60       in attendance).
By using these exhibitions as a platform for the dissemination of Kent       and Desnoes' collaborative       work, the impact from this project has enriched cultural awareness of       local and global cultural       heritage and has provided expert opinion on presenting this to the public.
More specifically, its       educational impact has been to enhance the public view of existing       dominant representations of       Havana, deconstruct the visual imaginary into component visual and       ideological constructs, and       make visible this deconstruction through photographic representations of       contemporary Cuba.
The       project has also provided an interface through which the public,       professionals and academics have       been able to explore new ways of engaging with space and place as a       socio-cultural product.
In       North Wales, the public were engaged via the exhibition, opening reception       and photographer's       talk, as outlined above.
In Havana, the exhibition benefitted from an       opening event in which the       exhibition's inauguration and an artist's workshop were combined.
In the       case of both exhibitions,       the public included academics, artists, curatorial and gallery staff,       cultural advisers, the local       community, photographers and practitioners.
Kent's photographer's talk in       North Wales was       presented as a workshop in which he explained both his methods and       processes in creating and       selecting the photographs that form part of the exhibition and the       development of his collaboration       with Desnoes.
This generated further discussion between the participants       relating to both the way       in which we deconstruct visual imaginaries of historically `othered'       spaces, but also regarding the       influences at work in our construction of them.
These events represented       attempts to further       develop public understanding and to engage public awareness as to the way       in which Cuba       continues to be framed by the foreign image-maker.
Both of these opening       receptions offered a       chance for Kent to introduce the project to both British and Cuban artists       and the public, whilst also       providing an opportunity to explore a number of the themes relating to the       ways in which both       photographers and writers, especially in the case of Cuba, have engaged       with the construction of       space and place as a socio-cultural product.
This was exemplified at the       opening reception for       Memories of a Lost Shark in Havana, at which the exhibition's       cultural adviser described the show       in a recorded interview as `an excellent opportunity to look from a Cuban       perspective at the way in       which a British photographer's lens captures images of our country'.
In       doing so, he also affirmed       that the show was one of the many dialogues that have taken place between       Cuba and the       outsider in relation to the representation of physical spaces,       anthropological constructions, and the       socio-political condition of the nation's people.
Over the course of the       exhibition's run in both North       Wales and Cuba, Kent was also in a position to discuss the practice of       photography with other       artists and to compare different conceptual readings of the project with       them inside the gallery       space.
The educational impact of these events was highlighted in guestbook       comments, recorded       interviews and reports of the exhibition on jckent.com.
Publicity for the project, both at home and abroad, has benefited from a       strong online presence       created through the use of online media and social networks.
Kent's       professional photographic       website also provided a platform for an online exhibition of the project,       receiving several hundred       visits during Summer 2013 (Google Analytics data), and coverage of the       exhibitions in North Wales       and Cuba has also been shared extensively by the public on Facebook and       Twitter.
The opening       reception in North Wales benefitted from creative use of social media and       extensive publicity via a       number of different networks and institutions (including Redeye: The       Photography Network and       Venue Cymru), whereas the opening reception in Havana was recorded by the       national press and       later publicised in television and radio coverage throughout the run of       the exhibition.
In addition to       featuring on various radio programmes (Radio Metropolitano, Radio Taino       [twice weekly, 1-24       June 2013], Habana Radio [part of Friday's Revista Cultural- 2-5pm], Radio       Reloj, Radio Rebelde       &#8212; Revista Diaria [daily, 1-24 June 2013]), footage of the opening event       and a review of the       exhibition were televised in the national news, broadcast by Cubavisi&#243;n       International (15 July       2013) &#8212; available to in excess of 2.5 million homes in Cuba and shown       throughout the Americas,       Europe, North Africa and parts of Europe.
In this televised review, the       reporter highlighted that       whilst the photographs work as standalone images, the texts "underscore"       them, in turn imbuing       the spectator's experience with a sense of the writer/photographer's       experience and a "knowledge       of the psychology of those represented [in the frame]".
The successful delivery of these exhibitions has led to the creation of       an on-going dialogue       between Kent and members of the various groups that have been involved       with Memories of a Lost         Shark (from curatorial staff to workshop participants).
The product       of this dialogue has been       continued educational impact upon public discourse and cultural life,       initially documented, as noted       above, in guestbook comments, recorded interviews and reports of the       exhibition, available on       jckent.com, but also supplemented       more recently by artists and writers who have written about and       shared the project's findings online.
Kent has been invited to exhibit the project in various forms over the       course of the next 12 months.
Memories of a Lost Shark will be shown from 17 October       to 17 December 2013 in Manchester at       the Instituto Cervantes, and will again be accompanied by a series of       public events, including an       opening reception (17 October 2013) and a series of workshops.
These       events will run alongside       the 2013 Manchester Literature Festival and will be funded by the Arts       Council England.
Kent has       also been invited to show the project as part of the &#161;Viva!
Latin American       Film Festival taking place       at Cornerhouse, Manchester in March 2014.
Kent was also awarded a       University International       Research Excellence Award in support of the project in October 2013.
This       will be used to fund       further collaborative research with Edmundo Desnoes in New York City and       will facilitate       development and expansion of this on-going project in the form of recorded       interviews, the       production of new photographic and written work, and the advancement of       plans for a photobook to       be published in 2014.
