     The research formed the basis for articles aimed at a wide audience       intended to begin a debate on the proposals of the Secretary of State for       Education, Michael Gove, to replace the current national history       curriculum in the schools with a new curriculum focusing exclusively on       British history and transmitting factual knowledge rather than skills       (numerous reports, e.g.
The Guardian, 21 January 2011, p. 15).
These articles were directly based on the conclusions reached in Cosmopolitan         Islanders and on further work on the existing and draft curricula       and were as follows: Richard J. Evans, `The Wonderfulness of Us (the Tory       interpretation of History)', London Review of Books 33/6 (17 March       2011), 9-12; idem, `Learn for the right reasons: history is not about       encouraging a narrowly patriotic sense of national identity', The         Guardian, 27 August 2011, p. 43; idem, `1066 and all that', New         Statesman, 23 January 2012, pp.
42-5; `The folly of putting Little       England at the heart of history', Financial Times, 8 February       2013, p. 11; `The rote sets in.
Michael Gove's new history curriculum', New         Statesman, 15-21 March 2012, pp.
60-61; and `The Mr Men game.
Richard J Evans challenges Michael Gove's history agenda', New         Statesman 17-23 May 2013, p. 29.
These articles led to extensive correspondence in the press; see       'Letters' in London Review of Books 33.8 (14 April 2011), pp.
5-6,       and online comments in the New Statesman, Financial Times,       and Guardian.
As a result of the debate, Professor Evans was invited to attend and       contribute to two conferences held in London on the teaching of History in       British schools and universities.
At the first, held on 14 November 2011       under the auspices of History Today, and attended by Mr David       Willetts, Minister of State for Higher Education, Professor Evans       delivered a lecture that subsequently formed the basis for the New       Statesman article referred to above, and engaged in debate with Dr       David Starkey on the issues raised.
At the second, held to mark the launch of David Cannadine's book The       Right Kind of History:       Teaching the Past in Twentieth-Century England on Thursday 24th       November in Senate House, London, Mr Gove delivered a speech and during       discussion Professor Evans raised two issues with the Secretary of State:       (1) the importance of foreign languages in schools and universities if the       UK is to continue to produce leading historians of the European continent,       and (2) the importance of history teaching in transmitting skills as well       as knowledge.
In a speech at Cambridge on the same day, in the evening, Mr       Gove declared: `The study of history is important.
Not just because it is       an excitement in itself &#8212; because it brings us into direct contact with       the lives of those great men and women who bent events to their will.
It       also teaches us how to weigh evidence, test assertions, sort good       arguments from bad, plausible explanations from bogus.
I also believe in       the study of a foreign language because it extends not just the reach of       our empathy but it opens up new ways of reasoning and judging.
It allows       us to see how complex individual societies and cultures are, gives us a       new way of observing the world and ourselves.
It gives us a privileged       vantage point accessible only after hard work, but worth it because so       much is revealed.'
This recognition of points (1) and (2) referred to       above constituted a significant modification of his earlier demands for       the study of history to be based on learning facts about British history       alone.
Subsequently Professor Evans was invited to address the Annual General       Meeting of the Historical Association (school History teachers) at York,       and took part in live debates on the subject on Sunday Politics       with Andrew Neill and David Starkey, `head to head' on the national       history curriculum, Sunday 3 March 2013, 11 a.m., BBC1 television, and The         Moral Maze, BBC Radio 4, 8-9 p.m., Wednesday 27 March 2013, both on       the national history curriculum.
Mr Gove sent a special adviser, Mr Dominic Cummings, to Professor Evans       to discuss his criticisms of the draft History curriculum.
Professor Evans       repeated to him his central arguments about the lack of non-British       history in the draft and the lack of in-depth studies that could be used       to teach historical thinking and analytical skills.
In his speech at Brighton on 9 May 2013, and in a subsequent interview on       The Andrew Marr Show live on BBC 1 on 12 May 2013, the Secretary of       State acknowledged the impact of Professor Evans's criticisms (`there have       been one or two academics, Richard Evans at Cambridge, for example, who've       been quite critical').
On 18 May 2013 the Daily Mirror reported:       `Mr Gove admitted he was having "second thoughts" about his controversial       review of history teaching in the National Curriculum which has come under       fire from teachers for being too "narrow" and "data-driven."
Mr Gove said       under new changes there would be more time for in-depth study and the       history of other civilisations would be included in response to criticisms       that concentrated too much on British history.'
The draft curriculum was       then withdrawn, and the next and final version contained significant       amounts of teaching on non-British, world and Continental European       History.
