     Anthony's collaboration with the British Film Institute, BT Heritage, and       the British Postal Museum and Archive in publicizing and historicizing the       work of the GPO Film Unit dates back to his doctoral research on Stephen       Tallents.
During the subsequent period when he was working in temporary       teaching positions and as a journalist, he developed close relationships       with these and other bodies devoted to preserving historic British       documentary film, which allowed him to feed his research into a wide range       of public-access and public-education activities.
For example, to mark the       restoration of several key films, including Night Mail (which was       released alongside a short mass-market monograph which Anthony       co-authored), the BFI organised screenings at the Southbank, as well as a       programme of films that toured cinemas throughout the UK, the release of       three DVD boxsets, the online curation of several key films and a number       of educational resources, such as an short interactive educational film       starring Sir Derek Jacobi, which was an Honoree in the `Best Use of       Interactive Film and Video' category at the 2009 Webbys..     Research insights developed by the project were disseminated in       introductory talks and debates by touring academics and archivists as part       of the Love Letters &amp; Live Wires programme of historic GPO       films that toured UK cinemas.
To date the programme has screened at       approximately 75 cinemas nationwide since and grossed approximately       &#163;17,500 with 4,000 admissions.
The insights and debates generated by the Love         Letters tour informed a series of introductory notes and essays       included in the British Film Institute's release of three well-reviewed       DVD boxsets: Addressing the Nation: The GPO Film Unit Collection         Volume 1, We Live in Two Worlds: The GPO Film Unit Collection         Volume 2 and If War Should Come: The GPO Film Unit Collection         Volume 3.
We Live in Two Worlds, volume two of the BFI's GPO       Film Unit collection, won `DVD of the year' at the 2009 Il Cinema       Ritrovato awards at Bologna Film Festival.
These releases led to the       production of a final wave of four DVDs released in 2011-13, enriched by       the later stages of the research on the visual contexts for the GPO's       documentary work, which emphasised the importance of these alternative       contexts to understanding the films &#8212; for example, the `From Turksib to       Night Mail' DVD (2011) included an advert made by the Empire Marketing       Board, as well as a `poster film' and science education films.
This       package of films was accompanied by essays and other material which drew       on research undertaken at Cambridge.
The combined `over the counter'       recorded UK sales of these DVDs as collated by the Official Charts Company       is around 30,000 copies (5g).
In addition to this, the British Postal Museum and Archive have directly       sold a further 1,437 DVDs and have included the research project in its       2011 `impact' report on the grounds that: a) the income received from       royalties from the BFI on the sale of the DVDs has provided a significant       income stream; b) the project had represented a major contribution to two       of the BPMA's key aims, accessibility and sustainability; c) the research       has improved curators' knowledge of the scope and significance of their       own collections (5h).
The award of a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship that brought Anthony to       Cambridge in 2010 allowed him to bring his work to fruition in the       publication of the monograph on Tallents and especially the research and       publication of his co-edited history of the GPO Film Unit, both in 2012.
These publications drew on his established relationships with the BFI, BT       Heritage and the BPMA, and also further developed those relationships, as       evident in the latest DVD releases by BFI and the recent work with       curators at the BPMA.
But the most significant outcomes of Anthony's       research while at Cambridge, and of his work with BFI and BT in this       period, have been his contributions to two landmark national and       international recognitions of the work of the GPO Film Unit in 2011 and       2012.
The first and most significant impact of this research was that in 2011       the work of the GPO Film Unit was added to UNESCO's UK Memory of the World       register, part of a UNESCO programme to support and raise awareness of       archives (currently limited to 30 items and collections on the UK       register).
This achievement was widely reported in the international media       (including The Hollywood Reporter).
Making use of the       insights and ideas developed in the wider programme of cultural and       scholarly activity, Anthony co-authored with BT Heritage's archivist the       application to have the films added to the Register, which was submitted       by BT Heritage (5a).
Second, at the national level, in 2012 BT Heritage won Designated status       from the Arts Council in recognition of their collections' vital, but       little understood, record of the prominent role that the UK has played in       communications technology from its very beginning, and the profound impact       this has had on people's lives around the world.
The improvements to BT       Heritage's collection, and its increased visibility, were heavily       supported by scholarly research on the GPO Film Unit.
Using knowledge       generated during his scholarly research, Anthony wrote a reference for BT       Heritage's successful bid to win Designated status (5b).
A third outcome is that, in anticipation of the creation of a new Postal       Museum, Anthony co-ran workshops (with DreamWorks Studios) for the BPMA at       Central St Martins.
These workshops have resulted in a series of new       animated shorts that responded both to the historic films, posters and       artworks but also new interpretations of them.
The best of the resulting       films are to be screened at festivals, on the internet and installed on       terminals in the new museum.
One of the scholarly research outputs, the edited volume The         Projection of Britain: A History of the GPO Film Unit, was released       in paperback and has been favourably reviewed in influential non-       scholarly forums such as the TLS, Sight &amp; Sound       magazine and by the British Universities Film and Video Council (BUFVC).
The book's release was also covered on the BBC News and in The Guardian       newspaper (5c, 5d, 5e, 5f).
