     The pGALS (paediatric Gait, Arms, Legs, Spine) examination     Developed by researchers in Newcastle, pGALS is a quick but sensitive       screening examination of the musculoskeletal system applicable to the       school-aged child, taking less than three minutes to perform.
The findings       of the examination need to be considered in the context of a history taken       at the same time.
First, a general assessment looks for joint swelling,       any physical asymmetry, flexion deformities or rashes.
The child is       observed walking (gait); the arms, legs and spine are then sequentially       examined through a series of specific movements made by the child and       physical examination by the clinician.
These tests enable rapid and       accurate assessment of the flexibility and symmetry of joint movements and       indicate whether or not referral to a specialist is in order.
Having developed and validated the pGALS examination, Foster and       colleagues entered into a collaboration with a leading UK charity in order       to disseminate knowledge about pGALS to practicing clinicians, parents       and, importantly, to those teaching medical students.
Collaborations with Arthritis Research UK     Newcastle researchers collaborated with the UK's leading charity in the       field, Arthritis Research UK, on the production of teaching aids.
Both a video of a pGALS examination of a child and a pdf booklet       describing and illustrating the method were developed.
Arthritis         Research UK's Education Manager has confirmed that in 2013 around       100 copies of the DVD are requested per month, with 15,600 copies       distributed in total since it was first made.
Web-streaming is also       popular: with `5,012 unique views in 2012 and 3,764 unique views in         the first 5 months of 2013' and `pGALS video clips viewed ... on         YouTube &#8212; upwards of 40,000 views since April 2012.'
(Ev a)     Further collaborations have included surveys (in 2009 and 2013) of       current practice in teaching paediatric musculoskeletal examination.
The       methodology and results of the 2009 survey were reported in R3 and R4.
The       2013 survey was led from Newcastle and the design was validated by an       independent consultant.
Surveys sought the views of lead paediatric       teachers (paediatric rheumatology consultants and trainees who teach (100%       response rate) and general paediatric consultants (39% response rate)).
Additionally, lead adult musculoskeletal teachers were surveyed (62%       response rate).
The survey received responses representing 23 UK medical       schools (Ev b).
Impact on medical school teaching     In 2008, pGALS was introduced as a core clinical skill for paediatric       musculoskeletal assessment at Newcastle University Medical School (it is       also taught in Newcastle's NuMed course in Malaysia) and other       institutions in the UK have followed suit.
The impact on teaching beyond       Newcastle has been significant and approached through two routes;       awareness raising amongst specialists who teach paediatrics and       contribution to core medical teaching texts.
Raised awareness impacts on teaching.
The 2009 survey received       replies from 23 of the 32 UK medical schools (72%) and indicated that only       six medical schools were teaching pGALS.
The 2013 survey also received responses from 23 medical schools and       indicated that pGALS was being taught in 15 medical schools, with all       using the Arthritis Research UK pGALS DVD or web streaming       service.
Importantly, a significant improvement since 2009 is that 14       medical schools allowed students to practice pGALS on children and 13       medical schools gave students the opportunity to examine children with       musculoskeletal problems.
Core clinical skills are acquired at medical school.
Since pGALS now       reaches undergraduate students in at least 15 medical schools in the UK,       this begins to address the problem of clinicians' lack of confidence in       musculoskeletal examination identified by Newcastle research.
Raised awareness through textbooks.
Foster and Jandial were       invited in 2008 to contribute a chapter on children's musculoskeletal       problems, including a description of pGALS, to one of the most popular       paediatrics student textbooks, `The Illustrated textbook of Paediatrics',       Lissauer and Clayden (eds).
Amazon.co.uk report that this textbook       is its best seller in paediatrics texts (Ev c).
Evidence from a       number of medical school libraries indicated that this text is also       generally the most frequently borrowed by students (Ev d).
The pGALS examination has been described in several other textbooks.
`Training         in Paediatrics: The Essential Curriculum' (2009) Gardiner, Eisen and       Murphy (eds), `MRCPCH Clinical: Short Cases, History Taking and         Communication Skills' (2011) Bedwani, Anderson and Beattie, `Rheumatology         in Primary Care' (2012) Wagh (ed) and the `Pocket Tutor         Paediatric Clinical Examination' (2012) Brugha, Marlais and       Abrahamson (eds).
In February 2012 Oxford University Press       requested permission to use photographs of the pGALS examination produced       by Arthritis Research UK in their `Oxford Specialist Handbooks         on Paediatric Rheumatology'.
Impact on paediatrician training     Foster is Chair of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health       (RCPCH) College Advisory Committee for higher specialist training in       paediatric rheumatology in the UK.
She was able to use her position to       lobby the Board of Examiners, backed by the evidence-base provided by the       Newcastle research, to address the lack of confidence and competence in       the paediatric musculoskeletal examination skills reported by       paediatricians in the UK.
In 2009, Foster was successful in persuading the       RCPCH to include paediatric musculoskeletal assessment in the competency       framework for training and also, most importantly, included in the       clinical part of the MRCPCH examination (a mandatory examination for all       paediatricians in the UK) and pGALS was included as a minimum basic skill       (Ev e).
Consequently, all paediatricians trained in the UK are now aware       of pGALS.
Supplementary resources for trainees and examiners have also       been developed by Foster and Jandial at the request of the RCPCH and are       available on the RCPCH website (Ev f).
International impact     In May 2013 the Intellectual Property coordinator for the American       Academy of Family Physicians sought copyright permission to use the pGALS       materials and the Arthritis Research UK Education Manager has       confirmed that, `Examples of recent requests to reproduce the         description of how to perform the screening examination [pGALS] include:         ... "The Pediatric Clinics of North America" (Canadian request, November         2011) [and] "General Practice at a Glance" textbook (request         from Wiley-Blackwell, July 2011).'
(Ev a)     The Director of Paediatrics of a major hospital in Mumbai, India, has       confirmed the use of pGALS in practice there, stating, `[pGALS] is         routinely used in clinical practice in our country ...
Hands On &#8212; a         document prepared by the authors [Foster and Jandial] and the         video demonstrating pGALS are popular teaching tools and are routinely         used by my colleagues and me in our training and teaching sessions.'
(Ev g).
An Emeritus Professor of Pediatric Rheumatology in Canada has also       noted that pGALS `has filled a significant gap in medical education         and has been widely adopted world-wide' (Ev h).
