     The Principles and the Draft Common       Frame of Reference are considered essential reference points in the field       of European Private Law.
They have informed debate and discussion among practitioners and       policy-makers, changed the       way in which the subject is taught, and influenced the development of       legislation and legal principle       across a range of jurisdictions both within Europe and further afield.
Impact as a statement of legal principle: As one scholar has       noted, The Principles `have been       assigned substantial informal authority.
Many actors in the legal field       treat these Principles as       reference texts, on which they can base legal decisions without further       argument.'
(5a).
For       example, the European Court of Justice (now the CJEU) has held that legal       terms used in EU       legislation are to be given an `autonomous European legal meaning'.
When       the legislation does not       provide its own definition, The Principles and/or the DCFR have       been relied upon by the       Advocates-General in the ECJ for interpretive purposes (5b).
Similarly,       Law Commission papers on       contract issues regularly take account of The Principles or the       DCFR: the 2011 consultation paper       on Consumer Redress for Misleading and Aggressive Practices       devoted several pages to the       DCFR (5c).
The Law Commission has also stated that Directives should be       interpreted in the light       of the DCFR: in the 2008 Consultation Paper on Consumer Remedies for         Faulty Goods, for       example, it was noted that the relevant Directive `does not specifically       define sales contracts, but       we think that it must be interpreted in the light of the Draft Common       Frame of Reference' (5d).
Key       individuals have also referred to The Principles and the DCFR as       important reference points (5l       and m), with the President of the European Law Institute noting that it is       `hard to emphasise       sufficiently the influence that the PECL and the DCFR have had ...in this       developing field of       European Union law, through their use by both the European legislators and       the courts at all levels       when interpreting European law' (5m).
Impact on the development of legal principle: The influence of The         Principles and the DCFR is       evident in the way that they are referred to by the courts in this       jurisdiction.
In Yam Seng Pte         Limited v International Trade Corporation Limited [2013] EWHC 111       (QB), para 124 (5e), it was       noted that they embodied a general duty to act in accordance with good       faith and fair dealing, with       the judge noting that `[t]here can be little doubt that the penetration of       this principle into English law       and the pressures towards a more unified European law of contract in which       the principle plays a       significant role will continue to increase.'
Even where the courts decline       to adopt the approach       proposed, The Principles are still seen as a key reference point       from which any departure needs to       be justified (see e.g.
Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009]       UKHL 38, para 39 (5e)).
Impact on government policy and legislative change: The         Principles have been particularly       influential in the newer democracies in Central Europe and some of the       Baltic States, many of       which have revised or are in the process of revising their laws of       contract or their civil codes (see       5f).
In Hungary, drafters of the new Civil Code were expressly directed to       take into consideration       the solutions offered by The Principles (Kisfaludi, 5f), while in       Poland, `a number of new rules       introduced to the Civil Code have been inspired by solutions adopted in       European (PECL) and       UNIDROIT (UPICC) principles of contract law.'
(Rajski, 5f).
Estonia now       has a modern law of       contract that draws on The Principles as a major source of its       provisions, with changes being made       to both the law of obligations and the Civil Code (Kull, 5f).
Within       Western Europe, the French       Ministry of Justice is considering new articles for the Civil Code drawn       directly from the Principles       (2008 to the present: see 5g).
Impact on developing a European Contract Law: At a conceptual       level, The Principles have had       an impact in developing the idea of European Contract Law.
Previously most       contract teaching was       on the basis of national law or of comparison between national systems.
There are now many       courses across Europe on European Contract Law, using The Principles       as a primary source (see       e.g.
5h) or using a casebook in which they form a key element and which is       distributed across the       continent (5i).
In the UK The Principles are reproduced in       standard student collections of statutory       material.
The President of the European Law Institute has noted how The         Principles and the DCFR       provided a model on which the Legal Affairs Committee of the European       Parliament relied heavily       when dealing with the `European Contract Law Project' (5m).
At a practical level, both The Principles and the DCFR have also       had substantial impact in       informing the development of new rules.
One particular problem for       businesses operating across       the EU has been the lack of common rules.
In a cross-border contract,       because any contract has       to be governed by a national legal system, at least one of the parties       must contract under a law       that is foreign to it and which often will be in a foreign language.
For       businesses trying to sell       across borders to consumers, there is an additional problem.
In order to       prevent consumers losing       their rights by businesses choosing governing laws that have little or no       protection for consumers,       the Rome I Regulation provides that where a business has directed its       activities towards       consumers in another country (by mailshots or via a website that appears       to invite orders from that       country), a consumer who is habitually resident there and who contracts       with the business is       entitled to the protection of the mandatory rules of the targeted country.
This means that a       business seeking to sell to consumers Europe-wide has to deal with 28       different legal systems.
These rules discourage businesses, especially small and medium       enterprises, from selling across       borders.
Even for business-to-business sales, differences between systems       remain a major       problem.
The UN Convention on the International Sale of Goods (1980; the       UK has not adopted       the Convention) applies to sales between businesses (it does not apply to       consumer sales) but it       omits many of the protections that Small and Medium Enterprises need.
To       address this problem,       and to make it easier and more attractive to businesses to market their       goods and services across       borders, develop further the internal market and provide buyers with       increased choice and, with       more competition, lower prices, the European Commission has drawn up a       proposed Regulation       for a Common Sales Law.
Both The Principles and the DCFR have been       a major inspiration and       source of material for this (see e.g.
5l, describing them as `the backbone       of the proposal for the       Common European Sales Law'), with the `Feasibility Study' produced by the       EC's Expert Group,       and the proposed Common Sales Law itself, drawing heavily on Books I-III       and IVA of the DCFR       and also on The Principles, which provided the basic rules for       contracts (see 5j).
As at 31 July       2013, the proposed Regulation is the subject of negotiations between the       Commission, the Council       of Ministers and the European Parliament.
Beale continues to play a direct       and influential role in       the progress of these negotiations, having presented drafts of the DCFR       and now the Regulation at       stakeholder workshops organised by the European Commission and having       given evidence to the       Legal Affairs Committee of the Parliament.
Drawing on his research over       the last two decades, he       is currently writing a Commentary on the text for the Commission, for       officials to use during       negotiations and for ultimate publication.
Impact on policy debate outside Europe: The Principles       have also had an impact by informing       the policy discussions outside Europe.
They have been discussed by       practitioners and academics       in Chile (`Modernization of the Law of Obligations in Europe and Latin         America', Valparaiso, Chile,       September 2008) and by a Commission on Asian Contract Law (see 5k).
