     Extending the shelf-life of biologic cancer drugs     In 2010 The National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) recommended       that Herceptin       (trastuzumab) be available for women with HER2 positive advanced breast       cancer.
The cost of       implementing this guidance in England and Wales is estimated at &#163;17       million.
Our study       demonstrated that the shelf life of Herceptin can be safely extended, and       significant financial       savings have been made by QCNW NHS who changed their protocol accordingly       in 2012.
The       cost saving for the Clatterbridge Hospital which is just one hospital in       the North West Region was       &#163;1.1M in one year based on the Trastuzumab study data.
Initial results       have been published as       poster presentations at the National Cancer Research Institute conference       in November 2012.
In       the short term future the impacts of this study will extend nationally and       internationally.
Health and well-being of gynaecological cancer patients     Participants continued to want Yoga classes at the UoD post-trial (funded       for 1 year by the       gynaecological cancer research fund and now paid for by patients;       currently there is an average of       8 patients in each weekly class) and have put together a book of their       positive experiences during       the trial and during their cancer experience (published May 2013).
This       research was highlighted in       an interview with Sowter for GEM FM (average weekly audience figures       453,000) which ran on       every news bulletin on 01.02.11.
A participant of the Yoga trial (Gill       Shawcroft) appeared on Radio       Derby (139,000 viewers per week) to discuss her experiences on the trial.
Impacts on practitioners and services.
Beneficiaries of Sowter's research are two NHS senior registrars who       completed MD projects       under her supervision: Mr Viren Asher (Eag and HERG potassium channels as       novel therapeutic       targets in ovarian cancer) and Ms Anni Innamaa (The Expression and       function of the K2P       Channels TASK 3, TREK 1 and TREK 2 in Epithelial Ovarian Cancer).
Sowter's       cancer research       background helped inform the project design and training in techniques       (such as       immunohistochemistry and TMA analysis).
The director of studies for both       projects was Dr Khan       (Obstetrics researcher, Associate Professor, University of Nottingham).
Asher and Innamaa have       now taken consultant posts as a result of successfully gaining this       qualification.
Sowter is also a       key trainer of NHS clinical trials in all networks across England, and was       successful in a nationwide       tender to bid for NCRN training contracts (2013).
Her courses       (Introduction to Oncology and       Cancer Treatment) are aimed at trials nurses and administration staff who       work in the area of       oncology, although have also been accessed by GPs.
These courses have run       4-6 times a year       since 2010, and been delivered to staff from all areas of the National       Institute for Health Research       Cancer Research Network in England (reaching approximately 500 NHS staff       so far).
In feedback       collected after each training day (by the NCRN), 95-100% of participants       stated that this training       would benefit their working practice.
The content of these courses is       informed by research       conducted by Sowter, specifically her expertise as a clinical trial chief       investigator and basic       research into therapeutic target development.
Some comments at feedback refer specifically to elements based on Sowter's       research such as       "Contextual information.
i.e.
what we have/nave not achieved with other       courses."
