     The contribution of the submitted unit to the research     The research was led by K.Vahed, who planned the study, collected the       majority of the data and wrote the majority of the manuscript.
D.J.
Parker, who was at the time an undergraduate Zoology student at the       University of Derby, assisted with the dissection of the specimens, while       J.D.J.
Gilbert, who at the time was an Associate lecturer at the       University of Derby (and also a research fellow at the University of       Cambridge) was involved with the statistical analysis of the data.
Critical reviews in the media.
The University of Derby produced a press release based on research on the       evolution of testes size in bushcrickets (Vahed et al.
2011,       published online in Biology Letters on 10th November       2010).
This resulted in very high levels of global media coverage.
The story was reported on BBC.co.uk/news on 10th November 2010       and all over the world in both print and online media; from Canada to       Brazil, Tazmania, to India, Bulgaria to Kuwait, Ireland and the USA.
This       was in a range of media, from science specific, such as National         Geographic and Science Centric, to the science pages of       national daily papers including the New York Times and Daily         India, The Arab Times, The Bancock post, The Daily Express (Borneo)       to tabloid media such as Yahoo News and MSN.
The story was       reported in national daily newspapers in the UK such as The Sun, the         Daily Mail, Metro, and The Independent and The Guardian         online and The Week magazine.
As the story was carried by       news wires including Press Association and AFP it was picked up by many       smaller local newspapers such as The Northern Echo and The         Stoke Sentinel.
Because the story was reported so widely, and in so many languages, the       exact number of web reports is hard to pin down &#8212; but it is safe to say       that it was in the hundreds, with reports on Chinese language, Taiwanese,       Portuguese and Spanish websites.
K.Vahed was interviewed about this research by the BBC World Service       Radio, who carried the story throughout November 10th and by       Radio West Midlands and BBC Radio Derby.
Westdeutcher Rundfunk, the       biggest public radio station in Germany, also broadcast an interview with       K. Vahed relating to his research on crickets on 14th February       2013.
In February and 6th May 2013, K. Vahed was involved in the       filming of a 3-D documentary on Insects, filmed by Atlantic Produtions for       Sky and iMax cinemas, entitled "Micromonsters 3-D".
This series was       released in June 2013.
The documentary, which was narrated by Sir David       Attenborough, featured mating in crickets, which K. Vahed supplied.
He       advised on material for inclusion in the script and helped with the       filming of the mating sequences.
Evidence of public engagement with the science and public debate:     The online press release (in The University of Derby's Connected       magazine) was visited a total of 1,116 times on 10th November       2010, by visitors from at least 40 countries including Brazil, Japan,       Spain, Australia, Hungary and the USA.
BBC World Service Radio, who carried the story throughout November 10th,       has typical listening figures of 130 million.
The story was very popular on social media &#8212; for the morning of 10th       November 2010, it was the most shared story on BBC.co.uk/news, which       indicates that it was being shared by people on their social networking       pages such as Twitter, Facebook and Bebo.
According to the figures       displayed on BBC.co.uk/news, the BBC's article on this research on testes       size in bushcrickets has been shared 12,144 times.
A quick twitter search on 10th November 2010 showed that it       was a popular thread of discussion: there were over 50 tweets for "Vahed".
With "crickets" added into the search and the results were too many to       record.
The story also featured on popular websites such as "D-Listed" and the       women's online magazine "Jezebel" and numerous blogs.
An animated article       about the research features on "You Tube": where it has attracted 1,446       views.
In May 2011, K. Vahed delivered an invited public lecture on mating       behaviour in crickets entitled "The sex lives of crickets" at Natural       History Museum, London.
This event was part of the museum's "Live Science"       programme, based in their Attenborough studio.
