     During the period following the publication of Giles and Close (2008),       several UK national newspapers and other media sources carried stories       citing the paper's findings&#8212;quoting quite extensively from either the       paper itself, various press releases or direct from the interview       material.
BBC Radio Solent broadcast a live interview in which Giles       discussed the research.
The first source to carry the story was the Sunday Times       (16/3/08), which published a short feature entitled `Lads' mags inflict       preening curse' following an interview with the author.
On 26/3/08, the Daily         Mail carried a similar length article, which also contained several       quotes from Giles.
Two days later, the Health section of the BBC news       website ran a feature which also quoted Giles repeatedly, for example:       "While magazines aimed at men often include pictures of scantily-clad       women, Dr David Giles said images of male bodies may be more dangerous...       Dr Giles, from the University of Winchester, said that some of the content       may drive men to try to become more muscular, even if that could harm       their health."
These are sources with broad reach: The BBC website has 40       million unique users a week, and the Mail and Sunday Times       currently have reported circulation figures of 1,594,421 and 885,612       respectively.
Following the initial coverage of UK news media, a number of other media       sources also carried features reporting the findings of the paper.
These       included health blogs and websites, such as World Health Net (a       non-profit general health site run by the American Academy of Anti-Aging       Medicine), Go Health Live (the website of the UK-based men's       health charity), One India (an English-language based Indian news       site) and My Body Beautiful (a health site promoting positive body       image).
The story was also carried on two prominent psychology blogs &#8212; Shrink       Rap, run by Tri City (a Canadian psychology service), and the       British Psychological Society's Research Digest, a popular service which       is currently linked to 458 Google+ circles.
In addition to press coverage,       the research findings have since been cited in a report (p. 86) by COMAB,       the Coalition on Men and Boys (UK), a body of charities, services and       researchers that 'advises Government and other policymaking and service       delivery agencies' on 'issues of concern to men and boys'       (http://www.comab.org.uk/).
Perhaps       the most notable and enduring impact of the research is inclusion in the       Wikipedia entry for the UK version of Men's Health magazine (which       Giles had no involvement in writing).
Although Men's Health was       only one of several titles featured in the study, the page carries the       following quote: "The UK version [of the magazine] received strong       criticism from psychologist Dr David Giles from the University of       Winchester because of its promotion of a muscular physique as a sign of       health", followed by a quote from the BBC Health article.
The entry's       author had clearly made the association between the research and the fact       that most of the media sources reporting the findings had used Men's         Health (and images of the magazine) as a typical example of the type       of publication referred to in the paper.
