     Kneller's work investigating cognitive performance in challenging       circumstances has had significant reach and importance in the two fields       in which they have been applied (diving and eyewitness testimony for       victims of crime).
For research on diving, her findings are important in       terms of safety and practice of diving.
Undersea divers have to cope with       numerous hazards and risks associated with marine high pressure       environments.
One hazard is the occurrence of nitrogen narcosis, which is       experienced in deep sea dives.
Narcosis causes significant cognitive and       psychomotor impairments in divers, and is a significant contributing       factor in diving-related accidents and impaired work-related performance.
However, the study of narcosis has historically been an under-researched       area and further studies are still required to establish the extent and       nature of cognitive impairments at specific water depths and how its       effects might be minimised.
Understanding of the cognitive effects of       narcosis has implications for diver safety and performance in       recreational, commercial, and military diving.
Kneller's research on diving has also been particularly useful in       highlighting that the anxiety felt by divers in deep water may magnify       narcotic impairments underwater.
At least four diving schools (West Bay       Diving School, Roatan, Honduras; Big Blue, Dahab, Egypt; Nautilus       Watersports, Port Vila, Vanuatu and Eastleigh Sub Aqua Club, Hants, UK)       throughout the world have considered this research when evaluating their       diving procedures.
Additionally, it has also led to an improved manual       dexterity tool for testing divers which is smaller, more easily       transportable, cheaper and quicker to set up underwater than that       previously used (Purdue Pegboard or screw plate test).
These are important       factors when considering the limited amount of time available to either       train or gather data from divers underwater.
This new tool is now used by       the staff of West Bay Divers in Honduras when conducting deep diver       training with their customers (approx.
500 per year).
In addition, the       research on the effects of narcosis on recall and recognition memory has       shown that narcosis-induced memory decrements cannot be explained simply       as an impairment of either encoding or retrieval strategies.
Findings to       date have been published in specialist industry-specific journals (e.g.
Undersea         &amp; Hyperbaric Medicine) with the aim of disseminating the       knowledge to the diving community and researchers in this area.
For Kneller's work on eyewitness identification, there is direct impact       in policing practice.
It has long been recognised that eyewitness       identification evidence can be highly fallible and is a major factor in       wrongful convictions in many countries (e.g.
http://www.innocenceproject.org/).
In light of this, psychologists have been studying methods to increase the       accuracy of eyewitness identification performance for a number of years,       including methods by which a line-up can be presented.
In England and       Wales, current police practice is to use identification parades on video       in a semi-sequential manner.
After showing the line-up twice, police have       the option to show witnesses a screen with all nine line-up members at the       same time (the `matrix' format).
The idea was that this format might       improve line-up identification rates.
However, while this format has not       been formally assessed in this way, its use in another context (the       simultaneous line-up) has been shown to increase false identification       rates.
Wilcock and Kneller (2011) found that the matrix had neither an       advantageous nor a detrimental effect on identification accuracy.
This       work suggests that existing UK practice is appropriate (whether the matrix       is used or not); it also supports best practice for administering about       50,000 Promat line-ups that are run each year in the UK.
In addition, the       work demonstrated that the UK video line-up procedure was superior to the       sequential line-up recommended by researchers in the USA.
Publication of       this study led to Kneller being invited to present at a symposium for       practitioners in the field held by London South Bank University in       September 2012.
The event was attended by 62 people, and a majority of       attendees were police officers and other criminal justice system       practitioners.
In addition, the project has been referenced in a 2013       discussion article published in Policing (a leading policy and       practice publication) by Horry et al.
regarding current practice of video       identification of suspects.
As a result of her knowledge and research in this area, Kneller has been       commissioned (along with other members of the South East Eyewitness       Network group led by Prof. Valentine) to produce a report for the British       Psychological Society regarding the current evidence-base to inform best       practice in obtaining identification evidence.
