     Grattan's work is evidence of an on-going dynamic of research and its       impact.
Grattan's earlier work led to collaborations with the University       of Ulster as well as with a leading policy, research and training       voluntary sector organisation, Youth Action Northern Ireland (YANI).
These       collaborations opened up further research possibilities as well as       impacting on policy and practice.
YANI are in the forefront of working with young people in contested and       conflict communities as well as training future youth workers and       designing policies and processes to influence future work in such       situations.
Close collaboration with both the University of Ulster and       YANI enabled the further development of ideas relating to this area of       work that would make a contribution to policy and practice.
Through YANI,       Grattan's work reached a much wider circle of academics, policy makers and       professional practitioners working in the area of radicalisation,       alienation and conflict relating to young people.
The Deputy Director of       YANI has argued in written testimony:     "From 2003/2004 Dr Alan Grattan (Senior Lecturer at University of         Ulster; later University of Southampton and later again University of         Winchester) has aided the practice and research base at Youth Action         Northern Ireland.
The contribution Alan has made has been varied and         incorporated a range of thematic ideologies and interventions".
Two direct results of this work and cooperation with the voluntary and       community sector were forthcoming.
First, Grattan was invited to the       Ditchley Foundation, Oxford (February 2010) to address the issue of       `Countering Radicalisation in Local Communities'.
As mentioned in the       Ditchley Conference website; "the Ditchley Foundation was established         to advance international learning and to bring transatlantic and other         experts together to discuss international issues...Since then Ditchley         conferences have broadened to include the concerns and participation of         nations all over the globe."
Attendance at the Ditchley Conference is by invitation only and was       attended by senior national government and opposition politicians,       national and international representatives of police, security services       and intelligent agencies, national and international academics,       policy-makers and professional practitioners.
Following two days of discussion a final report was written by the       director of the Ditchley Foundation and delivered to government and the       participants.
The report testified to the direct impact that discussion of       research into alienation had on practical and policy initiatives and is       provided in the evidence section below.
The second outcome (or `impact') from this body of work was an invitation       to work with YANI on the project `The Role of Youth Work in Supporting       Inter-culturalism' funded and promoted by the Northern Ireland Assembly       through the `Office of the First Minister and Deputy First Minister'       (OFMDFM) in November 2010.
Following the signing of the Belfast (Good Friday) Agreement and the       instigation of the Northern Ireland Peace Process, the province for the       first time had experienced a growth in a migrant work population and       families.
This however brought increased tensions in relation to Hate       Crime, community relations, discrimination and violence against a growing       diverse population.
Recognising the problems associated with a fast       changing Northern Ireland, YANI, supported by the OFMDFM, instigated a       research project aimed to inform government policy and thinking on working       with young people in their respective communities on the issue of       `inter-culturalism'.
Based on the body of work previously mentioned       Grattan was invited by YANI to oversee and consult on this initiative;       this culminated in presenting the findings at a conference/workshop and a       co- authored report aimed at professional practitioners, organisations and       policy-makers.
The impact of this report is the on-going `Intercultural youth work       initiative' which was part of the YANI Area Based Strategy which seeks to       engage young people to support their understanding of a shared future,       mutual understanding, and to explore their attitudes towards differences       and to work with the wider community and with other key (agency, statutory       or community/voluntary) stakeholders to increase dialogue, action and       strategic plans.
Taken together this work (and previous work leading to publications and       conference presentations) demonstrates `impact' relating to young people,       radicalisation, alienation, conflict and identity.
The national and       international publications, conference and workshop reports and       presentations combine academic and practitioner focused work thereby       reinforcing the essential relationship between academia and the wider       community.
Furthermore, aspects of these publications have led directly and       indirectly to working with influential government departments, individuals       and agencies, as well as statutory, voluntary and community organisations       charged with addressing difficult and complex issues within the community.
In this respect the listed work has made an on-going contribution in       attempting to address some of the current social issues and problems faced       by contemporary society.
