     The book resulting from this research, The Monogamy Gap is both       the evidence of the research underpinning this case study and the primary       vehicle for its impact.
The book, although only just now released in       paperback, has sold 1,500 copies and has been reviewed in numerous       mainstream media publications.
Yet the dissemination of the research       findings are much wider than just the traditional review.
The research has       been the subject of a number of feature articles in popular newspapers       (for example in The Sun in the United Kingdom which has a daily       sales circulation of 3 million and which according to the Press Gazette       reaches a weekly audience of some 13.6 million through its printed       newspaper and on-line versions).
Anderson has also appeared on a variety       of mainstream television programmes in the UK, USA and Australia.
The       following is a summary of the media outlets that have featured Anderson's       research:     Television:     2012 ITV, This Morning, United Kingdom (http:// http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tt6AGxc7LBM)       2012 Vox Africa       2012 BBC 1       2012 Sunrise, 7 Network, Australia       2013 ITV, The Alan Titchmarsh show     Other media outlets     2012 The Sun, United Kingdom       2012 The Washington Post, United States       2012 The Daily Express, United Kingdom       2012 Inside Higher Education, The United States       2012 Open Democracy       2012 The Sunday Morning Herald, United Kingdom       2012 The Guardian, United Kingdom       2012 The Huffington Post       2012 The Good Men Project       2012 Thinking Allowed (BBC Radio 4)       (http://downloads.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/radio4/ta/ta_20120215-1720a.mp3       )     The breadth and range of this dissemination is itself evidence of the       impact of Anderson's work.
However, it is clear from the tens of thousands       of comments on the hundred plus webpages in which The Monogamy Gap       is discussed that Anderson's research has impacted both the volume and the       nature of public conversation about monogamy and the nature of       relationships.
This public discourse suggests that norms, modes of thought or practice       concerning the supposed value of monogamy are being challenged by       Anderson's research.
This is not to say that Anderson's research findings       have been universally welcomed.
Quite the contrary, many of the reactions       amount to aggressive denunciations of Anderson and his work.
His research,       conclusions, and personhood have been subjected to a great deal of       anonymous internet attacks.
Such reactions both seem to demonstrate the       hegemonic position of what Anderson calls `monogamism' but also the degree       to which Anderson is challenging such norms.
Alternatively, many of the public reactions to Anderson's research       welcome his findings as both legitimating individuals' own       non-conventional relationships and as liberating the public realm in which       such relationships are discussed.
It is not possible to quantify the impact of this qualitative data.
Ultimately it is hoped that Anderson's research may go on to practically       impact on the levels of social inclusion around, for example, alternative       routes to romantic relationships; namely, those in open sexual       relationships.
In using empirically driven data to highlight the       relationship benefit to pursuing extra-dyadic sex, this research has the       power to destigmatize sexual activity outside the primary relationship.
Those impacts are however much more long term.
At this stage it is clear       that The Monogamy Gap has helped open up a public space, often in       new media, in which monogamy, cheating, and non- monogomous relationships       are discussed and debated in ways that do not conform to existing       orthodoxies.
