     Schools were unaware of the significance of their archival material; some       school archives were at risk; and schools' archival material was not used       for curricular enrichment or to aid communities understand their heritage.
Through discussion of publications with archivists and head-teachers,       presentations to archivists and organisations, and via consultancy, the       research raised schools' consciousness of the importance of their cultural       heritage and their knowledge that they often possess the only historical       records of `ordinary' and `extraordinary' women in their localities.
The       case study focuses on impact on heritage preservation and conservation       through the establishment by two schools of Centres for the History of       Girls' Secondary Education which led to impact on the curriculum and       engagement of pupils in cultural events using archival material.
Impact       extended through engagement with the British Federation of Women Graduates       (BFWG) around the research, and via BFWG newsletters, and presentations at       BFWG events.
Impact gained an international dimension with Goodman's       invitation to join a USA advisory board developing a digital centre for       the history of women's education.
Research insights in "Governing Ladies" were discussed with MGHS's       headteacher to highlight MGHS's importance in the development of girls'       education and led to a successful HLF bid (with Goodman as consultant) to       preserve and conserve the MGHS archive, open it to the public and       establish the Centre for the History of Girls' Schooling, with a web       presence.
The Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society funded       digitisation of the photographs for the MHGS archive website       (http://www.mhsgarchive.org/index.php).
MGHS advised Wycombe High School       for Girls (WHS) on their successful HlF bid to establish the Centre for       the History of State-Maintained Girls' Schools       (http://www.whs.bucks.sch.uk/explore/the-guild/archive).
MGHS provided access to academic researchers (141 requests), genealogists       (2 each week) and based on HLF expertise offered support to other schools       in preserving their archives (89 occasions), leading to meetings with the       Girls' School Association (GSA) about girls' school archives nationally       (with Goodman).
MGHS piloted a GCSE Historical Studies examination for the       OCR exam board based on school archive material.
Understanding about their cultural heritage and the need to conserve       their archives, and about using archive material in the curriculum, was       fostered in a series of conferences MGHS organised for girls' school       archivists.
20 archivists attended in 2004 when Goodman highlighted the       significance of her research and their archival material.
Impact on the       curriculum was demonstrated in 2006 when five 2004 attendees presented how       they used their archive with pupils.
(MGHS have recorded 109 archive uses       for lessons, speech days and for former pupils, further staff       qualifications, publicity, and talks to local and national groups).
At a       2007 GSA conference on school archives, Goodman presented her research to       60 delegates to demonstrate the international significance of women       (head)teachers and the importance of the archives, along with the MGHS       archivist and archivists from the 2006 conference.
At the 2008 conference       on "School Archives and the Community", speakers from Manchester Central       Library, the MGHS Marketing Manager, and six archivists, presented to 35       archivists.
Further archive conferences and meetings followed.
MGHSC       pupils presented poetry and prose from the MGHS archive at the Imperial       War Museum North's International Women's Days and MGHS provided       information for the TES (2006) BBC Radio 4 &#8212; Woman's Hour (2007) http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/womanshour/02/2007_47_thu.shtml),       BBC (2012, series on Home Front WW2), Stone City Films, and Testimony       Films (Grammar Schools, A Secret History (2012), Phare-Est Media (Canada,       2012).
At MGHS's suggestion, the Imperial War Museum is setting up a WW1       school archive website, and MGHS is providing sample material.
The more recently established WHS Centre archive is located in a purpose       built room and catalogued with a web-presence, has joined Family History       Society log book project, and advised two secondary schools on setting up       archives.
See: http://www.whs.bucks.sch.uk/explore/the-guild/archive     Goodman's invitation as international advisor to the Albert Greenfield       Centre for the History of Women's Education (Bryn Mywr) was based on her       "pioneering work on the history of women's education" (Letter from       President)     The importance Goodman highlighted about the BFUW's role to the       development of professional women and the internationalisation of higher       education led the BFWG to relocate the Sybil Campbell Library (SCC)       (originally located at the BFUW's international hall of residence) to the       University of Winchester in 2006 when the SCC was in danger of dispersal.
The BFWG News carried Goodman's articles on BFUW History to illustrate the       BFUW's significance when the BFWG were working to relocate and open their       archive, which had been closed for 10 years (now relocated to LSE) and she       presented her research at BFWG regional and local events.
