     Impact is achieved in three principal ways: by enhancing the knowledge       and understanding of local historians; by enhancing the understanding of       volunteers and communities covered by the Victoria County History; and by       creating resources to all the localities within Southampton's hinterland       for local and family historians.
For thirty years Winchester's historians have run many of Wessex's local       history societies, journals and record series.
Winchester's historians       have made major contributions to the Wessex environment as indicated under       research environment in RAEs 1996-2008.
All these researchers have engaged       in transferring academic scholarship to more popular audiences.
A key       medium, here, is word of mouth via the freely accessible research seminars       of the University's Wessex Centre and its twice-yearly day conferences in       Winchester and Salisbury.
These have covered such topics as Danes in       Wessex, Death and Commemoration, Rural Landlords, Landscapes and Church       Organisation.
Two volumes of proceedings are forthcoming.
The Wessex       Centre also organises a dozen research seminars a year at the University       and the Hampshire Record Office.
These conferences and research seminars       seek to inform and spread best practice in local history throughout the       region.
Many of our speakers have been mature PhD and MA students.
Advertised by postings through local societies and e-mails to local       historians in the region, the eleven conferences have attracted 550       delegates overall and the 85 research seminars drew more than 2,000       individual attendances.
Winchester's historians contribute to similar       conferences elsewhere, such as the two Rye Partnership conferences (2010,       2012) organised by Hicks.
History staff's prominent role in the local history of Wessex, especially       Hampshire, enabled them to form the New Victoria County History of         Hampshire partnership with Hampshire County Record Office and two       charitable trusts, the Hampshire Field Club (county archaeological       society) and Hampshire Archives Trust.
The Lord Lieutenant is patron and a       county councillor is chairperson.
Research is undertaken by forty       volunteers, mainly retired and/or members of local societies, trained and       coordinated by Dr Morrin, seconded by the University.
The project educates       (and thus impacts on) the volunteers, who learn to undertake research on       their own communities while writing and posting results on the open access       VCH `Explore' website.
This is a model to be adopted for other counties.
Mapledurwell       is unique as the first completed parish history produced by volunteers       anywhere in England.
The entire initial print run was purchased       immediately by local residents.
Within the charitable status of the       Hampshire Archives Trust, the necessary funding has come from private       donations, and grants from parish councils and the Bulldog Trust,       Charlotte Bonham-Carter, Marc Fitch, and national VCH trusts.
Yorke's research underpinned her two exhibitions in Winchester on `Hyde       900 Exhibition' (organiser, 2010) and `Alfred the Great: Warfare,       Wealth and Wisdom' (researcher, 2006-8), two local events of national and       even international reach.
Of 295 visitors to the Alfred exhibition, 84%       found it very enjoyable or enjoyable (Final Report 2008).
`Hyde       900' attracted more than 10,000 visitors over 4 months and was highly       rated in interviews, online surveys and the evaluation report Treasures         of Hyde Abbey (2010).
James' longstanding conservation project       culminated in his Clarendon.
Landscape of Kings (with Gerrard,       2007).
Lavelle has continued and developed the work of both Yorke on the       Anglo-Saxons and James on the landscape.
The impact of the Overland Trade Project is manifested in the wide       availability of accessible data relevant to local and family historians       wherever they are located.
It is explicitly academic research for the       benefit of non-academic audiences.
Hence the support received from       Southampton City Council, owner of the archive, and the grants from the       Charlotte Bonham-Carter and Pilgrim Trusts.
It records the distribution of       commodities throughout south-central England, much of it via Salisbury and       London, and beyond, as far afield as Coventry and Kendal.
It thus       contributes to the local history of all these places, including Frome,       Cirencester, Winchester and Salisbury.
Local historians can locate data       relating to local industry, businesses and transport facilities that are       available nowhere else.
Moreover the database contains many thousands of       names of carters, traders and consumers, each identified by place and date       and often by family connections, which are a huge and highly significant       resource for family historians interested in tradesmen and artisans of the       pre-parish register area.
The website `People, Places and Commodities       1430-1540' permits searches, collation, and analysis linked to a       particular date by anyone with web access anywhere.
An overarching       framework and guidance will be provided by the book English Inland         Trade 1430-1540: Southampton and its Region to be       re-published by Oxbow in 2014.
