     Following the original English edition, which has sold over 2,300 copies,         Dramaturgy and Performance has contributed to international debates       about dramaturgy and the role of dramaturgs.
Informal conversations with       freelance dramaturgs and graduates who are developing careers as       dramaturgs together with a statement by the dramaturg at Slovene National       Opera Theatre (SDR) (Ref 6) suggest that the book has empowered and helped       them assert a sense of professional identity and that it has enabled them       to articulate their own contribution to the theatre production process.
Dramaturgs' role within this process is rarely talked about and thus the       role of dramaturgs can be somewhat invisible.
This is certainly the case       in UK theatre practice where the role is almost non-existent and rarely       credited, though Behrndt's research is referred to on several web blogs       (Ref 7).
While the book was intended for a UK and US readership, it has made a       critical contribution to highlighting dramaturgical practice in other       countries (Ref 1).
DR commented that the translation of Dramaturgy and         Performance into Slovenian was `a gift' for `theatre practice in       this small country', and goes on to call the book `an important step       forward in the theory and practice which unites our visions of the       professions' future and an important tool of communication between       professional dramaturges, theatre researchers and performing art in       general' (Ref 6).
Behrndt's research has offered ways of articulating dramaturgical       processes beyond the so-called text-driven theatre.
In a statement curator       and artistic director of `Prague Quadrennial` (PQ) remarks that Behrndt's       `research is quite crucial for my work as a dramaturg and a curator.
Her       articles, presentations and of course Dramaturgy and Performance       have been an important support in my own research and performance-making.
First of all Behrndt's work combines practical and theoretical aspects of       dramaturgy that is often not text-based and thus hard to define and write       about.` Lotker concludes that `the work has been highly inspiring but more       than anything helpful in defining what I'm actually doing` (Ref 5).
In       2012 Behrndt was invited to co-convene PQ's practitioner Platform at       Prague's Archa Theatre, focussing on highlighting dramaturgy's role in       devising and experimental theatre.
This event facilited exchange between       artists and dramaturgs from all over the world (Ref 5).
A key theme in the impact of Behrndt's research is knowledge transfer       and combining academic reflection with practical know-how.
The book's       publication has led to invitations to speak at events to mixed delegations       of international artists, practitioners, dramaturgs and academics (Ref 2).
However, it has also helped underpin a project that explores new models of       creative producing at the Basement, Brighton.
In his invitation to       contribute to the venue`s international project on dramaturgical mentoring       of emerging artists (2012 and onwards) director of Development at the       Basement in Brighton describes the collaboration as an `exciting       opportunity to link up this practical, professional research with academic       research in the same area` (Group Ref 2).
Behrndt's impact as a dramaturg is noted through her collaboration with       professional theatre companies that hitherto did not work with dramaturgs.
The Artistic Directors for Fevered Sleep (FS) and Transport Theatre (TT)       both emphasise the critical knowledge transfer aspect of Behrndt's role.
FS remarks that Behrndt `played a central role in the conceptualisation,       development and creation' of their work and that she had been       `instrumental in the development of a dramaturgical framework for these       projects, which allowed the work to emerge through this mesh of research'.
TT acknowledges the importance of the knowledge transfer remarking that       Behrndt brought a `wealth of expertise and knowledge to the rehearsal room       which had a profound influence on the formation of the piece'.
TT explains       that the dramaturg helped facilitate `objectivity and as a practitioner to       forge new ground (...)' (Ref 4).
This knowledge transfer has enabled the directors to be conceptually       ambitious and to consider new ways of approaching structure, content as       well as the documentation of their work.
The documentation that Behrndt       has produced with FS has enabled the company to reflect upon their work       and to disseminate their work to a wider audience and promote their work       internationally.
(Ref8&amp;9).
Behrndt's integration of dramaturgical practice and reflection into       professional theatre practice has made a difference to the way in which       the companies approach their work and has meant a positive engagement with       a critical and questioning audience perspective.
FS remarks that Behrndt's       involvement with the company's work 'has made it possible for the company       to be more ambitious in terms of scale and complexity of its projects.
It       is beyond question that Synne's involvement has had an impact on the reach       and success of the company's work' (Ref 3).
`Synne exposed me to new       perspectives which enable me to develop as a practitioner' (Ref 4).
