     The Applied Theatre Reader has had a positive impact on industry       professionals, such as the       Artistic Director of Border Crossings, who states it has been `especially       important in informing the       ethics of what we do.'
(Ref 1 - 11 Aug 2011).
A US reviewer of the Reader       notes that `Prentki and       Selman's discussion of Brechtian influences, popular education, and       theories of community       development are particularly strong....
The book goes far beyond simply       defining, describing or       advocating popular theatre' (Ref.
2), while the NTQ reviewer       suggests that `This book offers       detailed and noteworthy insights into a variety of practices throughout       the world' (Ref 3).
Overall       this book generated new ways of thinking that influenced subsequent       practice.
The initial impact of Prentki's work came mostly from direct contact with       participants internationally,       but it is through training trainers in NGOs across disciplines around the       world that the reach and       significance of his practice have been established, helping professionals       and organisations to       adapt to changing cultural values.
In Bangladesh, he conducted one month of workshops each year for four       years from 2000-3.
The       participants in these workshops represented many of the leading NGOs in       the country, thereby       enabling a swift dissemination of these practices around the entire       country.
Core participants from       NGOs working in women's access to legal services, combating domestic       violence, and addressing       children's rights developed significant experience in using Theatre for       Development in their       everyday practice.
As the Save the Children officer says `Still lot of       NGO's are using the TfD       process as means of raising children voices for advocating and negotiating       with the policy makers       at local and national level on the issues affecting children lives.'
(Ref       4 - 1 Nov 2012) Further       influence was achieved in the HE sector: `Dhaka University included TfD in       its Masters syllabus       during the Higher Education Link project jointly implemented by British       council.
Now all most all the       public university in Bangladesh included TfD as part of academic course in       particular dramatics       department.'
(Ref 5).
Delegates at `Theater?
Mit Mir?
Drama in Education for Children and       Adolescents at Risk' in       Rostock, Germany (2009) included practitioners and researchers       representing theatre, education,       special education, psychology and the social sciences.
Since then Prentki       has also enjoyed a       professional collaboration with Serbian NGO Zdravo da ste/Hi Neighbour,       whose mission and       activities are aimed at protecting vulnerable groups and promoting their       development during the       long period of war and post/war crisis in ex-Yugoslavia.
A total of 379       psychologists, teachers,       social workers, psychiatrists, students, researchers and practitioners       have benefited from this       creative exchange and employ Prentki's `theoretical model and approach [to       their work] result[ing]       in a dynamic and rich interaction with/between [...] participants' (Zdravo       da Ste Director).
Most recently (October 2011) Prentki worked in Southern Brazil, giving a       practical/theoretical       seminar on the fool as a facilitator to a network of community       practitioners in Florianopolis.
He       mentored 8 members of a class as they practiced facilitation in       communities.
Community       facilitators from that class record that `Approaching the community of       Barra da Lagoa,       Florian&#243;polis, and taking part in a Forum Theatre practice there, I could       open my perspective....understanding that [the joker] may incite the       audience to intervention' (Ref 6 - 19 Oct 2012) and       describe how he `learned throughout the seminar that the facilitator can,       beyond expressing       conflict, take part in it.
The seminar offered a counterpoint to the       facilitator in Augusto Boal's       Theatre of the Oppressed.'
(Ref 7 - 16 Oct 2012).
Other companies using and recommending Prentki's methods include       international charity Tear       Fund, where his co-authored booklet Using Theatre for Development       is available for download,       and the blog Unlocking the Classroom with its focus on the arts       and social change (Ref 8 + 9).
Practitioners, teachers, lecturers, students and policy makers are also       encouraged to read The         Applied Theatre Reader in D.I.C.E publication Making a World of         Difference (Ref 10).
Prentki was commissioned by ACE to write an impact assessment of the       first phase of the work of       ARROW (Art: a Resource for Reconciliation Over the World) `A Mile in My       Shoes' (2009).
Keynote speeches for academic and non-academic audiences since 2008       include:            `Counternarrative: "To Be or Not to Be": That is Not the Question',         Community         Theatre Conference, State University of Santa Catarina, Florianopolis,         November         2008 (Published in Portuguese).
`Theatre for Development'.
VSO `away day', November 2008.
`Hopes and Possibilities for Applied Theatre'.
Applied Theatre         Conference,         University of Rio, Rio de Janeiro, October 2011.
(Published in         Portuguese).
Seminar to social science students at Wageningen University, Holland         on theatre for         development for the contexts in which they are working, May 2012.
`The gatekeepers, the facilitators and the native soil' IDIERI         conference, Limerick         University, July 2012.
`Living beyond our means, Meaning beyond our lives' Theatre/Drama and         Education 7th Athens       International Conference, November 2012 (Published in Greek).
