     McCaw's research has enlightened and empowered the general public and       academic audiences both in the UK and overseas with insights into       newly-discovered aspects of their cultural heritage and literary knowledge       related to the life of the British cultural and literary icon Sir Arthur       Conan Doyle and the role of detective and crime genre as part of       literature and culture more generally from the nineteenth century to the       present day.
In particular his work has significantly enhanced the       understanding and appreciation of the longstanding international       fascination with Sherlock Holmes as a global icon and how this articulates       and intersects with various national and ethnic identities.
McCaw's research has been disseminated to the general public as well as       to more academic/research audiences through introductions to popular       books, journal articles, television appearances, curated interactive       museum exhibitions, education projects, and cultural policy developments       and initiatives.
The early stages of the published research underpinned       the initial The Case of the Portsmouth Doctor exhibition at       Portsmouth Central Museum, which first introduced items from the Conan       Doyle Collection to the wider world and sought to inform and ignite       general interest in the works, life, and subsequent impact of Conan       Doyle's cultural contribution.
This display was then successively and       independently commissioned by regional governmental bodies in Caen, France       (2006), Maizuru, Japan (2008), and Duisburg, Germany (2010) &#8212; the latter       as part of the European Capitals of Culture programme of the Ruhr.
On each       occasion the display was tailored to meet the particular cultural and       linguistic character of the nations involved.
In total to date this       exhibition has been visited by well over 100,000 visitors in the UK and       overseas, and been reviewed in the national media of each of these       countries.
McCaw's second exhibition, A Study in Sherlock, has been       in situ in Portsmouth's City Museum from 2008 to the present, and been       updated on a regular basis as new Collection finds have been uncovered.
This award-winning exhibition has an interactive aspect designed to engage       with a wide range of visitors and audiences (users), exemplified by the       exhibition's narration by Stephen Fry (the Collection's patron).
Supporting materials written by McCaw include text/display panels, the       audio narration which he recorded with Fry, a new Sherlock Holmes       educational script performed by local amateur actors and produced as a       film specifically for the exhibition, as well as an accompanying book: A         Study in Sherlock: Uncovering the Arthur Conan Doyle Collection.
A Study         in Sherlock is a monument to the life of the collector of the       archival material featured in it, as well as to Conan Doyle's life in the       city of Portsmouth, Hampshire's literary heritage, and the phenomenon of       Sherlock Holmes in the UK and abroad.
It has raised the profile of each of       these features on both the national and international stage and has been       visited by more than 250,000 visitors to date.
McCaw has acted as spokesperson for the Conan Doyle Collection overseas,       and been an invited public speaker in each of the countries the       exhibitions have visited, as well as at the University of Minnesota       (2010), where he participated in meetings with the curators of all the       other major world Conan Doyle/Sherlock Holmes collections (Minnesota,       Chicago, and Toronto), to discuss how these cultural resources (alongisde       the Portsmouth Collection) could be integrated and made more accessible to       researchers (of all levels) globally.
The reach of McCaw's research impact is evidenced by visitor attendance       figures to his exhibitions.
The Case of the Portsmouth Doctor: c.       856 visitors at the Hotel de Ville, Caen (France, 2008); c. 12,636,       Maizuru Museum (Japan, 2008); c. 1,503, Meridian Centre (Havant UK, 2009);       c. 96,542 Duisberg Central Library (Germany, 2010).
A Study in         Sherlock: c. 70,186 (2008-9); 64,533 (2009-10); c. 97,195 (2010-11);       c. 55,459 (2011-12).
The significance of McCaw's impact is evidenced by the high exhibition       attendance figures and the resulting widepread recognition of his research       and its effectiveness in disseminating the Conan Doyle/Sherlock Holmes       legacy.
A Study in Sherlock was awarded a media prize for `Best       Exhibition' in 2009, a category voted for by the public, and was reviewed       in numerous media, notably The Independent (2008) and the Mail         Online (2009).
McCaw's exhibitions also created a surge of interest       from television broadcasters.
He was featured in The History Channel/STV       TV documentary 'In Search of Sherlock' (2010) in which he discussed       aspects of the Sherlock Holmes phenomenon (reviewed in Pop Matters       in 2010), as well as in news items on BBC TV and ITV on four occasions,       and also in an episode of 'Flog It!
', a popular TV programme syndicated       around the world and watched by millions of viewers, in which he was the       resident expert on Sherlock Holmes and Conan Doyle.
The significance of the research impact is also evident in a programme of       educational events and projects for schools in the southern region       (UK) linked to McCaw's work on Conan Doyle.
He has delivered interactive       talks to children ranging from 5-16, and been part of an EU-funded Interreg       project wherein The Case of the Portsmouth Doctor exhibition       formed a central part of an exchange visit between pupils from the UK and       France within which they took part in detective-themed literacy and       numeracy tasks in both their own country and that of their `foreign'       partner school.
McCaw's research is also central to his close working with the Cultural         Services department of Portsmouth City Council in relation to the       strategic policy development of the Conan Doyle Collection, as well as       related cultural and educational policy developments in the region.
This       has had manifest outcomes in terms of affecting the direction of local       cultural strategy and provision, as well as contributing to an influx of       visitors to the area (and Portsmouth specifically) from countries with a       major interest in Sherlock Holmes as far afield as the US, Japan,       Australia, numerous countries within Europe and, more recently, Israel.
This has had an unarguably positive impact on the local economy and       tourist industry.
