     Context: The key researcher's extensive periods of fieldwork in       Francophone Africa, her research career in Francophone African development       studies and more latterly in the history of slavery in the region,       combined with her technical and theoretical knowledge of visual cultures,       provide a unique academic platform on which to engage with contemporary       artistic practice, interpret the development discourses in Francophone       African visual cultures and present these to professional and public       audiences.
Impact has taken place in a variety of forms including public lectures,       workshops, interviews, cultural festivals, consultancies, contributions to       exhibition design and the presentation of African visual perspectives in       public exhibitions.
By engaging with professionals and interpreting cultural products and       practices for audiences external to the academy, Griffiths is helping to       shape professional and public understanding of Francophone African art.
In       essence, the impact aims at bringing African experiences of development to       a new public across continents, while simultaneously benefitting       professional practice in the creative and development industries.
Collaboration beyond the academy: Since 2010, the project has       focused on an increasing number of Francophone African artists as the       engagement with development and its representation through an iconography       of slavery has become more widespread.
Three of these artists, Viya Dib&#233;       from Senegal, P&#233;lagie Gbaguidi from Benin; and Moridja Kitenge from the       Democratic Republic of the Congo, have provided original material for the       project.
As a practitioner and academic, Viya Dib&#233; has contributed in       interviews, follow-up discussions and exchanges between June 2008 and June       2010 to framing the project in an African visual context.
New work for       inclusion in the research project's public outputs (Kitenge and Gbaguidi)       has enriched the evidence base used to illustrate and explain the       conceptualisation of progress and development across different cultures       and economic worlds.
Drawing on the researcher's historiographical       expertise to interpret and contexualise development in relation to       cultural practice, the participating artists have experienced the impact       in their own professional practice (Kitenge and Gbaguidi).
The works of       five further artists (Romuald Hazoum&#233;, Julien Sinzogan, Barth&#233;l&#233;my Toguo,       Jems Robert Kokobi, Guy Wouat&#233;) are included in the public talks and       dissemination events providing a wider representation of how images of       slavery are entering the contemporary artistic vocabulary in West Africa.
Discussions on the themes and objectives of the project have been       conducted with the UK agent for these artists.
Kitenge produced the       illustration for the public poster produced by the Spanish national centre       for modern art (see title of project above) to advertise Griffiths' public       lecture in Las Palmas, Spain, in June 2013.
Impact on Public awareness: The impact from this project has been       disseminated to non-academic audiences and professionals (artists,       curators, critics) in the UK, Belgium, France, Germany, Senegal and Spain.
A series of exchanges and events has enabled public and professional       stakeholders to develop a better understanding of the role of art in       Francophone African society, and has facilitated the interpretation of       creative practice for new audiences beyond the academy.
This knowledge       serves to reveal, both in Africa and beyond, what Francophone African art       can teach us about development in the continent.
By communicating academic       research on African development issues in the public art gallery through       the medium of painting, the research is raising public awareness among new       audiences of the problems facing societies living in the world's most       disadvantaged region.
Public events have included:     - Guest speaker at Legacies of Slavery: A Documentary Film Festival       (part of the EF7 Eurescl international slavery studies project) - Guest       speaker on contemporary slavery and visual cultures in Francophone Africa       and round table participant.
45 participants at the Hull History Centre,       Hull, UK.
Saturday 13 March 2010, 10.00am - 4.30pm.
- Public lecture: How is art made in Francophone Africa?
We Face         Forward festival of African arts and culture, Manchester City Art       Gallery, 2.30pm, Saturday 8 September 2012.
- Roundtable discussant.
We Face Forward festival of African arts       and culture.
Manchester City Art Gallery, 3.45pm, Saturday 8 September       2012.
- Public lecture La esclavitud en el imaginario del arte africano         actual.
55 participants, Centro Atl&#224;ntico de Arte Moderno, Las       Palmas de Gran Canaria, 19-21h, 12 June 2013.
- Roundtable discussion.
La esclavitud en el imaginario del arte         africano actual.
Casa Africa, State Institute for Spanish-African       Cultural Relations, Las Palmas, Spain, 14-15h, 14 June 2013.
The public lecture La esclavitud en el imaginario del arte africano       is disseminated as a podcast by Casa Africa, State Institute for Spanish-       African Cultural Relations.
Impact on Professional practice: On-going exchanges and       collaboration with curators of African art exhibitions have opened up a       channel for the flow of knowledge from the research project into       professional understanding and practice.
The conceptual design of the       exhibition of African puppets and artefacts, Asyl stadtmuseum -         Afrikanische Theaterfiguren in einer k&#252;nstlerischen Installation,       curated by P&#233;lagie Gbaguidi and Stefanie Oberhoff (16 October 2013 to 2       November 2014) has benefitted from research conducted within this project       by the key researcher.
Griffiths was consulted (March-May 2013) on the       historiographical framing of the exhibition.
Her text on this is displayed       in a wall plaque within the exhibition.
Griffiths supplied the       English-language version of the guide to the exhibition and organised the       production of the Spanish and Chinese exhibition guides.
Likewise on-going       discussions and explorations with Congolese artist Moridja Kitenge       currently working as cultural adviser for African collections at the       Montreal city art gallery in Canada, has extended the reach of the impact.
Other professional consultancies have included the We Face Forward       festival of African art in Manchester June-September 2012, and       preparations for an exhibition Transatlantic Migrations at Casa       Africa Las Palmas, June 2013 and on-going.
