     Influencing UK Fiscal Policy       Amid the ongoing financial crisis in 2008, the Conservative Party       announced its plan for `economic recovery and long-term prosperity' in its       policy paper Reconstruction: Plan for a strong economy, launched       at the annual party conference on 28 September 2008.
The proposal put forward by Professors Leith, Kirsanova and Wren-Lewis &#8212;       for a fiscal monitoring commission for the UK &#8212; was cited by the       Conservative Party in this 2008 policy paper.
Considering practices       abroad, such as independent central banks or regulatory systems, the       Conservative paper concluded that: "Instead, economists increasingly see       independent fiscal councils as a way of creating the right mix of       constrained discretion.
By creating institutional pressure for responsible       fiscal policy, fiscal councils can eliminate deficit bias while       maintaining the flexibility to respond to unforeseen events."
Specifically       referring to the proposal for such a body outlined in the researchers'       2007 paper, Optimal Debt Policy, and an Institutional Proposal to help         in its Implementation, the Conservative paper then went on to       outline the Party's manifesto policy for the creation of an Office for       Budget Responsibility.
Subsequent to this, their research calling for the creation for the       creation of a fiscal monitoring body in the UK was also presented to the       Strategy Unit of the Cabinet Office in October 2008.
The research was then used as the basis for discussions at a meeting with       the Senior Adviser on the Economy at No.
10 Downing Street on 29 January       2009; on the basis of the research Wren-Lewis attended a meeting with the       Chancellor of the Exchequer along with between 3 and 5 other participants       drawn from academia, business and journalism to discuss issues related to       the macroeconomic outlook for the UK.
On 15 October 2009 the research team presented the research during an       expert panel discussion on Fiscal Institutions and Budget Oversight       at the Institute of Government alongside the former Chief Economic Adviser       to the Treasury and Robert Chote, (formerly of the Institute of Fiscal       Studies) who later became Director of the newly created OBR.
Following the election and the establishment of the coalition government       in May 2010, the independent Office of Budget Responsibility (OBR) was       created the same year.
The OBR acts as an independent yet official fiscal watchdog for the UK's       public finances.
Among other things, it produces forecasts which include       the projected impact of policy or spending decisions in the government's       annual budget; assesses the Government's performance against fiscal       targets; monitors and advises on the long-term sustainability of the       public finances; and scrutinises the Treasury's costing of Budget       measures.
These duties and responsibilities resonate closely with those       suggested by the researchers in their paper published in European         Economy featured in the Conservative Party's policy paper, Reconstruction:         Plan for a strong economy and presented to the Cabinet Office in       October 2008.
Contributing to Decision-Making on the Remit and Functions of the           OBR       Leith and Wren-Lewis were involved in the debate surrounding the creation       of the OBR, ongoing at the time, as well as discussions that were held to       further refine the remit of the new institution.
The research undertaken       during their collaborative projects underpinned these interventions       Professor Leith was a speaker at the Bank of England's Roundtable event in       July 2010, alongside Robert Chote, for an exploration of the impact of the       Emergency Budget and creation of the OBR on the conduct of monetary policy       at the Bank of England.
Also in July 2010, the Treasury Select Committee       met to discuss the proposed remit for the permanent OBR.
Professor       Wren-Lewis appeared before the Committee and, drawing on his collaborative       research with Leith, provided evidence and answered questions on the OBR's       proposed remit and function.
The Committee recognised the similarities       between the proposal for a fiscal council put forward in the research       described above and the proposed OBR.
Informing the Creation of a `Scottish OBR'       In addition to communicating the research to central banks and       policy-makers beyond the UK, Leith has recently begun working with the       Scottish Government as part of an Inquiry into Proposals for an       Independent Fiscal Body, which would function in a similar manner to the       OBR.
Leith drew from the research on fiscal monitoring conducted with       Wren-Lewis and Kirsanova to prepare written submissions for the Inquiry       and has been invited to provide oral evidence to assist the Inquiry in       November 2013.
