     There have been five types of immediate impact deriving from this work:            Developments of international and domestic standards and best         practices;       General dissemination of project results through capacity building;       Dissemination of project results at points of decision;       Direct involvement in peace negotiations;       Establishing a framework for a national transition process.
The first type of impact concerns the development of standards.
The work performed in the area of community rights has been influential in       the progressive interpretation and development of international       instruments.
This effect is most visible in relation to the Council of       Europe, the guardian of the most advanced binding international instrument       in this area, and the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, as       is attested in the Forewords contributed by both institutions to the Legal       Commentary on Political Participation (OUP 2008), edited by Weller [Ref         1, above].
The impact of this work on actual standards can be       illustrated by reference to the case of Kosovo.
Weller provided       significant impact into the Ahtisaari peace plan which was endorsed and       adopted by Kosovo's declaration of independence in 2008.
He then       contributed to the drafting of the human and minority rights sections of       the constitution of Kosovo, which are based on this document.
Moreover, he       drafted the Law on the Promotion and Protection of Communities       (minorities) which implements these provisions [Source 1, below].
The Statute of the Kosovo Community Consultative Council is directly based       on Weller's earlier work in writing the Council of Europe Handbook on       Minority Consultative Mechanisms (Council of Europe Document       DH-MIN(2006)-012, 20 October 2006) [Source 2].
Weller has had a significant role in disseminating the outcomes of his       work through capacity-building events, with a particular emphasis       on policy-makers and those involved in the implementation of policy.
His       contribution to policy planning is evidenced, for instance, by his       presentations to the United Nations Senior Management team on       power-sharing in peace settlement, and by a two-day training seminar held       for the Staff of the Organization on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons       at The Hague in 2012 on the challenges of political transitions in the       Middle East [Source 3].
Moreover, he has been invited to offer       advice at `challenge sessions' conducted by the FCO to develop its policy,       and given subsequent advice, for instance on UK policy relating to the       recognition of states, in particular Somaliland in 2012 [Source 4].
He acted as a key speaker at a seminar in the House of Commons in 2010       concerning legal controls over military action [Source 5].
He has       been a lecturer in the Senior Officers' Course of the Royal College of       Defence Studies (2008 to present), which every year exposes around 100       senior military officers from around the world to academic advances in the       area of international law and politics.
The third type of impact has been obtained through direct dissemination         of project results to decision-makers at the very point of decision.
This has included consultations and workshops just before or during       negotiations for one or both of the sides in on-going peace settlement       attempts.
Examples are workshops with high-level officials, or       delegations, from Georgia (29.4.2009), Kosovo (24.7.2010), Sudan       (8-9.12.2009, 18.7.2010, 17.10.2010), Syria (6.3.2013), (south) Yemen       (March 2013) and Burma (May 2013).
The workshops were very much focused on       allowing the participants to draw upon and operationalize the findings       flowing from this project activity, providing settlement options to the       participants at critical points in important negotiations.
One may also       include in this set of activities formal advisory memoranda provided to       the United Nations Secretariat, for instance on the legal authority of       United Nations Security Council Resolutions and on the legality of the use       of unmanned drones (2012/13).
The fourth type of impact relates to direct involvement in peace         settlement negotiations themselves.
This has included the provision       of legal and policy advice to delegations in peace settlement       negotiations, to the African Union and League of Arab States when acting       as mediator, and to the United Nations Department of Political Affairs, or       individual Special Representatives of the United Nations Secretary-General       [Source 6].
In relation to advice to the African Union, the most pronounced case       concerns South Sudan.
Weller was engaged by the African Union to support       the pre-referendum negotiations between North and South [Source 7].
Moreover, in 2011 he served as advisor to the Joint Special Envoy of the       African Union and the United Nations Secretary General for a Settlement in       Darfur, assisting the delegation of the Justice and Equality Movement and       the Mediation Team.
He participated in the critical phases of the Doha       negotiations on Darfur, resulting in the settlement (2011) that is at       present being implemented [Source 8].
Weller also implemented the project findings in his role as advisor to       the League of Arab States and United Nations Joint Special Envoy on Syria,       HE Kofi Annan.
He drafted the Guidelines and Principles for a Syrian-led       Transition adopted in the Geneva Action Group Communiqu&#233; in July 2012.
This was adopted on 27 September 2013 by the UN Security Council as the       basis for a possible peace settlement [Source 9].
In 2013 he has       led the preparations for the projected Geneva International Peace       Conference for Syria chaired by HE Lakhdar Brahimi, the       Secretary-General's Special Envoy [Source 10].
Weller has also given advice on power-sharing issues to the Special Envoy       of the United Nations Secretary-General on Libya, Jordanian Foreign       Minister al-Khatib (2011) [Source 11].
He also served as legal and       political advisor for the United Nations Special Advisor on Yemen, and       drafted the Yemen peace settlement of November 2011 [Source 12].
The fifth element concerns planning for UN sponsored-or supported         transitions and their implementation.
He gave advice to the UN       Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs on the emerging transitions       in Egypt and the post-election crisis in C&#244;te d'Ivoire, and authored a       general guidance manual on transitions for the UN Department of Political       Affairs [Source 13].
In 2011, Professor Weller served as a member       of the UN inter-agency task force for pre-planning for Libya, and       contributed elements to the strategic planning document that emerged [Source         14].
That year, he also participated in the planning for the final       transitional phase in Somalia.
In 2012 he devised and drafted the       transition plan for the Maldives after the contested change in government       there.
As noted, he also had a significant role in designing the       transitional process for Yemen during 2012 and 2013, meaning planning and       preparation for the National Dialogue process, including its rules of       procedure, and drafting its final report [Source 15].
