     Training the World's Economic Policy-Makers at IMF InstituteM     On the basis of his body of work on the area of Exchange Rate Regimes,       MacDonald was invited to prepare and deliver an Economics of Exchange       Rates Course as part of the IMF Institute's Capacity Development internal       training programme over the period 2005-2010.
The IMF Institute for Capacity Development was established in 1964 to       provide training in economic management to officials of the IMF's member       countries.
The internal programme provides training over a wide range of       topics relevant to IMF economists.
The objective of the programme is to       ensure that Fund economists at all levels stay at the forefront of the       profession and remain current on the major issues of the day.
By drawing       on his research expertise to design this training at the IMF Institute,       MacDonald contributed to these capacity development objectives on an       ongoing basis.
MacDonald designed and oversaw the five-day training course on Economics       of Exchange Rates, delivered on five separate occasions to approximately       250 mid- to senior-level officials involved in work on monetary and       exchange rate policy.
The participants were both Washington-based and also       drawn from IMF member country central banks.
MacDonald delivered the       training course in the Institute's training centre in Washington DC.
The       course was based on MacDonald's research, which he developed in the 2007       edition of his book Exchange Rate Economics: Theories and Evidence;       this publication acted as the core course text in 2007, 2008, 2009, and       2010 [1].
The success of the training provided by MacDonald is evidenced by the       fact that he was invited to return to provide the training on five       successive occasions whilst at the University of Glasgow.
Course feedback       demonstrates how useful the attending delegates thought the training would       be for their working practices in Central Banks and Government departments       in different countries throughout the world.
MacDonald's course regularly       scored between 4 and 5 out of 5 in evaluations by course participants [2].
MacDonald's research-driven teaching and training has therefore extended       well beyond the University of Glasgow to international economists and       policy makers.
Role of Monetary Advisor with IMF     MacDonald regularly engaged with the IMF throughout the course of his       academic scholarship and career; he was appointed to the role of Monetary       Advisor by the IMF in 2010 and sent on a mission to the Central Bank of       Costa Rica that same year.
During his one-week mission to the central bank in San Jose, MacDonald's       main role was to advise the central bank on the various methods it was       using to calculate its equilibrium exchange rate.
Over the course of the       trip MacDonald was provided with a range of information on the monetary       and exchange rate regimes in existence in Costa Rica and the methods used       to calculate a range of different measures of the equilibrium exchange       rate.
On his return to the UK, MacDonald wrote a 30-page report       documenting his recommendations for improving the Costa Rican methods of       exchange rate assessment.
MacDonald's report drew from his research-driven       expertise on exchange rate regimes and similar work he had undertaken for       other central banks.
Key recommendations of the report relating to       equilibrium exchange rate issues were finalised and accepted by the       Central Bank in Costa Rica [3].
As well as underpinning his advice and recommendations to the IMF,       MacDonald's research has regularly been cited in IMF Working Papers by       both the Research Department and the Policy Review and Development       Department.
IMF Working Papers are designed to stimulate practitioner       debate and discussion of key areas of research within the IMF [4; 5].
Advice to Foreign Government Agencies on Exchange Rate Regimes     MacDonald has successfully engaged policy-makers with his research       through a series of presentations at central banks and foreign governments       around the world [6].
The BEER model - which MacDonald established and has       continuously developed &#8212; has been consistently used by economic       institutions such as the European Central Bank (ECB).
MacDonald's research       has also been widely cited by central bankers within the ECB who work on       equilibrium exchange rate modelling.
For that purpose, the Principal       Economist at the European Central Bank explains that, `BEER models         have been implemented to assess the misalignment of the euro against the         US dollar, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling and in effective terms.
BEER models (among others) have also been used to assess the conversion         rates of currencies in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM II)'       [7].
In addition, MacDonald's research-driven expertise has been sought by       international governments and economic policy-makers.
In 2008, for       example, the General Secretariat for Development Planning (GDSP) (now the       Ministry of Development Planning and Statistics) in Qatar commissioned       MacDonald to prepare a report on the Monetary and Exchange Rate Regime         Options for Qatar.
The GDSP is a governmental agency mandated to       devise a national development vision for Qatar; this includes Social,       Economic, Human and Environmental Development.
When the report was       commissioned the Gulf countries &#8212; Qatar included &#8212; were linking their       currencies to the US dollar.
However, at that time the US dollar was       depreciating sharply against non-Gulf currencies, and this, combined with       a high price for oil, had serious implications for the operation of       macroeconomic policy.
Professor MacDonald canvassed a number of approaches       to monetary and exchange rate management and his analysis provided       essential context for the preparation of Qatar's National         Development Strategy 2011-2016.
