     Approach to dissemination of research findings       The impact of the research into green freight transport and logistics is       detailed below using the same three sub-headings as in section 2.
Urban freight transport       The research has had a major impact on the direction of Transport for       London's (TfL's) freight knowledge and insight which has fed through into       its strategy and policy-making.
This has been reflected in the following:       i) based on expert advice provided to officials from the Greater London       Authority (GLA) and TfL, a definition of freight transport that included       both goods and service transport was adopted in the initial Mayor's       Transport Strategy (MTS) of 2001 which has been continued in TfL's London       Freight Plan (2008) and the revised MTS (2010); ii) provision of detailed       insight into freight transport activity by mode and the importance of       various logistics sectors together with suitable progress measures and       monitoring approaches provided the basis for TfL's London Freight Plan;       iii) the research and advice provided to TfL has fed into the development       of a range of policy measures to achieve greater freight sustainability       (economic and environmental) in London (e.g.
Low Emission Zones (LEZ),       Freight Operator Recognition Scheme (FORS), Delivery and Servicing Plans       (DSPs), freight planning advice for businesses during the Olympics Games,       and the trial and evaluation of Consolidation Centres); iv) TfL's       application and promotion of urban freight survey techniques and       definitions developed in our research (such as freight survey work for the       consolidation centre work on Regent Street, and the TRAVL survey); and v)       success in building a network of contacts and expertise internationally       for TfL including policy makers from other cities (including Paris, New       York and several Dutch cities).
The expertise and knowledge developed through the urban freight research       led to Michael Browne's appointment to three key positions: i) chair of       the Central London Freight Quality Partnership from 2006 to the present;       ii) convenor of the WCTR Special Interest Group on urban goods movement       from 1999 to the present, and iii) adviser to the Commission for       Integrated Transport's Working Group for the "Vans and the Economy" study       under the chairmanship of Richard Turner OBE in 2009/10.
The definitions, terminology and survey techniques developed in our EPSRC       and other studies have been reflected in government guidance and used by       other organisations.
For instance the Department for Transport (DfT)       guidance report on Freight Quality Partnerships includes a University of       Southampton survey form which was based on and informed by our research to       include consideration of "core", "non-core" and "service activities" in       the urban area.
Freight modal shift       The rail and water freight transport research has received considerable       reference in DfT publications (e.g.
Freight Modal Choice Study, The       Container Freight End-to-End Journey).
Analysis carried out for the North       East Scotland Rail Freight Development Group on rail freight potential was       instrumental in the subsequent gauge enhancement of the Central Scotland       to North East Scotland rail corridor to better cater for intermodal       traffic.
Discussion of the research findings with the Rail Freight Group       and rail freight operators has allowed them to reflect on the outputs and       original data collection efforts in determining their strategies for       improvement.
The rail and water freight analysis has been incorporated       into TfL's annual London Freight Data Report.
Based on his expertise Allan       Woodburn was appointed as the adviser to the Group of Experts on the       Hinterland Connections of Seaports established by the UNECE Inland       Transport Committee and Executive Committee in 2008, to determine how the       connectivity of seaports and their hinterlands can be improved.
Freight transport energy consumption and carbon emissions in the           supply chain       The knowledge developed led to the University being invited to be part of       the Department for Transport's Low Carbon Supply Chain Steering Group       which, in conjunction with DEFRA and the freight industry, developed a       spreadsheet-based toolkit for goods vehicle operators to use in assessing       transport fuel use and carbon emissions together with an accompanying       guidance report.
The University was also invited to become a member of the       European Norm Committee CEN TC320/WG10 which established a standard on       greenhouse gas emission (GHG) calculation methods for transport in Europe,       in cooperation with the British Standards Institute (BSI).
The University       contributed to the work developing the freight transport-related aspects       of the standard.
The resulting CEN norm EN 16258:2012 'Methodology for       calculation and declaration of energy consumption and GHG emissions of       transport services (freight and passengers)' was published in November       2012 and was subsequently published in all EU countries as corresponding       national standards (in the UK the BSI norm BS EN 16258:2012 was published       in December 2012).
Jacques Leonardi was the University of Westminster       representative on the CEN and BSI committees.
