 Problems in the effectiveness of the CAP income payments system have been exacerbated with the two EU enlargements since 2000.
The 12 New Member States are characterised by a large population of small and semi-subsistence farmers.
Reference 2 indicates that the highest estimate of the joint population of small and semi-subsistence farmers was 11 million in the enlarged EU (27 States).
This finding was used and cited by the European Commission, for example in the report by the Director in the Directorate of Agriculture and Rural Development in 2010 (source 6).
The research described in this case study started in the period of the second enlargement in 2007.
By that time the decisions about the CAP for the EU financial period 2007-2013 had already been made.
The research findings have had an impact on the policy agenda and policy setting for the CAP post-2013 (sources 7 and 8).
References 2 and 3 raised the issue of the lack of a rigorous definition of small and semi-subsistence farming.
Reference 2 was commissioned by the European Network for Rural Development (ENRD) and by the European Commission, Directorate General Agriculture and Rural Development.
On two occasions Davidova was invited to brief officials from the Directorate.
The seminar `Semi-subsistence farming in the EU: Current situation and future prospects' in October 2010, at which the paper was presented, was attended by the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Directors and Head of Units in the Directorate Agriculture and Rural Development, and rural stakeholders from EU Member States.
The results suggested a range of indicators and thresholds that could be applied in the definition of semi-subsistence farming, for example a share of output sold as a proxy for market participation; economic size; or physical measures, for example farm land smaller than 5 hectares, or a standard labour requirement as used in the UK.
These indicators were picked up and developed in the EU Agricultural Economic Brief of July 2011 (source 4) `What is a small farm?'
This brief referred explicitly to reference 4.
Reference 5 was commissioned by the European Parliament, Directorate General for Internal Policies, Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies, Agriculture and Rural Development.
Professor Davidova was invited to present the main conclusions and recommendations to MEPs - members of COMAGRI.
The final results of the research for SCARLED project (reference 7) were reported to the European Commission representatives at a meeting in Brussels in 2010.
In the legislative Proposal by the European Commission for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing Rules for Direct Payments to Farmers under Support Schemes within the Framework of the Common Agricultural Policy (source 2, October 2011), Article 49(1b), the highest threshold for small farms has been set at 3 hectares.
Reference 1 recommended a flat cash multiannual payment to small and semi-subsistence farms funded by the Rural Development fund.
It also suggested that although it is tempting to ask for business plans and set mid-term performance targets the costs of such control might rapidly exceed the benefits.
In the Proposal for Regulation on establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of CAP, the text of Article 49(2) specifies that the support to small farmers will be a flat payment between EURO 500 and 1,000 without a request for a business plan.
These policy proposals identified by the research were acted upon by the Commission and were taken up by the Council and Parliament (reference 6) and adopted in June 2013 (source 7).
References 2 and 3 also argued that the importance of small farmers is in maintaining the traditional landscape and vitality of rural communities.
References 1 and 2 underlined the social and welfare role of semi-subsistence farming by estimating the value of non-marketed output and its contribution to total household incomes.
These ideas have had impact on the economic justifications for support to small farmers.
For example, in his speech in October 2010, the European Commissioner for Agriculture cited the research and emphasised that "the performance of small farms can be measured not only in terms of economic competitiveness but also by their role in the sustainable management of natural resources and land use" (sources 5 and 3).
In addition, The Special Euro Barometer on CAP (2011) asked in Section 1.3 for justifications of simplification of support to small farmers, including options as to their role in social activity and in their contribution to the beauty of the countryside (sources 1 and 3).
The direct beneficiary of the research has been agricultural policy makers in the European Commission who (i) were able to identify the group of small and semi-subsistence farmers; (ii) had academic research supporting the positive roles of these farmers beyond the output of food and fibre; and (iii) were provided with ideas for improved support design to small farmers that could involve lower transaction costs.
The indirect, but important, beneficiaries are the 11 million small farmers who, within the CAP for the period 2013-2020, will enjoy a simplified flat-rate payment scheme for support, which was agreed by the European Parliament in June 2013 (source 7).
