     Context: Recent data from the Department of Culture, Media and       Sport (DCMS) indicates that between 2005/06 and 2011/2012, the proportion       of people who had visited a museum or gallery in the last year increased       from 42.3 per cent to 51.3 per cent.
However, it was people in higher       ACORN groups who had the highest attendance rates.
One way of engaging       more diverse groups with museums and galleries is to bring the arts into       people's everyday lives, public spaces, local communities, and find new       ways to develop a greater sense of public ownership of the arts; to make       the arts more relevant to their lives.
This case study is based on       research which was funded as part of the pilot for the Digital R &amp; D       fund for arts and culture.
One of 8 funded projects from 493 applications,       Social interpretation addresses the need to engage more people in       arts attendance, particularly where social status may militate against       this by;      	       Producing data about engagement by diverse audiences with museums and         galleries of value to other arts and cultural organisations in         diversifying attendance;       Developing new products/services that could be used by other         organisations, and       Developing innovative and ground-breaking R &amp; D partnerships         between arts and cultural organisations, technology providers and         researchers around widening participation.
By drawing on social media models that encourage participation, the       IWM's aim was to use the SI project to engage diverse audiences and to       extend its reach into their everyday lives.
The intention was to make       collections more relevant, accessible and democratic, helping more diverse       groups feel more engaged and offering a greater sense of ownership,       connection and participation.
The research was undertaken at both IWM London and IWM North, before and       after the installation of the SI technology.
Bagnall et al employed a       range of research methods, including interviews, focus groups, a visitor       survey, in gallery observation, and textual and interface analysis.
Quantitative and qualitative data was collected and analysed at both       sites.
Using a mixed method approach enabled visitors' stated views and       preferences to be captured, but also allowed the opportunity to observe       and gain insight into actual audience behaviour.
There were a total of 20,130 visitor contributions to or social       interactions with the chosen objects.
Of these 12313 were in IWM London       (April-November 2012) and 7817 in IWM North (July-November).
A further 373       comments were made on the website, supporting the IWM in developing a new       system to enable the interpretation, discussion, collection and sharing of       cultural experiences with, and between, museum visitors.
Analysis indicated that the technology was encouraging users to feel       more connected with the museum motivated by a desire to share one's       personal experiences or knowledge with other visitors.
Social       interpretation formed a significant proportion of this interaction (43 per       cent), complementing rather than replacing the other types of social       interaction taking place around the exhibits.
The SI kiosks facilitated       sharing and interpretation, and augmented museum experiences, for many of       those who used them.
Working with technology, cultural and artistic organisations was       beneficial as it enabled the testing and application of ideas and       theories, as well as providing new inspiration and direction for further       research and collaborations.
Through such collaborations, research       propositions and models were tested in real world, `living lab',       scenarios, which have enabled the development of new ideas; built on real       world practice and needs, in the form of `grounded theory'.
In particular,       limitations of many previous studies are their specific focus either on,       audiences or technology; rarely linking or understanding both.
This       project facilitated a multidisciplinary approach, which understands       technology, technological and cultural providers, and users in a way that       was beneficial to industry.
Insights from the research both in terms of findings, and in relation to       the practices and process of this innovative collaborative research       project fed into, shaped, and led to the scaled up fund of &#163;7million which       Nesta, the Arts Council England, and the Arts and Humanities Research       Council have made available for projects from 2012-2014/5.
Bagnall (PI)       &amp; Crawford secured further funding in June 2013 from this call to work       on The Culture Experiences Project in partnership with CultureLabel.com,       Cambridge Judge Business School, Fusion Research + Analytics, Design       Museum, Barbican Centre, ENO, Whitechapel Gallery and Dulwich Picture       Gallery.
The project will identify then leverage common, untapped cultural       assets across the group of partner organisations, such as exhibitions,       curatorial expertise, education programmes and events, which will be       developed to engage new consumer segments including gift, corporate and       tourist markets.
Learning from the project was also used in the development of The       Digital Research and Development Fund for Arts and Culture, Scotland, a       partnership between Creative Scotland, Arts &amp; Humanities Research       Council (AHRC) and Nesta, (2012/13) and The Digital Research and       Development Fund for the Arts in Wales a partnership between the Arts       Council of Wales, Arts &amp; Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and Nesta       (2013/14)
