     The project has been notably successful in gaining wide political support       across the region and in       encouraging an enhanced recognition of the significance of the cultural       heritage, with a heightened       sense of national responsibility for its protection.
It has given a spur       to co-operation between       ministries and an impetus to cross-border and regional developments.
This       national support has       been fundamental in gaining the financial and procedural support of the       European Union and the       European Parliament.
The project has provided a model for the European       Commission/Council of       Europe initiative in the Caucasus/Black Sea region: the Kyiv Initiative       Regional Programme which       covers Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan &#8212; ministers from       these countries       signed up to the methodology at the Conference of Ministers of Culture on       Rehabilitating our       Common Heritage, Ljubljana 2009, organised as part of the Slovenian       Chairmanship of the Council       of Europe Committee of Ministers.
(The author had been involved in       methodological discussions in       both Armenia and Georgia at an earlier stage of the Kyiv Initiative before       the adoption of this       project methodology).
Institutional     The project has enabled the adoption of new methodological tools within       the countries, enabling       national authorities to develop structured approaches to the       identification of buildings and sites at       risk, with reasoned, costed proposals for their rehabilitation.
It has       also encouraged the       development of databases based on Council of Europe documentation       standards (Council of       Europe, Guidance on Inventory and Documentation of the Cultural         Heritage, Strasbourg 2001, by       John Bold et al) and the translation of those standards into national       languages.
Social     The traditional approach to investment in historic buildings in       South-East Europe was confined to       the official responsible bodies.
The initial intention of the project was       to broaden the pool of       expertise and then to broaden participation to involve more potential       stakeholders in rehabilitation       projects.
As a result, there has been a greatly-increased involvement of       local communities in       questions of heritage-led regeneration as a result of their recognition of       the benefits and       responsibilities which relate to the cultural heritage.
There has been       significant attendance at       meetings to discuss the future of individual buildings and sites, as well       as participation in project       boards and attendance at European heritage days.
All the major flagship       projects have required       the appointment of project boards drawn from local government and the       local business       communities.
They have contributed to decision-making on the future       development of sites with       a view to encouraging community involvement, investment and tourism.
The       author has been       involved in explaining the methodology and aims of the Ljubljana Process       to stakeholders and in       leading project board discussions in Kosovo, Montenegro and Romania.
Economic     There has been a significantly strengthened recognition of the economic       value of the heritage as       a social benefit, as an investment opportunity and as a spur to tourism.
The long-term viability of       the conversion of historic buildings to new sustainable uses is now better       understood, together with       the recognition that rehabilitation of buildings and sites offers both       business and community       benefits.
The encouragement through the project of national, international       public and private       funding for sites from Ministries of Culture, the European Union and       numerous national       governments, institutions and private foundations has been profound.
The       agreement of the EU to       fund the Ljubljana Process from 2008 signalled their recognition of the       project achievements.
Further funding was agreed by the European Parliament.
The continuing       support of the EU is       demonstrated by their continued funding of the Ljubljana Process 2 through       the Directorate for       Enlargement (which is able to provide advice and funding to       `pre-accession' countries which will in       due course become members of the EU).
By the end of 2010, over 76 million euros had been allocated or promised       (by the EU, the       European Parliament, international agencies, other governments and the       governments of the       participating countries) by which time over 80% of the 186 sites had       undergone, or were       undergoing various levels of stabilisation, restoration or conversion.
Most of this funding followed       the boost to the project given by greater EU involvement from 2008.
The       methodology of the       project had very consciously from the beginning included the       project-specific questions which are       posed by funding agencies.
The author participated in meetings with both       the Council of Europe       Development Bank and the World Monuments Fund to enable appropriate       refinement of the       methodology.
