     Impact on national education policy       Adams' international research profile has led to a range of high profile       positions within professional associations and media attention as detailed       further below.
The profile led to an invitation to join the then       Qualifications and Curriculum Development Authority's (QCDA) working group       on spiritual development in schools which impacted on national education       policy on spiritual, moral, social and cultural development (SMSC).
The       outcome of the group was a statement of position and guidance for primary       teachers on the QCDA website.
Particular influence was the argument that       spirituality cannot be defined (articulated in Adams, Hyde and Woolley       2008); a view that superseded the QCDA's previous stance of offering       definitions for teachers, which was a practice welcomed by teachers but       contested by some academics.
Reach beyond academia       Media attention has been a regular feature of research dissemination.
In       2009, a paper on teachers neglecting children's spirituality in schools,       derived from an article submitted to this REF panel (Adams 2009), was       presented at the British Educational Research Association (BERA)       conference in Manchester, UK.
The paper attracted a wide range of media       coverage.
For example, articles based on the research were published in       the Daily Telegraph (3.9.09), The Tablet (5.9.09), The       Church Times (11.9.09), the Church of England News       (September 2009), the Times Education Supplement (one-page       feature, 11.9.09) and Metro (3.9.09).
In addition I was invited to       discuss the research on BBC Radio Manchester (3.9.09), BBC Radio       Lincolnshire (9.9.09) and BBC Radio Sheffield (13.9.09).
Other audiences beyond academia have also been reached through       invitations to give keynotes on research findings to the Annual Conference       for Primary RE Co-ordinators, Lincoln Diocese (2007), the Annual       Conference of Catholic Headteachers, Nottingham Diocese, UK (2010) and a       Westhill Trust conference entitled Imagination, spiritual development       and the RE curriculum: informing better practice from new research,       Leeds, UK (2011).
Radio Children invited me to create a Vodcast on       children's dreams, based on research findings on spiritual dreams, which       was first broadcast on the internet in November 2007.
Adams' expertise on children's spiritual experiences disseminated in the       doctoral work and subsequent publications (Adams, Hyde and Woolley 2008;       Adams 2008, 2009) has also been sought by journalists for a range of high       circulation publications.
These included expert comments in articles on       dreams in Vogue (December 2008), Sainsbury's magazine       (October 2008) and Reader's Digest (March 2007).
In addition, my       research on children's dreams was broadcast in interviews on Radio 4's Today       programme (14.7.07), BBC Radio Lincolnshire (9.9.09) and Dublin City FM       (23.1.08).
In 2010, Adams was invited to blog for the US-based website Psychology       Today.
Posts on the site, relating to a range of research outputs,       receive an average of 2504 hits per blog.
Further engagement with non-academic audiences including the general       public, artists, teachers, writers and psychoanalysts was achieved through       the hosting of an international, interdisciplinary conference at Bishop       Grosseteste entitled Dreams and Culture in 2007.
The conference       attracted 67 people from seven countries.
The academic audience moved       beyond education, also drawing in scholars from cognitive psychology,       English literature, anthropology and psychoanalysis.
Further reach to       non-academic audiences was achieved via a journalist's report on the       conference on the BBC Lincolnshire website.
Informing understanding       Common understandings of the processes of dreaming and people's responses       to different types of dreams including the spiritual, have been influenced       by `New Age' teachings and wider popular culture, and are subject to a       range of misunderstandings and inaccuracies.
In order to help counter       this, and to enhance cultural understanding of dreams from a       research-informed perspective, Adams initiated a new multidisciplinary       network called Dreams Network UK which aimed to engage lay members       of the public and practitioners in addition to academics from different       disciplines.
The group followed on from the Dreams and Culture       conference and has involved considerable networking.
It has met at a range       of venues including Bishop Grosseteste University, Durham University,       Leeds Metropolitan University, the Centre for Counselling and       Psychotherapy (London) and the Wellcome Trust to disseminate research       findings and participate in workshops.
Executive positions on international professional associations      The high profile accorded to Adams' research in the media and beyond has       also contributed to me gaining executive positions on international       professional associations.
She currently holds the position       of executive member of the International Association for Children's       Spirituality, which promotes and supports research and practice in       relation to children's spirituality within education and wider contexts of       children's care and wellbeing.
In 2007, Adams was invited to stand for election onto the Board of       Directors of The International Association for the Study of Dreams, a       long-standing multidisciplinary organisation based in the US which has       members in 39 countries.
She was elected to the Board and served from       2007-2010 before moving onto their Executive Committee in the role of       Secretary (2010-2011).
Currently Adams holds the post of UK       representative.
Through these roles she has been able to influence the       association's mission and direction with a particular focus on children's       dreams (rather than those of adults which comprise the majority of       interdisciplinary dream research) and how research can impact on schools'       practice.
