     The research has had an impact on professional standards, guidelines and       training; on access to justice (both in improvements to the quality of       legal advice and in the provision of expert evidence in specific cases);       and on policy both nationally and internationally.
Impact on professional standards, guidelines and training: Custodial         Legal Advice (3a) and Standing Accused (3b) led to the       transformation of professional standards, guidelines and training for       criminal defence provision in England and Wales (5g).
The empirical       findings informed the recommendation of the 1993 Royal Commission (5a)       that all those providing legal advice at police stations should be trained       and accredited to avoid the poor quality of legal advice identified in the       research.
This proposition was adopted as policy by the Legal Aid Board       (now the Legal Services Commission) and the Law Society, and a quality       assessment programme for defence lawyers was rolled out nationally across       England and Wales (the Criminal Litigation Accreditation Scheme Police       Station Qualification).
This accreditation scheme ensures that only those       who are appropriately qualified in providing effective defence assistance       at the police station are able to do so.
The 10,000 individuals currently       providing police station advice are all accredited under this scheme:       moreover, since it requires them to undertake continuing professional       development, it continues to have an impact on the training of those       accredited before 2008, as well as those who have undertaken the programme       after that date.
Subsequent projects have incorporated training as an explicit element.
The Impact of Legal Representation research (3f) underpinned       training provided in 2013 to 32 lawyers to improve the quality of their       work on CCRC applications.
This was a collaboration between the CCRC and       the Warwick authors: it has improved lawyers' ability to represent       applicants effectively, and enhanced the CCRC's ability to work       effectively with stakeholders.
Feedback from the event showed that       participants found it useful.
A Commissioner commented that the training       provided `further knowledge of effective representation, will assist with       screening and reviews and could help identify miscarriages of justice.'
Feedback from lawyers indicated that as a result of the training they had       a better understanding of the CCRC, and would be able to advise their       clients more effectively.
They noted that they were more likely to refer a       case to the CCRC and more confident about their chances of success in       doing so (5j).
Similarly, the empirical findings from Inside Police         Custody project (3g) underpinned a training syllabus that was       piloted with 29 police officers and lawyers in the UK and the Netherlands       in April 2013.
The practical application of legal and professional       responsibilities developed the practitioner skills necessary to deliver       suspects' rights more effectively across EU jurisdictions and beyond.
Participants reported that the training had a direct impact on their work,       leading them to re-evaluate their approach to key practices in the       delivery of suspects' rights.
Impact on access to justice: Custodial Legal Advice (3a)       and Standing Accused (3b) have had a significant impact nationwide       on the quality of legal advice available to those accused of crimes in       England and Wales.
The changes to training and accreditation led to the       embedding of adversarial values into the police station training and       accreditation scheme, which has been crucial to its success.
Independent       research, directly comparing the data from the 1993 study with advice       provided several years later, concluded that the introduction of the       accreditation scheme improved significantly the quality of legal advice in       police stations (5b).
Although the research began to have an impact prior       to 2008, it continues to have a direct day-to-day impact in every police       station across England and Wales.
Its reach is therefore extremely       substantial as it affects all suspects taken into custody who exercise       their right to legal assistance: around 3.3 million of the 8.2 million       suspects arrested since 2008 have received legal advice by an accredited       adviser under this scheme.
Its significance lies in the improved quality       of legal advice received as a result of accreditation.
Overall, it has had       a real impact on access to justice.
Hodgson has also had an impact on access to justice in a number of       significant cases.
Based on her research, she has frequently been       instructed as an expert witness on whether European extradition was for       the lawful purpose of prosecution, or simply for investigation and       questioning.
[McCormack v Tribunal de Grande Instance, Quimper, France       [2008] EWHC 1453 (Admin) (5d); Tribunal de Grande Instance de Bourg en         Bresse, France v Fatma Selcuck (2010); HM Advocate, representing         Republic of France v Kelly (2010)].
She testified at the hearing in       McCormack and in Kelly, the appeal was abandoned as a       direct result of the expert report provided.
Her research also had an       impact on the major Canadian extradition decision in Diab, in       which she was required to assess whether, if extradited to France on       terrorism charges, the accused would receive a fair trial [Attorney         General of Canada (The Republic of France) v Diab 2011 ONSC 337].
Drawing on French Criminal Justice (3c) and Terrorist Suspects       (3d), her assessment of the use of secret and un-sourced       intelligence as evidence in any subsequent trial should Diab be extradited       back to France was relied upon by Diab's defence team.
Diab's lawyer noted       that Hodgson's research had `a considerable positive impact...on the       quality of the defence afforded Dr Diab and on the protection of his legal       and constitutional rights as a person sought by France in relation to a       1980 terrorist bombing in Paris' and `led directly to the Attorney General       for Canada disavowing any reliance whatsoever on the extensive       intelligence set out in the French Record of the Case which sought to       justify the French extradition request' (5h).
While the judge felt legally       mandated to extradite under the relevant treaty, the case is currently on       appeal to the Canadian Supreme Court.
Impact on the implementation of policy in Scotland: The Criminal       Procedure (Legal Assistance, Detention and Appeals) (Scotland) Act 2010       made new provision for the right of a detained suspect to access to a       lawyer.
Together with Jodie Blackstock from JUSTICE (5f), and drawing       directly on the 1993 research (3a), Hodgson provided training to more than       60 Scottish lawyers in 2011, to alert lawyers to the crucial importance of       their newly established role at the police station and the need for       personal attendance rather than telephone advice.
The findings from her       research and the impact of the reforms on practice were distilled into a       short guide for those attending (Police Station Advice: Promoting Best         Practice).
Subsequently, in 2012, Lord Carloway's Review of new arrangements       allowing lawyers into the police station in Scotland, drew on this       briefing and Custodial Legal Advice (3a) to highlight the       importance of training in ensuring high quality provision of advice, as       well as the importance of retaining the right to silence (5c).
It noted       that in order for the right of access to a solicitor to be effective,       those advising clients `must have adequate training' and noted the `need       to guard against complacency in this area' in the light of the research       findings from England and Wales (para 6.1.35).
It specifically recommended       that `University Law Schools and the Law Society should be encouraged to       formulate guidance for solicitors in advising clients in a police       station'.
The Impact of Legal Representation research (3f) has also had an       impact on the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission, stimulating it to       carry out its own assessment of the impact of legal representation,       explicitly mirroring the study carried out by Hodgson.
Impact on the development of EU policy: Hodgson's research on both       English and French criminal justice has provided evidence to inform the       development of EU policy.
Drawing on Custodial Legal Advice (3a)       and Standing Accused (3b), as well as the findings from Inside         Police Custody, all of which reinforce the importance of training in       order to achieve effective custodial legal advice, she has advised those       preparing the impact study for the EU legal aid directive on how to embed       adversarial and competent legal assistance within the administration of       legal aid (5i).
With Blackstock, she also organised and delivered a policy       briefing to some 30 lawyers and EU officials in Brussels in 2012 (5f);       feedback from the event demonstrated that this successfully raised       awareness of the importance of linking legal aid funding to mechanisms to       ensure the quality of legal advice to suspects in police custody       throughout the EU.
Her French criminal justice research `is used widely       within the Commission's Directorate-General for Justice', being `read and       consulted by those advising Ministers of Justice throughout the EU [...]       and by practitioners and students... who all have a role to play in the       wider public debate about the need for harmonised standards of rights in       criminal trials throughout the EU' (Morgan, European Commission (5e)).
