     Erle's research, begun in 2000, revolved around the textual and artistic       dimensions as well as the literary and scientific interfaces of the       cultural exchange between Britain, Germany and Switzerland.
It focused       particularly on Blake's creative engagement with contemporary science and       more specifically with the ideas of Johann Caspar Lavater.
The monograph,       recommended for publication to Legenda by the British Comparative       Literature Association, was published in 2010.
Dr Erle co-curated a       display on "Blake and Physiognomy" (2010-2011) and ran a Scholar's Morning       at Tate Britain.
In attendance were Blake scholars, curators and art       historians as well as Blake enthusiasts.
Erle was invited to present at       "Physiognomy from Lavater to the Great War" at the Scuola Normale Superior       in Pisa (2010), and also invited to present at a "Likeness and Facial       Recognition Workshop" at the Wellcome Institute in London (2011).
On both       occasions, the audience (approx.
50 people) included academics       (Historians, Art Historians, Historians of Science and Literature) as well       as curators, health workers, psychologists and visual artists.
Erle's       research also resulted in a number of published academic outputs and in       extramural terms, impact was created through a number of diverse       opportunities for public engagement with the European context of Blake's       approach to `character'.
Erle gave a public lecture at the Blake Society       (2011), where she had previously given public lectures in 2001 and 2006.
Approximately 20 people attended.
She gave a public lecture at "Haus der       Romantic" in Marburg, Germany (27 April 2011), where approximately 40       people attended.
The event was advertised through the organisation's       website and was listed in the regional news outlet Marburger Express.
Tate Britain (2010-11): The impact, underpinned by the research       described above, is two-fold: Erle wrote and co-wrote texts, intended for       a non-academic but educated audience for the display "Blake and       Physiognomy" at Tate Britain (8 November 2010- 4 April 2011).
According to       the Tate Britain's visitor services during the time of the display       approximately 750,000 visitors came to the Tate.
They say with some degree       of certainty that 500,000 visitors saw it.
Erle has also been invited to       contribute to the Tate's online catalogue in the future and participated       in the Blake Workshop on the Eight Newly Acquired Plates, organised in       co-operation with Tate Research Centre (14 July 2010), which first went       onto display as part of the "Romantics" exhibition (9 August 2010 - 31       July 2011).
Erle ran a Scholar's Morning (14 January 2011), attended by       colleagues, staff of Tate Britain and members of the public.
Because of       the curatorial efforts at the Tate, Dr Erle was invited to become a Fellow       of the RSA on 14 May 2012.
About the display Sir Nicolas Serota commented       in an email: "Not easy to find new things to say about Blake, endlessly       puzzling though he may be.
It is very well conceived and presented."
About       the Scholars' Morning, Tim Heath (Chair of the Blake Society) said: it was       "an initiative that enriches the entire Blake world."
The public work with       Tate Britain will continue through the Reception of William Blake in       Europe research project.
The connection between the impact achieved       through Tate Britain and the Tennyson Research Centre, which will be       explained next, are Erle's interest in `likeness' and reception.
While the       display at Tate Britain explained about faces and their meanings in the       late C18th, the online exhibition on Tennyson's copy of The         Illustrations of the Book of Job delineate interpretations of Job's       as well as Blake's relationship to the divine, which is rendered through       varying degrees of likeness between Job, the Divine and Blake.
The       research at the Tennyson Archive has unearthed a number of documents to do       with Tennyson's interest in Blake, which was welcome as evidence for a       connection between them by both Tennyson and Blake Scholars.
Tennyson Research Centre (2012-13): Erle devised and created       material for an online exhibition on Tennyson's copy of Blake's Job       (online since 3 June 2013).
It is concurrent with a display "Tennyson's       Drawing Room Table", which includes letters sent between Tennyson and Anne       Gilchrist, at the Lincoln Public Library (3 June - 30 September 2013).
A       second display is being planned from 4 October 2013 to 31 January 2014.
Erle has been invited to talk to the Lincoln Society of Arts and to write       about the significance of the discovery for the Tennyson Research         Bulletin.
A short piece has already been accepted by Blake/An         Illustrated Quarterly.
