     The research captured by this case study impacted nationally and       internationally in cultural life by influencing the dissemination and       promotion of an understanding of the literary production of Margaret       Galletti di Cadilhac, n&#233;e Collier (1856 - 1928), Giacinta Salvadori, n&#233;e       Galletti (1875 - 960) and Joyce Lussu, n&#233;e Salvadori (1912 - 1998); the       commemoration of their contribution to Anglo-Italian relations and       European history from Risorgimento to Resistance; and the accessibility to       some of their works written in Italian.
It impacted also in the       development of ways in which these women's multiculturalism, antifascism       and anti-colonialism, benefit local, national and international people,       communities and institutions by deepening the understanding of concepts of       nationality, migration, and difference.
The study of the literary production of Collier, Galletti and Salvadori       was disseminated and promoted through public national and international       engagement with projects, conferences, lectures and commemoration events       which Capancioni was invited to, consulted about and participated in as a       keynote speaker.
Papers on Collier (2008; 2009; 2010; 2011; 2012; 2013)       and Salvadori (2009; 2010; 2012) were regularly presented to international       audiences.
Most of these venues included the wider public.
However, this       impact case highlights four among them that enthused an understanding of       the Collier-Galletti-Salvadoris' Anglo-Italian intergenerational       historical, literary and cultural legacy by reaching lay audiences in the       Italian region where their descendants still reside, where their legacy       has historical as well as literary value as it describes a changing time       in the rural southern province of the Marche by the Adriatic coast as       Italy moved from unification to the end of the twentieth century.
This       proves to be an area rarely explored by travellers or tourists, and rarely       mentioned in literary English or Italian accounts.
In 2007, Prof. Ruggero       Ranieri's invitation to `Travel and Travellers in the Modern Age.
The       discovery of Italy in the English-Speaking World and the Adventures of       Italian Travellers', an international conference organised by the       Uguccione Ranieri di Sorbello Foundation and held in Perugia, Italy (10-12       May), as a fully-funded guest speaker expert in British women writer and       the Marche revealed the originality of Capancioni's research.
Her       contribution, delivered in Italian to facilitate the lay audience,       resulted in a publication in Italian (2009) included in a volume edited by       Italy's leading expert in the history of travel writing and travellers to       Italy, Prof. Attilio Brilli (http://www.treccani.it/enciclopedia/attilio-brilli/).
The event was reported by the local university (http://www.suef.unipg.it/articolo.php?id=27)       and the Italian local and regional media (Nel Centro Online: http://www.nelcentroonline.it/index.php).
The volume was launched in two Italian universities, University of Bologna       and that of Macerata (11/05/2010; &amp; 09/12/2009) and is now available       in libraries world wide.
At the conference `Women Travellers in Italy' (13 February 2008, Centre       for Travel Writing Studies, Nottingham Trent University, UK), Capancioni's       paper on Collier's published and unpublished writing eased connections       with Italian and British historians interested in the Risorgimento that       resulted in an invitation to one of the events celebrating the anniversary       of the Italian unification in 2011.
`Art, Literature, The Press and Exile:       Relationships between the United Kingdom and the Italian Risorgimento' was       an international congress organised by the Michel de Montaigne Foundation,       the University of Pisa, the Istituto Storico Lucchese (Lucca's       Historical Institute), and sponsored by the Municipality of Bagni di       Lucca, Italy, where it took place (9-11 September).
It was covered by the       Italian local and national media (http://iltirreno.gelocal.it/livorno;       http://www.luccaterre.it/it/dettaglio/6032/Arte-Letteratura-Stampa-ed-Esilio-rapporti-tra-il-Regno-         Unito-e-il-Risorgimento-Italiano.html; http://federlombardaedilizia.wordpress.com/2011/07/13/9-10-11-settembre-p-v-convegno-internazionale-risorgimento-italiano/).
Capancioni's dissemination, promotion and understanding of Salvadori's       historical and literary contribution began developing an international       impact when the Centro Studi Joyce Lussu (Lussu's Centre for Studies,       located in Porto San Giorgio, in the Marche, Italy, where the       Collier-Galletti-Salvadoris lived) gave her an opportunity to partake as       an adviser in the project which led to Salvadori's biography Biografia         e Bibliografia Ragionate di Joyce Lussu (Joyce Lussu's Reflective       Biography and Bibliography, ISSN 17215269).
This was authored by Antonia       Langi&#249; and Gilda Traini, and published in 2008 with the sponsorship of the       Marche Region to commemorate ten years from her death.
Two regions where       Salvadori lived and studied local traditions and female storytelling:       Marche and Sardinia celebrated it, and in May 2009, it was launched at the       most important national Italian book fair in Turin, Fiera del Libro di       Torino.
In 2008, Capancioni also collaborated on a publishing project led and       edited by Dott.
Giorgio Mangani that commemorated Salvadori's work ten       years after the death.
It was sponsored by the publishing house Il Lavoro       Editoriale, where he works.
Capancioni advised him on the selection of the       texts to be included in the anthology entitled Joyce Lussu Opere         Scelte (Selected works by Joyce Lussu, 2008, ISBN 978 8876634215, http://www.lavoroeditoriale.com/estratti/Joyce_Lussu-Opere-scelte-estratto.pdf).
This       gives access to some of Salvadori's most important works, including her       autobiographical account of the Italian Resistance, and others that were       out-of-print.
It is available as an eBook and Kindle edition (ISBN-13:       9788876634215).The relevance of Salvadori's legacy on women and equality,       political resistance and freedom, post-colonialism and multiculturalism       was emphasised in 2012 by the decision of the Municipality of Fermo, where       she lived from the 1970s to her death, to commemorate her hundredth       birthday by donating a copy of this anthology to all high schools of its       territory (local and regional media reports: Piceno 33 http://www.primapaginaonline.it/fermano/un-omaggio-a-joyce-lussu;       InfoFermo.it http://www.infofermo.it/2012/12/18/la-provincia-dona-le-%E2%80%9Copere-scelte%E2%80%9D-di-joyce-lussu-a-tutte-le-scuole-superiori-e-alle-biblioteche-del-territorio/).
In       2005 Capancioni's bilingualism had already secured her collaboration as a       translator to an English publishing project of Il Lavoro Editoriale, led       and edited by Mangani The English in The Marche (ISBN 88 7663 388X       http://www.lavoroeditoriale.com/estratti/The_English_in_the_marche-estratto.pdf).
She translated into English two of Salvadori's works on her ancestors       [`Note to Our Home by the Adriatic' (pp.
45-52) and The Story         of Adlard Welby (pp.
83-97)], making them available to Anglophone       audiences for the first time.
She also authored the introductory note to       Joyce Lussu (pp.
79 - 81) for this anthology.
In 2012, Salvadori's centenary was commemorated by national and       international events such as `Joyce Lussu tra Storia e Futuro' (Joyce       Lussu between history and the future) a free, public talk organised and       funded by Centro Studi Joyce Lussu on 8 May 2012.
Capancioni was       invited and funded by the Centro Studi Joyce Lussu to give a       keynote in Italian.
Three other speakers were invited including another       international speaker from the United States.
The success of this       commemorative occasion was visible: people were standing in a room holding       more than hundred people.
It was announced and reported by the local       official institutions and press organisations.
Capancioni commemorated       Salvadori's centenary by writing one article for a Brazilian journal       (2012) and an essay (2011) on her contribution to antifascism and       anti-colonialism and the understanding of concepts of nationality,       migration, and difference as a translator.
In 2012, she also had the       opportunity to celebrate Salvadori's detective fiction with an essay on       her contribution to the afterlives of Doyle's Sherlock Holmes (2012), and       the presentation of this volume to Italian audiences as a guest speaker at       `Urbinoir 2012: the Dark Side of Words' (28-30 November 2012).
Urbinoir is       a centre for crime fiction that has regularly organises events since 2008,       of which Capancioni is now a member (http://www.urbinoir.uniurb.it/staff.html).
The impact of Capancioni's dissemination, understanding and commemoration       of Galletti's historical and literary contribution is limited to one       project of international relevance.
In 1926, Galletti met the Indian Nobel       Prize for Literature, Rabindranath Tagore, and influenced his change of       mind on fascism and Mussolini's form of fascism specifically.
Historically, the articles written both by Galletti and Tagore in the Manchester         Guardian and the documents and correspondence collected in the       Tagore Centre, in Santiniketan, only reported Galletti's name under her       title as a married woman, Signora Salvadori.
When Dr Kalyan Kundu, a       founder of the Tagore Centre UK, author and editor of works on       Rabindranath Tagore, contacted Capancioni, who could reveal the       biographical of this Signora Salvadori, informing him on her antifascism,       Resistance, and her writings.
Sponsored by The Tagore Centre UK, Kundu's       research project became a monograph in 2009 and Capancioni contributed to       it as a translator and adviser on Interwar Anglo-Italian anti-fascist       activism.
She also edited the appendix of historical Italian newspapers       articles.
It was published in Bengali with the title, Itali safare         Rabindranath o Mussolini prasanga" (ISBN 978-8173325618), by       Punascha, Kolkata, India.
Kundu is finalising a contract for his monograph       to be published in English at present.
