     Station 9.8, with its unique design developed by Newcastle University       researchers, was the first dedicated facility of its kind in the world.
Its rapid and large oversubscription prompted the decision by SRS to       establish a second similar station by reallocation of an underused powder       diffraction beamline (16.2) a few years later.
Both facilities operated       until mid-2008 and provided the model, inspiration and (through high       demand from users) justification for current facilities in the UK and       worldwide.
Impact from commercial work using these facilities typically       develops over many subsequent years, as illustrated by specific examples       given below.
Impact on the development of other synchrotron facilities     The success of Station 9.8 led to the design principles being used       subsequently in plans for other similar facilities worldwide, particularly       the beamline I19 at Diamond Light Source (DLS), effectively a direct UK       replacement for Station 9.8 from 2008 [E1], and the Advanced Light Source       in California, USA (ALS, conversion of beamline 11.3.1 from threatened       closure in 2006 to the most productive beamline from 2009), and to the       successful cases for development of these facilities as a result of its       immense popularity and success.
These two are the only current dedicated       beamlines of their kind in the world and are unrivalled in their output by       any shared- use facilities [E2, E3]; such other facilities include       beamlines at APS (USA) and Soleil (France), themselves influenced       indirectly by the design principles and the success of Station 9.8.
DLS is the largest UK Government-funded science project in a generation,       costing around &#163;400M in its construction to date and with an annual       operating budget rising from the initial &#163;23M in 2007-2008 as beamlines       are added; it provides a high level of employment and contribution to the       local economy.
The I19 beamline had a construction budget of around &#163;5M       and its annual operating budget is &#163;430K excluding support for an average       of 3 PhD students per year; it has a full-time staff of 4 scientists and       technical support equivalent to 1.25 FTE.
In addition to providing the model for such facilities, the original       research has also produced leading scientists to manage and operate them.
Of grant-funded research staff employed for the construction and       commissioning stages of SRS 9.8, one is now Staff Scientist for ALS 11.3.1       (Dr Simon Teat, previously beamline scientist at SRS and Principal       Beamline Scientist for DLS I19), and another is a director of the       EPSRC-funded NCS (Dr Simon Coles).
Major users/beneficiaries of SRS 9.8       who are now in commercial and public service employment include Dr David       Allan (Principal Beamline Scientist for DLS I19), Dr Neil Feeder (Pfizer       then CCDC), and Dr Elizabeth Shotton (Industrial Liaison Manager, DLS).
Clegg has also helped provide training for over 150 staff and users of       synchrotron facilities from many countries through Synchrotron Radiation       Summer Schools, formerly at Chester/Daresbury [E4 p.69] and currently at       Oxford/Diamond.
Impact through commercial use of facilities     Around 10 commercial companies made use of SRS Station 9.8 up to 2008,       including all the major UK pharmaceutical firms; 5 companies from the       pharmaceutical and chemical sectors of UK industry currently use DLS       beamline I19 (one reason for the lower number is company mergers).
These       companies are prepared to pay full-cost-recovery commercial rates for       access, since there is usually no other feasible way for them to obtain       vital structural information for the development and marketing of their       products when the available materials are poorly diffracting [E5].
Confidentiality agreements between the facilities and commercial customers       make it impossible to provide details of such usage, but we give some       examples here where results have been published or approved by company       representatives, or where the work is commercially-sponsored research by       academic partner teams; they are undoubtedly typical of other work.
At       DLS, as previously at SRS, several days of beamtime in each 6-month       operating schedule are allocated to commercial work and a day of beamtime       can deliver up to 10 or more data sets, as an indication of overall usage.
Without the original Newcastle underpinning research, these opportunities       would probably not exist and the key structures would remain unknown.
For example, Organon (now Merck) used SRS 9.8 to investigate the       structure of a cyclodextrin complexed with a drug used as a neuromuscular       blocker, to confirm its mode of action.
Sugammadex is now marketed as       Bridion; it was approved for use in the EU in 2008 and sales to date have       been around &#163;300M [E6; E4 pp.
7 &amp; 93].
Roche Discovery Welwyn, part of Hoffman LaRoche, carried out structural       studies at SRS 9.8, concentrating on active pharmaceutical ingredients,       intermediates and impurities in support of anti-inflammatory and       anti-viral programmes.
This work contributed to the development of the       influenza neuraminidase inhibitor Tamiflu (oseltamivir phosphate) and the       first-generation HIV protease inhibitor Invirase (saquinavir mesylate),       both originally licensed for use in the 1990s and in continued use today       [E7].
Tamiflu has had particularly high public profile and impact in       recent years as a major treatment during several big flu outbreaks around       the world.
In the UK alone the NHS has spent an average of around &#163;70M per       year maintaining stocks of Tamiflu; annual worldwide sales peaked in 2009       and 2010 at around &#163;550M, then reduced by over 50%.
Commercial use of the SRS facilities was taken over by DLS I19 beamline       from 2009.
Anhydrous sodium diclofenac was a key structure obtained by       SAFC Pharmorphix (Sigma-Aldrich) using DLS I19, enabling a thorough study       of relative stability of hydrates and other crystalline forms of this       common painkiller, which is one of the top 100 drugs in international use,       with an estimated annual value of about &#163;820M in 2009 [E7, E8 p.5, E9].
This work is typical of polymorphism and solvate studies carried out by       pharmaceutical companies, requiring synchrotron facilities for unstable       and poorly crystalline forms of important drugs and drug candidates in       order to secure and protect intellectual property rights attributable to       particular solid forms [E7].
Other major pharmaceutical firms who have confirmed their use of these       facilities in order to obtain or improve vital drug development structures       and to support regulatory and patent processes are Pfizer and       GlaxoSmithKlyne.
Impact through commercialisation or Government use of academic         research     Zeolites and metal-organic framework materials studied by St Andrews       chemists at SRS, DLS and ALS have led to Chevron Texaco patents on two       materials, SSZ-23 and SSZ-51, for use in oil refineries, three patents       related to storage and release of nitric oxide, and two spin-out       companies, Zeomedix LLC (started in 2009 with over $1M of external       investment to date) and MOFgen Ltd (started in 2013 with 14 commercial       agreements with other companies) [P3, E4 p.51, E10].
Metal-organic       frameworks have become popular research projects, of interest for       potential in hydrogen and other gas storage and energy applications.
Work       is often industrially sponsored, such as that by Nottingham University       supported by General Motors [E7, p.17].
ALS 11.3.1 is used in projects of the US Department of Energy, including       gas separations for clean air technology, extraction of uranium from sea       water, and nuclear reprocessing [E2].
