     Informing security and intelligence practitioners     The `Landscapes' team led by Aldrich has worked nationally and       internationally to secure maximum impact of research findings among key       security and intelligence personnel (sources 1, 2, 3 and 10).
A series of       bespoke workshops were held in the UK followed up with policy briefs for       the Ministry of Defence (15 December 2011); Cabinet Office (23 February       2012); Defence Advisory- Notice Committee (6 February 2012); Industry and       Parliament Trust (1 February 2012); Serious Organised Crime Agency (18       February 2013); and Space Geodesy Centre (20 January 2012).
Each workshop, attended by at least 20 people, was tailored to the       specific needs of the end-user.
The DA-Committee, the body that gives       guidance on national security to the media, wanted to know how the CIA       deals with the press (source 1).
The Committee noted that it faced similar       challenges to the CIA and resolved to initiate more cross-national       dialogue.
SOCA requested advice on how it should combat negative press       portrayals of policing and resolved to consider the team's suggestion of       an official history (source 3).
With SOCA being subsumed within the new       National Crime Agency (NCA) in October 2013, an official history was       regarded as a useful mechanism for institutional memory and a valuable       tool for knowledge transfer to the new agency.
To explore European policy-transfer, two workshops on `PR and Secret       Services' were held with the Netherlands Foreign Office and the Hague       Centre for Strategic Studies on 29 June 2012.
Here, the user was struck by       the team's discussion of how the internet represented a rich harvest of       `open source' material.
As a result of this, Aldrich has been invited to       join the Netherlands accreditation organisation (NVAO) with the purpose of       developing a new multi-language training course in intelligence for the       Dutch Staff College.
Aldrich played a key role in alerting intelligence       officers to the value of the internet for intelligence work.
Workshops       have also been held with the CIA and with the Geneva Centre for the       Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF) (source 4).
DCAF have       commissioned the team to produce `Toolkit 10', which will incorporate our       findings into their security reform handbook Overseeing Intelligence         Services: A Toolkit.
Finally, since September 2012, the findings of       Aldrich's research have also fed directly into the work of a consultative       committee designed to frame new security mechanisms within the UK in the       context of possible constitutional change.
Documentary evidence of this is       available on request (source 6).
Shaping public policy debates about declassification     In November 2010, Aldrich succeeded Lord Hennessy as one of two academic       advisers serving on the Cabinet Office Consultative Group on Security and       Intelligence Records.
The group, which meets at six-month intervals,       considers requests by researchers for the declassification of official       material and is thus a vital mechanism through which scholars can lobby       government.
Aldrich has secured further releases on the financial control       of intelligence (e.g.
TNA CAB 301).
He has also advised on patterns for       future releases and the impact of the shift to a twenty-year rule in the       UK.
Moreover, he has used his research on CIA record management to alert       UK government departments to declassification developments in the US.
This       has helped officials in London to better understand where UK release       policy sits in a global context (source 5).
Specifically, he has informed       GCHQ about releases on joint UK-US operations by the National Security       Agency (NSA).
Enhancing public awareness of and attitudes towards secrecy     The team has shaped international public understanding of intelligence,       security, and secrecy (sources 6, 7, 8 and 10).
The project mounted the       largest ever conference on the CIA, held at the East Midlands Conference       Centre.
All nineteen panels and plenaries were recorded by Backdoor       Broadcasting and the conference, including the post-panel discussions, can       be `attended' for free via a dedicated web-site.
According to statistics       provided by Backdoor Broadcasting Company, this website has received 4.75       million `hits' since its launch in May 2011.
The number of downloads of       material produced by Aldrich and Moran from the website stands at 36,690       (July 2013).
The intelligence resources pages at Warwick have received       over 240,220 visitors (July 2013).
In the service of public engagement and the enhancement of cultural       understandings of espionage, between 2011-12 Moran served as principal       historical consultant to the International Spy Museum in Washington DC,       working on the exhibition `Exquisitely Evil: 50 Years of James Bond       Villains' (source 6).
The Museum's chartered responsibility is to inform       the public about the fact, not fiction, of espionage.
Moran's research was       instrumental in convincing the Museum that spy fiction should be taken       seriously, since it provides the public with a unique, if not necessarily       accurate, window onto clandestine security relations.
Moran's idea that       public perceptions about intelligence are disproportionately influenced by       fictive ideas derived from popular culture is the overriding message of       the exhibition.
On the basis of his research, Moran devised the       intellectual framework of the exhibition; selected artefacts from the Bond       film archive; and wrote many of the sidebars.
During launch week, he gave       media interviews (Fox News, Reuters, France 24) and spoke at a reception       to mark the opening, held at the British Ambassador's Residence in       Georgetown.
The exhibition has been widely reviewed, and has increased       attendance at the Museum by 14%.
To improve public understanding of secrecy, the team has produced a       number of influential cultural artefacts (sources 7 and 8).
For example,       Aldrich and Moran's research led to two 30-minute BBC Radio 4       documentaries for `Document'.
One explored a fracture in Anglo-US       intelligence and the second revealed that Britain's greatest post-war       secret, the existence of GCHQ, was nearly blown by an inebriated       journalist in 1951; the latter was reported by the Telegraph and       featured on the BBC homepage.
Aldrich's research on the alleged traitor,       Lord Sempill, was also the subject of an hour-long BBC 2 documentary,       which featured Aldrich extensively.
Finally, on 10 June 2013 Aldrich       informed media debate about data sharing between the US National Security       Agency and the UK's GCHQ via a live interview with Jeremy Paxman on BBC2's       flagship Newsnight, which attracted 708,000 viewers http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b02xd16y       (accessed 30/9/13).
