     Newcastle University staff have a long track record in providing research       insights on aspects of collaborative planning.
The primary purpose of this       research is as a mirror on society, allowing it to reflect on, and in time       to reframe its thinking about, its practices.
Its impact, then, is firstly       when society reflects upon the research insights, secondly if this causes       them to change their thinking about their practices, and thirdly if this       ultimately leads to tangible changes of practice and thus planning       outcomes.
Over many years, including during the 2008 - 2013 impact period,       Newcastle staff (but particularly Healey) have ensured that the research       insights have been diffused to a wide range of leading planners and       politicians, as a first stage of impact.
This has been effected by       ensuring research outputs have been promoted to such people and from the       standing afforded to Newcastle University research by the planning elite.
For example, when receiving the RTPI's Gold Medal (its highest award for       contributions to the profession, only awarded twice in the last 30 years       and Healey the only ever female recipient) Healey used the opportunity to       promote the research insights accumulated at Newcastle through her       address.
Healey was also the senior editor of the RTPI journal Planning         Theory and Practice until 2009 and was associate editor of the RTPI       Library Book Series from 2009-2013.
The standing of the research is       evidenced by the profession.
For example, the Vice-Chair of the TCPA in       2011 referred to Healey, Davoudi, Hull and Vigar as `influential voices in       planning' (IMP1); and the 2008 president of the RTPI describes the       `major contribution' Healey made to linking academic planners and       practitioners (IMP2).
Research insights have been considered by a wide range of people       associated with planning, some of whom have gone on to promote ideas of       collaborative planning in other parts of the world.
Activities in this       vein would include the mentoring of postgraduate students, and addresses       at events such as Planning Summer Schools, RTPI events and lectures at       Young Planners conferences.
Newcastle research insights and their discussion by planning elites have       clearly progressed to make significant changes in thinking.
Friedman       (2008), identifies three shifts in planning and practices the first of       which is "toward making planning more of a whole-society process       rather than primarily a technical one (e.g., Healey, 2007, 280-282)"       (p.254) (IMP3), and Albrechts (2009) claims that "there is ample       evidence that the concepts developed, theorized and opened up to spatial       planning by Healey do travel.
They travel not only in academia but also in       the world of practice" (p.145) (IMP4).
Promoting planning as a whole-society spatial activity as conceptualised       by Healey is now commonplace among the leading planning practice       organisations in the UK.
For example, the TCPA's Chief Planner said       "Collaborative Planning is a theory that has now become de rigeur       practice" (IMP5).
Similarly, ideas of collaborative planning have       pervaded government thinking for the last decade, most recently evidenced       by the chapter on this in the Conservative manifesto `Open Source       Planning' (a precursor to the Localism Act) (IMP6).
The substantial revision of the English planning system in 2004 was       informed by the Newcastle research of the mid/ late 1990s and early 2000s.
The research had defined the need for a return to the visioning aspect of       the system present in the 1947 Town and Country Planning Act and had       pointed to its re-emergence in certain places.
The 2004 Act created Local       Development Frameworks (LDFs), which although introduced prior to the       impact period, are highly significant as the plans created as a result       continue today as the `core' spatial planning strategy for each local       authority area and hence have significant impact in the 2008-2013 period.
Very much in line with the concept of collaborative planning they aim to       address social, environmental and economic issues as well as land-use       issues per se, to be participative, and to integrate and help       deliver other strategies and policies.
During the period before the 2004       Act, Healey had an advisory role to ODPM as a member of the steering group       for their scoping study on LDFs and was involved in associated discussions       with the civil servants drawing up the legislation (IMP7).
Of       particular note was her influence on the requirement on planning       authorities to seek consensus on essential issues early in the process of       LDF preparation, by the comprehensive involvement of the fullest possible       range of interested parties.
Not only is this principle of collaborative planning continuing in LDFs       under the Coalition government, it is also evident in the planning       approaches they have introduced.
"Both through a "localism" agenda driven       from constituency and local government roots, and from a "growth agenda       with more business foundations, there is even now increased interest in       drawing together sectors of resource investment at more local scales than       the nation-state; an approach which would, as the Royal Town Planning       Institute is arguing in its profession-based current research, enhance the       effectiveness of spatial planning" (IMP7).
The concept of collaborative planning has also had global reach.
Healey,       Davoudi and Vigar were commissioned by UN Habitat to write a chapter for       the UN Global Report on Human Settlements 2009 (IMP8).
In this       they were able to assert the themes of collaborative planning to UN       Habitat audiences &#8212; elite policymakers in the global south &#8212; allowing them       to reflect upon these ideas.
The underpinning research is globally held in       high esteem and has informed the work of many academics working to affect       change in their local contexts (IMP3, IMP4).
Most recently, a       number of Healey's papers have been translated into Chinese.
According to       Professor Bing Zhang, Chief Planner at the China Academy of Urban Planning       and Design (a scientific research institution under the Ministry of       Construction of PR China), `Healey's research achievements on urban       planning have had a sustained influence on planning theory and practice in       China during the last two decades' (IMP9).
