     As a direct result of the underpinning research, two products, NBS       Scheduler and NBS Create, were developed by NBS.
Both have impact in the       2008-2013 period, NBS Scheduler as a continuation and development of its       initial impact and NBS Create as a new product impacting on professional       practice.
Both products are targeted at SMEs (although NBS Create is used       by large companies as well) which need to work seamlessly to provide high       quality buildings, sometimes in collaboration with large construction       firms which usually have dedicated in-house facilities.
Each product       allows the incorporation of up-to-date industry standards, regulations and       codes for the UK and represents rare examples of University-developed       prototypes making it not only to market, but to become market leaders.
NBS Scheduler     NBS Scheduler is marketed by NBS and was launched in 2001.
It enables       users to write schedules of work for refurbishment, alteration and       new-build projects without bills of quantities, and facilitates the       creation of a three-part document consisting of preliminaries, a       specification and priceable schedule of work for use on building projects.
NBS Scheduler is designed to deal with smaller construction projects and       is thus targeted at small to medium firms, which constitute the majority       of firms in the construction industry (RIBA estimate that small       architectural practices (with less than 6 employees) constitute three       quarters of the UK total (3)).
These firms usually do not have the       resource to develop bespoke software for such tasks (which are       time-consuming and can lead to errors and delays on projects if not       written accurately).
The facility to use products like Scheduler is       therefore a tremendous benefit to a key component of the UK economy, as it       allows firms to quickly develop construction information in a structured       and standardised format that is compatible with other building related       software (e.g.
AutoCAD).
Clients subscribe to the service which allows       continuous updates from the national standard specification system for the       UK.
The impact of the software was immediately apparent and by 2011, 570       British firms had a current subscription for the software with       subscriptions to Scheduler accounting for c.&#163;300,000 income per annum (IMP1).
One of the users of NBS Scheduler is Architectural Co-operative, which       works with communities to improve the design and construction of the built       environment.
They use the software to complete domestic refurbishment       projects.
Their director confirms that NBS Scheduler enables them to write       schedules of work quickly and easily and keeps them up to date with the       latest British standards, contracts, building regulations and codes since       the software is designed to be regularly updated (IMP2).
Robert       Turner of Robert Turner Associates (a Chartered Building Surveying       practice) confirms that his business "has benefited enormously by using       NBS Scheduler" because it has "aided in eliminating oversights in the       specification" and minimised "the risk...of...specification writing       [allowing] the specifier to concentrate on the task in hand" (IMP3);       and The Martin Design Partnership (an architectural design consultancy)       use NBS Scheduler for its ease of use and ability to produce schedules       quickly and accurately.
They affirm that in order to maintain their high       standards of documentation, they rely on NBS Scheduler for producing high       quality accurate schedules (IMP4).
Other companies like MDBCS (IMP5)       (building surveying), and Russes and Turner (architectural design) have       also acknowledged that in order to maintain their high standards of       documentation, they rely on NBS Scheduler for producing high quality       accurate schedules.
The reach and significance of NBS Scheduler in the UK Construction       industry is further demonstrated by the fact that drawing and modelling       software developers such as ArchiCAD have developed tools to communicate       with NBS Scheduler which makes NBS Scheduler available with just a       mouse-click from ArchiCAD (IMP6).
Further evidence of the reach of       this software is that producers of different materials and construction       related items find it advantageous for them to be included in the database       of NBS Scheduler and they mention this on their advertisements and       websites: e.g.
Neaco, FAKRO, CMS ACOUSTICS, Axess2, Bituchem Asphalt LTD,       and Stratatiles (IMP7).
NBS Create     In addition to the direct impact created through the use of NBS       Scheduler, the research underpinning its development has also led to the       development of a more recent software product (NBS Create), launched in       2011 to the engineering services market, with releases of architecture,       structure and landscape libraries in March 2012.
The Executive Director       for RIBA Enterprises states that: "the information modelling undertaken       for NBS Scheduler...served as a platform for the development of the new       NBS Create product," and is based on "the underlying information model       that is an extension/development of the model in [NBS] Scheduler" (IMP8).
In a website description, he expressed his belief that NBS Create "is the       most advanced specification modelling system in the world" (IMP9)       and his view has been endorsed by the industry: in the 2013 Construction       News Awards, NBS Create won the Digital Built Britain Award (IMP10).
The Executive Director of RIBA goes on to say that it is a "built-for-BIM       [Building Information Modelling] specification system"; which "...meets       both the current needs for a flexible specification system...and delivers       information in the structured format required for BIM" (IMP9).
As       at June 2013, 235 companies had current subscriptions for this product (IMP8).
One of the subscribers (EPR Architects) comments that it allows them "to       write comprehensive and technically proficient specifications", and       "improves the efficiency of the [design, construction detailing and       specification] process and reduces the opportunities for mistakes" (IMP2).
Both NBS Scheduler and NBS Create represent exemplars of how academic       research can develop into prototypes and then marketable products.
These       software products are widely used by small firms in the industry and have       made invaluable improvements to their practices.
The underpinning research       is therefore making a sustained impact in the UK construction industry and       thus the productivity of the wider UK economy.
