     Academics at Newcastle have been successful in generating impact from       their research on cities and security in the 2008-2013 period, both in       their own rights and as lead partners in the Surveillance Studies Network       (SSN).
Two types of impact of their work - on public debate, and on policy       formation - are described below.
Impacts on Public Debate, Awareness and Understanding     The cities and security research at Newcastle has impacted upon public       understanding and awareness of such issues.
The most significant element       of this is the development of a research- informed lexicon, starting with       `splintering urbanism', and including research to support the idea of the       UK as a `surveillance society', to capture and communicate some of the       most fundamental processes underway in cities for consumption by public,       policy and research audiences.
In addition: the founding of the SSN; the       founding, editing and contributions to its open access journal Surveillance         and Society; and the co-creation of SSN's four major international       conferences and a number of other networking events which have attracted       hundreds of delegates from both academic and non-academic backgrounds,       have all been contributions to the impact of Newcastle University's urban       security research.
The most significant vehicle for shaping public debate has, however, been       the publication of Graham's book, Cities under Siege: the New Military         Urbanism in 2010.
Although written by an academic and drawing       heavily on his research, this book was produced and marketed for a much       wider target audience.
At 31 July 2013, 3,500 copies of the English       edition had been sold, including 1,500 in the USA (IMP1).
Translations into many languages, including Mandarin, Arabic, German and       French are in progress or completed.
The French version `Ville Sous       Contr&#244;l&#233;' has now sold 1200 copies.
The global reach of the research       messages was enhanced by book reviews not only in the UK, but also in the       press of many other countries - for example, La D&#233;couverte (IMP2)       provides extracts from six prestigious French reviews; and a 4500 word       article for the United Arab Emirates newspaper, Alkhaleej (IMP3).
It was further promoted when Nicholas Lezard chose it as book of the week       in the Guardian (IMP4).
The high profile of Cities under Siege and the linkage of the       book's themes by many commentators to global events such as the Arab       Spring and movements such as `Occupy', which both had intensely urban       roots and impacts, meant that Graham's research insights were high profile       in the media.
For example, he was the `talking head' for a major       documentary The Fear has a Thousand Eyes screened on the tenth       anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the main terrestrial channels in       Germany and Switzerland (IMP5), and was interviewed twice on the       influential US global daily news show, Democracy Now, to discuss       the Occupy `protests'.
The Editor of the programme commented that "his       book Cities Under Siege exposes like no other how cities are being remade       into security landscapes.
His analysis in the first interview was so       insightful, and resonated so well with so many people around the world       involved in the protests, that we asked him back the next day for another       interview.
We have repeated segments of hi[s] interviews several times       since they remain a remarkably incisive analysis of the current politics       of cities around the world" (IMP6).
Such exposure of Graham's research insights have led to lively public       debate of his ideas.
For example, more than 1,000 tweets are found in a       Twitter search using `Lockdown London Guardian', from the title of       Graham's Guardian article on the London Olympics 2012.
It is also clear       that Graham's terminologies to describe his concepts such as `splintering       urbanism' and `new military urbanism' have become part of the lexicon of       public discourse.
More than 500 tweets have used the `new military       urbanism' terminology (IMP7) to discuss issues of cities and       security, particularly when framing their arguments in terms of dissent.
Impacts on Policy Formation and Debate     Researchers at Newcastle have influenced the development of a regulatory       framework in the UK which addresses surveillance and information security.
The primary conduit of influence was two reports of the Surveillance       Studies Network (SSN).
The first report (2006) was co-ordinated by Murakami-Wood (5);       and Graham provided an `expert report' for the publication.
The report was       the lead item on BBC Radio 4's Today Programme on 2 November 2006 and       featured heavily in news coverage of the time.
The report was translated       into 5 languages, and sparked official inquiries by both the House of       Commons Home Affairs Committee and the House of Lords Constitution       Committee.
Murakami Wood coordinated submissions from the Surveillance       Studies Network for both and gave a seminar at the House of Lords       introducing the range of surveillance technologies that they should       consider.
He also gave oral evidence to the Lords' Committee cementing a       process whereby the term `surveillance society' became used in policy       debate throughout the World during the period to 2013.
The report was later submitted as evidence to the Home Affairs       Committee's Inquiry into the Surveillance Society in 2008 by SSN, but had       already had influence on that Inquiry: in Volume 1 of the Inquiry report       it refers to the SSN work in the introduction, stating that "our aim was       not to duplicate that work but rather to build on it in exploring the       large strategic issues of concern to the general public" (p.8) (IMP8).
From this central position in the Inquiry process, the findings of the SSN       report pervade the recommendations of the Home Affairs Committee, and       where these were accepted by government, formed the basis of revisions to       the regulatory process.
According to the Information Commissioner, the       report had "led to increased parliamentary, media and public interest in       the increased surveillance of people's daily lives" (p.2) (IMP9).
The report contributed to the debate that fed into the UK elections in       2010 where surveillance became for the first time a national election       issue.
The second, updated, SSN report in 2010 (Wood and Graham as two of the       six authors) was included as Part B of the Information Commissioner's 2010       Annual report to the House of Commons (IMP9), and described as       "the centrepiece of this report" (p.4), demonstrating the continuing       influence SSN research has had on the Information Commissioner's Office.
The Information Commissioner's report was presented to the Home Affairs       Committee on 11 November 2010 and received national media attention - for       example, the Guardian (IMP10) - so furthering Parliamentary and       public understanding of the surveillance research insights raised by Wood,       Graham and SSN colleagues.
It was incorporated into the ICO's annual       report to the House of Commons in 2011 and remains highly influential in       policy and public discourse.
