     An important opportunity to put the networked rural development approach       into practice on a significant scale arose in 2007, when Mark Shucksmith       was appointed Chair of the Scottish Government's Committee of Inquiry into       Crofting.
Crofting is a distinctive and highly regulated form of land       tenure specific to the northern half of Scotland.
It is also a cultural       heritage of major international significance.
At the same time, there have       been years of decline in crofting and the Shucksmith Inquiry was charged       with ensuring it had a future.
Principles of networked rural development were central to the approach       and conduct of the Inquiry and the Inquiry Report, and thereby impacted on       the Scottish Government's Crofting Policy (2008) and the Crofting Reform       (Scotland) Act 2010 and are beginning to impact on changes in crofting       governance and to crofters lives.
The networked rural development approach       was operationalized in the Inquiry as: allowing people in places more       control over the decisions made about them, and in the state adopting a       more enabling role.
The approach and conduct of the Inquiry during 2007 and 2008 was shaped       by Shucksmith's commitment to applying the insights from the research on       networked rural development.
The Inquiry commissioned a review of evidence       of the effectiveness of rural development approaches from a researcher at       Newcastle University (Atterton), which summarised the contributions made       by researchers in CRE and elsewhere in developing the concept of       neo-endogenous rural development.
Such knowledge from academia and other       `experts', though, was matched by a valorisation of the knowledge of local       people through a programme of local meetings which allowed them a       collective voice.
The Director of the Scottish Crofting Foundation (now       Federation) was quoted in The Herald as saying "There is no doubt the       authentic voice of Scottish crofters is in this report" (IMP1).
The 2008 Inquiry report itself is explicit in drawing attention to the       Atterton research, with a summary of the commissioned review of research       forming one section of the Inquiry report (IMP2), and the       underpinning research explicitly referenced.
Briefly, the Inquiry report       proposed local mobilisation and community empowerment in respect of both       regulation and development, supported by generative state action and by       refocused managerial technologies which would operate to encourage local       strategies and initiatives.
These proposals illustrate how neo-endogenous       rural development and place-shaping might proceed in practice.
Using the       neo-endogenous approach, the Inquiry sought to build the capacity of       crofting communities to mobilise strategically and collaboratively,       empowering communities at various levels.
The Environment Minister, responding to the Inquiry report (IMP3),       drew contrasts with the 1954 Taylor Inquiry into Crofting which emphasised       the need for initiative to come from outwith the crofting communities in       order to bring about change, a clear acknowledgement of its exogenous       development approach.
Referring to the Shucksmith report he emphasised its       contrasting networked development approach: "The principles of localism       and communality are central to the report's recommendations and, like the       committee of inquiry, I believe they are at the heart of crofting.
The       Government believes strongly in empowering communities to take control of       their own destinies and in enabling people to make the plans and take the       decisions that affect them and their communities".
He went on to say that       any new governance structures should facilitate local input, reflecting       the need for supportive external networks for neo-endogenous development.
The Inquiry itself, the report, and the processes leading to policy and       governance change and enactment have stimulated debate, between local       people in meetings, in the media, and in the Scottish Parliament, so       extending the impact of the Newcastle research.
As identified by a former       Chairman of Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), "Many of the       Shucksmith Report's proposals have been implemented in subsequent       legislation &#8212; which has resulted, as the report recommended, in the       formation of a largely elected Crofting Commission and in more vigorous       action being taken to deal with problems such as those arising from       crofter absenteeism and neglect of holdings" (IMP4).
The changes       to crofting law and governance emanating from the Shucksmith report are to       be found in the Crofting Reform (Scotland) Act 2010; the setting up of an       elected Crofting Commission in 2012 to replace the appointed Crofters       Commission; responsibility being passed to HIE for crofting development;       and implementation of a new definitive map-based crofting register.
The Crofting Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 (IMP5, IMP6) in       particular enacts the proposals in the Shucksmith Report for radical       measures to extend the `place-shaping' neo-endogenous rural development       approach beyond those areas in which community buy-outs had occurred under       the earlier land reform legislation.
The new Crofting Commission has six       of its nine Commissioners elected by Crofters, and sees its regulatory       role as having "the potential to create stronger, more resilient,       ambitious, sustainable and culturally rich communities, and a well-managed       landscape and environment in the crofting areas" (Crofting Commission,       para 20) (IMP7), so emphasising its focus on communities rather       than simply on individual crofters' rights.
HIE has accommodated its new       crofting development responsibilities in its Strengthening Communities       division alongside the Community Land Unit, so underlining the commitment       of the new governance arrangements to empowered people in places, as       recommended in the Shucksmith Report.
The new systems of governance are still very new, but participatory       cultures are emerging: crofters are beginning to engage with processes       which seek to involve them in determining their futures (e.g., the       election of crofters onto the new Crofting Commission with local turnouts       of between a third and a half of crofters (IMP8)); and measures       are being introduced to encourage crofters to engage in local collective       action (e.g., the Scottish Government's encouragement of voluntary,       community-led mapping and registration rather than mandatory registration       by individuals (IMP9).
A former Chairman of HIE said "the overall       outcome [of the Shucksmith Inquiry] has been to give crofting a more       assured future."
(IMP4).
Similarly, the Minister told the Scottish       Parliament that "crofting is in a perilous state and we have an obligation       to ensure that it carries on into future generations.
Mark Shucksmith and       his colleagues have done us a great service in helping us to ensure that       it does" (IMP3).
While crofting is specific to Scotland, and the impact of the networked       development research can be tracked through the conduct of the Inquiry,       the Report findings, the policy and governance changes, and to the       engagement of crofters in determining their futures, in Scotland, the       underpinning research and the Inquiry's work have had influence beyond       this jurisdiction.
The Irish Government recently launched an Inquiry into       land reform in rural Ireland, modelled on the Crofting Inquiry's work, and       presentations on both the research and the Crofting Inquiry's proposals       have been of interest to policy and practice users in Norway (Nationen,       9 September 2009, p.18) and England.
In 2013, the report of the Crofting       Inquiry was translated into Japanese (IMP2) because "Japan is a       country of peasants and community and is suffering from the same problems,       such as absenteeism.
Grappling with the land problem in Scotland is a very       instructive experience to our society" (IMP10).
