     A patent based on the research undertaken at Kent by Tuite and Freedman       was jointly filed by the University of Kent and Merck &amp; Co Inc and       eventually granted in the USA in 2001 (US 6291205) and subsequently       worldwide including Europe (2003; EP 0746611) and Japan (2008: JP       2008271976), Korea, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
The patent covers       the generation and exploitation of genetically engineered eukaryotic cells       (e.g.
the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae) that regularly and       excessively produce human PDI or yeast PDI.
The resulting intellectual       property has been (and continues to be) licensed and sub-licensed to major       US and UK companies for the commercial production of high value `next       generation' biopharmaceuticals.
The patented PDI-based technology developed by Freedman and Tuite has had       its greatest impact on the animal-free commercial production of high value       biopharmaceuticals.
Technological developments such as the one developed       at Kent that improve the efficiency and authenticity of such drugs, are       crucial to maintaining a healthy society.
The global significance of such       technologies is reflected in the strategy of national funding bodies such       as the Technology Strategy Board (TSB) and the Biotechnology and       Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC).
Approvals for use of       biopharmaceutical drugs have been steadily rising: there are now around       200 biopharmaceutical products on the market with approximately 15 having       individual sales in the USA of greater than $1bn.
By 2014, eight of the       top ten pharmaceuticals are expected to be proteins.
Many of these high       value proteins are secreted from the host cell which facilitates       downstream purification, but also typically requires a range of       post-translational modifications such as disulphide bond formation, for       authenticity, stability and function.
The impact of the PDI-based       technology developed at Kent has come through it facilitating significant       increases in the levels and authenticity of a range of high value,       secretory proteins produced commercially.
To further extend the impact of       the technology, second generation derivatives are currently being       researched and developed by Tuite, a project strongly supported by       Novozymes Biopharma UK Ltd [see 5.1].
Current licenses and applications     The PDI technology was originally developed in collaboration with Merck       &amp; Co (formerly Merck, Sharp and Dohme) and they were able to       demonstrate that it significantly increased secretion of a multiply       disulphide-bonded protein of therapeutic value, namely antistasin, an       anticoagulant protein (Schultz et al 1994).
The intellectual property is       presently non-exclusively licensed to two companies, Novozymes Biopharma       UK Ltd and Pfizer and both licensees have the rights to sub-license to       third parties.
In each case the licenses are domain limited with respect       to the manufacture of certain types of proteins.
Novozymes Biopharma UK Ltd (formerly Delta Biotechnology Ltd and acquired       by Novozymes A/S in July 2006) is one of the largest producers of       industrial enzymes and biopharmaceuticals in Europe and the parent company       Novozymes has global sales in excess of &#163;1 billion (2012 figures).
Novozymes Biopharma UK Ltd is a world leader in yeast-based expression       systems and the main business of the company is the production of       recombinant human serum albumin (rHA) which has 17 disulphide bridges.
The       commercially produced form of rHA is called Recombumin&#174; that has both FDA       and EMEA approval and is manufactured at Novozymes' own large-scale       compliant facility using a yeast-based expression system.
Recombumin&#174; has       global sales that exceed &#163;10 million annually [see 5.2] and the       market for Recombumin&#174; is expected to grow due to its increasing demand as       the primary protein drug excipient for use in pharmaceutical and vaccine       product formulation.
Delta Biotechnology said of the licensing agreement "This         patented technology has enhanced Delta's comprehensive technical         capability.
It has also allowed the company to further optimise its         expression systems to produce recombinant proteins in exceptionally high         yield which are correctly folded and able to conform to the rigorous         standards required in the manufacture of high value biopharmaceuticals."
[see 5.3]     Biorexis Pharmaceutical Corporation (acquired by Pfizer in February 2007       and now operates as a subsidiary of Pfizer, Inc) has also taken out a       license to use the PDI technology.
The main business of Biorexis is the       production of recombinant transferrin and transferrin-based protein       fusions with the latter enhancing bioavailability and targeting in         vivo [see 5.4].
In 2011 Novozymes Biopharma sub-licensed the       PDI technology to two other companies for applications outside its use to       generate recombinant human albumin [see 5.5] and principally for       use in the manufacture of Novozymes' Albufuse&#174; products for protein       therapeutics with an extended circulatory half-life [see 5.6].
Wider impact     The PDI technology has generated revenues to the University of Kent and       inventors of over &#163;750K to date of which &#163;245k has been received since       January 2008.
Furthermore, the University continues to review, update and       seek appropriate licensees in the USA and elsewhere.
This technology       additionally underpins the IP portfolio that is offered within the newly       formed Centre for Molecular Processing at Kent.
Several studies building       on Kent's research have demonstrated the potential impact of the PDI       technology for other multiply disulphide-bonded proteins, including human       serum albumin and transferrin [see 5.7].
The impact of the research was further recognised by the inclusion of       Freedman and Tuite in the 2008 publication of Bioscience:Biomillions by       the BBSRC.
This publication sought to `celebrate the success of close         to 50 researchers who, with funding from BBSRC and others, are         translating the UK's world-leading bioscience research into real         outcomes".
[see 5.8]
