     As detailed below, the Karyomapping technology has already had       significant and far-reaching impacts on clinical outcomes, on commerce and       enterprise, on job creation and training and on public policy and opinion.
Its wider application in animal breeding in the longer term will bring       further and significant cost-savings to this industry, an impact that is       corroborated by the animal farming industry continuing to invest in this       research (see Section 3).
There will also be significant       environmental benefits.
1.
Clinical applications for patient benefit: Clinical       Karyomapping cases have been performed in real time leading to successful       live births of unaffected children [see 5.1].
A full clinical       evaluation of Karyomapping was performed in IVF centres in the UK, USA,       Saudi Arabia, Netherlands and Australia involving over 200 couples.
Analysis revealed complete concordance with Karyomapping and       "gold-standard" approaches.
Plans for full clinical trials are now in       advanced stages involving 50-100 patients, beginning in late 2013 with a       view to Karyomapping becoming the leading method of performing PGD/S       worldwide [see 5.2].
2.
New product development and wealth creation [see 5.3]:       Kreatech marketed the discovery of Ioannou et al [see 3.1/3.2 above]       under the name "Multistar 24FISH".
This further inspired a       successful Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) supported by another       fluorescent probe company CytoCell (www.cytocell.com)       through which a series of non-human probes are currently being developed.
The first "mouse Octochrome" is now in production, with several more       including probes for distinguishing pig and avian chromosomes to be rolled       out in 2014.
The Bridge Centre financially supported Karyomapping       development, which was subsequently taken on by BlueGnome (www.cambridgebluegnome.com)       where it is set to become a centrepiece of their product range.
3.
Enterprise activity: A patent for Karyomapping was granted in       2008 [see 5.4] and subsequently the research underpinning it was       published by Handyside and Griffin [see 3.4 above].
The patent was       sold to BlueGnome in 2011 [see 5.5].
Three successful Technology       Strategy Board (TSB) including the KTP (above) grants (total value over       &#163;1.7 million) support the animal work including contributions from JSR       Genetics (www.jsr.co.uk), The Bridge       Centre, Paragon Vets (www.paragonvet.com/),       Cogent (www.cogentuk.com),       Cytocell, and Illumina (www.illumina.com/       BlueGnome's parent company) [see Section 3- Major grants].
This       level of investment by the companies is indicative of the value the       agricultural sector places on this technology.
4.
Animal breeding industry, including potential environmental         benefits: Animal PGD/S work is in its infancy, and the rationale for       funding is that it has the potential to benefit the environment through       reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
JSR genetics has re-configured its       business model to focus on the sale of the genetic merit of the animal       (this could include an embryo) rather than the animal itself as a result       of our collaborative work [see 5.6].
Building on the Karyomapping       technology, a computer-based tutorial called "KaryoLab" has been developed       by Griffin and is now used in some 20 universities worldwide ("...we         would be lost without it.." Dr Terry Robinson University of       Stellenboch, South Africa).
A variant of KaryoLab (KaryolabPorc) has also       been employed in pig breeding programmes.
"....KaryoLabPorc has had a         greater than anticipated effect in that we have succeeded in eradicating         chromosome translocations from our breeding herd completely.." Dr       Alan Mileham, Genus plc [see 5.7].
This herd comprises some 120,000       piglets per year.
5.
Training &amp; job creation: Handyside and Griffin continue to       work closely with BlueGnome with Handyside being a part-time BlueGnome       employee.
Five Kent students have gained full employment with the Bridge       Centre and major TSB and KTP grants awarded to Griffin [see 3 above]       have employed three Kent PhD graduates as research associates.
Furthermore, the Bridge Centre supported one Kent PhD student directly,       while six others (and one undergraduate) gained work experience in their       genetic clinical laboratories.
Three part time Kent PhD students are       currently Bridge Centre or BlueGnome employees.
JSR Genetics, Pfizer,       Genus plc (http://www.genusplc.com)       and Digital Scientific [see 5.8], all supported BBSRC CASE       studentships with Griffin as the academic supervisor.
6.
Influence on public opinion and policy: The Human Fertilization       and Embryology Authority (HFEA) is considering the impact of Karyomapping.
Quote: "[HFEA] highlighted Karyomapping.. as a high priority for         discussion following horizon scanning" [see 5.
2].
The       Karyomapping project was shortlisted by the Times Higher Education (THE)       as Research Project of the Year in 2010 [see 5.9].
The project has       also received a significant level of coverage in both the national press       e.g.
The Telegraph [see 5.10] and broadcast media e.g.
BBC1/ITV       local and national news bulletins.
7.
Education: The underpinning research has been incorporated into       undergraduate programmes and has inspired the University of Kent to       launch, in 2011, a taught MSc programme in Reproductive Medicine.
Graduating students (5 in 2012 and 11 in 2013) have benefitted from the       research that underpins this case and 5 are currently employing it in       their subsequent careers.
8.
Public engagement: Griffin and Handyside engage extensively       with the public: Karyomapping (and PGD/S generally) has been incorporated       into more than 50 public lectures in a wide range of public forums       including Caf&#233; Scientifique, Rotary Clubs, medical societies, prospective       undergraduates, science fairs, schools, patient groups and webinars       including one by Griffin for the American Chemical Society (http://acswebinars.org/designerbabies).
