     Breslin has used his extensive knowledge of Chinese politics and       international relations to inform and advise a range of non-academic       beneficiaries including policy-makers, businesses, journalists and the       wider public.
His expertise has been sought both formally and informally       and he has become established as one of the leading providers of advice to       national and international government officials on issues around UK and EU       relations with China.
He regularly engages in and helps to shape public       debate via contributions to major international media outlets such as The         Global Times, The Guardian and The Independent.
Informing UK government policy towards China     Breslin has harnessed the key insights of his underpinning research to       inform and shape the UK government's policy towards China via sustained       expert briefings delivered directly to Ministers and officials (sources 1,       2, 3 and 6).
In 2010 Breslin provided oral evidence based on his EU-China       research to the House of Lords Foreign Affairs Sub-Committee.
A report       entitled `Stars and Dragons: The EU and China' (2010) was published, which       features Breslin's commentary on the decline in Chinese interest in EU       governance relative to individual EU Member States (source 2).
In October 2012 Breslin gave a briefing on `Major Policy Challenges for       the New China Leadership' to the Foreign Affairs Select Committee.
This       fed the findings of his research directly into elite UK thinking about the       political and economic challenges facing the new Chinese leadership.
The       Chair of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee described the presentation       as "brilliant" and "essential" to the work of the Committee (cited in       source 5).
In the same month, Breslin also delivered a presentation on       `China Engages Africa: Who (or What) is China and What does it Want?'
to       the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO).
This informed FCO thinking       around how the UK might find ways of working productively with China on       joint development projects in Africa (source 3).
The event led to       subsequent participation in policy discussions, a new FCO strategy on       responding to China's relationship with Africa and a policy conference in       Beijing on Chinese involvement in the Maxone River Development Zone       including the Ambassadors of Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia (source 3).
In July 2013 Breslin was invited to act as one of the expert witnesses for       the Foreign Affairs Committee's one-off evidence session on government       policy towards China in view of the leadership change, Beijing's foreign       policies and Chinese overseas economic activities.
The Chair of the       Committee said that Breslin's evidence "greatly enhanced the Committee's       understanding" of these issues, "informed Members' thinking" about them       and "influenced any future work of the Committee" on UK policy towards       China (source 1).
One of the primary impact mechanisms through which Breslin has informed       UK policy debates is via his Associate Fellowship of Chatham House, London       (source 5).
In 2011 the University of Pennsylvania's Global Go-To Think       Tanks Survey ranked Chatham House as the world's number one think tank       outside the US.
Through his Fellowship, Breslin has prepared numerous       policy briefing papers and presentations based on the findings of his       underpinning research.
He has shared these findings with a wide range of       key stakeholders in debates about UK policy towards China.
In 2010 Breslin       was invited to give the prestigious Chatham House `Director's Nominee's       Breakfast' talk on `Domestic Drivers of China's Global Role' to a       specially-invited audience of leading policy-makers and business people.
He has produced policy briefings that are available online and in hard       copy on request including:            (2010) `Online Chinese Nationalism' (with Simon Chen)         http://www.chathamhouse.org/publications/papers/view/109458         (accessed 30/9/13)       (2011) `The soft notion of China's soft power'         http://www.chathamhouse.org/publications/papers/view/109577         (accessed 30/9/13)       (2012) `China and the International Human Rights System' (with Sonya         Sceats)         http://www.chathamhouse.org/research/international-law/current-projects/china-and-           international-human-rights-system (accessed 30/9/13)          The latter, which has also been translated into Chinese, was launched on       29 October 2012 at Chatham House to an audience of over 100 invited guests       with a pre-launch at the Houses of Parliament (source 4).
It was described       by the Amnesty International Representative to the United Nations in       Geneva and former Canadian diplomat as "a must read for anyone doing UN       human rights work" (cited in source 5).
The Director of Chatham House       acknowledges that "we benefit enormously from [Breslin's] involvement in       events [...] and in the support that [he] provides overall to our on-going       programme of research" (source 5).
Shaping international policy and practitioner debates on China     Breslin has shaped international policy and practitioner debates on       Chinese domestic and international politics through the organisation of       high-profile events designed to stimulate knowledge exchange between       academics and policy-makers (sources 8, 9 and 10).
At the 2011 launch       event of the GR:EEN programme in Brussels he spoke alongside the Chief       Economist (DG Trade) and DG Research and Innovation from the European       Commission and the Chief Economist from the World Trade Organization.
In       direct response to requests from foreign policy experts in the Commission,       GR:EEN organised a special workshop where an invited group of specialists       from the BRICS discussed with the Bureau of European Policy Advisors       (BEPA) their views of the EU's global role in April 2011.
In 2012 Breslin       was asked to talk to the Caribbean Council (a specialist trade advisory       and public affairs company) on China's growing interests in the region       (source 7).
As a result of this meeting, and having read a number of       Breslin's scholarly publications, in January 2013 the Council decided to       set up a specialist China Discussion Group including members from the       private sector, government and NGOs (source 7).
Breslin was invited to       become one of the core members and organisers.
Breslin has worked extensively with influential European think tanks to       provide expert briefings and analysis (source 8).
He has given policy       briefings at two think tanks associated with the Italian Ministry of       Foreign Affairs.
In April 2012 he presented on the nature of China and the       multipolar world at a workshop on `The West and the BRICs' at the Italian         Istituto Affari Internazionali.
He has also delivered two       presentations at the Istituto per gli Studi di Politica Internazionale       (IPSI) in Milan, the second of which has been published as an ISPI policy       paper on China and the Arab Awakening.
Breslin is also the Key Expert in Politics for the Europe China Research       and Advice Network (ECRAN), a programme run by Chatham House designed to       further enhance the capacity of European policy-makers to monitor and       assess current developments in China and their impact on the EU and on       EU-China relations (source 5).
This entails identifying areas of interest       to the European External Action Service (EEAS), commissioning papers and       evaluating reports prior to their submission.
The EEAS also request short       papers and briefings.
In addition to these core functions, in 2011 Breslin       spoke at an ECRAN policy event in Berlin attended by representatives from       the German Council of Foreign Relations and the German Ambassador to China       on the foreign policy objectives of the Chinese leadership.
This was       followed in 2012 by a presentation at an event to accompany the EU-China       Strategic Dialogue on how Chinese conceptions of the global order       influence policy towards Europe.
In January 2013 Breslin was invited to       brief the EEAS Asia team on the rise of nationalism in China and the       implications for EU politics.
