     Domainex Ltd was incorporated as a private company in December 2001 to       exploit the innovative technology of combinatorial domain hunting       developed in the Savva laboratory for drug discovery purposes.
The patent       protecting this technology has now been granted in Australia, the EU,       Canada, and Japan, and is pending in the USA.
Domainex has received over       &#163;5m in private investment, contracts and grant funding in the 11 years       since it was established.
The most recent investment round closed in June       2010 with the raising of around &#163;1.3m from Longbow Capital, The Capital       Fund (managed by YFM Venture Finance), Bury-Fitzwilliam and from Takeda       Research Investments [a].
Domainex was originally set up as a fee-for-service drug discovery       company and, following an initial investment of &#163;250,000 from the       Bloomsbury Bioseed Fund, the first company employees were hired in 2002 to       develop the CDH technology into a process that could be offered       commercially via this model.
Since then a number of medium and large       biotechnology, agrochemical, and pharmaceutical companies have placed       contracts of ~&#163;30,000 to &gt;&#163;100,000 for CDH studies; this still forms       part of Domainex's work and helps fund the in-house drug discovery.
By       2007, contractual milestones with the founder institutions were met, and       Domainex personnel moved to an incubator lab at the London Bioscience       Innovation Centre (LBIC) in Camden.
A &#163;1m trigger point in the company's       revenues resulted in the transfer of IP to Domainex, and an accrued       overheads payment of &#163;78,000 to the host department at Birkbeck [b].
In 2007, a merger with the chemistry contract research organisation, NCE       Discovery, greatly expanded the remit of in-house research at Domainex by       allying the core CDH technology with state-of-the-art medicinal chemistry       expertise.
This enabled the company to initiate internal drug discovery       programmes with the aim of reaching the lead optimisation stage before       seeking to partner, or outsource, for toxicology and clinical trials of       lead molecules.
Following the merger, Domainex relocated to the Cambridge       Science Park.
It moved to larger premises on the same site in mid-2011,       doubling its space, increasing its capacity for in-house medicinal       chemistry and drug discovery, and enabling it to expand its staff to the       present size.
Late in 2009, Takeda Ventures, Inc., the corporate venture       arm of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, took an interest on the       Domainex board through acquiring an 8% stake during an investment round.
The company's primary investors are now Longbow Capital and YFM Equity       Partners; previous funders include The Capital Fund, and founder       scientists and institutions also remain stakeholders.
Domainex is now a thriving and successful small biotech company employing       about 30 people, mainly highly skilled scientists engaged in molecular       biology, biochemistry, computational and medicinal chemistry.
It thus       makes a significant contribution to the local and national economy.
It had       a turnover of &#163;1.95m for the year ended 30 April 2012, up from &#163;82,000 in       the year to 30 April 2008 [c].
Client companies and partners from the period 2008-13 include Ark       Therapeutics, Syngenta, ICR, and Sigma Aldrich [d].
Domainex was       also a partner on the EU Framework 6 Spine II Complexes consortium       2006-2009 [e] and has received grants from public bodies including       the Technology Strategy Board [f].
One major scientific       achievement of such collaboration was the structure of a CDH-optimised       protein kinase in complex with lead compounds from the pharmaceutical       company UCB [g].
The in-house drug discovery programme has initially centred on proteins       that are considered to be useful targets for oncology and       anti-inflammatory drugs and is now producing candidate compounds.
The most       advanced programme in the pipeline focuses on two closely related kinases,       TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and IkappaB kinase epsilon (IKK03b5).
This       has yielded patented inhibitors [h] that are now in the lead       optimisation stage.
Domainex is seeking partners within the pharmaceutical       industry for the clinical development of these compounds, having raised       &#163;4m by end August 2013 [i].
The first are expected to be nominated       as candidate drugs in 2014 and to enter Phase I in 2015.
Another patent       has been filed on the synthetic lethality of TBK1/IKK03b5 inhibitors and       other oncogenes, which includes the use of these oncogenes as biomarkers       and in combination therapies.
The company also has an active programme       targeting a number of lysine methyltransferases, enzymes that are involved       in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression and that are known to play       a part in cancer development.
Inhibitors of these enzymes are currently at       the lead optimisation stage.
Domainex has received several accolades both for its innovative       technology and for its proactive work on promoting collaborations between       academia and industry.
The most recent of these was the 2010 Genesis Life       Science Innovation and Enterprise Programme Of The Year Award [j].
