     The underpinning research listed above has achieved impact since 2008 via       the uptake of the Warwick Commissions and the work of CSGR across three       main contexts: 1) influencing Australian trade policy; 2) shaping public       policy debates about global trade and financial regulation; and 3)       informing practitioner agendas.
Influencing Australian trade policy     The Report of the First Warwick Commission energised national and       international public policy debates about the future of global trade       governance in the WTO in the wake of the failure of the Doha Round       negotiations (sources 1, 2, 3 and 5).
Since 2008 it has become a reference       point in national and international policy discussions: 3,500 printed       copies of the Report were distributed internationally; and over 2,500 PDF       versions have been downloaded from the website.
In September 2008 a review       of trade policy by the Australian Government adopted the Commission's       Recommendations.
The Mortimer Report, entitled Winning in World         Markets: Review of Export Policies and Programs, acknowledged the       salience of the Commission's analysis and was particularly supportive of       the proposal that `critical mass' decision-making should be considered in       order to speed up negotiations at the WTO.
The Mortimer Report also       supported the Commission's recommendation that the WTO's temporary       Transparency Mechanism for Regional Trade Agreements be made permanent.
In       2008 Higgott gave briefings to senior Australian trade officials and       politicians in Canberra.
The Minister for Trade subsequently wrote about       the work of the Warwick Commission as follows: "The Warwick Commission's       Report is timely and I applaud the Commission's contribution to the       debate.
I appreciate the work the Warwick Commission has undertaken in       seeking to strengthen the multilateral trading system" (source 1).
Shaping public policy debates about global trade and financial           regulation     The First Warwick Commission was widely recognised as an authority on the       question of global policy making in the context of UK public policy       debates (source 4).
On 3 June 2008 Higgott gave evidence to the House of       Lords European Sub-Committee A (Economic and Financial Affairs and       International Trade) Inquiry into EU Trade Policy (source 2).
The       Committee's Report, entitled `Developments in EU Trade Policy' (London:       HMSO, 5 December 2008) endorses "[...] the Warwick Commission's       recommendation in favour of the introduction of `critical mass' voting at       the WTO as a reform which would speed up decision-making and       agenda-setting at the WTO".
Furthermore, one Member of Sub-Committee A,       said: "May I congratulate you on this Report [...] Warwick has invented a       marvellous process for linking academics [...] and the policy world.
So       much good social science work goes on in universities and it never gets       near the policy world [...] This is a marvellous model [...] you had the       WTO on your Commission [...] It is terrific".
A further indication of the       impact of the First Warwick Commission is that the Report won Gold at the       2008 Chartered Institute of Public Relations Pride Awards for the best       campaign designed to inform public policy (source 5).
The impact strategy of the Second Warwick Commission led by Seabrooke was       to target high-level international media outlets in order to stimulate       wider public debate about financial regulation as the crisis unfolded       (sources 6 and 7).
A key recommendation of the Report&#8212;that an unlevel       playing field should be implemented through a combination of host country       regulation and macroprudential regulation based on types of risk rather       than the overall stores of safe capital&#8212; informed and shaped international       media responses.
This included features in The Economist, Handelsblatt,       The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (source 7).
The elite of the world financial press reported on the Commission's       findings, including a feature article in The Economist comparing       the report with regulatory proposals from the Bank of England: "Although       there is wide agreement that macroprudential policy is needed to limit       systemic risk, there has been very little detail about how it might work.
Two new reports help fill this gap.
One is a discussion paper from the       Bank of England, which sketches out the elements of a macroprudential       regime and identifies what needs to be decided before it is put into       practice.
The other paper, by the Warwick Commission, a group of academics       and experts on finance from around the world, advocates specific reforms"       (source 6).
Richardson's findings on the EU's `Aid for Trade' initiative in the sugar       industry were published with a prominent Brussels-based think-tank called       the European Centre for Development Policy Management in two separate       forms.
A longer discussion paper and a shorter comment piece were       circulated through its Weekly Compass newsletter and GREAT Insights       magazine to a wide range of analysts and commentators interested in       Euro-African affairs.
This research also informed media coverage of the       issue in The Guardian newspaper, The Swaziland Times and       formed the basis of his work with Traidcraft on their advocacy work around       Aid for Trade policy (source 9).
Informing practitioner agendas     Richardson's work informed and fed directly into an influential Report by       the Nuffield Council on Bioethics on biofuels, which called for mandatory       certification of all biofuel imports into the European Union (source 8).
This was later passed into legislation and Richardson is now working as an       academic consultant with Bonsucro, one of the world's biggest agricultural       certification schemes.
Bonsucro is composed of companies and civil society       actors that collectively agree on a sustainability standard against which       members are audited.
A testimonial obtained from the Head of       Sustainability, demonstrates that Richardson's work has fed directly into       the formulation and revision of Bonsucro's policy documentation (source       10).
Among others, the Bonsucro standard has been adopted by the Brazilian       sugar industry and major downstream buyers like BP and Shell.
Richardson       represented Bonsucro at the 2011 ISEAL Alliance conference and has also       been appointed to the five-person committee reviewing this standard, which       is due to deliver its findings by the end of 2013.
The standard already       covers 2.5% of the global sugarcane area (over 500,000 hectares) and is       expanding quickly, providing an opportunity to improve the terms on which       workers, farmers and peasants engage with the industry.
