     CST is recommended and widely used within the UK and internationally.
Current UK guidelines recommend the widespread implementation of CST.
The       National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence Guidelines (5.1),       which set the standards for practice in the NHS in England and Wales,       state that CST groups should be made available to all people with mild to       moderate dementia, irrespective of any anti-dementia medication       prescribed.
This is the strongest recommendation in the guideline relating       to non-pharmacological therapies, and, as this was a joint guideline with       the Social Care Institute for Excellence, also applies to the social care       context.
Although originally published in 2006, these guidelines have been       reviewed in 2011-2012 and continue to stand as current best practice.
In Scotland, the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (5.2)       national clinical guideline on dementia similarly recommends cognitive       stimulation, and in its booklet for patients with dementia (revised 2011)       states: "You should be offered cognitive stimulation as part of your       treatment."
Other influential bodies that advocate CST include, in the UK,       Alzheimer's Research UK (5.3) and, at an international level,       Alzheimer's Disease International (ADI).
CST was strongly endorsed in       ADI's World Alzheimer's Report (2011) for the early stages of dementia (5.4).
This report, available in English, Chinese, Arabic, German and French, has       far-reaching influence and impact and helps to influence health and social       care policy worldwide, increasing awareness of the challenge of       Alzheimer's disease and dementia to society.
CST is not a cure for dementia, but the small changes in cognitive       function (especially in language) and quality of life consistently       identified in research studies can make a difference in everyday life:       "...CST was a lifeline for us &#8212; the group restored her confidence.
She       felt she was doing something to help herself..." (Daughter of person with       dementia attending CST groups &#8212; Mail on Sunday, December 13, 2011).
Our       studies have shown that the differences in cognitive function are of the       same order of magnitude as those associated with the currently available       medication.
The cost- effectiveness of CST is a powerful argument for its       implementation.
Our primary economic evaluation (3.5) indicated CST is       more cost-effective than usual care when looking at benefits in cognition       and quality of life.
Beyond this, the NHS Institute for Innovation and       Improvement published an economic evaluation in 2011, concluding that CST       could save the NHS over &#163;54.9 million per annum over the use of       anti-psychotic medication (5.5).
A variety of measures show that CST is now in wide use.
A National Audit Office Report in 2007 (5.6; the most recent       relevant report) stated that structured group cognitive stimulation for       dementia was used regularly by 36% of community mental health teams in       England in early stage dementia, by 33% in mid stage and by 20% in late       stage dementia.
This translates to CST being used in 2013 by over 200       teams in England, assuming a modest 25% growth over this period.
CST is       offered to people with dementia, for example, in NHS Trusts in Camden and       Islington, Cardiff, Cornwall, South Essex, Norfolk and Waveney,       Northampton and Nottingham amongst many others.
The `Dementia Tsar' for       England (National Clinical Director for Dementia, Department of Health),       Professor Alistair Burns has commended cognitive stimulation (5.7)       for use in a variety of settings.
The "Making a Difference" CST manual (5.8) for group leaders is       used in care homes, day care centres, hospitals and community settings by       family carers and staff carers, occupational therapists and nurses       involved in running activities for people with dementia.
The manual has       been translated into a number of languages (e.g.
Japanese, Spanish,       Italian, German, Portugese, Dutch and Swahili).
`Making a       Difference &#8212; 2', a manual for maintenance cognitive stimulation groups was       published in 2011 by Hawker Publications.
Over 5000 copies of the manuals       have been sold (two-thirds since 2008).
Training events are frequently       held e.g.
under the auspices of Dementia UK, in London, for example (5.9)       with over 300 people being trained since 2009.
CST is being used elsewhere internationally, for example in Australia,       Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, and New Zealand.
Obtaining figures of how many       people with dementia have benefitted from CST is difficult, of course, as       such statistics are not routinely collected.
However, in one region of       Italy, Emilia Romagna, the annual report on the Regional Dementia Project       indicates that 1,379 people with dementia living at home took part in       cognitive stimulation in the previous 12 months.
This does not include       people with dementia taking part in groups in day centres or nursing homes       (5.10).
Given that there are estimated to be 36 million people       living with dementia globally (750,000 in the UK), and that these figures       are growing with the growth of the numbers of people surviving to live       into the ages of greatest risk (80 and above), the potential for CST to       continue to influence the lives of thousands of people is clear, even if       it were only to reach a modest proportion of those affected.
We therefore       consider an estimate of 50,000 beneficiaries between 2008-2013 to be       conservative.
