     The publications record outlined above led to an invitation to join an       international consortium that       bid successfully for the European Union Framework Programme 6 (EU FP6)       funding for a project       entitled "Creating a RTD (Research and Technological Development)       Investment Policy for       Regions in Emerging and Developed Economies" (CRIPREDE, 2005-7).
The       output from this       project included an Audit Tool for regional authorities to use to assess       strengths and weaknesses       in the RTD performance of regions.
This audit tool was disseminated       through a conference held in       Waterford, EIRE in July 2007 and subsequently in published conference       proceedings: Welter, F.,       Kolb, S., O'Gorman, B., Bugge, K., Hill, I., Peck, F., et al.
(2008).
"How       to make regions (more)       innovative" in Innovation, competitiveness, growth and tradition in         SMEs, the published       proceedings from the Rencontres de St-Gall 2008.
St. Gallen: Verl.
KMU-HSG.
The CRIPREDE model was applied to six regions across the EU including the       County of Cumbria       in the UK.
This involved adoption of the toolkit to support partnership       development in Research       and Technical Development in Cumbria.
Partners in the County were involved       in discussions       guided by the CRIPREDE Model which was designed to identify RTD       performance objectives.
The model was adopted and referenced in the Cumbria Economic Plan (2007:       p. 21 available at       http://www.cumbria.gov.uk/elibrary/Content/Internet/538/755/1929/1982/395621072.pdf).
A       description and analysis of the CRIPREDE Model applied to the Spirit of       Enterprise Partnership in       South East Ireland can also be found at http://www.eprc.strath.ac.uk/news/ogorman_paper.pdf.
Following successful completion of this work, Professor Peck received a       series of invitations from       the European Commission to undertake the role of Independent Expert       Evaluator for EU FP7       projects under the Regions of Knowledge Programme from 2008       onwards.
This included,       significantly, involvement in evaluation of proposals under the call       "Transnational Cooperation       between Research-Driven Clusters", 2011-13.
The calls for proposals       specifically addressed       clusters associated with transport and mobility, resource efficiency and       digital technology.
This       particular Programme was designed to nurture more effective collaboration       in regions between       research entities, private businesses and public authorities.
The       proposals were therefore       evaluated by individuals drawn from these three spheres of experience.
Professor Peck was       involved as a representative from the academic community who not only had       knowledge of the       research area, but also experience of the Regions of Knowledge       Programme and an       understanding of the intended policy outcomes.
This experience of project evaluation culminated in Professor Peck's       appointment to an EU Expert       Group to investigate the "Role of Clusters in Smart Specialisation       Strategies".
This group was       coordinated by Dmitri Corpakis, Head of Unit at DG Research C5, and       chaired by Christian Ketels       (Harvard Business School Faculty at the Institute for Strategy and       Competitiveness).
The remit of       the work was to examine the relationship between clusters and smart       specialisation in terms of       theory as well as practice, and to explore the extent to which existing       cluster initiatives across the       EU might contribute towards the emerging emphasis on the principles of       Smart Specialisation that       underpins policy in the forthcoming 2014-2020 programming period.
Frank       Peck contributed a key       theoretical chapter to this report which examined theories of regional       clusters and their relationship       to the principles that underpin Smart Specialisation.
This chapter drew       partly on ideas developed       in previous research reported in Peck and Lloyd (2008), and the earlier       work in Peck and       McGuinness (2003).
The report concludes that the various theories of clustering       (agglomeration) are not incompatible       with those that underpin Smart Specialisation (e.g.
related variety,       spillovers between knowledge       domains).
However, clustering as practiced varies widely and only those       that are based on       regional trajectories with consideration of path-dependencies are likely       to be sustained under smart       specialisation.
The report makes recommendations for regional bodies       tasked with developing       smart specialisation strategies such as the need to provide clear evidence       for prioritisation,       stakeholder engagement, consideration of cross-border and inter-regional       issues and the       integration of policies between levels of governance.
There are also       policy recommendation at the       international level concerning the role of the EU in promoting       trans-regional learning on cluster       policy, facilitating territorial cooperation and development of the data       infrastructure on clusters and       cluster policies.
These findings and recommendations have been presented at the EU "Week of       Innovative       Regions in Europe" Conference (WIRE), held in Cork, EIRE in June 2013 (see       link below).
The       WIRE Conference is primarily attended by European policymakers, political       representatives and       practitioners involved in regional economic development.
The final report       is complete and due for       publication late in 2013.
The report has been useful in shaping strategy       at a EU level, as indicated       by feedback from officials at DG Research and Innovation: "This looks &#8212;         and effectively is         &#8212; a very comprehensive and full report.
.....that we will promote         accordingly.
We have identified         considerable interest on the issue and so we will be reflecting further         on intelligent ways to         capitalise on the report findings even further".
(Extract from an       email to the authors from Head of       Unit, Regional Dimension to Innovation, DG Research and Innovation)
