     CRED was established in 1996 through external sponsorship from a range of       local partners (including Carlisle City Council, Cumbria County Council,       Westlakes Properties, Cumbria Training Enterprise Council, and Barclays       Bank) and hence the ethos of research in the Centre has always been       applied to issues of relevance to the economy of the County.
CRED's       research has been used as reference point for informing the role of         public procurement in local economic policy.
Examples of this       include the impacts of research outputs on local and regional procurement       practices.
CRED's work in Cumbria has been used by the EPIC partnerships       (Effective Procurement in Cumbria) to justify expenditure on a programme       of events aimed at giving advice and providing support for SMEs with       interest in bidding for public sector contracts.
EPIC involves a       collaboration between Cumbria County Council, Allerdale Borough Council,       Barrow-in-Furness Borough Council, Carlisle City Council, Copeland Borough       Council, Eden District Council and South Lakeland District Council.
Its       remit was to secure efficiency savings in procurement, and joint savings       of over &#163;2m have been reported.
However, there were concerns that the       means by which such savings have been secured (consolidation of contracts,       lengthening of contracts, changes in criteria for award) may have created       barriers for SME.
The research findings drew attention to these issues and       caused EPIC to divert resource to provide support for SMEs, as indicated       in the following reference:     "EPiC commissioned the Centre for Regional Economic Development (CRED)         to undertake research into the impact of Local Authority procurement on         the Cumbrian economy.
This has initiated a programme of events aimed at         advising suppliers how the local authorities via EPiC intend to do         business in the future".
(Minutes of the Carlisle City Council Corporate Resources Overview and       Scrutiny Committee, October 2008).
Subsequent to this work, CRED was commissioned by the North West       Development Agency to repeat the exercise conducted in Cumbria across the       whole of the North-West Region (Peck, Bell and Cabras, 2008).
This study       analysed the spatial pattern of public expenditure on goods and services       by sub-region, local authority, sector and size of business.
The project       combined a quantitative approach to measuring the level of expenditure       retained within the region with a review of policy on public procurement       and the principles behind "sustainable procurement".
CRED research on supply chain development in the nuclear industry       in West Cumbria has had a similar application.
The findings of the       research have been used to inform the programmes delivered by the Energy       Opportunities Supply Chain Project (http://www.eoscp.co.uk/),       in particular focusing on the topics covered in the events aimed at       improving success in bidding for nuclear contracts.
These include       provision of advice on quality standards in the industry, improving       commercial practices of firms in bidding for new contracts, improving       marketing and networking skills as well as more direct impacts through       "meet the buyer" events.
This work has involved tracking the value of       Sellafield contracts and the extent to which these affect the local       economy.
The EOSCP exists to maximise opportunities for local SMEs in the       Supply chain.
The research has provided intelligence to guide the range of       supports provided by EOSCP including "meet-the-buyer" events, training       needs, information availability and facilitation of partnership       arrangements in consortia.
The Sellafield research was also fed into the House of Commons Committee       of Public Accounts report on Nuclear Decommissioning Authority:         managing risk at Sellafield (January 2013), relating to the       decommissioning programme at Sellafield.
This debate was wide-ranging and       focused in particular on concerns of budget overrun and slow progress in       implementing plans for decommissioning.
As part of this debate, the issue       of local socio-economic impacts became relevant as part of the overall       assessment of "value for money".
In the course of this debate, the       research was cited in an information session in November 2012 by a       representative of Sellafield to evidence the significance of Sellafield's       expenditure in the local economy.
