     A key tool for dissemination and impact of the research on teacher       educators was the       publication of the Becoming a Teacher Educator guidelines in 2007,       and as an updated second       edition in 2011:     Boyd, P., Harris, K. &amp; Murray, J.
(2011) Becoming a Teacher Educator:       Guidelines for induction       (2nd Ed.).
ESCalate, Higher Education Academy: Bristol.
Available at www.escalate.ac.uk/8508     In developing the second edition of the Guidelines, teacher educators       based in Further Education       Colleges were identified as an additional group, and their perspectives       were researched in order to       provide guidance for wider audience, in addition to updating the original       guideline aimed at the       Higher Education context.
The Guidelines were designed primarily for an       audience of newly       appointed academics in the field of teacher education; however they were       also aimed at those       responsible for the support, management and professional development of       those lecturers.
In order       to maximise the buy-in to the Guidelines, the authors organised workshops       in association with       EScalate (the Education subject centre of the HEA), with participants       asked to engage with key       research findings and to respond to draft versions of the guidelines.
The       inside cover of the first       edition acknowledged, by name, 55 colleagues from a total of 28 UK       universities who had       contributed to their development in this way.
A further group of teacher       educators, including those       working in both HE in FE contexts, contributed through review of the       second edition in 2011.
The need for teacher educators to engage with pedagogy for Higher       Education and specifically for       teacher education is a key message of the research (Boyd &amp; Harris       2010) and the Guidelines       (Boyd, Harris &amp; Murray 2007; 2011).
The debate on this issue was       stimulated by the research, the       publication of the Guidelines, and through academic induction workshops       based upon them.
The       gradual change in the policies of UK Universities with Teacher Education       departments, moving to       inclusion of newly appointed teacher educators in their mandatory       requirement for all new lecturers       to complete a postgraduate certificate programme in teaching and learning       in Higher Education,       has been directly influenced by this work.
In addition to being made available online and open access, hard copies       of the Becoming a         Teacher Educator guidelines were posted to all Heads of Teacher       Education Higher Education       departments with a covering letter explaining their significance.
Copies       were also made available       at relevant UK based conferences including British Educational Research       Association (BERA),       Universities' Council for the Education of Teachers (UCET), Staff and       Educational Development       Association (SEDA) and ESCalate.
Workshops focused on the Guidelines and       papers reporting the       underpinning research were presented at the above conferences during 2007       to 2010, and to       UCET management forum (December 2007).
As well as dissemination in the UK (and at UK based international       conferences), research papers       and the Guidelines were presented at international conferences including       the Association of       Teacher Educators (ATE) conference in New Orleans (February 2008) and the       American       Educational Research Association (AERA) conference in New York (March       2008).
In addition, a       pragmatic journal paper, reporting on a comparative study of the teacher       and nurse educators,       citing the Guidelines and focused on the implications for practice for       academic developers, was       published in the International Journal for Academic Development       which is a key publication for the       international community of academic developers (Boyd 2010).
The study on lecturers in nursing was disseminated by conference       presentation (SEDA 2008) and       by publication of a journal paper (Boyd &amp; Lawley 2009).
The work,       focussing on lecturers in       nursing, midwifery, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and radiography,       was also published       online by the HEA, and disseminated by the Health Science and Practice       subject centre network.
Conference presentations were used for dissemination, in addition to the       publication of a research       paper (Smith &amp; Boyd 2012).
The main direct beneficiaries of the research are newly appointed       university lecturers in teacher,       nurse, and allied health professions education, who have changed their       approach to academic       induction in response to the research, and benefited from better induction       processes.
However       there has been impact on the community of academic developers and line       managers who have       adjusted their practice and policy in supporting the newly appointed       lecturers.
We would argue in       turn that the students of these lecturers have benefitted from the more       effective induction of their       lecturer.
Specifically, the changes have included universities and       relevant departments placing       more emphasis on nurturing informal workplace learning opportunities, on       support for grading and       feedback on student coursework, on building professional identity, on       early and sustained focus on       scholarship and research, and on requiring qualified teachers to complete       mandatory programmes       for teaching and learning in higher education which in the past they may       have avoided.
The authors of the Becoming a Teacher Educator guidelines have       also facilitated national       academic induction workshops based on the research insights.
Workshops       have been organised       by ESCalate and by TEAN, and from 2007 to 2013 a total of 272 recently       appointed lecturers in       teacher education have attended, from a wide range of UK Higher Education       Institutions.
Follow-       up evaluative feedback gathered by TEAN from workshop participants has       been very positive, and       comments have related to a range of academic areas, from teaching; "I am       much more explicit       about my pedagogy", to research activity; "[I have] developed an improved       understanding of the       requirements of scholarship and research", and to general confidence; "I       feel much more confident       in carrying out my role than I did previously", indicating the variety of       benefits that improved       induction approaches based on the research findings can have for       individual practitioners.
Dissemination and impact of the research internationally includes the       appointment of Dr Boyd as       external research consultant to a related funded research and development       project at the       University of Porto to develop initial training of teacher and nursing       practitioners as Higher       Education practitioners.
As external consultant, Dr Boyd has contributed       to seminars and       conferences linked to the project, and has supported members of the       research team with analysis       and publications.
The research presented for this impact case study has       informed and influenced       the Porto research, including the implications for practice as identified       in Portuguese institutions       involved in the project and more widely.
