     As outlined in section 2, the research is intrinsically designed to       generate impact for coaches and athletes, which is also reflected in the       route for dissemination of the academic articles through       practitioner-focussed journals.
The uptake of the research by end users is       predominantly shown through these channels.
The most recent article       (Esformes and Bampouras, November 2013), accepted for publication by the Journal         of Strength and Conditioning Research on 25th February       and available to view online ahead of print, features in the Journal's       most e-mailed articles (i.e.
peer practitioner sharing through social       media), and has already been cited a number of times on fitness interest       websites (such as T Nation and CrossFit-APx).
The Esformes et al (2010)       article is one of the journal's most popular, according to their Twitter       feed (which has over 10,000 followers, the majority of whom will be       athletes or coaches).
The Journal of Strength and Conditioning         Research is a key route to reaching practitioners, as it       specifically targets practitioners as "a unique aspect [of this journal]       is that it includes recommendations for the practical use of research       findings".
The Journal is affiliated to the National Strength and       Conditioning Association (30,000 members in 72 countries), whose aim is to       ``bridge the gap'' from the scientific laboratory to the field       practitioner.
In addition, the Esformes et al (2010) paper is one of the       `Most recommended' papers in BioInfoBank Library, an open access, free       online resource promoting science.
Secondly, the research features on various athletic websites providing       advice to athletes.
For example, the Australian Fitness Network (10,000       fitness instructors as members) utilised the Jones and Bampouras (2010)       paper to make assessment suggestions on leg strength assessment based on       the finding of this study.
Similarly, the Center for Optimal Recovery, a       website designed for athletes and offering advice on training and avoiding       injury, has used the recent Esformes and Bampouras (2013) study to make       training suggestions.
The research is also picked up in a number of other       blogs and websites around coaching and reflection on practice, indicating       that it stimulates debate around designing training programmes and       assessment of performance.
The articles on post-activation potentiation have created interest from       academics (e.g.
Esformes et al, 2010 cited 15 times; Esformes et al, 2011       cited 4 times) as well as practitioners, due to the simple and applied       suggestions they make.
As post-activation potentiation is a relatively new       area of research, much of the literature revolved around laboratory-based       conditions, with little transfer to the field.
However, the articles on       post-activation potentiation have clear application to the athletes by       making suggestions on how to improve power performance acutely with       simple, low- resource exercises.
An early indicator of the applicability       of this work in shaping training is through citation of research findings       by a company who design training aids, specifically Freq ReflexTM,       a product which the company are working directly with trainers.
In addition, Bampouras is an invited contributor to practitioner       education through delivery of sessions on Muscle and Tendon Conditioning       on the MSc Strength and Conditioning degree at the University of Bolton,       since the course began in 2008, the context of which is based on the       research insights.
Further, Bampouras and other colleagues were invited by       Active Cumbria, an organisation dedicated to delivering Sport and Physical       Activity in Cumbria, to deliver workshops to coaches working with athletes       from different sports and of various performance levels.
These workshops       for part of the organisation's Coaching Plus Development programme and the       workshops Bampouras delivered were on Periodisation and Introduction         to Strength and Conditioning.
Evaluation from coaches attending       revealed that the most useful information was "Practical ideas you can         incorporate into training really easily with minimum cost involved";       "Training info"; "How simple it can be"; "Assessment         bits"; and "Conditioning exercises", suggesting that the       information provided was perceived as useful and easy to implement in       their practice.
Bampouras' work on muscle conditioning and assessment has informed       scientific support services provided to various athletes, with the prime       example being support provided to an athletics sprinter (U23 England       Championships finalist).
Assessment of muscle function and subsequent       advice on training and improving performance was based on the research on       muscle imbalance assessment, power improvement and periodization.
Staff within the unit have also undertaken work with the Team GB diving       squad to assess and improve performance.
This work was undertaken by       Nicola Relph and a former colleague from the unit, and provided mechanical       analysis of some of the most difficult dives, used to inform the focus of       training programmes.
This resulted in improved performance for       synchronised divers in 2012 in relation to 2008 results.
Relph and       Bampouras have co-authored papers on testing techniques (such as reference       2 in section 3), and the research followed the principles of the body of       work in relevant in situ testing for performance assessment.
Finally, research that has been undertaken on water polo training (e.g.
Bampouras and Marrin, 2009) has resulted in altering training and       assessment practices of the National Scottish Women's water polo team, in       light of the findings and suggestions of the body of work around the       sport.
For example, the previously used 30 seconds cross bar jumps as a       measurement of lower leg power in water polo players, was abandoned due to       findings by Bampouras and Marrin (2010).
Training loads and monitoring was       compared and designed around Marrin and Bampouras (2009) and Marrin and       Bampouras (2008), which informed the training process, assisted in player       selection as well as educated the players.
The engagement with the team,       including both individual and team performance analysis, has contributed       to the promotion of the team to the top division.
