     Overview: community based heritage conservation.
The research on       the Newport Ship from its discovery and recording in the ground through to       its recovery and post-excavation study, to ongoing conservation, has been       throughout an act of co-production between the project consultant, Nigel       Nayling, and the Newport Museum and Heritage Service (NMHS) in       collaboration with the Friends of the Newport Ship (FoNS).
This has       generated a number of impacts, most notably a major act of heritage       conservation of international significance; the generation of key       underpinning research and interpretative material which is enabling the       public to learn about their heritage and enjoy the process of learning;       research methodologies and working methods which have supported a wide       range of people to take an active part in and make decisions about       heritage; and leadership to ensure that the project created opportunities       for people to gain new or increased skills.
Throughout each stage Nayling       and NMHS have ensured significant interaction and support which has       enabled different stakeholder groups to learn about their heritage through       the integration of volunteers, school work experience, and student       placements, into the work on the ship.
Conserving Heritage: The major act of conservation which Nayling's       work has centred on has seen several established and ongoing impacts on       the city's heritage and tourist assets.
The initial development for       example has seen a major new heritage facility and tourist asset in the       establishment of the Newport Ship Centre.
This continues to be the focus       for a significant degree of volunteer involvement which has since 2008       seen some 298 volunteers contributing 5068 hours to the project, including       school children on work experience, difficult to reach youth groups,       university conservation students on work placements, and a wide range of       Newport City citizens.
The centre is now a recognised centre of excellence       for curation, recording and analysis of archaeological waterlogged wood       assemblages, through its unique combination of expertise, facilities and       leading digital data capture and manipulation tools.
As such, the Centre       has been able to provide both facilities and specialist services to a       range of clients including museum services, archaeological units, and       other university projects.
Community engagement: Community engagement has been characteristic       of this research from the outset when a group of predominantly local       people established the Save Our Ship campaign.
This campaign succeeded in       securing the recovery of the ship and has evolved into the Friends of the       Newport Ship (FoNS).
A strong ethos of knowledge transfer has       characterised the relationship between the research team and the FoNS,       with research findings being transmitted to the friends for dissemination       to their members and the wider public through, regular SOS newsletters and       a substantial guidebook first published in 2010 and now in its second       edition.
The guidebook was written by members of the Friends using data       and illustrations provided by the research team to ensure an accessible       style focused on the interests of a wide audience.
Friends have also       received training to act as guides (using the guidebook) at the Centre's       Open Days, which have become an established part of the outreach calendar       for the ship project.
These provide free public access to the research and       the team.
Data capture methods for these activities have varied over the       period 2008-2013 but NMHS figures for the Newport Ship Centre for this       period can be summarised for years 2008, 2011, 2012 and 2013 (partial) as       8118 visitors to the Newport Ship centre, including Open Days (usage       statistics Newport Medieval Ship Project provided by NMHS).
Education and       outreach has likewise been undertaken by the NMHS ship team which       continues to disseminate current research and use the ship project as a       tool in outreach.
This has been a key success in the project's impact       strategy, with some 10,807 schoolchildren engaged with the Newport Ship       through school outreach since 2008.
These educational outreach activities       encompass school visits to the Centre, workshops held in Newport Museum       and workshops held in schools.
A web-based Key Stage 2 history resource       complements this schools outreach.
Some 3172 attendees have likewise been       recorded at public lectures (based on the underpinning research) given by       ship team members.
The NMHS has recently moved beyond the use of its       website to provide information on the project to establish a dynamic       Facebook page and a YouTube video channel to expand awareness of the       project.
In addition to the centre, public engagement with this heritage       has been enhanced by an exhibition on the ship at the Newport Museum and       Art Gallery which has significantly enhanced visitor experience since 2007       (visitor figures for which are not currently publicly available).
This       exhibition continues to provide the public with free access to information       on the ship and its place in the history of Newport and the Severn       Estuary.
Professional Conservation Practice.
In addition to impacts on       community engagement with their heritage and the subsequent up-skilling of       volunteers, Nayling's research and collaboration with NMHS has generated       new methods to meet the very significant challenges of excavating       internationally important ship and boat finds, contributing to the       definition of best practice by professional bodies and associations in the       international field of maritime conservation practices, not only within       the academic field, but also with heritage agencies and museums.
The lack       of appropriate standards for responding to archaeological discoveries of       ship-remains at the time of the ship's discovery made excavation of the       Newport Ship problematic and was a major driver in the production of the       Institute of Archaeologists' The standard and guidance for nautical         archaeological recording and reconstruction.
Nayling used his       research experience on the ship project to deliver significant input in       delivery of this standard which was formally adopted as Institute for       Archaeologists approved practice at the Annual General Meeting of the       Institute held on 15 October 2008.
As an invited member of the Medieval       Working Group, Nayling also contributed towards delivery of the Maritime       and Marine Historic Environment Research Framework for England.
Nayling's work continues to promote best practice in digital approaches       in nautical archaeology, extending his contributions to changes in       professional standards, guidelines and training.
In this Nayling is a       founding member of the Faro Rhino Archaeological User Group (FRAUG) which       has been developing innovative digital approaches to archaeological ship       documentation, analysis and dissemination.
Meetings of this group have       taken place at the Viking Ship Museum, Roskilde, Denmark; the Vasa Museum,       Stockholm, Sweden; the University of Southern Denmark, Esbjerg; Newport       Ship Centre and the Kogge Project, Antwerp, Belgium.
The 6th Annual       meeting and workshop of the network was held at the Newport Ship Centre in       2012 offering workshops and training throughout the week in advance of the       formal meeting which is traditionally chaired each year by Nayling.
Members include practitioners from a wide range of organisations, such as       state heritage agencies (e.g.
the National Service for Cultural Heritage,       RCE Lelystad in the Netherlands), national maritime museums (e.g.
Norwegian Maritime Museum, Oslo), universities (e.g.
University of       Connecticut, USA) and ship project groups (e.g.
Yenikapa, Istanbul,       Turkey).
The next meeting of the group will be hosted by the Traditional       Boats of Ireland Project in Baltimore, Ireland (May 2014) with workshops       on boatbuilding, traditional sailing, laser scanning and hull form       reconstruction.
Training opportunities for members are aimed at developing       their practice, and subsequent deployment of these methods have been seen       at numerous ship projects in the museum sector including the Bremen Cog,       the Barcode Project, Norway; Aber Wrac'h, France; and Roman Barges of the       Rhine, Netherlands.
Ethical aspects of the co-production or community-based participatory       research model employed on the Newport Ship project have likewise been       explored through AHRC Connected Community projects leading to academic       publication and also production in 2012 of guidance for researchers       working with museums: Earning Legitimacy: Participation, Intellectual         Property and Informed Consent.
(http://eprints.whiterose.ac.uk/74491/4/EarningLegIPICJuly2012.pdf.)
