     Global Forum on Oceans, Coasts, and Islands.
GOFCI is Global       Environment Faculty funded collaboration, with the United Nations       Environment Programme and United Nations Development Programme acting as       implementing agencies.
The forum was set up in 2001 as a global policy and       lobbying organisation to help the world's governments place issues related       to oceans, coasts and small island developing states on the agenda of the       2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development.
While its original remit was       to assess progress in the implementation of the outcomes of the 1992 Earth       Summit in Rio de Janeiro it was subsequently formalised at the 2002 World       Summit and continues its work to date by feeding back on progress via       international conferences in 2003, 2006, 2008, 2010 and 2012 (Rio+20).
The       Global Forum produces a broad variety of policy analyses, publications and       information services with the goal of providing relevant and timely       information about integrated ocean policy to the global oceans community,       with a particular emphasis on decision-making at UN and National       Government Levels (GFOCI, 2013a).
GFOCI collaborators include, among       others: Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission; National Oceanographic       and Atmospheric Administration; Fisheries and Oceans Canada; Portuguese       Committee for IOC; South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission; IOC       Sub-Commission for the Caribbean and Adjacent Regions; Partnerships in       Environmental Management for the Seas of East Asia; New Partnerships for       Africa's Development; Centre of Ecology, Fisheries and Oceanography of the       Gulf of Mexico; Mexican Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources;       and the World Bank &#8212; Global Environment Facility.
In 2008, following an invite to attend their fourth conference Professor       Phillips became a member of the Climate, Oceans and Security Working Group       (COSWG) of GFOCI.
In his role Phillips has brought the issue of climate       change and coastal tourism to the international policy agenda.
His role       has been to show the economic impacts of climate change with respect to       coastal tourism and has suggested policy responses.
Community resilience       has been the focus of his recommended adaptation and management       strategies.
His extensive knowledge of shoreline response to physical       processes and wider implications of climate change, including NAO       influences has enabled development of adaptation strategies under various       risk based scenarios.
This subsequently underpinned human community and       policy work with special reference to Small Island States through       international policy engagement, not only with GFOCI but as       Trustee/Director of the US Coastal Education and Research Foundation,       advisor to MARUM (German Cluster of Excellence of Marine Environmental       Sciences), and the European Union for Maritime Spatial Planning.
Examples of this engagement include work, by invitation, where Phillips       developed and moderated a session in the Policy, Science and Technical       Symposium at the Fifth Global Conference on Oceans, Coasts and Islands at       the UNESCO Headquarters in May 2010.
The session highlighted the       importance of the climate change and coastal tourism and this took place       in for a high-profile audience including senior officials and key global       decision makers, (including Heads of State, Government Ministers (marine       and environment), EU Commissioners, UN Ambassadors, industry and       academics).
A significant contribution to the policy debate was developed       here as the session's objectives, the summary of issues considered,       details on the path forward and recommendations for national and       international decision makers were published in an official document       authored by Hamon and Balgos (2010).
This volume was distributed at the       Symposium and to the Roundtables of National Ocean Leaders, Ocean       Parliamentarians, and Regional, Provincial and Local Authorities and to       the high-level participants during the following Policy Conference to       inform their discussions.
Post-conference developments included leaders of       the world's museums, aquaria, and other public outreach organizations       meeting at Nausicaa in Boulogne-sur-Mer, in the 4th International Meeting       of the World Ocean Network.
Here participants evaluated past and ongoing       education and outreach activities on sustainable use of the ocean and drew       up an action plan to further mobilize citizens and civil society in       different regions of the world.
Rio +20.
Phillips' contribution to the global policy making       process is also seen in his subsequent contribution to the GFOCI summary       document for decision makers given to world leaders at Rio+20 (Cicin-Sain       et al., 2012).
The Rio+20 Conference was a joint endeavour of the       entire UN System which marked the 20th anniversary of the 1992 United       Nations Conference on Environment and Development and the 10th anniversary       of the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development.
It took place at the       highest possible level, including 79 Heads of State and representatives       from 191 countries.
Its outcome, to which Phillip's contributed, was a       focused political document which was promoted by the United Nations       Development Programme in pursuance of the Millennium Development Goals (1,       7 and 8).
The report measures the progress made toward the broad aims,       targets, and timetables established by the international community and       argues that a) the information included is critical for global       policymakers to absorb and b) that there is a pressing need to assess       coastal vulnerability alongside impacts on economic resilience.
Contributions from the GFOCI were reflected in a strong outcome from the       Rio+20 Conference, embodied in 20 paragraphs of the policy document (one       of the largest thematic sections of the document).
In this context climate       change impacts on coastal tourism were seen by GFOCI as consequences of       vulnerability and resilience and as Phillips' research has demonstrated,       there will be variations in shoreline vulnerability depending on location       and the issue is how to respond to events and maintain economic       resilience.
COSWG subsequently recognised that policy responses needed to       focus on adaptation to these issues.
Policy developments following Rio+20 include the convening of an Expert       Group Meeting on Oceans, Seas and Sustainable Development by the UN       Department of Economic and Social Affairs (April 18-19, 2013).
The group       met to drive opportunities and consider challenges in implementing the       Rio+20 ocean outcomes.
Key issues discussed included climate change and       marine tourism with many participants noting the important role of the       tourism industry in sustainable development (GFOCI, 2013b).
Participants       also discussed the disconnection between science and policy-making, an       issue highlighted by House and Phillips (2012).
Subsequently, governments,       research councils and national agencies are funding initiatives on coastal       vulnerability and resilience.
One such initiative is the Belmont Forum and       G8 Research Councils' Initiative on Multilateral Research Funding &#8212;       International Opportunities Fund.
Led by the President of GFOCI, Phillips       is participating in a proposal entitled Comparative, Cross-National, and       Ecosystem Approach to Coastal Vulnerability and Resilience under the theme       section: Coastal Vulnerability.
The report has likewise been widely used       to contextualise Rio+20 Ocean outcomes and underpin subsequent high level       meetings.
In June 2013 for example the UN Open-ended Informal Consultative       Process (ICP) on Oceans and the Law of the Sea under the auspices of a       meeting of the UN Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals.
This engaged stakeholders and government representatives in progressing       post-Rio+20 priorities and included reference to the value of emerging       research on sea level rise (GFOCI, 2013c).
This is essential in managing       tourism, the most important source of revenue for Small Island Developing       States.
Further policy contribution.
Further work evidencing the impact of       Phillip's work and contribution to the global policy making agenda is       found in his participation in the EU-US Conference Series on Sustainable       Oceans &#8212; Reconciling Economic Use and Protection.
By Invitation Phillips       attended the 3rd Conference , `Good Governance for Sustainable Marine       Development' in Portugal (June 2013).
Organized by the Dr&#228;ger Foundation       (in association with The European Commission, DG for Maritime Affairs and       Fisheries) the conference brought together international experts in       politics, academia, business including Rt.
Hon.
David Miliband, as       co-chair of the newly launched Global Ocean Commission.
One of the key       objectives of the conference series is to help establish an independent       European Ocean Alliance and to link it with the U.S. Joint Ocean       Commission Initiative.
Phillips participated in discussions regarding the       development of a comprehensive international architecture for sustainable       marine development and an inter-governmental level action plan towards       sustainable oceans.
Developments at the event saw the `Blue Economy'       emerge as a vehicle for sustainable economic growth and agreement that       joint research initiatives should be instigated at US and EU Member State       government levels.
In October 2013, the UK-US Global Innovation Initiative       was launched, and this is a shared commitment of the United States and the       United Kingdom to support multilateral research collaboration.
Further       invitations to policy forums include the UK National Commission for UNESCO       Colloquium (Wales June 2013) to contribute to efforts to ensure that Wales       is engaged with UNESCO and its international and multi-lateral work in       Education, Science and Culture.
The Colloquium highlighted and considered       the role of UNESCO in Wales and the contribution of Welsh civil society to       UNESCO's programmes.
It brought together the leading Welsh experts in       UNESCO's work and included the Rt.
Hon.
Carwyn Jones (First Minister of       Wales), Professor W. John Morgan (Chairman, UK National Commission for       UNESCO), His Excellency Matthew Sudders (United Kingdom Ambassador and       Permanent Delegate to UNESCO), Sir John Cadogan (President, Learned       Society of Wales) and Professor Gretchen Kalonji (Assistant       Director-General for Natural Sciences, UNESCO).
It enabled collective       expertise and experience to identify new ways of supporting UNESCO's work       in Education, Science and Culture and formulated a strategy to develop a       more effective organisation.
