     Youngs' position as Director of FRIDE (rated as one of the `Top 30' think       tanks in Western Europe in the 2012 `Go To Think Tanks Survey') offers       excellent access to EU policy-makers, both as participants throughout the       research cycle and as beneficiaries of the main findings.
This access       provides mechanisms for achieving a range of impacts beyond the       conventional model of producing and disseminating research reports.
The primary impact of the principal observations and recommendations       stemming from Youngs' underpinning research, particularly since the Arab       Spring, has been twofold:            To inform political debate about incentivising democracy promotion in         the European Parliament (EP); to contribute to the revision of the         European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP); and to stimulate new EU initiatives         for democracy support.
To enhance the mainstreaming of human rights in EU foreign policy and         to establish new networks of stakeholders - including civil society         leaders - in policy deliberations.
Collectively, these impacts have led to new thinking and defined best       practice (as laid out below) on more broad based political engagement, the       use of conditionality and holistic security approaches.
The main       beneficiaries of the research since the Arab revolts began have been EU       elites and policy-makers, the European Parliament and the European       External Action Service (EEAS).
Informing political debate and shaping EU democracy support     The findings of Youngs' research on democracy promotion following the       Arab Spring have fed directly into policy debates in the EP.
Through the       publication of policy recommendations as official EP documents, he has       informed and shaped formal parliamentary discussions (sources 1, 2 and 3).
One clear illustration of the concrete impact of this input is Youngs'       influence on the perspective of elites working in the EEAS.
The EEAS is the EU's diplomatic service, which, since the Lisbon Treaty       came into force on 1 December 2009, has been charged with running the EU's       relations with the rest of the world.
Youngs has advised key EEAS       personnel on: EU policy approaches to supporting democracy promotion; the       timing, placement and content of public statements given by the High       Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy       (Baroness Catherine Ashton); and on strategies for engaging with the       emerging political class across the Middle East.
In particular, three       policy recommendations stemming from Youngs' underpinning research have       been taken up by the EEAS (sources 5, 6 and 7):            The need for the EU to be more effective in engaging with Islamist         parties by down-playing issues of identity and culture;       The importance of the EU to avoid favouring particular candidates from         among communities of reformers;       The value of the EU switching from a `lecturing' to an         incentives-based discourse.
In acknowledgement of the direct impact of Youngs' research on the work       of the EEAS, the EU Special Representative for the Southern Mediterranean,       states: "My work representing the EU across North Africa and the Middle       East has benefited from the research undertaken by Professor Richard       Youngs and his team.
This work has been particularly helpful in clarifying       the priorities for EU support to the Arab spring in light of the complex       nature of sequencing in democratic transitions.
[...] We have learnt from       his work that sustainable reform requires broad-based coalitions, widely       accepted rules of the game, and flexibility in institutional models"       (source 5).
In her testimonial, the EEAS Policy Advisor from the       Directorate for Northern Africa, Middle East and Arabian Peninsula writes:       "We have adopted a number of [Professor Youngs'] suggestions on how to       build cooperation with Islamists in low profile and context-specific ways"       (source 6).
Youngs' research on political reform in the Arab world has also prompted       the EU Commission to consult FRIDE in their 2011 review of the EU       Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) (source 4).
The ENP is the EU's main policy       framework for dealing with countries on its borders.
Commitments to       democracy have by common consent not been highly effective.
However, in       the light of input from outside experts including Youngs, the ENP has       since prioritised support for democracy and human rights.
Specifically,       the Commission's review adopted Youngs' suggestions on how to reform the       ENP in order to support democracy promotion more effectively in line with       the three principles outlined above (source 4).
The conclusions of his       `Demand-Driven Democracy' project were fed into EU policy documentation,       informed and shaped new strategies such as the International Institute for       Democracy and Electoral Assistance (International IDEA), which aims to       enhance responsiveness to local specificities (source 9).
Furthermore, in       2009 Youngs provided text and intellectual input into the Founding Charter       of the European Partnership for Democracy (EPD), the first pan-European       body dedicated to democracy support and in more recent proposals for a new       European Endowment for Democracy (source 8).
Since these developments,       more projects supporting democracy have begun, which has helped civic       organisations to survive, to share their experiences in building democracy       and to build capacity for such organisations to run democratic campaigns       (sources 8 and 10).
The President of the Board of Directors of the EPD,       considers Youngs to be "one of the leading academic experts on EU foreign       policy making" and acknowledges his research as having helped EPD to       "develop a distinctive European approach to democracy support, different       from that followed by the established American foundations working in this       area, based on inclusive multi-party dialogue" (source 8).
Enhancing human rights in EU foreign policy     Another aspect of Youngs' impact is the major contribution of his       research to EU policy debate, formulation and implementation around issues       of human rights (sources 2 and 3).
A 2011 Report commissioned by the       European Parliament included his recommendations for greater EU engagement       on the question of human rights in Gulf States.
In March that year he was       invited to present evidence directly to the European Parliament       Sub-Committee on Human Rights as part of their session on `EU Human Rights       Policy on Events in the Arab World'.
Research findings have been adopted       relating to the need to narrow the divide between Gulf and other Arab       states; the requirement for EU policy in the Gulf to `catch up' with other       strategic partners; and the importance of diversifying relations beyond       the ruling families of the region.
Youngs was also commissioned by the       European Parliament to write a Report on the EU-Russia human rights       dialogue (source 2).
The EP adopted his recommendation that firmer benchmarks should be       attached to the dialogue and that the latter should be better linked to       other aspects of EU policy in 2010.
The EP Human Rights Sub-Committee used       these suggestions to press the EEAS for a more proactive human rights       policy.
These suggestions were also used by the EP Human Rights       Sub-committee to press the EEAS for a more proactive human rights policy       (source 5).
