 The research has had direct impact on spatial planning through its inclusion in the continuing professional development of planners.
A number of meetings have taken place between ARU researchers and planners, including the East of England branch of the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI - see 5.7) to raise awareness and implement policy change.
Internationally, the research has informed the Local Government Association of Queensland, Australia, in its Healthy Communities Project (see 5.3).
The research has been incorporated in training, CPD materials and Professional Development workshops with planners and related built environment professionals from the East of England.
A number of workshops have directly resulted from the research.
For example, `Planning for an ageing population' Norfolk and Suffolk planning skills workshop (Norwich, 2010) and Essex planning skills workshop (Chelmsford, 2010) attended by 59 practitioners.
Additional content relating to housing design for older people was added to the second event.
The research and analysis of quantitative material formed an integral part of the evidence base for the development of the Colchester Better Town Centre Plan adopted by Colchester Borough Council in 2012 (see 5.9).
The research has impact on housing, transport, leisure and urban regeneration policies, with information and good practice from the research disseminated via the project partner website by Older People and Ageing Research and Development Network (OPAN Wales - see 5.5).
Practitioners and policy makers from the Welsh Assembly attended the OPAN Policy Forum and seminars in partnership with OPAN.
The findings stimulated debate to further progress research impact and contributed to the development of policy documents around mobility, usability and accessibility.
This included the 3rd Strategy for Older People in Wales.
Additionally, linkages made with the Foundation for Assistive Technology (FAST), throughout the project, led to inclusion of the findings in a House of Lords report on assistive technology for older people (see 5.1).
The OPAN research was further developed through a Knowledge Exchange project `'Care in Business' in conjunction with Swansea University.
Assisted Technology plays an increasingly important role in maintaining independence and quality of life for older people.
It is seen as part of a solution to the preventative social and health care agenda for policy makers.
Our research addressed a number of innovative issues around data collection and visualisation, including the application of information and communication technologies (geographical information system (GIS) based navigational tools and virtualisation) to assist older people's interaction with the built environment.
This has led to capacity building in methodological and technical skills for gerontologists using GIS techniques, which has led to new spatial aids, and has been disseminated through major geo-information industry networks such as GeoConnexion (see 5.8).
The reach of this work has extended beyond the UK to include Queensland, Australia (Local Government Association Healthy Communities Project - see 5.3), and Montreal, Canada (Centre Urbanisation Culture Soci&#233;t&#233; de l'Institut National de la Recherche Scientifique - see 5.2).
By incorporating our research findings in continuing professional development portfolios and networks, impact has been achieved through the raising of awareness of environmental gerontology throughout health and social care professions.
Our research team has developed new networks with other disciplines beyond the project.
For example, with architects in an environment and gerontology network project; Inclusive Design for Getting Outdoors (I'DGO) and the International Association of People-Environment Studies (IAPS).
