     The research initiated at Newcastle in the 1990s not only led to the       first in class trial of a PARP inhibitor but also played a key role in       establishing the translational research routes of development of this       class of agents.
When the project was first established, PARP was not       considered a viable target, particularly by the pharmaceutical industry,       but the Newcastle team championed it and drove the project to clinical       proof-of-principle.
PARP has now been adopted as a key cancer drug target       by the global pharmaceutical industry, and has reached cancer patients       across Europe, the Americas, Australasia and Asia, with eight PARP       inhibitors currently in clinical trial development worldwide and at least       eight cancer types being treated through clinical trials [EV a].
In 2010, Cancer Research UK formally recognised the research underpinning       the discovery and development of PARP inhibitors, awarding their inaugural       Translational Cancer Research Prize to the Newcastle PARP team.
This prize       was awarded `...in recognition of the discovery and development of         novel PARP inhibitors, specifically the achievement of the team in         driving an initial scientific concept through medicinal chemistry and         preclinical work, to first-in-man clinical studies.'
[EV b].
The       successful exploitation of PARP as a drug target builds on many decades of       basic research on DNA damage and repair by many scientists and clinicians.
In so doing, it demonstrates the importance of academia as a resource for       new targets in drug discovery.
Notably, numerous other DNA damage and       repair targets are now being evaluated; based largely on the PARP       inhibitor paradigm.
Commercial Impact     The research has had a significant impact on the UK and global       pharmaceutical industry, with the following companies investing heavily in       clinical trials and clinical PARP inhibitor programmes: AstraZeneca,       Clovis, SanofiAventis, Abbott, Merck, Biomarin, Eisai, Cephalon and       Genentech [EV a].
It is clear that since the initial Newcastle trial       (2003-2005), in which patients were treated with a PARP inhibitor for the       first time, and the demonstration of synthetic lethality in BRCA-deficient       cancers, there has been a marked increase in the commencement of trials       testing PARP inhibitors [data extracted from EV a]:        In the period May 2008- May 2013, 33 cancer trials involving PARP       inhibitors were completed and an additional 52 trials are currently open,       totalling 50 Phase I, 33 Phase II and 2 Phase III trials in this period       [EV a].
In 2011 the average per patient cost associated with a Phase I, II       and III trial in Oncology were reported to be $21,883, $73,303 and $65,900       respectively [EV c].
An estimate of the investment by companies into PARP       inhibitor trials is summarised in the following table:                                Phase           No.
of Trials           No.
of patients           Average               Total cost                             I           50           3,173           $69.4 million                             II           33           3,160           $231.6 million                             III           2           1,299           $85.6 million                          Impact on Patients     Since the initial Phase I trial (2003), clinical trials involving PARP       inhibitors have enrolled around 7,000 patients (approx.
750 of which were       recruited to more than one trial phase), with around 5,600 patients having       enrolled in trials opening January 2008 onwards [EV a, d].
From the       outset, the potential of PARP inhibitors was clear and two out of the 33       patients treated for malignant melanoma in the Phase I trial and five out       of the 40 patients treated in the Phase II trial (2005) (both outlined in       Section 2) are today (October 2013) alive and in remission [EV e].
When       recruited into the trials, all of these patients were diagnosed with       incurable disease with a life expectancy of just a few months.
A recent Phase II trial of the PARP inhibitor olaparib in BRCA-deficient       advanced breast cancer has shown not only that this drug is well       tolerated, but also a significant reduction in tumour size in 38% of       patients (9 of 24 patients) [EV f].
Similarly, a Phase II trial showed       that this drug was well tolerated in BRCA-deficient ovarian cancer       patients, with 33% (11 of 33 patients) showing reduced tumour size [EV g].
BRCA proteins play a major role in the response to and repair of       DNA double strand breaks through the homologous recombination repair       pathway, while PARP inhibitors play a crucial role in DNA single-strand       break repair.
Harmful mutations in BRCA genes produce a hereditary       breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families.
According to the       National Cancer Institute between 1 in 400 and 1 in 800 women will have a       BRCA mutation, which equates to a conservative estimate of around       40,000 women (1 in 800) in the UK; of these approx.
60% (24,000 women)       will develop breast cancer, and 15-40% (6,000-16,000 women) will develop       ovarian cancer.
The PARP inhibitor olaparib could therefore have a       significant impact on the lives of women diagnosed with breast- or ovarian       cancer.
Furthermore, PARP inhibitors offer the potential for       chemo-prevention, thereby allowing breast cancer patients to avoid       disfiguring surgery such as bilateral mastectomy and oophorectomy [EV d].
In addition, a recent small study demonstrated promising results in       patients with BRCA mutations after treatment with a new PARP inhibitor,       BMN 673; 18 out of 42 (42%) patients with ovarian or breast cancer showed       signs of tumour shrinkage after treatment [EV f].
