 Before embarking on a consideration of whether the law concerning trustee exemption clauses should be reformed the Law Commission recognised that it first needed to understand the prevalence, role and use of trustee exemption clauses to determine if they were "sufficiently widespread to warrant intervention" (Law Commission, Trustee Exemption Clauses, Law Com No 301, Cm6874, June 2006, para 3.28).
To that end they commissioned Dunn to undertake this socio-legal research.
With this role in mind, Dunn's research formed a crucial building block in the Law Commission's initial 2003 consultation paper, enabling the Law Commission to understand and contextualise the prevalence, role and use of trustee exemption clauses as well as the views of trustees, settlors and their legal advisors on the importance of the clauses (ibid).
The importance of the work was recognised at the time by the Law Commission which, in its Annual Report of 2003, stated that the "socio-legal research carried out by Dr Alison Dunn at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne greatly informed our work on Trustee Exemption Clauses" (IMP1), work which resulted in the Government's subsequent decision to introduce a non-statutory rule of disclosure.
Following consultation the Law Commission's final recommendations on trustee exemption clauses were published in 2006 (IMP2).
The responses to the Law Commission's consultation paper mapped on to and reinforced the findings from Dunn's research: "The consultation process has provided significant support for the claims reported by Dr Dunn" (para 5.98) (IMP2).
Whilst the Law Commission was keen in its consultation paper to propose statutory regulation, responses to the Law Commission's consultation paper reinforced Dunn's research findings that there was a danger of economically and socially damaging over-regulation in this field (para 5.97) (IMP2).
As a result, the findings of the underpinning research as to the risk of over-regulation and the consultation responses influenced a change of approach by the Law Commission in its final report: "The impression that settlors may not fully appreciate the import of trustee exemption clauses is supported by Dr Dunn's socio-economic research.
This found that settlors are generally not well informed about or particularly concerned with trustee exemption clauses, considering such clauses to be largely "administrative" provisions."
(paras 3.38, 5.17, 5.19 and 6.8) (IMP2).
The underpinning research therefore facilitated a more economically and practically appropriate form of regulation in this branch of law.
Consequently the Law Commission's final recommendations in 2006 abandoned their initial proposal for statutory regulation prohibiting certain types of exemption clauses and instead put forward a proposal for a new non-statutory rule of practice governing disclosure and explanation of exemption clauses.
Such a non-statutory rule meets two of the key requirements identified by Dunn's research which were that: (i) there needed to be some regulation of trustee exemption clauses to protect creators of trusts and those who benefit from a trust; and (ii) there needed to be better information available about trustee exemption clauses because those creators of trusts often have a lack of knowledge and understanding of the existence, role and import of trustees' exemption clauses and a general misunderstanding of the administration of trusts.
This proposal for a new non-statutory rule has the effect of changing the law by setting out a positive obligation requiring paid trustees to take reasonable steps to ensure that the creator of a trust is fully informed of the meaning and effect of a trustee exemption clause before the trust is made (thereby allowing the creator of the trust the opportunity, once fully informed, to reject the clause).
This recommendation by the Law Commission was praised by the Better Regulation Executive as "a proportionate risk-based approach to the issue" (page 8) (IMP3).
In 2010 the Ministry of Justice formally accepted the Law Commission's final recommendations and its proposal for a new non-statutory rule of practice governing disclosure and explanation of exemption clauses (which, as noted above, were informed by the research).
This new regulation and change of law was reported to Parliament along with a statement that the Ministry of Justice would be writing to representatives of the trust industry in England and Wales to encourage express adoption of the new rule within their codes of practices (IMP4, IMP5).
As a result, post-2010 the new non-statutory rule of disclosure has been widely adopted by the trust industry in England and Wales (IMP6).
This is a group of significant size (numbering their millions) given that the trust is a principal vehicle for the holding of private wealth in England and Wales.
Trusts are widely used in commercial and family contexts through settlements, wills, pensions, financial instruments (including international financial investments), charities and other third sector organisations (many of which operate internationally).
Alongside adoption by the trust industry, the trust sector regulatory bodies have developed their own codes of practice to ensure compliance with the new regulation, such as the Law Society (which regulates the legal profession) and the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners (which has a membership of over 17,000 and is the leading professional body for trust practitioners) see for example (IMP7).
In light of the extent of the trust industry, the new non-statutory rule of practice governing disclosure and explanation of exemption clauses that has been introduced has widespread application in England and Wales with the purpose of protecting both creators of trusts and those who benefit from them.
The rule has also formed the basis of reform proposals in other jurisdictions, such as in the recent proposed reforms in New Zealand, where the regulation of trustee exemption clauses is being actively debated.
The New Zealand Law Commission has recently proposed that trustee exemption clauses be regulated through a non-statutory rule of disclosure adapted from the one introduced in England and Wales (IMP8).
The Chief Executive of the Law Commission has confirmed "I hereby endorse the claims for impact as stated in the impact case study submitted by Dr Dunn.
The Law Commission is grateful to Dr Dunn for the research that she conducted on its behalf.
The research was helpful in indicating trends within trust practice, and the interviews that took place were very useful in providing an account of the experience of those operating in the field" (IMP9).
