     The research has alerted the UN and the EU to the argument that article       18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union       (hereinafter, the Charter) recognises the right of individuals not merely       to seek asylum and therefore not to be returned to persecution, but       also the right to be granted asylum.
The United Nations High       Commissioner for Refugees (hereinafter, UNHCR) has abandoned its       traditional position and now advocates an interpretation of article 18 of       the Charter that encompasses the broader interpretation argued for in the       underpinning research, basing its position on the analysis put forward in       the research.
As the UNHCR is an Agency of the United Nations, this change       in policy affects 193 countries in the world (out of 196 existing       countries).
The research has also influenced the way in which secondary EU       legislation (adopted in 2011) has developed the right to asylum in the       Charter, which includes the obligation of EU member states to grant       asylum.
Lawyers have cited the research before the Court of Justice of the       EU and it has led to changes in judicial attitudes to the right to asylum       in EU law, as well as to changes in attitudes by practitioners       representing refugees before administrative and judicial institutions.
The research has been applied in a number of ways, generating       international impact of universal scope (United Nations) and of regional       scope (EU institutions) by shaping the law and policy of international       organisations (the UN and the EU).
The research changed the policy of the United Nations High Commissioner       for Refugees.
The UNHCR, represented by Raza Hussain QC from Matrix       Chambers (IMP1), cited the research in its written and oral       submissions to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in         N.S.
v Secretary of State for the Home Department (C-411/10) (IMP2-3).
The UNHCR used the research to support its argument regarding the correct       (purposive) interpretation of article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental       Rights of the European Union.
When challenging the traditional narrow       interpretation of the right to asylum, the UNHCR's written submissions       read as follows: "The scope of the right protected by Article 18 goes       beyond protection from refoulement.
[ftnt 35: For a comprehensive       analysis leading to this conclusion see M-T Gil-Bazo, The Charter of       Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the right to be granted       asylum in the Union's Law [2008], Refugee Survey Quarterly, vol.
27 no.
3, pages 33-52 (Annex 21).]"
(February 2011) (IMP2).
Given the relevance of the detailed argumentation in the research, the       UNHCR also submitted the publication to the Court of Justice of the       European Union (hereinafter, CJEU) as an Annex to its written submissions       in N.S.
v Secretary of State for the Home Department (C-411/10).
This was the only academic paper submitted by the UNHCR to the Court in       support of its arguments (p. 41, February 2011) (IMP2).
THE UNHCR cited the research again in its `Statement on the Right To       Asylum', submitted to the CJEU in the case of Zuheyr Freyeh Halaf v         the Bulgarian State Agency for Refugees (C-528/11) to support its       statement that "[t]he scope of the right protected by Article 18 goes       beyond protection from refoulement" (para.
2.2.8.)
(IMP4).
The underpinning research has changed perceptions of asylum by members of       the European judiciary.
Judge Lennaerts of the CJEU writing       extra-judicially in an article published by the International and         Comparative Law Quarterly (2010, Vol.
59(2), at 289) endorsed and       cited the broader interpretation argued for in the underpinning research (IMP5).
The underpinning research also had impact in the proposal and adoption of       EU secondary legislation on asylum.
The European Commission (June 2008)       and the European Parliament (October 2011) invited Gil-Bazo to give expert       advice on the reform of asylum legislation.
In the context of the Commission's proposal for legislative reform on       asylum, the European Commission held an Expert Meeting with government       officials, UNHCR, judges and academics on 26 June 2008.
Gil-Bazo was one       of the seven European academics invited by the Commission to present her       views on the implications of article 18 for the reform of EU asylum       legislation.
In October 2009, the European Commission submitted its       proposal for the recast Directive on international protection including       the right of individuals to be granted protection.
Moreover, the       Commission referred to the meeting of June 2008 as one of the background       sources for its proposal (http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2009:0551:FIN:EN:PDF,       p. 3).
The Deputy Head of Unit, from the European Commission, states that       Gil-Bazo's research "was the only one [source/output] that had so       thoroughly researched the international context and rigorously analysed       the content and implications of this specific provision of the Charter.
It       proved therefore a precious source of information &#8212; and inspiration &#8212; for       our revision of the Qualification Directive" (IMP6).
The Commission's proposal was the subject of negotiations in the Council       of Ministers of the EU and in the European Parliament.
In this context, in       October 2011 the European Parliament held a hearing of experts to present       their views on the outstanding issues in the negotiations and invited       Gil-Bazo to address the European Parliament.
Thereafter (on 13 December       2011), the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers of the       European Union adopted Directive 2011/95/EU.
Recital 16 of this       Directive's Preamble states that it "respects ... the right to asylum of       applicants for asylum" set out in article 18 of the EU Charter of       Fundamental Rights.
Accordingly, the legislative text includes (in       articles 13 and 18 of the Directive) an express obligation on member       states to grant asylum to individuals who meet the criteria (http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2011:337:0009:0026:EN:PDF).
Asylum       has thus become a subjective right of individuals guaranteed by EU       secondary legislation.
The member of The European Parliament Secretariat       responsible for the procedure towards adoption of this Directive says that       with Gil-Bazo's "clear, quick, duly justified legal answers we were able       to tackle problems in legislative work at a technical, i.e.
legal level       that were acceptable for all parties involved" (IMP7).
The Special Issue of the Refugee Survey Quarterly in which the       underpinning research was published was formally presented in 2008 to the       meeting of the UNHCR Executive Committee, made up of government and UN       officials.
This made possible rapid dissemination of results among users       and beneficiaries, in particular among UNHCR personnel, and led to       invitations to provide expert legal advice and/or training to the UNHCR,       the European Union and, practitioners and NGOs, allowing for the further       dissemination of results to end users.
UNHCR Bureau for Europe's Head of       Policy and Legal Support Unit says that Gil-Bazo's research "has helped us       develop arguments that have formed central elements in recent       interventions before the Court of Justice of the EU [...].
We have also       used it extensively in interventions and discussions with states on       individual cases at national level; as well as in arguments around       legislation and practical procedures that should operate in Member States       in line with fundamental rights and protection principles [...].
We       believe that [Gil Bazo's] analysis &#8212; which looks into aspects of the       Charter's drafting history that are not otherwise documented &#8212; will       continue to provide an important foundation for much of our future work" (IMP8).
The research has also changed attitudes among practitioners involved in       litigation on refugee rights.
Following the entry into force of the EU       Lisbon Treaty in December 2009, the European Legal Network on Asylum       (ELENA) concluded that it was important to train its members (legal       practitioners across Europe) on the litigation possibilities offered by       the new legal framework, notably the legally binding nature of the Charter       of Fundamental Rights of the EU.
To this end, it organised a course on The         Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human         Rights as "asylum courts" where Gil-Bazo presented the underpinning       research (May 2010).
At this event, ELENA also distributed hard copies of       the underpinning research.
Likewise, the Academy of European Law       (established by the European Union in 1992 in order to train lawyers       across Europe for the better application of EU Law; www.era.int)       invited Gil-Bazo in October 2012 to deliver its annual training on EU       asylum law on the specific impact of the Charter in the field of EU asylum       law.
In making this commitment to human rights-related capacity-building,       ELENA has contributed to the dissemination of results among end users and       beneficiaries across Europe.
The Senior Legal and Policy Officer from the       European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE) says that Gil-Bazo's       research "has been an `eye-opener' to many lawyers active in the field of       asylum and refugee protection.
It has provided new insights into its       potential meaning, not only from a purely academic perspective but also       from a practitioner's perspective.
In arguing convincingly that the right       to asylum must be interpreted as enhancing the subjective nature of the       right of individuals to be granted asylum when they meet the criteria       beyond the traditional interpretation of asylum, it has strengthened the       argumentation used in individual cases but also in policy documents."
(IMP9).
Questionnaires completed anonymously by participants at an Asylum Workshop       held in Brussels on 24 June 2013 show excellent feedback regarding the       Workshop's ability to raise their awareness, improve their understanding,       identify good practice and/or policies, and introduce them to new       approaches concerning the protection of the subjective right.
One       participant wrote: "an excellent workshop, bringing together a very strong       mix of academics and practitioners.
It will certainly serve as the basis       for further work and research within this field" (IMP10).
