     Grant's research team worked closely with government bodies, the       biopesticides industry, growers and retailers and made recommendations for       new regulatory systems.
The primary impact has been the facilitation and       implementation of a new regulatory framework for biopesticides in the UK       and Europe.
The research has been widely recognised as being of practical       importance to the agricultural economy and the crop protection industry       (see especially sources 1, 2, 3 and 8).
This is demonstrated by the wide       range of audiences to which the team was asked to present its findings,       including: the European Parliament Agriculture and Rural Development       Committee; and companies such as Syngenta PLC and Sainsbury's.
Beneficiaries and training     In 2003 the UK Pesticides Safety Directorate (PSD) introduced a Pilot       Project to facilitate the registration of biopesticides.
This was       converted to a Biopesticides Scheme in 2006 offering pre- submission       meetings, reduced registration fees and a `Biopesticides Champion' within       PSD.
Grant's research studied this process of regulatory innovation and       worked closely with PSD to i) provide training to key members of PSD staff       to facilitate the achievement of their objectives and ii) enable the       development of a model that specified the conditions under which       regulatory innovation was likely to occur.
The project was characterised by effective engagement with a range of key       stakeholders.
There were three principal beneficiaries of the research:            Regulators working in the PSD/CRD (sources 5 and 7);       Decision-makers in the European Commission and the European Parliament         concerned with a revision of the relevant regulatory framework (source         6);       Manufacturers of biopesticides organised in the International         Biocontrol Manufacturers Association (IBMA) (source 8).
Grant and the team engaged in a continuous dialogue to co-produce       knowledge with the PSD regulators between 2004 and 2007, and organised       three training events at Warwick HRI and the PSD Head Quarters in York.
These knowledge transfer events used the results of the research to       improve the regulators' understanding of the underlying science and       principles of regulation (sources 5 and 7).
Staff who attended these       events have confirmed the on-going impact of Grant's research since 2008       and in her testimony a source from the CRD writes: "The series of training       events have had a long term impact in assisting technical evaluations by       better understanding the underlying science and biology related to some of       the potential biopesticide products" (source 7).
The events also       facilitated the development and subsequent implementation of a new       regulatory system more apposite to biopesticide usage (source 4).
Designing and implementing a regulatory system for biopesticide           usage in the UK/EU     Regulation occurs at both a UK and EU level and the two systems are       intertwined.
The regulators took up the findings and recommendations of       Grant's research and a new regulatory framework at the UK and EU level,       which took account of his work, ultimately came into force (sources 4, 5,       6 and 7).
Grant was subsequently coopted as an Independent Advisor to the       Availability Action Plan Implementation Group of the National Pesticides       Strategy, which met until 2012 when it was dissolved and replaced by a       group with a narrower membership (source 4).
As a direct result of his       research, the number of products registered for use in the UK has       increased, with 10 new biopesticide active substances registered since the       scheme started in 2007 (source 4 and 8).
This compares with a low rate of       registration before then, for example 3 between 1985 and 1997.
In turn,       this has broadened the range of options for farmers and heightened       environmental sustainability (source 4).
The research has had impact beyond the UK regulatory policy context and       has facilitated change at the EU level (sources 5 and 6).
In 2008 Grant       was invited by the European Parliament Committee on Agriculture and Rural       Affairs to advise them on the future of crop protection policy in Europe.
His team also published a report, entitled `The Consequences of `Cut-Off'       Criteria for Biopesticides', for a committee of the European Parliament       and addressed questions by committee members in Brussels.
Through       representation on the Steering Group of the European Commission policy       action REBECA, the project informed and influenced policy discussion and       decision-making across the EU (source 6).
In 2009 the EU passed a new and       more effective package of legislation, which involved the substantial       revision of the existing directive and two new directives.
The legislation       made specific provision for enhancing the use of biocontrol agents.
This       led to a new zonal system of registration across member states, which had       been consistently advocated in Grant's research presentations to       policy-makers.
Mechanisms for achieving impact     A range of impact activities also engaged manufacturers of biopesticides       and brought them in closer conversation with the UK PSD and EU regulatory       bodies: two well-attended one-day conferences attracting 100 participants       from regulation and industry (sources 5 and 7); a series of workshops       organised across the EU as part of the REBECA project (source 6); and       presentations at the Annual Conference in 2009 and workshops of the IBMA,       for example at Grantham in 2010 (source 9).
The IBMA had formerly been       afflicted by a lack of knowledge and understanding of the regulatory       context.
Through these activities Grant provided necessary training.
Based       on the findings of his research he was able to suggest new strategies and       tactics that could be used by the IBMA in making its case for greater       regulation to the EU and governments of Member States.
This work       significantly enhanced the quality and effectiveness of the IBMA as a key       stakeholder (source 8).
