     Mawdsley's research programme has enhanced understanding among key policy       actors of the potential problems and benefits of increasing European       co-operation on defence and security technologies policy.
She has adopted       a deliberate strategy of collaborating with key government-funded think       tanks (e.g.
Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik, the Deutsche Gesellschaft       f&#252;r Ausw&#228;rtige Politik and the Flemish Peace Institute) to promote wider       use of her research findings by policy-makers, parliamentarians, and       non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
In addition, she has developed       close links with policy-makers, leading to invitations to the 2008, 2010       and 2012 EU armaments policy conferences under the respective EU       presidencies of France, Belgium and Cyprus, where she was one of five       academic observers.
Her approach has helped to ensure that all three       strands of her work on armaments and security technologies policies have       informed policy debates.
First, Mawdsley's early research at Newcastle on armaments co-operation       underpinned a series of policy papers that she wrote during her Marie       Curie Fellowship, including a report she co-authored with Quille       (International Security Information Service), which was written originally       for the Foreign Affairs Committee of the European Parliament and       subsequently published in a longer version (The European Security       Strategy: A New Framework for ESDP and Equipping the EU Rapid Reaction       Force, ISIS Report, Brussels, 2003, available at: http://www.isis-       europe.eu/sites/default/files/publications-downloads/reports_4.pdf).
This examined how the EU might fill its military capability gaps, given       the unlikeliness of additional funding, through innovative cooperation       methods, and drew on her research into the conditions under which       cooperative measures like pooling and sharing might succeed.
This work had       a lasting influence on armaments policy debates.
In a 2008 strategy paper       on capacity sharing, French Lieutenant-Colonel Coquet, writing for the       leading Paris-based think tank, Institut fran&#231;ais des relations       internationales (Ifri), draws heavily on Mawdsley and Quille's proposals       for rationalising military equipment needs through pooling and sharing       [IMP1, pp.14, 18, 20, 22, 36, 38].
Mawdsley and Quille's work was also the       only non-official document cited in a report from the 2009 Conference of       European National Armaments Directors, the senior civil servants       responsible for armaments policy in each state, which strongly urged the       pooling and sharing of military capabilities [IMP2, p.80].
The following       year pooling and sharing was formally endorsed as an EU policy by       Ministers of Defence, and the Ghent Framework established to enable this.
More recently, Mawdsley's research on the troubled history of armaments       co-operation in Europe has continued to inform papers written by key       policy actors.
For example, the first EU Chief of Military Staff Graham       Messervy-Whiting and ex-UK ambassador Alyson Bailes, who both served in       the Western European Union (WEU), drew on her account of the cultural and       ideological differences between French and British defence procurement       policies in their 2011 paper on the death of the WEU [IMP3, pp.30ff].
Second, the underpinning research on the effects of EU armaments policy       on member states and how those states have responded has been used to       inform policy-makers in several countries, including Germany, Iceland and       Romania.
For example, the 2012 briefing for the German representative on       the French Defence White Book Commission (a major review of French defence       policy) included a copy of her co-authored paper (with Kempin and       Steinicke) on the development of, and problems with, Franco-British       defence agreements [IMP4].
In his 2011 article for Infosera, the       in-house magazine of the Romanian Ministry of Defence, the Director       General of the Romanian Directorate of Defence Intelligence draws on       earlier work by Mawdsley (with Kempin and Steinicke) to argue that while       there may be some co-operation between larger states there remains little       evidence of successful EU-wide co-operation [IMP5, p.11].
Mawdsley's       analysis of the likely effects of EU armaments policies on smaller states       was the basis for a substantial section of a report commissioned by the       Icelandic Defence Agency (2009) on the consequences of EU accession for       Icelandic defence policy [IMP6, pp.32-7].
Her work has also informed       reports by think tanks in France, Germany, Hungary and Poland.
Third, Mawdsley's recent analysis of the development of EU and member       state policy affecting the homeland security industry has informed the       work of parliamentarians and leading NGOs campaigning for export controls       on security technologies.
Her preliminary research was presented to an       audience of policy-makers, parliamentarians and NGOs at an event       co-organised by the Flemish Government and several leading think tanks as       part of the Belgian EU presidency activities (November 2010).
The evidence       presented was subsequently used to inform a critical response to recent       developments in EU defence and security industry policies in a policy       paper published by the European Parliament Group for the United European       Left/Nordic Green Left [IMP7, pp.31, 42-3, 47].
Her fuller analysis of the       homeland security industry in Europe was funded by the Flemish Peace       Institute and launched at the Flemish Parliament in February 2013 to an       audience of 32 Flemish and European parliamentarians, representatives of       the Flemish export licensing authority, NGOs and journalists.
The       influential NGO Statewatch has posted the full report on their website and       her detailed analysis of the gaps in export controls and the policies       shaping the homeland security industry in Europe is already informing the       work of several NGOs, including the Campaign Against the Arms Trade,       Saferworld and the Quaker Council for European Affairs [IMP8].
A senior       researcher and lobbyist for Campagne tegen Wapenhandel (Campaign       Against the Arms Trade, Netherlands) has highlighted the important       contribution that this research has made to their understanding of this       dimension of the arms trade:     "Understanding this sector is of crucial importance for civil society       researchers, lobbyists and activists in the arms control community, as       well as those involved in monitoring the increasing role of security       technology in government's internal security infrastructure.
Dr.       Mawdsley's report has helped us to better understand the recent and likely       future developments in EU policies on security technologies.
It has       provided new insights into export controls of security technologies, which       we are using to inform our campaigning work in the Netherlands and the EU"       [IMP9].
In sum, Mawdsley's research on the benefits and problems of increasing       co-operation in European armaments and security technologies policy has       reached and informed key defence and security policy actors in       governments, think tanks and NGOs in the EU, Germany, France, Belgium and       several other European countries.
It has been systematically influential       throughout the stages of the policy process: influencing the very       preliminary stages where policy possibilities are imagined by key actors       (e.g., Coquet); becoming an important point of reference as possibilities       are narrowed down; and remaining influential as policy preferences are       established and institutionalised.
As a result, it has made a distinctive       contribution to policy debates about pooling and sharing, the effects of       EU armaments policy on member states, and the political significance of       the development of the homeland security industry in Europe.
