     The findings and deliberative poll methodology had a direct and enduring       effect on the understanding and attitudes of key stakeholders in education       policy in Northern Ireland.
It has provided significant benefits in two       areas.
First, its findings have consistently been used by policy actors to       demonstrate informed public support for more sharing in education.
Second,       it has been widely recognised as the leading example of best practice in       public consultation on education policy in Northern Ireland.
Demonstrating Support for Shared Education     The key research findings have made a distinct contribution to how       education policy actors understand public attitudes to sharing in       education and have been used to support arguments for shared education       policies because they are widely accepted as providing robust and reliable       evidence of informed parental support.
Most recently, the Ministerial       Advisory Group on Advancing Shared Education (MAG), set up by the       Education Minister to advise on the future of shared education in Northern       Ireland, cited the results of the poll in its March 2013 report, Advancing         Shared Education [IMP1, pp.84 and 92], as evidence that a majority       of parents support various forms of sharing in education.
It is the only       academic source used in the report to provide evidence about parents'       views.
The research was also quoted by two statutory bodies, the Northern       Ireland Community Relations Council (NICRC) [IMP2, pp.
6, 11] and the       Equality Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI) [IMP3, p. 9], in their       submissions to the MAG's consultation process.
The MAG's reference to the       poll's results &#8212; six years after it took place &#8212; and the use of the       research by other stakeholders in the intervening period provides strong       evidence of its enduring impact.
The deliberative poll was cited in the 2010 "Challenge Paper", Ensuring         the Good Relations Work in Our Schools Counts [IMP4], published by       the Good Relations Forum, a commission established under the auspices of       NICRC and ECNI.
The paper identifies shared education as a significant       strategic area for Government reform arguing that it is a crucial vehicle       for social integration.
It uses the results of the poll to support the       claim that "people want more sharing with 71% [in the Omagh poll]       specifically stating that they would support integrated education" [IMP4,       p.29].
The research has been used by other education stakeholders,       nationally and locally.
For example, the Council for Catholic Maintained       Schools (CCMS) developed its own response to the education policy       implications of the research and discussed it at its executive committee       meeting in November 2008 [IMP5] while Drumragh Integrated College (an       integrated school in Omagh) cited the deliberative poll as evidence of a       "groundswell of support for integrated education in Omagh" in its 2012       development proposal [IMP6, p.3].
This reflects a broader awareness of the research findings among key       education policy actors.
The Director of the Equality and All-Ireland       Directorate in DENI has said that the research is "something which I don't       think anybody working in this area would be unaware of or       certainly shouldn't be unaware of" [IMP7].
In Omagh, the poll was       an important catalyst for the development of a shared site, at the old       Lisanelly army barracks, for six post-primary schools of different       denominations, which received DENI support in 2008 and planning permission       in 2013.
The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Council for Catholic       Maintained Schools (CCMS) has said that the deliberative poll "created a       context in which Lisanelly could move forward, I'm quite sure about that"       [IMP8].
Similarly, the Project Director for the Lisanelly development said       "it brought about a change in peoples' attitude and also it was useful in       that it was quite clear that once people understood what it was about,       they were actually very positive about the idea of shared education"       [IMP9].
Influencing the Approach to Public Consultation on Education Policy     The methodological example set by the Omagh deliberative poll continues       to influence the attitudes of key education stakeholders to effective       consultation processes.
The Good Relations Forum paper [IMP4, pp.15 and       40] recommends deliberative polling as an appropriate consultation method.
The Senior Development Officer at the Northern Ireland Council for       Integrated Education (NICIE) described the deliberative poll as the "Rolls       Royce" of consultation methods: "that was the way to do it.
If you had the       money that would be the way to do it [now]" [IMP10].
The Chief Executive       Officer of CCMS recalled "... it was a very valuable process.
It proved       the value, if nothing else, of giving people information and asking them       to challenge preconceived notions" and his Deputy said "it did influence       the type of methodology that we used in respect of the general approach to       consultations of creating an informed context against which people,       parents, stakeholders would be asked to respond" [IMP8].
The research has also influenced attitudes to consultation processes       within the Department of Education.
A DENI senior civil servant said the       draft DENI legislation on area based education planning, which emphasises       the "involvement of relevant interests" in the planning process, was       influenced by the experience of being involved in the Omagh deliberative       poll: "what it certainly I think has done is influenced our thinking       about, if not our practice, about how we consult and engage on these sorts       of complex issues and I think the most powerful thing out of the poll is       the recognition that actually the tried and tested unthinking methods of       consultation on issues as complex as education are of limited use.
The       poll I think proves that.
The differences between T1 and T2 measurements       show that there's a huge value, in fact a necessity, in investing the time       and effort and providing people with information about the issues that       you're expecting them to give a view on" [IMP7].
