     Clark's research on the 2012 elections had direct effects on:            the recommendations of the Scottish Parliament's Local Government and         Regeneration         Committee's inquiry into the 2012 Scottish Local Government Elections;         and       the campaign strategy of some Scottish National Party candidates and         agents.
Informing the Electoral Process     First, Clark's research directly influenced the recommendations made in       the Scottish Parliament's       Local Government and Regeneration Committee's Report on the 2012         Scottish Local Government         Elections (June 2013) [IMP1].
The aim of the Committee's inquiry was       to review the 2012 elections       and make recommendations to the Scottish Government for measures to       enhance local       democracy.
Clark's research contributed directly to the Committee's       inquiry in four main ways:     (i) A pre-publication version of Clark (2013) [1] was included in the       briefing papers for the       initial Committee session in November 2012 [IMP2];     (ii) Clark was the only academic researcher invited to give expert oral       evidence to the       Committee in November 2012 [IMP3];     (iii) Clark submitted additional written evidence to the inquiry in March       2013 [IMP4];     (iv) Clark was further invited to an extended meeting directly with the       MSPs acting as Reporters       for the Committee in March 2013 [IMP1, Annexe A, pp.28-32].
The Parliamentary Report [IMP1] explicitly cites Clark's evidence in       support of two       recommendations:     (1) It recommends that public information campaigns should be "better       targeted at under-represented groups to assist with their inclusion in the       democratic process" [IMP1, para.17].
The Report explicitly states that this recommendation is directly       informed by Clark's evidence in       his meeting with the Reporters: "Dr Alistair Clark from Newcastle       University told us that it may       be easier to identify the reasons for low voter turnout in areas once 2011       census data is       available and suggested a need to engage better and more often with       student, ethnic minority       and itinerant populations" [IMP1, para.16].
(2) It recommends that an alternative to alphabetical ordering of       candidates on ballot papers       should be "looked at in time for the 2017 Scottish local government       elections" and that the       Electoral Commission uses "opportunities that arise in the interim period       to trial potential       solutions" [IMP1, para.109].
In paragraphs 105-7, the Report       refers to Clark's written evidence       as well as his meeting with the Reporters.
In particular, it cites his       finding that there was a       significant statistical relationship between ballot position and the       relative vote share of       candidates from the same party to support the argument that alphabetical       ordering       disadvantages some candidates [IMP1, para.106].
The Report also       emphasises that based on       his further examination of the ballot paper ordering issue [IMP4], Clark       "suggested a degree of       caution in proceeding with any change" [IMP1, para.107].
Moreover, this is       reflected in the       Committee's recommendation that different potential solutions should be       considered before       any decision is taken.
More generally, Clark's research re-assured the Committee that STV was       easy to use and turnout       was relatively high for standalone local elections as well as providing       more detailed analysis of how       STV had worked in practice.
His work was described as "very much       appreciated" by John       McCormick, Electoral Commissioner for Scotland [IMP3, Col.1434].
Informing Party Strategy     Second, Clark's research also made a distinct and material contribution       to improving the       understanding of effective party strategy under STV among party agents and       candidates,       especially in the Scottish National Party (SNP).
Success under STV depends       on strategic vote       management: parties and candidates need to understand how to maximise the       number of their       candidates who will be elected in each constituency.
In 2007, the SNP were       widely regarded as       having failed to maximise the number of seats that they won by offering       too few candidates.
To       help to avoid this problem in 2012, Clark was invited to deliver a       presentation on the operation of       the 2007 elections and his preliminary research on the build-up to the       2012 elections to a closed       party plenary session at the SNP Spring Conference (10th March       2012).
The session was attended       by approximately 250 SNP candidates or their election agents.
This       represents around 40% of all       SNP candidates (n=613), and almost all those in attendance at the       Conference, with the session       advertised in the programme as one "all candidates and agents should       attend" [IMP5].
Audience feedback from the session indicated that 79% of respondents       (n=161) agreed with the       statement: "The session will inform how I campaign during the 2012 council       elections" [IMP6].
In       their qualitative feedback, participants gave several specific examples of       how their campaign       strategy would change as a result of Clark's research [IMP7]:     "Didn't really understand STV before.
Will be campaigning for 2nd and 3rd       preferences as       well &#8212; thank you"     "Our campaign was very much based on the need to get voters for us 1 and       2.
Now we       may have to chase votes 3 and 4, also"     "Will affect content of campaign literature &#8212; taking account of       inter-party transfers as well as       intra-party"     "I now have a much clearer understanding of STV and feel more confident       when       campaigning and explaining STV to voters and asking for their preferences"     Other participants indicated that the session had reassured them that the       party strategy made       sense [IMP7]:     "Has added a why to the how of STV campaigning &#8212; I now know precisely why       we are doing       things the way we are!"
"It removed my concerns over fielding two candidates and maybe splitting       the vote and       ending up with zero"     Clark also organised a workshop open to all candidates and parties at the       Convention of Scottish       Local Authorities (COSLA) Conference Centre, Edinburgh (12th       March 2012) on Elections under         the Single Transferable Vote: A Workshop for Candidates and Councillors.
He presented his       research findings, with participation from the Electoral Reform Society       and the General Secretary       of Irish political party Fianna F&#225;il.
Thirty candidates and councillors       attended with representatives       from all the major Scottish political parties and several minor parties,       including a team from the       Green Party, and Independents.
In feedback, 60% of respondents (n=20)       agreed with the       statement: "The session will inform how I campaign during the 2012 council       elections" [IMP8].
In sum, Clark's research on the use of STV in Scottish local elections       has reached the key       Parliamentary Committee considering the process of local elections in       Scotland and has directly       informed their recommendations for changes to the electoral process.
In       addition, approximately       1/4 of SNP candidates or their agents (161/613) indicated that Clark's       research would inform their       campaign strategy in the 2012 local government elections.
