     The role played by low-cost private schools in serving the educational       needs of the poor was not taken into account by any significant       organisation before the E.G.
West Centre began disseminating its research;       since doing so, numerous agencies have become involved, to the ultimate       benefit of poor families in developing countries.
The Economist (IMP8)       noted that the "pioneering research" of the E.G.
West Centre led to this       movement.
Examples here illustrate both the nature of the impact and the       explicit link to the E.G.
West Centre's research.
International agencies and governments : Erstwhile       Secretary of State for International Development, the Rt.
Hon.
Andrew       Mitchell writes: "Professor Tooley's and the E.G.
West Centre's work on       private education in developing countries...had a significant impact on       Conservative Party and UK Government policy on education in developing       countries, and in turn has helped improve the situation on the ground for       large numbers of poor children and influenced UK and international       thinking on how to make `education for all' a reality."
(IMP1).
The research inspired, inter alia, a voucher program in Pakistan       which enabled "hundreds of thousands of poor girls to attend       low-fee private schools", and the &#163;300 million Girls Education       Challenge Fund "which seeks to stimulate non-state providers to get up         to a million girls into school in the hardest places."
(IMP1).
Crucially, the research "provided the evidence upon which we could       situate our proposed policy; and it also opened up a space in       public debate which meant that a policy approach recognising diversity         of education supply in developing countries would be accepted."
(IMP1).
See also (IMP5).
The Lagos State Government and DFID (Department for International       Development) Nigeria have been heavily influenced by the research.
Explicitly based on the E.G.
West Centre's findings, DFID created a &#163;25       million `Making Markets Work for the Poor' project, designed to further       improve the workings of the low-cost private school market.
The       Association of Formidable Education Development (AFED) is the association       of low-cost private schools in Lagos, with over 3,000 school members.
Previously, the Lagos State Government set out to close all AFED schools.
The E.G.
West Centre research `explicitly ... led them to a change of       heart' (IMP3).
A long process of engagement with the government       led to the announcement in April 2013 that all AFED school children would       now be able to sit the state primary school exams, formally forbidden to       them and for the majority effectively ending their school careers.
This       reform allows 600,000 children in AFED schools to be liberated to continue       further education (IMP3).
From denial to condemnation to active       support: this process has been undergone by several governments and       agencies, as a direct result of this research.
International private non-profit organisations: Non-profits       have brought around $350 million to invest in low-cost private education,       directly as a result of Newcastle's research.
One such is the microfinance       organisation, Edify, USA, which has made loans to over 600 schools in the       Dominican Republic, Ghana and Rwanda, directly impacting the lives of over       130,000 children, and will grow to finance 4,000 schools, impacting 1       million children, by 2017.
The President and CEO, writes: "Prof James       Tooley and the E.G.
West Centre are directly responsible for Edify and       Opportunity International providing loans and other education resources to       low-cost private schools between 2008 and 2013.
Neither organization would       be in this field without the invaluable research and direct assistance of       Prof. Tooley and the Centre."
(IMP6).
Indeed, "Prof. Tooley       directly inspired my life's work.
As a result, I believe that, over the       next 20 years, 20 million impoverished children will receive a much better       education than otherwise would have been possible."
(IMP6).
Another organisation is Gray Matters Capital (GMC), which created the       Indian School Finance Company to disburse loans to low-cost private       schools.
It has disbursed $11 million to date, and increased loan capital       to $140 million, explicitly inspired by the Newcastle research.
The       founder and President of GMC notes that the E.G.
West Centre's research       has "literally been lifechanging": His organisation's "entire vision...has       tightened to focus on the APS [affordable private schools] sector" (IMP4).
"The ground-breaking research of the E.G.
West Centre changed the entire       focus of our visions, ambition and work" (IMP4).
The IDP Foundation has similarly been inspired to change the direction of       its work: The IDP (Innovation Development Progress) President, notes "The       IDP Foundation was formed in 2008 and, after becoming familiar with the       work of James Tooley, we decided to focus our efforts on the existing low       cost private school sector" (IMP7).
The Foundation has currently       invested $5 million in creating loans and programme development for       educational improvements in Ghana, impacting at least 27,000 children in       105 schools, with the aim of reaching 1,200 schools over the next 4 years.
"The inspiration for all this work was the result of the findings and       writings of James Tooley"; "Without his writings and research... we would       not have even been aware of the global magnitude of this existing low cost       private school sector, much less in a position to develop a program to       address its needs.
As such he has had an enormous impact on the work of       the IDP Foundation" (IMP7).
International for-profit organisations Corporations have also made       investments in low-cost private schools, explicitly as a result of the       E.G.
West Centre's research.
Omidyar Foundation, Google Foundation and       other American companies have invested in low cost private school chains       in Africa, including Bridge International Academies in Kenya, and Omega       Schools in Ghana and Sierra Leone.
Pearson created its Affordable Learning       Fund for low-cost private education, initially capitalised with $15       million, with Sir Michael Barber as Chairman.
Sir Michael writes: "I know       of few academics who have been so effectively countercultural to the point       of ultimately winning the argument, on the basis of original and       constantly repeated evidence, effective advocacy and persistence."
(IMP2).
Professor Stephen Ball writes, `Tooley performs all three of the       functions of policy entrepreneur.
He has identified particular educational       needs and offers innovative means to satisfy them; he is willing to take       financial and emotional risks in pursuing change...and has been       able to assemble and coordinate networks of individuals and organisations,       local and transnational, with the capabilities and resources needed to         achieve change....He gets things done!'
(IMP10).
A       `movement' has been created based on this research, which is impacting and       will continue to impact the lives, as detailed above, of millions of poor       children across the developing world (IMP8, IMP9).
