     The CAT was a significant development in the assessment of people with       aphasia.
The CAT provides therapists with a unique, comprehensive, single       test which gives a profile of relative strengths and weaknesses in       patients' language processing; a way of assessing how other cognitive       difficulties are impacting on their language, the likely course of       recovery, and a means to assess how their aphasia impacts on their lives.
At its publication, it was embedded within current theoretical       understanding and continues to be accessible to clinicians.
The CAT is now       widely used in the UK and internationally by Speech and Language       Therapists (SLTs) and researchers working with people with aphasia.
The       accessible format of the test and the comprehensive information obtained       has resulted in its translation into a number of languages and its use in       clinical trials and research projects.
1.
CAT sales/Distribution     Although there is a restricted market for tests such as these, the CAT       has sold over 1600 copies worldwide (1459 of these sales since 2008) with       significant sales in the UK and in other English speaking nations       (Ireland/Australia/US) (IMP1).
In 2003 Code and Heron identified       224 relevant SLT departments (i.e.
working with an adult neurogenic       population) in the UK.
These may have more than one therapist within them,       but it is common practice for one copy of an assessment to be bought for       one department.
In addition there are SLT training courses (n=22) in the       UK and Ireland, researchers and a limited number of independent       clinicians.
With this in mind, CAT sales represent considerable reach.
Following the development of the CAT, other researchers developed software       to facilitate the scoring/interpretation of data (IMP2); this       development reflects the widespread use of the CAT and the software has       already sold approx.
90 copies since its publication in 2011.
The       accessible format and comprehensive information has resulted in the test       being translated into Arabic and there is on-going work on a Dutch/Flemish       and Spanish version, allowing the test to be used with non-English       speakers.
Given the extensive time, resources and expertise that are       needed to translate CAT into different languages, this is indicative of       CAT's significance for clinical practice and its value to practitioners (IMP3).
The continued sales, use of existing tests and on-going translations       ensure current and future impact for clinicians and the patients they work       with.
2.
Impact on Speech and Language Therapists     Clinicians require a tool which facilitates rapid and reliable diagnosis       of aphasia.
Early reviews of CAT acknowledged the advantages set out by       the authors, recognising the test as theoretically well-constructed and       clinically feasible and as a useful tool for `targeting therapy towards       specific goals, which take due consideration of both the impairment and       the participation level associated with aphasia' (p78i).
It was identified       as a valuable development in aphasia testing, `useful in diagnosing the       individual's impairment, assessing the overall severity of the language       disorder and predicting and following changes in the severity of aphasia       over time' (p89ii) (IMP4).
The `Disability Questionnaire' (DQ) (a       section within the CAT) was one of the first objective measures of the       wider impact of aphasia within the WHO framework of impairment, activity       and participation.
Concepts from the DQ have been taken forward within a       more recent assessment, the Communication Disability Profile, and its       authors describe the DQ as its `forerunner'.
The popularity of the CAT and       interest about its psychometric properties is reflected in the fact that       the 2010 article is one of the most read (top ten) Aphasiology articles       accessed on-line (April 2013) (IMP5); Aphasiology is the foremost       journal read by clinicians and researchers interested in language       difficulties resulting from brain damage.
Whether the reported benefits of CAT had resulted in changes to clinical       practice was considered via a focus group of SLTs in the North East of       England (IMP6) and a survey to aphasia clinicians and researchers       (IMP7).
The focus group was led by 2 independent researchers and       was part of a normal meeting of a specialist group of SLTs working with       people with aphasia in hospitals and in community settings (May 2013).
17       people attended the meeting.
Two groups considered questions about their       use of the CAT, the sub-tests used, its strengths and weaknesses and its       benefits to them and their patients, in the context of a wider discussion       about current assessment practice.
Within the focus group, people reported       using the CAT (or sub-tests of it) as a starting point, guiding further       more detailed assessment, particularly in a community setting.
SLTs       described using the results to inform diagnosis, direct further       assessment, inform intervention and monitor overall progress across the       aphasia pathway.
The comprehensive nature of the CAT was considered its       main strength, with therapists also reporting that it was easy to use and       had clear instructions and scoring rules.
Some individuals reported that       it had benefited their practice/client care by providing a `rounded'       picture of clients' strengths and weaknesses (not just focusing on       impairment/less chance of missing subtle impairments) and facilitating a       smoother transition between different therapists (IMP6).
A survey was designed to consider the use and utility of language       assessment in aphasia.
People were asked about their work with people with       aphasia, whether formal and informal assessments were used, what formal       assessments were used and specific questions about the usefulness of a       range of common assessments including the CAT.
The survey was sent out via       two independent researchers to mailing lists of specialist aphasia       clinicians nationally and internationally.
243 responses were received; a       high return rate considering the small number of potential recipients.
68%       of respondents were based in the UK, with a range of postcodes reflecting       national coverage.
32% of respondents were based internationally       (including Finland, USA, Singapore, and Germany) with a high number from       Australia and Ireland.
Respondents were primarily clinicians with       extensive experience (5-10 years or more) of working with people with       aphasia (IMP7).
The survey revealed that over 80% of respondents were using the CAT (in       whole or part) with an additional 10% reporting they would use if       available.
Over 75% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that the CAT       had `benefitted me as a therapist' and that it `yields useful information       which helps in diagnosis', `yields useful information which helps in goals       setting' and `yields useful information which helps in planning       treatment'.
The majority of participants were using sub-tests of CAT       rather than using the test in its entirety.
The benefits highlighted by       individual respondents replicated those identified by the authors,       reviewers and participants in the focus group: standardised,       well-researched, quick and easy to use, comprehensive overview of       strengths and weaknesses.
Some of the benefits to people with aphasia were       identified as: gives patient and family a realistic understanding of       strengths and weaknesses, easy to use and easy to show outcomes.
Respondents were using a range of other assessments alongside CAT, often       to use sub-tests with more items or that allowed increased consideration       of errors.
There were a number of comments that suggested that the       addition of CAT had changed their assessment practice.
For example, "I         rarely use this (BDAE) now, preferring the CAT.
I do sometimes use         yes/no questions"; and "[PALPA provides] info on linguistic         variables that help identify nature of the impairment and therapy         planning, can be a next step if isolated difficulty on CAT but I use far         less since CAT published".
The focus group and survey results show       that the proposed use and advantages of the CAT are reflected in current       clinical practice (IMP7).
An additional survey was sent to all of the SLT educational       establishments in the UK and Ireland (n= 22).
As with the main survey, the       questionnaire asked about the CAT within the context of questions about       other aphasia assessments, looking at student familiarity with       assessments, their contribution to student learning, and the utility of       the assessment.
12 responses were received, including both undergraduate       and postgraduate courses.
All of the respondents said that students will       be familiar with CAT both in the classroom and clinical practice.
In       addition, all of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that the CAT       `contributes to student learning and knowledge of aphasia'.
One respondent       stated "based on the cognitive neuropsychological model, it can help         students come to grips with the model and practical aspects of clinical         assessment".
Student familiarity with and use of the CAT means that       the impact of CAT on clinical practice will continue to strengthen as the       new generation of SLTs enter practice.
The utility of CAT in assessment       and diagnosis was reinforced by respondents, for example, "[It] allows         the student to consider the main aspects of aphasia that need to be         assessed, facilitates practice in obtaining a picture of client         difficulties and abilities and sign-posts where further assessment is         needed to gain a more indepth language profile, practice in differential         diagnosis..." (IMP8).
3.
Wider clinical impact     The comprehensive nature, reliability and validity of the CAT have made       it one of the first choices for research studies about people with       aphasia.
Aphasia therapy research is at a transitional stage, moving from       a weaker evidence base (single case studies, case series) to a more robust       base of group studies and randomised control trials.
Diagnostically, the       CAT has been used in many recent single case studies and case series,       providing a language profile for participants, allowing clinicians to       select effective treatments for individuals with a similar profile.
Of       greater significance, the CAT is currently being used as the outcome       measure in a number of larger trials.
For example, `Aphasia Language and       Functional Intervention (LIFT), Australia, and `Programme for Intensive       Residential Aphasia Treatment' (PIRATE), U.S.A. (IMP9).
These       studies are crucial for continuing to develop the evidence base for the       benefits of speech and language therapy for people with aphasia and will       influence clinical practice.
The CAT is also been used by a team of       researchers creating a database of people with aphasia containing       information about their language and cognitive skills and linking this to       the site of their brain lesion, with the ultimate aim of making       predictions about recovery (IMP10).
This is an innovative and       ambitious study, using the CAT as the primary assessment method.
This       project is of importance to the field as better information about likely       prognosis will be of great clinical significance.
