 Approximately 37% of neuroblastoma patients are prospectively classified as low-risk.
These low risk patients are children aged &#8804;18 months with localised (ie non-metastatic) neuroblastoma where immediate surgery is precluded and children aged &#8804;12 months with disseminated neuroblastoma but without bone, pleura, lung or central nervous system disease (EV a).
The discovery that 17q gain is a strong predictor of progressive neuroblastoma and the inclusion of 17q gain detection into a clinical trial protocol have played significant roles in changing the way in which patients are diagnosed and treated.
Treatment for low-risk neuroblastoma patients is now stratified across Europe and Australia according to whether a segmental chromosomal abnormality (SCA) is present or not.
The presence of an SCA identifies children that have progressive disease and who therefore require immediate chemotherapy, while chemotherapy may be reduced or indeed not required for children without SCAs.
Impact on patients: Treatment stratification via clinical trials On their website, The Children's Neuroblastoma Cancer Foundation highlight the role played by clinical trial protocols as guidelines for paediatric oncologists in their treatment of all neuroblastoma patients: `Clinical trials are the standard of care for children with neuroblastoma: virtually all children [approximately 90%] treated for intermediate- and high-risk disease as well as many low-risk NB [neuroblastoma] patients are enrolled on a clinical trial or treated ` per' [as if they were enrolled in] a clinical trial.
The treatment is the same in either case, but only the outcomes of those enrolled are included in the final trial results.'
(http://www.cncfhope.org/Neuroblastoma_Clinical_Trials) The protocol for the pan-European Low and Intermediate Risk Neuroblastoma Study (LINES) stratifies treatment in accordance with the findings of Newcastle research.
This trial opened in seven European countries and Australia in 2012 (EV b, c, d) and it is due to open in another 12 European countries in the near future, aiming to enrol 685 patients in five years (EV a, b).
The trial `...groups together in a single protocol the treatment of all patients with "non high risk" neuroblastoma (NB), with stratification into two groups: low risk and intermediate risk' (EV a, p.26).
LINES is the first trial in which genetic abnormalities other than MYCN are being used to stratify treatment in low-risk neuroblastoma patients.
Specifically, the presence of an SCA in these patients identifies children that have progressive disease, and a higher risk of relapse, and thus require upfront chemotherapy (EV d).
Notably, 17q gain is confirmed as being the most frequently occurring SCA in these patients (EV b, c, d).
The UK Chief Investigator of LINES, confirms that: `...the work undertaken at Newcastle University regarding 17q gain in neuroblastoma has had significant implications in improving treatment for patients with low risk neuroblastoma that have now been translated into the current European low risk neuroblastoma clinical trial' (EV d).
Optimising treatment for each patient is not only crucial for increasing the chances of survival, but also for reducing the detrimental side effects associated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy (http://www.macmillan.org.uk).
In LINES, genomic profiling is performed before drugs are administered.
The principal investigator of the trial has stated that: `Some patients without [SCAs] can now be given minimal treatment in the knowledge that their tumour is very unlikely to reoccur, whereas for others whose tumours do harbour SCA, more treatment will be proposed upfront in order to reduce the risk of relapse.'
(EV c).
Beyond Europe and Australia, the co-chair of the International Neuroblastoma Risk Group task force has confirmed that in North America: `...the next Intermediate-Risk Neuroblastoma Children's Oncology Group Trial will stratify treatment intensity according to the presence or absence of [SCAs] including 17q gain.
For patients with intermediate-risk neuroblastoma with one or more [abnormalities] including 17q gain, treatment will be intensified with increased numbers of chemotherapy cycles in an effort to improve the event-free survival of this "higher risk" group of patients.
In addition, reduced treatment will be administered to patients [lacking SCAs] in an effort to maintain high cure rates with decreased toxicity from treatment.'
(EV e).
The US National Cancer Institute (NCI) also cites the Newcastle research in their information summary, a resource that informs and assists clinicians who care for neuroblastoma patients by providing comprehensive, peer-reviewed, evidence-based information about the treatment of neuroblastoma (EV f).
The NCI recognises the importance of 17q gain as a prognostic factor, reporting that it `...independently predicts a poor prognosis', citing R3.
The NCI also refer to the three different progressive tumour types described by the Newcastle group, citing R5 (EV f).
The LINES trial is not yet open in the UK, but guidelines for the treatment of low and intermediate risk neuroblastoma patients are in place.
These guidelines follow the protocol of the LINES trial and recommend stratification of treatment for low-risk neuroblastoma patients in accordance with whether or not an SCA, including 17q gain, is identified (EV g).
These were published in 2011 and are accessible to paediatric oncologists via the Children's Cancer and Leukaemia Group.
A recent audit of 19 UK Children's Cancer &amp; Leukaemia Group principal treatment centres found that in the period August 2011- July 2013, 12 out of 12 responding centres adhere to these guidelines when diagnosing and treating children with low-risk neuroblastoma (EV h).
Impact on clinical practice by improved detection of SCAs The detection of SCAs, including 17q, as markers of progressive disease, is rapidly becoming standard of care for all patients with neuroblastoma.
Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) was applied specifically to neuroblastoma for the first time by the Newcastle team.
Through dissemination of their work, and collaborative work with the International Society of Paediatric Oncology European Neuroblastoma Research Network (EV i and EV j) and MRC Holland, a neuroblastoma-specific MLPA kit was developed for use worldwide.
The International Neuroblastoma Risk Group recommend the use of MLPA as a diagnostic tool that will reliably and accurately detect segmental chromosomal abnormalities, reporting that `...[the] robust nature of the results and the relatively low cost of the MLPA kits make this technique attractive for routine neuroblastoma analysis' (EV j).
