     Besides its work with children, a key mission of Seven Stories is to       further the understanding of       children's books among adults.
It achieves this principally through the       activities and services       associated with the unique materials in its archive.
CLU research has       significantly contributed to       Seven Stories' success in fulfilling this mission in 4 interlinked ways:            Through developing the Seven Stories archive, including         establishing its value and its potential         to support research, and raising awareness of it among scholars         worldwide;       Through the development of Seven Stories exhibitions;       Through shared delivery of an events programme that         establishes Seven Stories as a centre         for the public understanding of children's literature and significantly         extends public discourse         on the subject;       Through the provision of Continuous Professional Development         for Seven Stories staff.
As Kate Edwards, Chief Executive of Seven Stories, notes, each of these       interventions has       contributed directly to the fulfilment of goals identified by Arts Council       England, so that CLU       research has been instrumental in `the success of our application for       museum accreditation, with       the additional standard of National styling in 2012' (IMP1).
Seven       Stories was able to demonstrate       to ACE, for example, that CLU research was important in `Building the Excellence         and diversity of       our learning and events programmes', `Increasing the diversity and         skill of arts leadership and         workforce' and `highlighting the research value of the Seven Stories       Collection' which `encouraged       other scholars to make use of the resource.'
(IMP1, IMP2).
Archive and exhibitions: preserving and presenting children's literary         heritage     As Sarah Lawrance, Collection Director at Seven Stories, puts it,       `Reynolds's expert advice in       almost all areas of modern and contemporary children's literature has been       instrumental in many of       the most significant acquisitions to the Collection' (IMP3).
Reynolds' research across the range of       20th-century children's literature (1, 2) has enabled her to       advise on all recent acquisitions, and       she has chaired the Literature, Programme and Acquisitions Sub-Committee       since 2010,       authorising all purchases and gifts.
During her time as Chair, there have       been 140+ accessions,       from individual items to entire collections.
These have embraced such       high-profile acquisitions as       the Blyton archive (purchased 2010), including typescripts of nine novels       which formed the       centrepiece of Seven Stories' `Many Adventures of Enid Blyton' exhibition       (opened May 2013).
The       research activity at CLU, and Reynolds's work in particular, often has a       bearing on donors'       decisions to offer work to Seven Stories.
In some instances, as Lawrance       notes, `Reynolds's work       has led directly to an acquisition', as was the case with the archive of       the anarchist children's writer       Olive Dehn, which `was donated to Seven Stories in 2012, following       Reynolds's visits to the family       in connection with her work' (IMP3).
Reynolds' research has also underpinned successful fundraising efforts       for major purchases.
These have included the Blyton archive, bought at auction with &#163;40k       funding from the Heritage       Lottery Fund and the MLA/V&amp;A Purchase Grant Fund, and Edward       Ardizzone's watercolours for       Graham Greene's picturebook The Little Train, purchased with &#163;50k       raised from the Art Fund, the       V&amp;A Purchase Grant Fund, and the Friends of the National Libraries in       2011.
The rationale for the       acquisition was explained by Reynolds' research on Greene's picturebook       and the two contrasting       sets of images (the 1946 originals by Greene's lover Dorothy Cragie, the       second from 1973 by       Ardizzone), work she subsequently published (3).
Reynolds also       advised on display panels for the       2009-10 exhibition 'All Aboard!
And Away We Go', featuring work by       Ardizzone.
Similarly, Lawrance affirms, `Professor Grenby's work on historical       fiction for children provided a       context for successful funding applications to the Heritage Lottery Fund       and Pilgrim Trust for the       purchase of the Leon Garfield archive in 2009' (IMP3) while       Pearson's work in the archive during       her collaborative studentship (G1) has played in important role in       cataloguing, interpretation, and       helping to justify further acquisitions.
In particular, her doctoral       research, published as a       monograph (6), on Kaye Webb, editor at Puffin Books, contributed       greatly to the development and       deployment of a major exhibition, `There's Nuffin Like a Puffin, 70 Years       of Puffin Books'.
71,818       visitors saw the exhibition at Seven Stories (2010-11) and a further 8,701       at Lyme Park in Cheshire       (2012-13).
As Debbie Beeks, Seven Stories' Learning Manager, confirms,       `Pearson's research into       British children's publishing in the 1960s and 70s was particularly       valuable in the lead-up....
Her       involvement had a positive impact not only on the exhibition itself but       also on the training for our       learning team and facilitators' (IMP4).
Events: raising awareness, enhancing understanding and extending         public discourse     Reynolds' Collaborative Doctoral Award (G1) was specially       commended in the AHRC Annual       Report for having `played an important role in raising the profile of       Seven Stories as a nationally       important resource' (IMP5).
Another programme designed in part to       raise awareness of Seven       Stories' research potential was the HLF-funded `Telling Histories'       programme (2009-10) organised       around archival holdings relating to some of Britain's pre-eminent writers       of children's historical       fiction (Garfield, Rosemary Sutcliff, Geoffrey Trease).
Grenby's research       on children's historical       fiction since the early 19th century was an important foundation of the       programme.
The flagship       event was `Past Continuous' (2009), a conference organised by Grenby and       Reynolds, which       explored the place of children's writers as creators of histories and the       role of historical fiction in       engaging young people with history and heritage.
Attracting 50 delegates       (the general public,       authors, and academics, including many whose interests lay outside the       organisation's key       collection period), the conference raised both public and scholarly       awareness of Seven Stories'       collections and enabled Seven Stories to make connections with children's       literature communities       across the UK and beyond.
The use of materials from the Seven Stories       archive, publicly       demonstrated at the conference, `was one of the factors which persuaded       the daughter of writer       Geoffrey Trease to transform the long term loan of his archive into a       donation' (as a result of       attending the event) (IMP3).
Expanding the public understanding of children's literature is another       core aim of the CLU, and the       partnership with Seven Stories provides an effective means of achieving       it.
CLU staff have used       their research expertise to develop a custom-designed programme of public       talks, seminars and       lectures, delivered by themselves and selected external speakers for       non-academic audiences in       partnership with Seven Stories.
Reynolds and Grenby also work together       with Seven Stories to       programme the Fickling Lecture, each year inviting and briefing a major       voice in cultural affairs to       speak to an audience of 300+ members of the public on the place of       children's literature in       contemporary society.
In the period 2008-13, lecturers have been Shami       Chakrabarti, Roddy       Doyle, Nick Hornby, Sarah Brown and Sandi Toksvig.
As well as benefiting       the public, these have       contributed to Seven Stories' delivery of ACE's Accreditation Goals to       bring the arts and cultural       heritage to wide public audiences.
Continuous Professional Development (CPD) at Seven Stories and beyond     CLU and Seven Stories staff also collaborate in organising the `Looking       at Children's Books'       events (6 per year since 2008).
This series is open to all but is       carefully tailored to fit the       professional needs of Seven Stories staff.
The talks are specifically       designed to excavate the       Seven Stories archive and to raise awareness of it, both for the general       public and the staff.
It       draws on CLU research expertise in a number of ways: for example CLU staff       programme the       lecture series, suggest research themes, and help to source materials       provided for discussion and       display.
Since her appointment in 2011, Pearson has substantially expanded       the programme's       reach and significance and tied it more closely to the archival holdings.
Drawing on her unique       understanding of 20th-century children's publishing and the collections of       Seven Stories (6),       Pearson has devised a programme of international speakers that utilises       the archive to give Seven       Stories' staff a fuller understanding of its holdings.
These initiatives       are highly valued by Seven       Stories and have contributed directly to ACE's Goal 4: `The arts       leadership and workforce are       diverse and highly skilled.'
This has enabled them to plan more       effectively how the organisation       can use the collection to engage with an adult audience.
Pearson's       research-based input to the       Seven Stories' public events programme has also resulted in significant       audience development,       helping Seven Stories to fulfil its role as a nationally significant venue       for public discourse on       children's books.
The attendance has been high for such specialist events,       averaging over 30, and       including writers, illustrators, collectors and booksellers, as well as       teachers and librarians seeking       to develop their own professional expertise.
As one regular attendee       (librarian at Newcastle's       Mining Institute) puts it, the sessions `have been a valued part of my       [Personal and Professional       Development] plan through Chartership and beyond', enabling `me to have       professional networking       with other librarians and archivists in the local area', to gain `a better       understanding of what the       academics need in terms of access to collections', and investigate whether       `collaboration with       Seven Stories ... was a professional link which could be replicated in my       own field' (IMP6).
In addition, in early 2013 (as Debbie Beeks, Learning Manager at Seven       Stories, notes) Pearson       `worked closely with me to improve and extend our children's literature       training programme for       staff', including a `training module, developed specifically for our       staff, and based directly on her       publication The Making of Modern Children's Literature.'
The       lectures, delivered between January       and March and designed to enhance engagement with the archival holdings,       `helped to improve       our "Hooks into Books" schools offer, our internal training programmes and       our Continuing       Professional Development training for teachers' (IMP4).
User       feedback commended Pearson's role       in preparing staff for work with particular exhibitions (`Enid Blyton       lecture was useful and       interesting, and did help me work out my thoughts ... especially linking       to the exhibition launch')       and praised the series in general terms: `A fantastic opportunity and a       delight to attend.
I have       recommended these to every other facilitator as something not to miss'.
67% of respondents found       the lectures `Very useful' (IMP7).
Chief Executive of Seven       Stories, Kate Edwards, has written that       the series `provided a perfect introduction to the subject for our staff,       increasing organisational       knowledge and confidence' (IMP1).
This provision of what Seven       Stories' ACE accreditation       application called `job-related continual professional development and       further education' formed a       key part of their achievement of national status (IMP2).
Grenby's research on historical fiction for children and its uses in       heritage education (G2) has led       to Seven Stories' inclusion in a network of academics, digital developers       and heritage agencies       (including English Heritage, the National Trust) working to develop models       of best practice for       using story (especially on digital platforms) to engage young people with       heritage.
The project's       workshops (from April 2013) increased awareness of the Seven Stories       archive and provided CPD       for their staff in using digital media in heritage contexts.
As Beeks       notes, the programme `has       provided valuable opportunities for networking with other heritage       education professionals, and       insights into cutting-edge applications of digital technology in museum       and heritage settings, which       would have been difficult and expensive for us to access by other means' (IMP4).
