     (i) Book groups: enriching lives and enhancing public understanding         of migration and identity     At the core of the project was the co-ordination of book groups in       libraries, in homes and in British Council offices around the world       (including in New Delhi; Kano; Toronto; Kingston; Port of Spain) as well       as in the UK.
These book groups contained 250 non-academic readers across       more than 30 groups.
Each group was provided with the same series of works       of diasporic literature by post-colonial and migrant writers, from Chinua       Achebe to Zadie Smith.
Transcripts of discussions (IMP2) demonstrate that the group       members' reading often played a significant role in changing their       understandings of migration, diaspora and racism in the modern world.
Irrespective of whether they were in Britain, India, Nigeria, Canada or       the Caribbean, readers routinely commented that their outlooks had been       expanded (`I was exposed to books I wouldn't normally have read') and that       the work of Achebe, Junot Diaz, Hari Kunzru and others was `an eye opening       read for all of us ... seeing things in a different way from a different       perspective'.
Readers characteristically tended to identify strongly with       characters in the books and to transpose to their own local situations the       conditions and events described in the fictions.
Though set in London, the       racism described in Levy's Small Island and Smith's Brick Lane,       for instance, was discussed in terms of readers' own experiences, whether       in the Gorbals in Glasgow, Toronto, the Caribbean, India or West Africa.
`Here even in Ghana when ... you talk and you have a Nigerian accent it's       I mean it's the way you talk and they start looking down at you',       commented one reader.
And readers were moved to confess their own       propensity to discriminate: `in our own way we're racists', commented a       reader in New Delhi speaking of southern Indians and Bengalis.
The book       groups encouraged readers to draw upon narratives of difference to make       sense of similar dilemmas in their own lives, and in many cases to develop       their own sense of diasporic identity.
One Nigerian reader commented that       the books helped him in `accepting me for who I am, I'm talking about me       as in my nation and my race'.
`I felt I was alone,' but reading the books       in the group, he said, `gives you a sort of relief that somebody's sharing       that'.
Participating in the project made him realise that `I can now learn       to adapt to wherever I find myself'.
Many of the book groups have       continued to meet following the end of the project.
(ii) Mass read events: encouraging public engagement with literature,         informing cultural practice     In addition to the mass reading event at its core, the `Devolving       Diasporas' project has supported a further series of public reading       events, particularly those concerned with diasporic and multicultural       literature.
These include the annual Common Book Project, consisting of       the cost-price distribution of novels throughout Newcastle as well as       discussion groups drawn from across the student body of the two       universities in the city, and culminating in a public interview with the       author.
These mass read events began in 2008 with Chimamanda Ngozi       Adichie's novel Half of a Yellow Sun, which brought the author to       Newcastle's Northern Stage theatre to be interviewed by one of the       Devolving Diasporas team, Prof. Jackie Kay, in front of a live audience of       400.
A 2011 event supported by the Booker Prize Foundation followed the       same pattern and brought Andrea Levy, author of one of the Devolving       Diasporas texts, to Northern Stage where she was interviewed by Kay before       an audience of more than 300.
The 2012 Arts Council England-funded       Newcastle `Festival of Belonging' was another important legacy of       Devolving Diasporas.
This brought together writers including Tahmima Anam,       Daljit Nagra, Hari Kunzru, Helen Oyeyemi, Sapphire and others for a series       of workshops and talks for the general public that picked up on the       questions posed by the original project, such as `Does your identity       change when you are forced to move country, or when you choose to leave       your homeland?
', `Can you feel a sense of belonging at the same time as a       sense of estrangement?'
and `Can you be simultaneously placed and       misplaced?'
Nicholas Baumfield, Senior Relationship Manager at Arts       Council England, has commended the Festival for an `exciting and engaging       programme of events, talks and projects' that was `successful in       attracting a large and interested audience'.
He singled out the Festival       as `an outstanding example of the Arts Council's evolving diversity       policy, called the Creative Case' which `builds on the legal and business       cases for making diversity central to the arts'.
`There are still       relatively few examples of its successful implementation', Baumfield       notes, `The Festival of Belonging, however, modelled what this policy       means in practice and how it can by example influence the cultural       sector.'
(IMP3).
As a result of Procter's expertise in both the       practice and scholarly evaluation of such enterprises (3; G1),       he has acted as advisor for a number of international events too,       including an Australian project to organise and analyse mass reading of       Australian fiction, particularly by aboriginal readers (2013), and the       50th anniversary celebrations of the publication of Achebe's Things         Fall Apart in 2008, to which he was invited to contribute by the       Achebe Foundation and the British Council.
For this Procter set up a live       link-up between readers in Nigeria (Lagos and Kano) and the UK (London and       Glasgow), and, following the protocols of `Devolving Diasporas' (which       were in themselves an important methodological impact of the research),       discussions were recorded and transcribed.
Participants spoke of the       impact of Achebe's on them: `The book really touch me as I felt that as a       person of Nigerian descent [in London] I had lost the rich cultural       history that displayed in the book.
I really feel westernised and out of       touch with my cultural roots.'
(IMP4).
(iii) Young people: expanding public discourse, creating educational         and cultural opportunities     `Devolving Diasporas' was specifically designed to encourage young people       to engage with questions of migration and national identity and to think       about the place of migrants in the continuing construction of this       identity.
This was achieved in a number of ways:     (a) The poetry anthology Out of Bounds (5) was designed       to be used by children and in schools.
It was reviewed in The School         Librarian as a `superb, relevant, topical, crucial, important       anthology [that] should be in every secondary school and sixth-form       library'.
In the journal of the international English Speaking Board, it       was commended as `a book in which teachers would find stimulating new       poems to introduce to their students' (IMP5).
It is being used in       schools, particularly in Scotland.
The `For Teachers' section of the       Scottish Poetry Library for instance suggests using the volume during       Black History Month (`Teaching S5 and S6?
Have a look at Out of Bounds       edited by Jackie Kay, James Procter and Gemma Robinson.
This anthology of       poems by British black and Asian poets is organised into different regions       of the UK') (IMP6).
More generally, the subjects and findings of       the project feature on the `Moving People, Changing Places' website,       designed as an open learning resource for secondary level students (IMP7).
Lesson plans for teachers on the website link directly to the material       derived from Devolving Diasporas.
`Moving People, Changing Places'       features on the online Times Educational Supplement Direct       ('Largest network of teachers in the world').
It received 34,807 hits in       the year from May 2012 (IMP8).
Together, Out of Bounds and       the Devolving Diasporas website provide a coherent set of resources for       the delivery of the Citizenship curriculum at key stages 3 and 4,       specifically linking to key concept 1.3: `Identities and diversity: living       together in the UK', as well as other subjects including History,       Geography, Religion and Personal, Social, Health and Economic education       (PSHE).
Out of Bounds has also had a significant impact as a       teaching and learning resource at HE level, where its reach continues to       develop.
For example, Edinburgh University has placed the text on their       reading list for a core module of their MSc in Creative Writing, and       Leicester University use it as a primary text on a level 3 English       undergraduate module (`Transcultural writing and the publishing       industry').
(b) In 2009 Procter and his team organised a poetry competition for       Scotland's young writers (aged 12-17), asking entrants to reflect on the       nation's cultural identity and themes of belonging, dislocation and       difference.
The competition worked to signal the diasporic contribution to       Scottish national culture, and raise awareness around that subject in a       creative, rather than issue-based fashion.
Over 300 young people entered       the competition, and the range and depth of the poems they submitted       clearly showed that the project had encouraged them to think about these       social issues.
Winning poems were published on the `Whose Scotland?'
and       AHRC websites, ensuring that they reached a wide and diverse audience.
(c) The project provided start-up funding for the Macrobert Youth Dance       Company (MYDC).
As Liam Sinclair, Artistic Director and Chief Executive of       the Macrobert says, `the Devolving Diasporas team worked with macrobert to       develop a new youth theatre piece based on Jackie Kay's The Adoption         Papers' which `became the macrobert Youth Dance Company's first       theatre production'.
Following performances in Stirling, MYDC took its       production to the Edinburgh Festival Fringe (Aug. 2008).
The start-up       funding and support had additional significance in that it enabled MYDC to       become a sustainable organization.
As Sinclair notes, the company's       dancers, drawn from 11-17 year olds in central Scotland, `meet once a week       for three terms each year' and have performed throughout Scotland and       England', including with La Fura Dels Baus, a highly acclaimed physical       theatre company from Barcelona (2011) and among 1000 young dancers at the       Southbank Centre's summer 2012 Festival of the World (IMP9).
(iv) Project outputs: expanding and entrenching public discussion of         migration and identity     Two of the project's outputs have been instrumental in extending and       improving the quality of the material available for public discussion of       migration, and diasporic literature, particularly regarding its       non-metropolitan dimensions.
These are the project's website (4),       which surveys the diaspora arts in Scotland since 1980, and the anthology       Out of Bounds (5), which is structured so that its sections       are comprised of poetry concerned with the different and distinct regions       of the UK.
`This organising system', as the reviews have noted, ensures       that the anthology `make a most critical point &#8212; that all of Britain has       been fully "colonised" by these Black and Asian poets through their       physical and imaginative occupation of the space.'
(IMP1).
Both       resources have attracted a substantial public audience.
Out of Bounds,       described by Fred D'Aguiar as `an alternative A-Z of the nation', has sold       over 1000 copies in the year since publication (a remarkable number for an       anthology of modern poetry).
It has provided the focus for sessions at       literary festivals and events across Britain.
These have including the       `Festival of Belonging' in Newcastle (2012), the Manchester Literary       Festival (2012), and the Edinburgh City of Literature programme (2013).
In       September 2012, the British Library organised an event around Out of         Bounds (called in their publicity an `extensive and ground-breaking'       and `definitive anthology') to run alongside their exhibition `Writing       Britain: Wastelands to Wonderlands', their contribution to the Cultural       Olympiad (IMP10).
One further important output of the project,       designed to reach a general rather than academic audience, has been a       series of `Critical Perspective' essays written by Procter for the British       Council website (e.g.
on Suhayl Saadi, Mohsin Hamid, Andrea Levy, Amit       Chaudhuri, Amitav Ghosh and others).
Reaching a diverse, extensive and       international audience, these publications, like the database and Out         of Bounds, have made a significant contribution to the enrichment of       public discourse and the development of public understanding of migration       and identity issues as they have been expressed in post-War       English-language literature.
