     Two policy impacts related to the Republic of Ireland's obligations under       the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) and Waste Directive (WD) resulted       from this research; achieving at least good ecological status in water       bodies by 2015 and providing a strategy for mitigating septic tank system       pollution.
Respectively:     In 2009 the Irish Government approached Teagasc to provide a scientific       assessment of the bio- physical lag-times associated with soil phosphorus       decline and nitrate enrichment of groundwaters in agricultural catchments.
Due to his experience with nutrient transfer science, Prof Jordan was       asked by Teagasc (during his secondment period) to investigate these       processes and assess the potential of the River Basin Management Plans in       Ireland to meet the goals of the WFD and achieve at least good ecological       water status by 2015.
The results showed that, while the measures to mitigate excessive       phosphorus in soils and nitrate enrichment of groundwaters were sound,       there were bio-physical constraints that would ultimately hinder water       quality measures to be met in the time specified.
The original measures       could achieve the targets set by the WFD but only if sufficient time were       allowed to accrue between implementation and compliance.
Specifically, the soil phosphorus decline model developed by the team at       Teagasc, based on realistic farm management scenarios, estimated that       improvements in soil phosphorus status to meet the requirements of the WFD       may take up to 20 years (Schulte et al., 2010); longer than anticipated       and beyond the original target deadline of 2015 for achieving at least       good water quality status.
In addition, the groundwater quality models and       simulations developed by Fenton et al.
(2011) suggested that acceptable       nitrate concentrations would only be achieved between 2019 and 2033, if       mitigation were implemented by 2012.
These findings provided further evidence for a more phased time frame for       compliance with the WFD water quality targets and as a direct result, and       following consultation with the EU, all River Basin Management Plan       targets were amended to account for revised lag-times - up to 2027 for       achieving 100% good status1,2.
The work has greatly benefitted       the Irish Department of Environment, Community and Local Government which       has overall administrative responsibility for WFD compliance via       individual River Basin Districts3.
Without coherent mitigation       measures in place and a scientific assessment of the likelihood of these       measures to correct water quality impairment by the 2015 target date,       Ireland would have been at risk of investigation and charge by the       European Court.
Further, as a consequence of a European Court order under the WD on a       water quality infringement resulting from the poor regulation of septic       tank systems, the Irish Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has       introduced a process of registration, inspection and mitigation works in       rural areas.
Previously, pathogenic contamination of groundwater from       faecal matter in 25.4% of water samples was referred to the European Court       of Justice resulting in a lump sum fine of &#8364;1,8m and a daily penalty       payment of &#8364;19k until the infringement ended.
Research led by Prof Jordan       identified the environmental risk to surface waters from low level       persistent effluent discharges especially in areas with high septic system       density and low soil permeability (Arnscheidt et al., 2007; Macintosh et       al., 2011).
This research was recognised by EPA hydrometric and ecology       sections and a revised inspection plan now includes a methodology to       include environmental (as well as health) risk to both ground and surface       waters4,5.
Daily EU fines were lifted on the 12th       February 2012, the same day publication of these risk assessments       contained in the National inspection plan were adopted6.
