     Building new audiences       Our research has, in and of itself, gathered significant new audiences for       poetry.
More generally,       the NCLA has been at the forefront of the recent national step-change in       how poetry is       disseminated, particularly online and through public events (a `poetry       renaissance' as it has often       been called in the media) (IMP1).
Herbert, Kay and O'Brien have       collectively given over 150 poetry       readings in the census period to audiences that, in aggregate, number more       than 15,000.
These       have included appearances at the major literary festivals as well as       events at the NCLA, including       a joint performance in 2012 drawing an audience of 300.
Their standing as       poets has attracted an       extremely impressive roster of visiting poets to the NCLA, and Herbert,       Kay and O'Brien frequently       host events, introducing new and well-known poets to regional audiences       and engaging in public       questions and debate.
O'Brien, for instance, introduced Seamus Heaney to       an audience of 600 in       the Newcastle Civic Centre (2009) and Paul Muldoon to an audience of 250       (2010).
Kay       introduced Carol Ann Duffy to an audience of 500 (2009).
Based on his own       expertise in the       translation and editing of international poetry (5), Herbert has       brought many non-Anglophone poets       to Newcastle, often in association with the British Council.
He has       introduced the Somali poet       Gaarriye (2008), the Chinese poet Yang Lian (2010), and Burmese poets       Eaindra and Thitsar Ni to       audiences of around 100 (2012).
The 45 poetry events in the period from       NCLA's foundation in       2009 to July 2013 drew an aggregated audience of 3860, an average of 86.
This is twice the       national average for such events, and by some distance the largest       audiences for poetry ever seen       in the North East.
Respondents to a structured questionnaire about the       value of NCLA events       (April 2013) stressed the importance of live performance and of       interaction through question and       debate.
`Enjoying poetry is so often a private and personal experience       that it is nice to encounter it       in a public space and share the experience with others', wrote one       respondent.
Another attendee       used three words to describe her experience: `Passion, creativity,       inclusion' (IMP2).
Audio/video       recording hugely extends the audiences for all these events.
The       recordings are freely available in       the NCLA digital archive (www.nclacommunity.org).
From Sept. 2011, when the archive was       established, to July 2013, the archive has had 18,338 visits from 6,543       unique visitors, with a       further 32,300 visits through its vimeo site.
Poetry and public life       Through commissioned projects, Herbert, Kay and O'Brien have brought       poetry into new venues       and situations in civic society, extending its reach and demonstrating its       capacity to voice national       aspirations and concerns.
In 2012 alone, for instance, O'Brien's poem       `Dignified' was part of a       poetry installation in the Olympic Park, was read by Dame Tanni       Grey-Thompson at the Olympic       Poetry event (11 June 2012), and was poem of the day in The Times       (31 July 2012); Herbert wrote       and recorded a poem for The Guardian, `The Blazing Grater', about       the Olympic torch passing       through Tyneside (15 June 2012); O'Brien's poem `Another Country',       addressing a history of North-South       relations in modern England, was written for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee       and read on BBC       R4's Today programme (24 April 2012); and Kay, having been       commissioned by Sheffield United       FC and Off the Shelf Literature Festival, wrote a poem, `Here's My Pitch',       and read it out before       kick-off at Bramall Lane stadium (29 October 2012).
Based on research into       Arthur Wharton, the       first professional black footballer to play in the Football League, the       poem was part of the anti-racist       Kick It Out campaign.
It received extensive press coverage.
Herbert's `poetry plan' for the 750-home West Park estate in Darlington       has continued to be       deployed (2002-).
Commissioned by the developer, Herbert has written       verses installed throughout       the 121-acre site: they are inscribed on buildings, adorn the new       hospital, provide the motto for the       new school and the name for the new pub.
Herbert named the streets, and       the couplets inscribed       on each street sign make up a complete poem.
The Director of Bussey &amp;       Armstrong, the       developers, hopes that `forever walking past its rhyming couplet[s]' `a       child brought up in West Park       will grow up with a strong sense of who and where they are, nourished by       the storylines on which       the development has been founded' (IMP3).
The National Association       for Literature Development       has called Westpark `an outstanding example of the way text and public art       can imbue what is in       this case a totally new community with a sense of its heritage' (IMP4).
Our poets have also been active in taking poetry into public life via the       media.
On BBC radio they       have reached audiences of up to 800,000 with documentaries (e.g.
O'Brien       on Tennyson, and       Peter Porter, and Herbert on Edwin Morgan and international poetry       festivals) and with original       verse dramas (e.g.
O'Brien's Take Me to the Bridge for BBC R3).
The NCLA commissioned       Herbert, Kay and O'Brien to write a poem, `Mutatis Mutandis', for BBC R3's       Freethinking Festival       (2011).
Enhancing and embedding the public understanding of poetry       The NCLA, and Herbert, Kay and O'Brien in particular, work hard not only       to take poetry to wide       audiences but to extend the range and improve the quality of debate       surrounding it.
NCLA staff       have delivered important public lectures, such as Anderson's Royal Society       of Literature Lecture       (2011) and O'Brien's Sebald Lecture (2012).
And the NCLA has hosted       landmark lectures by major       poets, including C. K. Williams' Poetry Society Lecture and Paul Muldoon's       Elizabeth Bishop       Centenary lectures (2011).
Central to this commitment to extend debate has       been the partnership       with Bloodaxe Books, `the country's leading publisher of contemporary       poetry'(IMP1) including the       annual Newcastle/Bloodaxe Poetry Lectures.
During the census period they       have been given by       O'Brien, Jane Hirschfield, George Szirtes, Fiona Sampson, Desmond Graham       and Ruth Padel, all       introduced by O'Brien or Herbert.
As Bloodaxe editor Neil Astley says, the       series `features poets       speaking about the craft and practice of poetry to audiences drawn from       both the city and the       university, with these public lectures later published in book form by       Bloodaxe, giving readers       everywhere the opportunity to discover what leading poets have to say       about their subject' (IMP5).
These books have sold over 3000 copies in total.
The acquisition in 2013       of the Bloodaxe Archive       is part of the NCLA's strategy to curate and open up resources to       facilitate public understanding of       poetry (see also the NCLA digital archive, above).
An AHRC grant (&#163;40k) to       explore and publicise       the archive has already brought it into the public sphere, producing a       film shown to 300 at the       Festival of the North-East (July 2013), running a public roundtable event       with Herbert, O'Brien,       Anderson and Astley, and setting up a website presenting the archive       through poems, photographs       and films (http://bloodaxearchive.nclacommunity.org).
Public understanding of the diversity of contemporary poetry is enhanced       by Herbert's research,       editorial and translation work on international poets.
Besides his edition       of modern Chinese poetry       (5), Herbert has translated Somali poets Gaarriye (2008) and       Hadraawi (2013) into English for the       first time (leading to `The Bards of Somalia', BBC R4, 28 Aug. 2010 and       `Poetry in Translation',       BBC R4, 16 May 2013).
He has been equally active in taking British poetry       to new, non-English       speaking audiences overseas, for instance at the Novi Sad Festival in       Serbia (2008), workshops       and performances in Pondicherry, Chennai, Pune and Kerala (2010-11) and       Yangahou and       Nanjing (with O'Brien, 2013), and at festivals in Turkey and Somalia       (2013).
Developing new writers       Alongside their work with established poets, NCLA staff have used their       research expertise to       nurture new generations of poets.
O'Brien, as a pre-eminent national poet,       has been adjudicator       for the Arts Council Escalator scheme to aid emergent poets (2010) and       tutor for the BBC/Arts       Council `New Voices' scheme, (2011).
He and Herbert have judged many       national poetry       competitions for young people during the period, including the NCLA's own.
389 young people       entered a competition on the theme of `belonging', part of the 2012       Festival of Belonging in       Newcastle.
Shortlisted poems were incorporated into a poetry trail across       Newcastle-Gateshead.
The `Even Better Writers' research project (G1), led by Anderson       and delivered with New Writing       North during 2009-11, sought to create, investigate and evaluate effective       and sustainable       strategies for improving teachers' ability to teach creative writing.
It       was notably successful.
According to the project's formal evaluation, all of the 25 teachers (from       8 schools) who took part in       the research `felt that their confidence in tackling creative writing had       been increased' after the       sessions (led by Herbert and NCLA colleagues) and `that they had developed       new skills and       strategies for improving creative writing.'
The 1080 pupils who were       direct participants also       benefitted.
According to the data submitted by the schools, 82% exceeded       their anticipated grade,       14% met it, and only 4% fell below it.
Interviewed pupils felt that the       sessions `raised confidence       and self esteem.'
In particular, the project overcame resistance to       poetry, among both teachers       and pupils.
Teachers talked about having `more ideas for poetry' and       having fewer misgivings       about teaching it.
Pupils commented that `poetry fills your head with       ideas' and that `poetry would       help with all your writing really ...
I think if you can get your head       around poetry you can probably       do all sorts of writing better' (IMP6).
The project has gone on to       inspire other similar interventions.
An NCLA project supported by the Clore Duffield Foundation, called `Young       Voices: Using Digital       Resources to Develop Reading and Writing', is now assessing the use of       digital resources to       develop children's creative writing.
And beyond Newcastle, a 2010 Arts       Council England report       cited `Even Better Writers' as evidence that `inspiration does not have to       be at the expense of       standards' (IMP7).
In 2010, following the Motion Report, the       charity Creativity Culture and       Education was granted &#163;200k to develop, deliver and evaluate three new       poetry projects (`Well       Versed') to `build on the learning gained from ...
Even Better Writers       programme' (IMP8).
Another       recommendation of the report was the &#163;100k development by The Poetry       Society of a Young       Poets Network, a resource to which NCLA writers have contributed (e.g.
Anderson's entry on       Bishop).
The NCLA has also created the website `Young Voices' as an       interactive resource where       work by young people is showcased and supported with tips, discussion and       competitions       (http://youngvoices.nclacommunity.org/).
Poetry and Wellbeing       The NCLA is concerned with researching the ways in which poetry can be       used to improve       wellbeing.
One strand of this is a course for healthcare professionals on       the use of poetry in health       settings.
The NCLA has run the course throughout the census period       reaching 78 participants       whose feedback has highlighted the inspiration they were able `to bring       back to their practice as       health professionals'.
A second strand has been the MRC-funded `Ageing       Creatively' project,       exploring the health and social benefits to older people of engaging in       creative arts activity,       including writing poetry (G2).
Through analysis of the processes       as well as the outcomes of the       creative interventions, and using a medical methodology, the project has       laid a foundation for       accurate assessment of the effects on participants' wellbeing of engaging       in creative writing.
The       findings can now be analysed with a view to deciding the efficacy of GPs       prescribing creative       activities.
What post-project interviews demonstrate is that later-life       participants benefitted: `I would       say that the workshops definitely enhanced my well-being,' said one, `for       the reasons ... like,       belonging to a group where you feel safe, where you connect with people in       a meaningful way.
I       think those things must have a positive impact on your self-esteem, on       your confidence'.
Another       said simply `I'm sure creativity, and finding what is right for you as a       person is a key to well-being'       (IMP9).
