     Life Mask, Fiere and, in particular, Red Dust Road       have had a significant impact on public discourse and policy debate       surrounding adoption and identity and related issues, as well as on       individual readers.
They have also had impact in the education of both       social workers at HEIs beyond the submitting institution and children at       primary and secondary level.
As a book that is supremely 'readable', Red         Dust Road is recommended on reading lists on adoption websites and       has provoked discussion of its major themes in reading groups worldwide.
Kay has frequently discussed her work and the issues it raises in print,       in person and as a broadcaster.
She has also worked with a large and       diverse selection of community groups &#8212; including many that are       marginalised or hard to reach &#8212; engaging in dialogue, and discussing the       implications of her work.
Enhancing public and professional understanding, and intervening in         policy debate       Kay's poetry and memoir, and the associated outreach and media work she       has undertaken, have contributed appreciably to public discourse       surrounding issues of identity and adoption.
Her work brings complexity to       the topic of transracial adoption; she refuses to be co-opted to support a       single position.
Between 2008 and 2013, Kay appeared 16 times on BBC       national radio to talk about her work and the issues it raises, on       programmes as diverse as `Front Row' (discussing Fiere: BBC Radio       4, 11 Jan. 2011), and `The House I Grew up In' (discussing her childhood:       BBC Radio 7, 9 Dec. 2010).
Often she engaged directly with policy makers,       as for instance in an appearance on BBC Radio Four's `Woman's Hour' (9       March 2012) in which Kay discussed trans-racial adoption with presenter       Jenni Murray, Tim Lawton MP (then Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State       for Children and Families) and Shama Sutar-Smith, Senior Policy Officer       for the London Borough of Camden.
The programme was broadcast to 4 million       listeners.
Discussing adoption in her advice column in The Guardian,       Mariella Frostrup argued that, in her `brilliant Red Dust Road',       Kay's `description of being a mixed-race child in a white Scottish       Marxist home offers a compelling argument for opening our homes to       similarly abandoned children' and `makes a strong case for the benefits to       all concerned of looking beyond our own biology for children to raise' (IMP1).
Red Dust Road is a featured resource on almost all major adoption       websites, including for example, the `Social Care Online' resource on the       Social Care Institute for Excellence website which provides the most       authoritative list of social care resources in the UK (IMP2), and       the website of Pact, a US adoption agency for children of colour.
Reviewing the book, Susan Ito, Director of the Pact Family Camp, called Red         Dust Road `the best adoption memoir I have ever read' (IMP3).
The international importance of her contribution to debates on adoption       has resulted in her being invited as a keynote speaker at the Alliance for       the Study of Adoption and Culture (ASAC) in 2014.
Impact on individuals       Kay's work has had direct impact on individuals affected by adoption.
Adoptive parent Sally Donovan, typical of many, blogged, 'I would urge       anyone who is touched by adoption to read Jackie Kay's book'.
In the US,       Susan Ito wrote that `As an adult adoptee, reading this memoir made me       feel more understood and seen than almost any other.'
(IMP3).
One       adoptee contacted Kay to tell her that Red Dust Road had given her       the courage to journey to Africa herself to trace a birth parent.
The       responses of dozens of reading groups to Kay's work are recorded online.
Typical is that of The Berlin Intercultural Reading Group: `Red Dust         Road opened up fascinating discussions around adoption.
Kay       questions things many of us might take for granted: assumptions about love       and family &#8212; and the right to know our parents... Our discussions included       personal dilemmas and experiences' (IMP4).
Kay's own half-sisters       discovered their relationship to Kay through a Guardian podcast of       extracts of the memoir, and subsequently contacted Kay at Newcastle       University.
Red Dust Road is powerful in being able to affect       highly personal outcomes while also speaking to wider themes, because, as       Bernadine Evaristo put it, it `opens up the conversation around adoption       beyond Kay's personal narrative' (IMP1).
For Aminatta Forna, Red         Dust Road tells `the story of every person of colour who grew up in       Britain, of being told you don't belong' (IMP1).
The power of       Kay's poetry to help people to explore the issues of family and belonging       has also been widely recognised.
Four of Kay's poems from Life Mask       were republished in an anthology called In Search of Belonging:         Reflections by Transracially Adopted People (2006), published by the       British Association for Adoption and Fostering.
Kay's work has the ability       to be both very personal and to speak to others, who can read their own       stories in hers.
Impact through education       Kay's work appears on a growing number of school reading lists.
From 2012       her autobiographical poetry has been on the Scottish Qualifications       Authority's `Set Scottish Texts' list for National 5.
Red Dust Road       has been selected by individual teachers in Scottish schools as the set       non-fiction text for Highers classes.
It is on the prescribed reading list       for the Leaving Certificate in English in the Republic of Ireland.
In       addition, Red Dust Road appears on teacher training curricula.
Following a workshop Kay conducted for PGDipEd (QTS) students and school       children in the Department of Education at Birmingham University, for       example, lecturer Dr Kay Fuller wrote that she had no doubt the trainee       teachers would go on `to use Jackie Kay's poetry and autobiography in       their school teaching as a result of her visit to the school' (IMP5).
Kay has lectured on Red Dust Road on a number of occasions to       audiences of social workers, for instance at the University of Central       Lancashire (16 May 2012), turning engagement based on the text into       professional learning.
Extending public discourse and enriching lives       By 31 July 2013 Red Dust Road had sold 11,090 copies hardback,       15,896 paperback 1,445 e-book, making 28,431 copies in all.
Kay has       extended public discourse on issues of family, identity, belonging and       adoption much further by taking part in frequent public events in relation       to Red Dust Road and Fiere.
The estimated audiences for       these events is in excess of 15,000.
Attendees value these experiences       very highly.
Kay has been a major draw at literary festivals including       Edinburgh (650 people), Cheltenham, London, Dublin, Manchester,       Birmingham, Ilkley and Lichfield (where Red Dust Road was chosen       as the `Big Read' and 200 copies distributed free).
At the Latitude Music       Festival in 2010 Kay gave a reading to over 2000 people.
Internationally,       Kay has given readings from Red Dust Road and led debate on this       issues it raises in many countries, including at the Paraty Literary       Festival, Brazil (2011), the Sydney Writers' Festival (2013), at which she       was interviewed for ABC radio, and in New Zealand.
She has frequently been       invited to speak at universities and colleges beyond the submitting       institution, including giving the 2010 Richard Hoggart Lecture at       Goldsmiths University and the Amnesty Annual Lecture at the Edinburgh       International Book Festival on `Poetry and the Fight for Human Rights'       (2013).
Other organisations for which she has given readings include       Oxfam, the Glasgow Women's Library, the Freud Museum, and numerous       independent bookshops.
In March 2013, Red Dust Road was selected by members of the book       group of the international women's rights charity Womankind as their       International Women's Day book, and Kay answered questions online (IMP6).
On World Book Night (23 April 2013), having been voted for by the public       and selected by the editorial committee, Red Dust Road was one of       the twenty titles given away to 500,000 people `who don't regularly read',       especially those `in prisons, care homes, hospitals, sheltered, supported       and social housing [and] the homeless'.
Julia Kingsford, World Book Night       Chief Executive, has written that Red Dust Road was `a great       choice for World Book Night', noting that many of the 20,000 volunteers on       the scheme `are choosing to give it to adults and teens who share some       life experiences with Jackie' but that `regardless of ... backgrounds, it       is a great, great book, over-brimming with hope and love' (IMP7).
Impact on marginalised communities       Kay works with marginalised and hard-to-reach groups directly, and her       writing has achieved substantial significance in the lives of many people       from these constituencies.
For example, in 2012 Kay worked with the Reader       Organisation's Reading In Secure Environments (RISE) programme at HMP       Holloway and HMP Styal, reading from Red Dust Road.
Testimony from       those present indicates the impact Kay had on inmates: `Afterwards the       buzz in the room is palpable, it's the excited, purposeful chatter of       people talking to each other about what they've just been part of, fifty       people talking about great writing.
Many gather round Jackie to       congratulate her, ask more questions, grab a book or just shake her hand.
One woman sidles up to me and says that the event was "beautifully       inspiring", another looks up and simply says "She understands, that       Jackie, she really knows"' (IMP8).
Poems from Fiere have       also been used in the RISE programme.
Greater Manchester Mental Health       Trust's reader-in-residence Damien Taylor, for example, has found that the       poems have particular resonances with female inmates (IMP8).
Kay's       most recent poems (March 2013) have been inspired by meetings with asylum       seekers in Scotland and were written specifically for the Scottish Refugee       Council's `Stop Destitution' campaign (IMP9).
As noted in The       Scotsman on Sunday article: "Kay is a strong believer in the power of the       written word, believing that writing a poem that moves the reader can make       a difference.
`Auden said, "Poetry makes nothing happen," but your wish as       a poet is that it should make something happen.
I believe in the power of       words, and for me my words are actions, so the two are not mutually       exclusive.
It's a way of making a contribution' (IMP10).
In other       words, Kay designs her writing to achieve impact.
