     The research's main output, The Castrato and His Wife (1)       was deliberately marketed to reach audiences beyond academia.
Its general       appeal arises from the wide range of topics it addresses: the history of       marriage, family and custom in Europe before modern times; the history of       sexuality; music and Baroque opera; and the social and cultural history of       seventeenth- and eighteenth-century England.
Its print run of 7,000 in       hardback in the UK was followed by a US edition (January 2012), Kindle       edition, and a paperback edition.
Sales (as of March, 2013) are c.5,500       copies (IMP1).
The book has been reviewed on the Amazon site by 29       customers and is rated with 4.1 out of 5 stars (IMP2).
Customer       review comment extracts include:     "this is a first rate piece of research written in an informative and       entertaining style offering not just a very readable biography of a       forgotten singer, but a wealth of insight into the period in which he       lived.
Highly recommendable"     "this book is thoroughly referenced and packs in an astonishing wealth of       information about music, morality and sexuality at a time of rapid and       profound change.
I had my reservations about whether such an obscure       subject would hold my interest, particularly since the period is not one       that I know particularly well, but I found it an enjoyable and informative       read, ideal for those of us who like our history to be thought-provoking       as well as rich in human interest.
Highly recommended"     "[the book] is real quality, not only telling a great (and true) tale,       but touching many contemporary themes, such as celebratory culture, sex,       gender, and abuses by the Catholic Church" (IMP2).
It is currently under consideration for translation into 9 languages;       film rights have also been secured by the Conway Mulcahy Agency (Soho,       London) from Oxford University press for development as a general-release       movie (under negotiation).
As well as being enjoyed by its readers, the book received outstanding       critical acclaim in the national and international media, which       demonstrates the reach and significance of its impact.
It was selected as       Radio 4's `Book of the Week' (October 2011), read by actress Greta       Scacchi, which ensured the book reached c. 7 million listeners in the UK       and worldwide via iPlayer soon after publication (IMP3).
Reviewed widely in the press, in November 2011 it was long-listed for the       Longman/History Today `Book of the Year Prize', awarded to a book that has       "contributed significantly to making its subject accessible and rewarding       to the general reader of history and displaying innovative research and       interpretation in its field" (IMP4).
It was selected as a BBC         History Magazine `Favourite Book of the Year' (December 2011) and in       its first American coverage was favourably reviewed in the Washington         Post (January 2012) which stated:     "Berry's meticulously researched yet very readable story of Tenducci and       Dorothea resonates across the centuries to our own time.
What makes a       marriage real?
Do we want our celebrities (or spouses) to be "natural" or       eccentric?
"The Castrato and his Wife" is a fascinating account of how       masculinity, femininity and marriage were being reshaped in 18th-century       Europe just when modernity was taking shape" (IMP4).
The review of The Castrato and his Wife in History Today, for       example, concluded that:     "Berry's fresh look at shifting attitudes to sex, marriage, childhood and       the family confounds many of our assumptions about the Enlightenment.
This       deeply intelligent and sympathetic account of Giusto and Dorothea       demonstrates the power of micro-history to cast new light on periods that       we thought we knew and understood" (IMP4).
The research behind the book has also featured on BBC Radio 4's `Voices       from the Old Bailey' programmes, presented by Professor Amanda Vickery.
The programme utilising the research (August 2011) received the fourth       highest number of listeners of any programme on Radio 4 in 2010 and 2011,       with 2.5 million listeners, with the daily listening figures for the       programme normally approx.
1.95 million (IMP5).
The broadcast is       available to download from BBC iPlayer ensuring its continued impact (IMP4).
Following broadcast of the series, the programme's producers also noted       impact on Old Bailey Online [a fully searchable, digitised collection of       the Old Bailey Proceedings] which experienced an increase in visitors to       the site, "18% higher than the previous month" (IMP5).
In 2012 Berry also appeared in a BBC4 television series on restoration       women presented by Lucy Worsley, entitled: "Harlots, Housewives and       Heroines: a 17th Century History for Girls".
Berry discussed       women, leisure and consumption (for example, shopping, theatres and opera,       drawing upon material featured in The Castrato and His Wife (IMP4).
The programme was widely reviewed, e.g.
in The Guardian.
The programme was       available internationally via the BBC website on iPlayer and is still       available online via You Tube (over 13,000 hits to date) (IMP6).
The impact of the research is further demonstrable through having informed       media presentations on British history, including: The History Show, an       hour-length feature on national radio station, RTE Radio 1 in Ireland,       discussing historical biographies (November 2011); and an edition of Radio       4's Woman's Hour (March 2012).
Public awareness has also been enhanced and its reach demonstrated via       Berry's personal website (http://www.helenberry.net/),       blogs and personal appearances.
Berry has shared research insights through       the series of personal appearances at literary festivals and guest       signings across the UK (Sept 2011-Sept 2012), such as the Lichfield       Litfest (audience of c.100); Notes and Letters Festival (King's Place,       London); the Sunday Times Oxford Literary Festival (audience of       c.200); and the Off the Shelf Festival, Sheffield, as well as public       lectures, for example in Newcastle (audience of c.200) which continues to       be available online (http://www.ncl.ac.uk/events/public-lectures/item.php?opera-passion-and-tragedy-in-georgian-britain-the-curious-history-of-the-castrato-and-his-wife).
In a workshop `Equality and Diversity in the History of Marriage: Why       Some Things Have Changed More Than You Would Think' at the General       Conference of Metropolitan Community Churches (MCC) in Chicago (1100       delegates, July 2013), Berry used research insights to inform political       debates on marriage equality in the US (IMP7).
Following a       presentation `Could a castrato have sex, and why does it matter?'
by Berry       to a local lecture club (comprising of public and sexual health promotion       officers, youth workers and teachers), one worker commented that it was "a       thought provoking and engaging evening and an excellent opportunity to       discuss sexual health in a supportive environment.
It placed sexual health       in an historical context with real relevance for modern practice" (IMP8).
Public awareness of the research has also been achieved via a series of       blogs on the history of marriage, gender and the family, and in particular       public discussion of contemporary issues such as the relevance of the       royal family and debates surrounding gay marriage (IMP4).
A       YouTube clip of Berry speaking about the book has been viewed more than 90       times (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y4e2Z3hiMUk).
All this has raised awareness of the research presented in the book and       highlights its current and continuing relevance to current public and       policy debates.
These events have also led Berry to have face-to-face and       email discussions with (i) members of the public concerning their own       research into family history; and (ii) professionals who are interested in       the history of the castrato and marriage, such as curators of private and       public museum collections (e.g.
the Montagu Music Collection), medical       academics (e.g.
a Professor of Anatomy and Neurobiology, specialising in       treating men with androgen deprivation-related conditions) (IMP8).
As a direct result of the research, Berry was invited to write an entry       on Dorothea Maunsell (http://www.oxforddnb.com/view/article/104868?docPos=3)       for the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (IMP9), a       dictionary used by the general public, educators and students, local       historians and genealogists worldwide.
Berry helped to raise &#163;12,000 in sponsorship for the Inspirational Women       of the North East (IWNE) Project (http://www.iwne.org/),       including funding from the Catherine Cookson Foundation.
The project,       which began in 2012, aims to celebrate, promote and acknowledge the       diversity of women of the North East of England, past present and future.
Impact within the REF period relates to an enhanced regional and national       awareness of women in the North East, through public outreach, training,       extensive media engagement (including social media, e.g.
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/IWNE.exhibit)       and events such as a photography competition.
Beneficiaries have included       community groups, schools, local residents and `early career'       professionals.
The general public were also encouraged to nominate       inspirational women for an art exhibition (October-December 2013) ensuring       the impact would continue beyond the REF period (IMP10).
