     The underpinning research has impacted on a very wide range of       beneficiaries, including higher education educators and students across       the United States (US); history teachers and school children in the UK;       war veterans and the wider public who have an interest in the American       Civil War more generally.
Pathway to impact: in October 2007, research outcomes were       disseminated via the Sarah Tryphena Phillips lecture at the British       Academy in London, subsequently published in 2008 (5).
The public       (on-line recording and print) dissemination by the British Academy of this       lecture, combined with research conducted in the US Army Medical archives       at the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington the following year and       additional outputs produced from the research in 2008 and 2009, led to the       researcher being invited to devise and produce an educational module for       the US National Library of Medicine (NLM) in Washington, D.C, which is the       world's largest biomedical library.
That a UK scholar, rather than an       American one, was approached (there is hardly a shortage of American       medical humanities experts) evidences the impact of the research beyond       the HEI.
Informing and Influencing the Form and Content of Education     The resultant educational module on the theme of war wounding and Civil       War medicine, Reconstructing State and Soldier: Disability and the         American Civil War, was developed for use in college and university       undergraduate and graduate courses across the US.
The module, which was       launched in March 2011 on the NLM website, draws directly on the research       insights and explores the ways in which hitherto separate fields of       scholarship, on disability studies, on the Civil War, military, medical,       literary, social and political history, can be brought together to expand       understanding of both the immediate and longer-term impact of wounding in       that conflict.
Though grounded in the history of the American Civil War,       the module is geared toward use by instructors and students from a variety       of disciplinary backgrounds, including history, cultural studies,       literature, the social history of medicine, and social science programs       more broadly.
Each of the six one-hour classes provides both further       readings and discussion questions designed to: (i) develop students'       understanding of the physical and mental impact of the war upon soldiers       North and South; (ii) contrasts the perspectives of the soldiers       themselves with the surgeons who treated them; and (iii) positions both       within the broader context of nineteenth-century attitudes toward       disability generally and war veterans specifically (IMP1).
The module accompanies and was designed to be used alongside an NLM       exhibition to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the American Civil War,       Life and Limb: The Toll of the Civil War.
Following a special       display within the NLM from March to July 2011, the exhibition is       available online, and through two six-banner travelling exhibitions, which       are booked by schools, universities, museums, libraries, cultural centres       or history societies.
The visual material in the exhibition, derived from       the NLM's archives and photographic holdings, provides further       illustrations of the research themes, such as the performative dimensions       of Civil war surgery, the public reaction to and support for the wounded       of war, and the psychological effects of the war on its combatants (IMP2).
Coverage of this exhibition and usage of the educational module is       national across the US.
The website has had 14,774 online visitors (IP       address based) and 43,001 page views by those visitors (IMP3).
In       the REF period, the travelling banner exhibitions have already been on       display at 24 locations across 10 states.
The impact will extend beyond       the REF period as the exhibition (with accompanying education modules) has       been commissioned for further displays at 38 additional locations across       the US, and two in Liverpool, UK in 2015 to mark the 150th anniversary of       the end of the American Civil War (IMP3).
The response to the       online module and exhibition has been positive.
It has been described as       `beautifully and thoughtfully put together' and `highly recommended' (IMP3).
The exhibition has been included in the British Library's curated list of       Civil War websites, noting its audience as teachers, schools and the       general public (IMP4).
As well as impact having been achieved via the educational module,       research outputs produced specifically for mixed audiences have raised       awareness of the research insights and themes.
For example, Grant produced       a 150,000 word study, A Concise History of the United States of         America (2012) as part of the noted Cambridge Concise Histories       series, "intended both as university and college textbooks and as general       historical introductions for general readers, travelers, and members of       the business community".
Sales as at the end of July 2013 were c.2,500,       with over 1,000 of these in the US, and the remainder in the UK, Australia       and the rest of the world (IMP5).
In recognition of the fact that       a work on US History by a non-American is likely to have greatest impact       in the Latin American countries, Cambridge University Press is having the       work (in 2013) translated into Portuguese (for Brazil) and Spanish.
As a result of a British Academy Sarah Tryphena Phillips public lecture       at the University of Edinburgh in 2008, Grant was invited to contribute an       article on the research to a general educational publication aimed at       secondary school teachers in Scotland ("Conflict and Commemoration:       Centennials, Sesquicentennials and the Ongoing Battle over America's       History,' History Teaching Review yearbook, 25 (January 2011):       63-78").
The yearbook is available to all members of Scottish Association       of Teachers of History (SATH), which "seeks to raise awareness of the       importance of History within the Scottish Curriculum" and the yearbook and       includes "academic articles on topics of relevance to the Scottish history       curriculum" (IMP6).
As a direct result of this article, Grant was       invited to talk about the research to pupils at Stewart's Melville College       in Edinburgh.
Extending the range and improving the quality of evidence to enhance         public understanding     The broader public impact of the research can be evidenced through its       dissemination in the popular media.
Examples include: BBC History Magazine       150th Anniversary Edition, The American Civil War Story (June 2013); BBC       History Magazine (commissioned article) `Help for Heroes' (circulation of       c.70,000 per issue) (IMP7); the BBC World Service (25th March,       2013).
The research was presented as part of a Royal British Legion-sponsored       series of seminars on the theme of Remembrance (http://www.remembrancereseminars.org.uk/),       held between 2008 and 2010 at the National Memorial Arboretum (NMA) in       Staffordshire and at the Royal British Legion in London.
Grant was       co-presenter at one seminar and delivered lectures at another two: in       September, 2009, she delivered a lecture on `Constructing a Commemorative       Culture: American Veterans from Valley Forge through Vietnam'; this was       subsequently published (2).
The research informed a lecture to an       audience of war widows on "Mourning Becomes Electra: Women and the       Commemoration of the Confederate Dead," at the Women, War and Remembrance       Conference held at the NMA in March 2010.
The Convener of the NMA seminars       highlighted how "Charlie Bagot-Jewitt, then chief executive of the         National Memorial Arboretum, had identified a need to understand why         remembrance had achieved such a significant growth in popular resonance         in Britain over the preceding decade".
She also advised that "the         seminars have informed the development of interpretation and education         at the National Memorial Arboretum and the development of &#163;2 million         Remembrance Interpretation Centre being included within the &#163;15 million         redevelopment of the Arboretum's visitor facilities due to begin in late         2013.
This is partially being funded by a Heritage Lottery Grant" (IMP8).
The seminars led to the research being included in a Royal British Legion       publication: "Stigmata of Stone: Monuments and Markers in the Memorial       Landscape of the United States of America," in Maggie Andrews et al.
(eds.
), Lest We Forget: Remembrance and Commemoration (Stroud: The       History Press, 2011) a publication aimed at the general public and       marketed in, e.g., the Wellcome bookshop and at memorial sites, e.g., the       National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire.
(IMP9).
