     While all of the research noted above has contributed to the impact, the       key text to-date is Stone's 2008 book (co-edited with J.F.
Bajjaly) The         Destruction of Cultural Heritage in Iraq.
This has impacted on three       specific groupings: NGOs; national policy makers (including HM       Government); and the international military.
NGOs and civil society     The UK National Commission for UNESCO (UKNC), an independent, civil       society organisation providing policy advice to government in the fields       of UNESCO's competence, requested a copy of the hardback edition of Destruction.
With the British Institute for the Study of Iraq, it part-funded the       paperback edition in order that it be available to the widest possible       audience.
Destruction was awarded the Archaeological Institute of       America's (AIA) 2011 James R Wiseman book award.
The citation for the       award includes the following statement about the value of Destruction:       `The authors....respond to popular perception of events that gained       international attention and challenge the reader to fully comprehend the       context of each episode.
As a result, this book has the ability to open a       wider dialogue between specialists and the general public about cultural       heritage issues that resonate on a global scale' (IMP1).
Destruction was highlighted as `Book of the Week' in the Times       Higher Education (31 July 2008), where it was described as: `an       extraordinary achievement that will stand as the definitive account of the       desperate, avoidable cultural tragedy of Iraq for many years to come' (IMP2).
Destruction was the subject of a three-page article in the Big         Issue (May 2009) and material from the book was used by journalist       Robert Fisk in his front-page story in the Independent (5 August       2012).
In 2009 the UKNC also sponsored the travelling version of the exhibition       Catastrophe!
The Looting and Destruction of Iraq's Past - produced       by Stone in conjunction with the Oriental Institute in Chicago as the       result of links made during the writing of Destruction.
Catastrophe!
has been shown at eight UK and European venues including Newcastle upon       Tyne, Durham, London, Dublin, and The Hague.
Visitor feedback (IMP3)       on Catastrophe!
has been extremely positive, including:       "wonderfully informative"; "dreadful about the destruction: good to see       the issues are made public"; "both saddening and inspiring"; "An       excellent, shocking and truly important exhibition"; "Too grim for words;       but makes people think".
The last showing, at the Great North Museum,       Newcastle (July-August 2012) was accompanied by a series of four public       lectures (one by Stone) each of which attracted 40+ members of the general       public, which is a high number for such events at this venue.
Overall the       exhibition reached an estimated public and specialist audience of       c.10,000.
In addition to this publication and exhibition activity Stone has also       brought the issue of cultural protection to the attention of wider popular       audiences via his contribution to BBC Radio, including on Radio Newcastle       (15 May 2008), Radio 5's `Up all night' programme (10 June 2008), and on       Radio 4's `World this Weekend (1 April 2012).
National Policy makers, HM Government     A copy of the Destruction book was requested by the Parliamentary       Select Committee scrutinising the Draft Cultural Property (Armed Conflict)       Bill in 2008.
The Committee noted the value of the book in providing an       informed context for their deliberations and referred specifically to       information in the book in paragraph 9 of the report (IMP4).
In       2009 the UKNC asked the author to draft written evidence to be submitted       to the Iraq (Chilcot) Inquiry.
This evidence was submitted, with a copy of       Destruction, under the signature of 13 cultural heritage       organisations to the Inquiry in February 2010.
In a letter dated 19 April       2010 the Inquiry Chairman noted that Destruction was `...very       useful to the Inquiry..." and that he was "...very grateful to [the       author] for sharing his expertise...' (IMP5).
In 2012 Stone wrote       a Policy Brief for UKNC on `The value to the UK of ratifying the 1954       Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of       Armed Conflict and its two Protocols of 1954 and 1999'.
In 2012 Stone       worked with his local MP to table a written question on the likely timing       of ratification of the Hague Convention.
As a result of this research       Stone has met with the relevant ministers for the previous and current       governments.
These meetings and the above pressure from the UKNC and       others, all led by Stone, led directly to the Secretary of State at the       Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) (unsuccessfully) requesting       formally Parliamentary time during the 2012/13 Session for passing       legislation to enable the UK to ratify the Hague Convention.
DCMS staff       have confirmed they anticipate making a similar request for the next       Parliamentary session.
UK, NATO and international armed forces     The publication of Destruction has led to invitations to speak at       a number of military symposia dealing with cultural property protection       (CPP) including the Sustaining Military Readiness Conference, US       Department of Defence (2009); Cultural Property Protection in Times of         Conflict, Netherlands Ministry of Defence (2009); Cultural         Property Protection, Norwegian Ministries of Environment and Defence       (2011); Coping with Culture, German Bundeswehr (2011); Culture         in Conflict, UK Defence Academy (2012); Coping with Culture,       NATO Civilian/Military Centre of Excellence (CIMIC-COE), The Netherlands       (2012).
Impact has been incremental as Stone has gained the trust of the       military.
For example he was: asked to chair the whole 2009 Dutch       Symposium mentioned above and to submit a report and recommendations to       the Netherlands MoD as a result of meeting military personnel at earlier       meetings; invited to the 2011 Coping with Culture meeting by the       Bundeswehr as the result of contacts made at the 2009 Dutch meeting;       invited to the 2012 meeting at CIMIC-COE at which he was asked to return       to work on the development of a training module for middle-ranking       officers on cultural property protection for NATO, for which a draft       syllabus has now been developed.
Commenting on Stone's work in this area,       a senior CIMIC-COE staff member stated that: `were it not for the past       work, expertise and dedication of Prof. Stone, the project would have       never moved farther along than the concept....His impact on both sides of       the civil-military equation, in the area of joint education and training,       has been significant' (IMP6).
Through this relationship-building       with the current and previous Directors of CIMIC Stone's research has been       able to influence military activity at an operational level.
Cultural       property protection lists provided by Stone were used by NATO forces to       protect key sites from air strikes during the 2011 Libya conflict.
The       current Director of the CIMIC- COE noted that `when Professor Stone       submitted lists of cultural property to be protected in Libya and Mali the       Centre was confident of their quality and reliability and passed them on       to the relevant strategic and operational units in NATO.
These lists were       then used to ensure cultural property was not damaged by air-strikes' (IMP7).
For example, six mobile radar units that had been placed very close to the       Roman fort at Ras Almargeb by troops loyal to the Gaddafi regime were       carefully targeted and destroyed without damaging the fort because the       fort was on the list supplied to NATO (IMP8).
The Director also       noted that: `A recent NATO report on our work in Libya recommended that       NATO develop a cultural property protection doctrine and I hope to       continue the Centre's relationship with Professor Stone' (IMP7).
More recently (2013) Stone has also been asked to prepare cultural       property protection training sessions and materials for the Lebanese Army,       the Nigerian Army and the Economic Community Of West African States       (ECOWAS).
The three-day workshop with the Lebanese Army (June 2013) was       attended by 30 high level officers from the Lebanese Army, the United       Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) and the international police       organisation INTERPOL.
Commenting on this workshop, the Head of the       International Humanitarian Law (IHL) Office, Lebanese Army wrote: `IHL in       general and the protection of cultural property in particular are becoming       increasingly important aspects of modern conflict.
Because of this....I       created a team within the Lebanese Army to help develop doctrine and       practical approaches for the Army to use.
The seminar we held last week       which was under the auspices of UNESCO was a crucial part of the training       of this team and a beginning of this process.
It was very helpful that       Professor Stone was able to participate to share his knowledge and       experience with my staff and to introduce the concept of his 4-Tier       Approach that I am sure will be very useful in our future work' (IMP9).
Agreement on this need for new training provision on cultural property       protection for peacekeeping forces was also indicated by the attending       representative from UNIFIL who wrote: `In light of recent conflicts in       countries rich in cultural heritage where UN peacekeeping operations are       being planned, deployed and conducted, I am discussing...ways to ensure       that this aspect is taken into consideration.
Most immediately, I am       seeking approval for CPP sensitivity seminars for UN troops in southern       Lebanon, and will try to expand these to other peacekeeping operations...'       (IMP10).
