     The research has had impact through enhancing public understanding of the       ancient Greek and       Etruscan past, and informing education outside the HEI and academy.
Beneficiaries include       hundreds of thousands of museum visitors as well as thousands of       school-age children.
Enhancing Public Understanding of the Ancient Greek and Etruscan Past     The GNM opened in May 2009, supported by an investment of &#163;26m from       funders including the       Heritage Lottery Fund.
The decision by the funders to include the Shefton       collection in the new       museum underlined its importance as a research asset and educational       resource, and along with       the Roman display and Hatton Gallery, thereby gave the GNM university       research status and       access to HEFCE funding totalling &#163;920,148 since 2009 (IMP1).
The       research fundamentally       shaped the ancient Greek display in the GNM as research insights were used       in the labelling and       interpretation of the objects, creating meaning and context for visitors.
The GNM Manager       confirmed how the research influenced the museum's Keeper of Archaeology       who curated the       display: "the development of the Shefton Gallery in the Great North         Museum was indebted to the         research and collection's knowledge of Professor Brian Shefton [...] one         example of the way in         which Brian's research informed the display is the location of the         Rhodian bronze oinochoe in the         Etruscan case.
These vessels are frequently considered to be of Greek         manufacture but, after         much study of this particular category of bronze vessel, Brian became         convinced that they were         Etruscan in origin.
His research therefore influenced our decision about         where to display this         object.
There are numerous other examples of where Brian's work         influenced the choices made in         the Shefton Gallery.
In fact we made several alterations to the Gallery         after the GNM opened as a         result of conversations with Brian" (IMP2).
When the       collection moved from the Shefton Museum in       the university's Armstrong Building to the GNM, it increased the       visibility of the collection.
Visitor       figures to the GNM have been exceptional with more than 2.1 million       visitors since opening (IMP3).
This represents a major increase in visitors compared to the previous       display.
The GNM is a major       part of the creative economy of the North East and beyond.
In geographical       terms, 31% of visitors       to Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums (TWAM) museums and galleries in 2011       came from       outside Tyne and Wear, and 40% were from socio-economic groups C2, D and E       (IMP3).
Drawing on the underpinning research insights has enabled museum staff to       deliver a number of       public lectures, which has resulted in loans to larger national and       international museums.
For       example, statuette of Nike for a temporary exhibition on the Olympics at       the British Museum, July-September       2008; a pelike of the Pan Painter to the Onassis Cultural Center, New York       for an       exhibition on `Worshipping Women: Ritual and Reality in Classical Athens,       December 2008-May       2009 and the National Archaeology Museum, Athens, July-November 2009,       thereby increasing the       reach of the impact (IMP4).
As part of Shefton memorial events in       April 2013, leading Classical       Archaeologists presented on key pieces of the Shefton collection.
The       conference and public       lectures programme was free and open to the public, attracting around 500       people in total (IMP5).
Informing Education outside the HEI and Academy     Since it opened, more than 95,000 children have visited GNM with their       schools - these include       both taught workshops by TWAM staff as well as teacher-led visits (IMP3).
Bookings for visits are       buoyant as a result of the sustained and on-going commitment of the       University and museum staff       to provide resources for teachers.
Whilst the Shefton collection was first       created to support       teaching and research within the HEI, it has since been developed as an       educational teaching       resource for school children, firstly by university staff through       education outreach at the Shefton       Museum, and more recently at the GNM.
TWAM staff have been able to develop       innovative       educational experiences which connect, for example, ancient Greek myth and       religion to the       natural world as well as develop visual and story-telling skills in       school-age children (IMP6).
Workshops on topics covered in the National Curriculum (such as the       Olympics, ancient myth,       Greek warfare, and Greek art) are popular and growing, and the Greek       collection is particularly       popular in supporting teaching of Greek history in Key Stage 2.
The       learning outcomes achieved       by these workshops are to increase students' knowledge about hoplites,       compare the ancient and       modern Olympics, and allow students to examine and in some cases handle       artefacts; they draw       directly on the research and collection (IMP6).
Between April 2011       and July 2013 alone, more than       3000 school-age children have attended Greek workshops led by TWAM staff (IMP7).
Feedback       from teachers is positive: they comment that it supports their work in       class well, helping to       stimulate discussion and motivate their students whilst allowing them an       opportunity to view and       handle artefacts (IMP7).
The Shefton collection is also popular       for teacher-led visits, where       teachers are encouraged to download worksheets so they can experience the       ancient Greek       material side-by-side with other collections (IMP6).
As part of the Shefton memorial events, the Shefton collection has also       been used to inspire and       support artistic expression in school-age children in a new project       between the University, GNM       and West Jesmond Primary School (IMP5).
Sally Waite (Newcastle       University Teaching Fellow)       and Andrew Parkin (GNM Keeper of Archaeology) led the project which ran       from January to April       2013.
Following an assembly and archaeological workshops in which each       class looked at objects       from the collection the children produced artworks with the help of       Newcastle University student       volunteers.
Two art pieces per class were selected for an exhibition held       in the GNM during the       Shefton memorial week in April 2013 (with future redisplays already       planned).
All year 3 students       (who are studying the Greeks) also spent a day at the GNM doing various       activities (pottery,       temple building, drama, mythic comic books and hoplite workshops).
In       total, 572 children aged 4-11       and 24 teachers took part in the project.
Feedback from both teachers and       children is largely       very positive.
For example, the children found the project interesting and       fun and one said "it was         good because you have fun while you were learning".
They also       enjoyed being able to see, handle       and feel the artefacts, using "real things" to design and make       their own art, often using new       techniques such as drawing on pottery rather than paper.
Using objects       from the collection brought       an element to the children's learning not normally experienced in the       classroom.
Feedback from       the teachers echoed these points, particularly the level of engagement,       enjoyment and enthusiasm       showed by the children who "were able to do a real practical activity         which had more meaning for         them".
The teachers felt that the project, which one teacher called       "hands on history" supported       curriculum teaching as well as giving younger children an introduction to       a topic they would study       in future.
One said that the project "showed that even in Early Years         teaching we can introduce         elements of history".
Teachers also benefited as some felt that the       project gave them greater       knowledge and new ideas to try in the classroom, and highlighted the       importance of using new       stimuli in teaching, as well as the potential for cross-curriculum       teaching, i.e.
making more use of       art when studying Greeks or the Romans (IMP8).
Another of the educational resources developed by TWAM is the Greek loans       boxes.
These `boxes       of delight' are partly based on objects from the Shefton collection and       are very popular with       schools (at all stages), home educators and other groups.
Between 2008 and       July 2013, more than       250 adults and 3800 children across 9 local education authorities (LEAs)       in the north east of       England accessed the loans boxes.
They are often requested to aid teaching       of topics in the       National Curriculum, or to develop skills, such as literacy, drawing,       discovery and investigation.
Feedback is positive, with claims that the loan boxes were inspirational,       useful for generating       discussion and helpful in imagining the past and bringing lessons to life.
For example, one school       commented that the Greek loans boxes were "a great resource enjoyed by         the children and a huge         asset to their learning and understanding" (IMP9).
In addition to school groups, other universities within and outside the       region use the collection for       research and teaching purposes.
Academic staff at other HEIs, for example       Edinburgh and       Durham Universities, have noted the value and prestige of the research       collection, and expressed       the positive benefits to students in their learning experiences.
For       example, a Professor of Greek       Art and Archaeology from Edinburgh University brought Masters students to       visit the Shefton       collection, which she described as "ideal for teaching".
According       to the Professor, the visiting       students said that the visit "had been the highlight of the semester,         that they loved it, that it was         eye-opening to them, and set them on fire to learn more", and she       went on to say that "these         students gained tremendously from the experience" and that she could       "hardly think of a better         instance of impact" (IMP10).
Online tools have also been developed by Newcastle scholars to inform       education outside the HEI       and the academy.
Identifact, http://cias.ncl.ac.uk/Identifact/,       which was originally designed as a       revision tool for Newcastle University students, is now available globally       as an internet learning tool       for the study of Greek pottery.
