     Adoption of the Northern Ireland Countryside Survey habitat research       methodology by NIEA across the whole of the rural countryside and upland       landscapes was key to the development by NIEA of regional biodiversity       management strategies1,2.
NICS habitat monitoring protocols       were also adopted by DARD3,4 to assess the ecological status of       the Mourne and Antrim Glens Environmentally Sensitive Areas (ESA).
This       research provided data on habitats for DARD to restructure their       guidelines (in partnership with NIEA3) for implementing       European Agri- Environment schemes5,6.
Prior to this,       guidelines for habitat management were based largely on qualitative       assessments of the agricultural landscape guided by land use rather than       scientifically based habitat metrics and definitions.
Completion by Dr Cooper's team of the NICS research programme across NI7       gave a reliable time- series data on the types, structure, species       composition, extent (spatial structure) and management of terrestrial       habitats and habitat change.
This enabled NIEA to develop (for the first       time) a scientific ecological basis and context within which structured       discussion with other government departments could take place on the       effects of land use (primarily agriculture, forestry, peat extraction and       rural building) on biodiversity, and on effective strategies for       biodiversity management at the landscape-scale5.
The NICS       research also provided essential data that enabled NIEA to collaborate       with DEFRA on delivering UK biodiversity assessments8.
NICS research was a key source of information for the development, by the       NI Biodiversity Group (a consortium of non-governmental conservation       organisations led by DoE)9, of recommendations to government       for a NI Biodiversity Strategy (subsequently adopted by NIEA2).
The provision of reliable habitat data for the whole of NI, by NICS, was a       key element in NIEA implementation of the Biodiversity Strategy2.
Prior to this, information on habitats was available only for designated       statutory conservation sites, with ecologically limited data on       agriculture, forestry and built land cover across NI as a whole provided       by DARD and government planning authorities.
Evidence from NICS research also provided a common focus within which       NIEA could engage with non-government organisations (primarily the Ulster       Wildlife Trust and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds) on land       use issues and biodiversity management2.
None of these       organisations previously had access to scientifically structured habitat       data at an NI scale.
By 2007, the NICS 20 year time-series dataset was used by NIEA to: a)       carry out evidence-based reporting on the NI implementation of the       European Habitats Directive5 (previously, data were available       only for statutory conservation sites; b) construct an NI assessment of       the socio- economic value of ecosystem services1 (previously,       reliable habitat metrics to enable this were not available); c) develop a       partnership with DARD to monitor the effectiveness of Common Agricultural       Policy agri-environment implementation (previously partnership was       constrained by reliance largely on agricultural land use data) and d)       develop a NI land management policy response to changing CAP3,4,6.
More recently, NICS data has facilitated the integration of NIEA and DARD       approaches to implementing European CAP reform through the 2014-2020 Rural       Development Programme.
Effective progress on integration has focussed       assessing the biodiversity outcomes of implementing European Community       biodiversity legislation (in particular cross-compliance) in NI, with NICS       providing reliable time-series metrics of outcomes10.
The methodological developments from the NICS field and analytical       research programme (integrated field mapping and data recording protocols,       equipment and software programmes, associated GIS and statistical       analytical procedures) have been adopted by NIEA for in-house habitat       assessment, monitoring and audit, resulting in a lasting impact5,6.
The NICS stratified random sample archive of over six hundred       geo-referenced 25ha grid square field maps, linked in a GIS to the NICS       habitat database, will allow NIEA to carry out future biodiversity       monitoring more effectively by integrating field survey with remote       sensing technology5,6.
