     Impact on UK and international cultural life: new artistic expression         and interpretation 	  New artistic expression: Grayson's art       works have been widely exhibited and have been experienced by a broad       international audience.
For example, his video The Golden Space City of         God has been showcased internationally at: Te Tuhi Centre for the       Arts, Manukau City, New Zealand (attracts 170,000 visitors annually); Art       Pace, San Antonio, Texas, USA; Matt's Gallery, London (all 2009);       Kunstmuseum des Kantons Thurgau, Switzerland; Yuill/Crowley Gallery,       Sydney, Australia (both 2010); the Kiev Biennale 2012 (135,000 visitors);       at Choral Visual: The Seimans Foundation, Beunos Aires and His Master's       Voice, Hanover Media KunstVerein, Germany (2013).
The Golden Space         City of God was nominated as the standout show of 2009 by Time Out,       London's influential listings magazine.
Art Critic Gabriel Coxhead wrote:       "Grayson's filmed libretto, compiled from online millennialist prophesy,       was by turns majestic and melancholic, amusing and terrifying..." (IMP1).
Meanwhile Waldemar Januszczak, reviewing this work in the Sunday Times,       described it as: "startling, shocking, distressing, unforgettable."
(IMP2).
Extracts from a selection of Grayson's video works are also accessible       online e.g.
via the popular video sharing sites YouTube and Vimeo, making       his work available to audiences beyond the gallery exhibition world.
For       example: The video of Grayson's introduction to Messiah in Sydney       (www.youtube.com/watch?v=-0nNadFyfuE)       has 381 views to date; An extract from Grayson's work The Magpie Index       has 465 views , one viewer commenting that the work is: "Absolute genius       the piece resounds with common sense and intellect, reassuring there are       others with these views ;)" (IMP3).
The artistic value and importance of these works is evidenced in       purchases by prestigious collections in the UK and in Australia.The         Golden Space City of God was acquired for the Arts Council       Collection in 2010 and subsequently by the Art Gallery of Western       Australia (AGWA) for its international collection.
Messiah was       also purchased for AGWA, after its re-presentation in `Songs of Survival'       at the 2010 Sydney Biennale.
Re-evaluation of British art and artists: Grayson's curated group       show `Polytechnic' at Raven Row, 2011, (pictured below left, work by Marc       Chaimowicz) presenting a re-evaluation of British video and mixed media       art from 1970s-80s, was selected by the prestigious international art       magazine Frieze (readership 71,000) as one of the most important moving       image exhibitions of 2011: "Artist Richard Grayson curated a show that       asked us to re-examine what British art - and Britain generally - looked       like in the late 1970s and early '80s....In common with many of the year's       best moving-image-related shows and screenings, `Polytechnic' taught us       how much we still have to learn about the history of film and video's       dialogues with the other arts.'
(Mike Sperlinger Best of Year Frieze       Magazine 2011 Issue 136.)
(IMP4).
New curatorial models: Grayson's curatorial collaboration with       Robin Klassnik (Director, Matt's Gallery), the three-part exhibition       `Revolver', (pictured above, right, work by Juneau Projects) was the first       of a new series of discursive and experimental initiatives for the       gallery.
Klassnick confirmed that `Revolver' was a "developmental and       experimental curatorial project investigating and effecting new ways of       working for the organisation [Matt's Gallery].
This new working model was       an integral part of our successful National Portfolio bid to Arts Council       England in 2011 [...] the success of the collaboration [with Grayson] has       significantly informed the future operations of the organisation as it       offered possibilities of creating a hybrid operation, a site for       cross-pollination and new inputs" (IMP5).
Partly a response to the       new reduced funding climate for the arts this exhibition broke away from       Matt's' more usual long-term commissioning approach to solo       exhibition-making, to present a sequence of older and recent works by ten       very contrasting artists in three consecutive mini-exhibitions.
The international significance and impact of Grayson's curatorial       approach has been recognized in his recent appointment as Curator of the       Adelaide International 2014, Australia.
Announcing this appointment in May       2013, Adelaide Festival Artistic Director David Sefton commented on the       value that Grayson's eclectic curatorial approach would bring to the wider       festival, saying: "I wanted to find someone to curate Adelaide       International that would work in collaboration to bring the performing and       visual arts in the festival closer together" (IMP6).
Impact on public discourse: developing public understanding of         contemporary arts practice 	  Published critical writing: As a       curator Grayson is an active voice in published critical debate around the       contemporary visual arts.
He is a regular contributor to Art Monthly       (the leading UK contemporary art magazine, readership 20,000) and       Broadsheet magazine (Australia).
His essay `So Here we are the end Planet       Finance' (first published in Broadsheet Australia and Art Monthly) was       widely circulated on the internet, with over 1964 online `reads' to date (IMP7).
The recognition and influence of Grayson's curatorial approach is also       evidenced by frequent invitations by galleries to write for other artists'       catalogues.
These include catalogue essays for: Susan Hiller, Tate       Britain; Mike Nelson, Whitechapel Art Gallery; Mark Wallinger, Aargauer       Kunsthaus, Switzerland.
Public arts debate: Grayson's artistic and curatorial projects       have been widely discussed contributing to international public debate on       the contemporary visual arts, including in the influential publications Art         Monthly, Artforum, Frieze, and Art in America (IMP8).
As deliberately provocative pieces, Grayson's own artworks have generated       debate within and beyond his immediate gallery audience, particularly       among those with religious beliefs, for example.
The exhibition of his       work Messiah at the De La Warr Pavilion (2010) stimulated a       commentary on the De La Warr gallery blog about the way the work had       challenged discussion among a group of Christian visitors (O' Donoghue, http://dlwp.blogspot.co.uk/2010_02_21_archive.html).
Writing about Grayson's The Golden Space City of God for the       journal Art and Christianity Joseph Watson (V&amp;A curator and an arts       advisor to St Paul's Cathedral) wrote: "[this work] calls us not only to       re-examine our own beliefs....but identifies the powerful role sound and       space have held in religion and the formation of collective identities.
If       churches and cathedrals have provided the history of the relationship of       sound and space, is it the case that spaces of art will become (perhaps       already are) the future prophetic spaces of our culture; the communal       spaces of harmony and dissonance?"
(IMP9).
Beyond the exhibition of his own and others' artworks, Grayson also has       active interaction with public audiences through lectures, artist       interviews and participation in panel discussions and research conferences       (e.g.
: Venice Biennale, 2013; Marginalia, Cambridge School of Art, Anglia       Ruskin University, 2011; Chisenhale Gallery, London, 2010; Tate Modern,       2009; Tate Liverpool, 2008.)
These events attract a broad arts audience,       including artists, students and curators as well as more general gallery       visitors.
