     This research has benefitted a diverse range of audiences including       artistic and museological communities of practice, local community groups       and Laing visitors.
It made a significant impact upon Tyne and Wear       Archives and Museums (TWAM) by directly contributing to their gallery       redevelopment and leading to an enhanced public presentation of the visual       culture of North-East England.
Impact on cultural life: enhancing the presentation of cultural         heritage in North-East England     `Northern Spirit' is a permanent display created for the Laing Art       Gallery to replace its former `Art on Tyneside' exhibition, which was over       17 years old, with out-dated content and in urgent need of a redesign when       the research project began.
The AHRC grant won by the Newcastle University       team brought a direct financial benefit of &#163;112,000 to the overall gallery       redevelopment project, enabling investment in new digital media content       and equipment.
This input enabled TWAM to match this funding with money       from the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) and the Woolfson Fund, resulting in       an overall project budget of &#163;1.1 million.
The Director of TWAM stated       that "The Art of Tyneside Research Project has had significant direct       benefits for TWAM venues, TWAM staff and TWAM audiences.
The previous       display had reached the end of its life and the contribution of research       funding made a significant difference in helping secure other match       funding in order to set much-needed changes in motion.
In particular it       provided support with the development of new media content, which is very       much enjoyed by visitors to the Gallery" (IMP1).
In the new `Northern Spirit' gallery the significance of the Laing       collection was extended through the inclusion of new commissioned and       co-produced participatory content presented through a mix of digital media       based platforms, including a sound bench, touchscreen displays, an       interactive map and digital projection.
Through these, 62 separate media       content elements were integrated into the new display, including audio       soundscapes, digital stories, short film interviews and crowd-sourced       digital photographs.
A series of film interviews with regional and       national artworld figures (including artist Antony Gormley, Director of       Tate Nicolas Serota and Director of BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art       Godfrey Worsdale) offered new perspectives on the significance of North       East art and culture.
The redesign also introduced a new platform for       showing iconic photographic images of the region.
As the Laing does not       normally collect photography this was a new opportunity to introduce this       aspect of the region's heritage into the gallery (IMP1).
Impact on civil society and public discourse: coproduction of cultural         heritage     Over the two years of the project 67 individuals worked with the research       team to co-produce digital stories for the new gallery.
Participants       included older people and under-represented groups e.g.
people with       disabilities or learning or mobility difficulties, refugee and asylum       seekers and young people at risk of exclusion from school.
A Flickr       competition also ran alongside the gallery redevelopment generating new       online participation in the project (84 members joined the Flickr Group,       contributing over 200 images).
The project generated new ways of working       collaboratively by putting into practice theories about co-production and       participatory research through practical workshops and creative       activities.
The films, photographs, sound pieces and digital stories       produced were then integrated into the final display and published on the       web.
The research team worked with gallery designers, curators and       learning professionals to create platforms for showcasing these       co-produced audio-visual outputs, producing insight into the changes to       design processes necessitated by collaborative working (IMP1).
Impact on policy making: informing professional museum practice     The `Northern Spirit' project introduced innovative research relating to       new museology, co-production and use of digital media into the TWAM       gallery development process.
Researchers ran workshops around theories of       interpretation and place-identity for staff and shared community and       public feedback on the gallery plans with the project team.
The team also       collaborated with TWAM to create guidelines and training for       front-of-house gallery staff to help them respond to questions from the       public, such as why the perspectives of asylum seekers were included in       the gallery.
TWAM's Director confirmed that: "The benefits of the project       have been embedded within working practices and significantly contributed       to the way TWAM now approaches Gallery interpretation" (IMP1).
Joint panel sessions by ICCHS and TWAM on collaborative partnerships       between HEIs and museums and galleries were presented at the 2010 Museums       Association Conference (Manchester).
These were attended by 90 UK museum       and gallery professionals.
The research team's partnership with TWAM was       further developed through participation in the Tate/TWAM public engagement       initiative the Great British Art Debate (http://www2.tate.org.uk/greatbritishartdebate/index.html)       and the digital storytelling project Cultureshock (http://www.cultureshock.org.uk/about.html).
In 2011 the `Northern Spirit' research developed into an AHRC follow-on       project `Partnership and Participation: Copyright and Informed Consent'.
This focused on questions of participation and intellectual property in       museum and gallery projects that had emerged as key issues in the       `Northern Spirit' study.
Working with staff at TWAM and at Newport City       Museum and Heritage Service this project resulted in the production of a       PDF report directed at heritage sector professionals which offers       practical advice and guidelines on ethics and ownership when working       collaboratively with the public and digital media.
Graham H, Mason R,       Nayling N. Earning Legitimacy: Participation, Intellectual Property         and Informed Consent.
This is available from the project blog (878       views to date) (IMP2).
Impact on public services: increasing visitor numbers and satisfaction         for the Laing Art Gallery     Over 400 people attended the `Northern Spirit' launch event, many of whom       were project participants.
In the first week of opening of the new display       the Laing received 9,000 visitors.
As a free exhibition the gallery does       not provide separate visitor numbers for `Northern Spirit', but overall       Laing visitor figures have increased from 250,000 per annum prior to the       gallery redevelopment to over 270,000 in the year following the opening of       `Northern Spirit' (an 8% increase) (IMP3).
Two separate       evaluations carried out by the Laing itself and by the project researchers       demonstrated that visitors overwhelmingly report increased satisfaction       with the improved quality of the new gallery, its new content, the       audio-visual resources, and the co-produced content.
One recent visitor       liked the way the new display "mirrors the history of the city" noticing       in particular how the region had "a big art history"; another described       the exhibition as "snapshots of lives....a sort of celebration"; while a       third noted how the new media content "expands the social context of the       gallery" (IMP4).
`Northern Spirit' has created a valuable new education resource for TWAM.
Whereas the previous display was not regularly employed for educational       activity, the new `Northern Spirit' gallery is used extensively by the       Laing learning team, both for its on-going programme of targeted schools       workshops for different education keystages and for teacher training, e.g.
as part of its popular `Bigger Picture' series (IMP5).
The display       is also the focus of a new `Identity Tour' aimed at older secondary school       students.
Based on figures provided by the Laing around 40 separate school       and college groups from across North East England now engage with       `Northern Spirit' each year, some making multiple visits to the gallery (IMP6).
In addition the Laing also offers two family trails that include `Northern       Spirit'.
In a follow-up interview (February 2013) learning team staff       spoke about the way in which the new display now offers clear themes which       schools and teachers find easy to relate to.
They particularly noted the       popularity of the interactive map and suggested that they would like to       see the extension of AV material and projections into the adjacent caf&#233;       space.
The `Northern spirit' gallery is the focus of curator-led tours and       is also used as a resource for more informal activities including creative       writing workshops managed by a local writing group and activities led by       the Laing Writer in Residence (IMP7).
