     This research has directly benefitted a number of different audiences in       their understanding and appreciation of mid-20th century       British cultural life; it has heightened perception of Britain's cultural       heritage, and developed new audiences for British art and architecture.
General public     The research continues to reach wide audiences through publications,       reviews, exhibitions, the media and through conferences and literary       festivals.
Impact began before the book was published in October 2009,       with requests for preview articles: on John Piper's wartime paintings for       History Today (September 2009); on his work for the Sitwells at       Renishaw for the Daily Telegraph; and with a double-page spread on       Myfanwy (`Golden Girl' Guardian, 29 August 2009) (IMP1).
Orders for the book, placed before publication, created a need to reprint       two weeks after publication, the hardback edition being reprinted four       times before the paperback appeared, taking sales into five figures (10037       copies, as at 7 July 2013) (IMP2).
The book continues to be widely       stocked in retail outlets.
Public Lending Right figures show that up to 30       June 2012 the book was publicly loaned 3364 times (IMP3).
The impact of this project can also be assessed from the reviews of John         Piper, Myfanwy Piper: Lives in Art which appeared in almost       every national newspaper, as well as many regional newspapers and leading       magazines and periodicals.
The Sunday Times called it an `excellent       and expert biography' (4 October 2009); the Times Literary Supplement       (16 December 2009) claimed `Spalding's approach, sifting and collating a       vast quantity of material, has produced a valuable and deeply researched       account of the Pipers' life together.'
Timothy Mowl in the Times         Higher Educational (28 September 2009) Supplement mentioned       the `excellence of this double biography' and claimed `Spalding's       engrossing and scholarly study presents an artist who relished and       skilfully crafted the complex textures of England, where he lived, and       Wales... this timely book engenders optimism.'
(IMP1).
Invitations to speak at conferences, seminars, festivals, to learned       societies, including the Ecclesiastical Architects and Surveyors       Association, and arts organisations, immediately followed publication.
Over the next three years Spalding delivered close to 50 talks related to       this book, across England and Wales on some aspect of this project, at       Blenheim Palace, Dorchester Abbey, Renishaw Hall, at universities, art       clubs, on behalf of the Art Fund, and at some 25 literary festivals.
Audiences ranged from 60 to 500 (Jericho Art Week, Oxford) and averaged       200.
Most of her appearances at literary festivals sold out, and many of       them led to further requests and projects.
Other beneficiaries of her       research have been music lovers.
She has enhanced audience appreciation of       Britten's operas by using her research into Myfanwy Piper's three libretti       for him in pre-performance talks, for English National Opera and London's       King's Place.
She has also spoken at three conferences on Britten,       alongside musicologists (IMP4).
Saving Piper's work in sacred buildings     Some beneficiaries of this research were those who had a connection with       its subject.
John Piper's stained-glass commissions, for example, had       involved him with many sacred buildings.
Over time the history of these       commissions had either been forgotten or the intentions behind the work       had been obscured.
Spalding's research impacted on ancient medieval       churches, a school chapel, two modern cathedrals, and three Oxbridge       colleges.
The chapel at Nuffield College, Oxford, designed by Piper in 1961 in an       upper room, had become neglected and its use was being reconsidered when       Spalding, invited to lecture in the college, delivered a talk titled       `Sacred or Superstitious?
John Piper and the Making of Sacred Spaces'.
She       was asked to repeat this lecture during the college's Alumni weekend and       to advise on the chapel's restoration.
A year later, she was invited to       the 50th anniversary celebration of the chapel, involving a       service, at which the Bishop of Oxford presided.
Recently, Richard Mayou,       Chairman of the Art Committee, wrote `to record our gratitude to you for       helping us to a much greater understanding and awareness of our remarkable       John Piper designed chapel' (IMP5).
Spalding's work similarly impacted on the chapel at Churchill College,       Cambridge.
Here Piper devised stained-glass for Richard Sheppard's       building.
In the planning stage, this chapel had been the source of a       public controversy, certain Fellows regarding it as unnecessary and       Francis Crick, the discoverer of DNA, resigning his Fellowship in protest.
A direct result of Spalding's book was the decision at Churchill College,       in 2012, to mount a weekend of events celebrating the 40th       anniversary of its chapel, beginning with a lecture by Spalding (Publicity       material in IMP4).
This same year Spalding opened the exhibition       celebrating the 50th anniversary of Coventry Cathedral with a       talk about Piper's Baptistery Window.
In 2012 the former Bishop of Oxford       invited her to contribute to a day of public lectures, entitled `Thinking       Theologically about Modern Art', at Gresham College in London, and her       talk was afterwards published in full by the College on YouTube (1,190       views to date) (Correspondence with the Rt.
Rev Richard Harries in IMP4).
Advising media on presentation of British art history     As a result of the book publication Spalding was invited to take part in       the programme `Start the Week' (BBC Radio 4 &#8212; audience figures 2 million)       (IMP6), to appear on television programme `Countryfile' (BBC2,       audience ratings, according to transmission time, range between 6 and 9       million), talking about John Piper's interest in the Rollright Stones, and       to contribute to three arts programmes on radio.
She also accepted an       invitation to act as a consultant to David Dimbleby in connection with his       television series `The Seven Ages of Britain' (audience ratings 5 million       for each programme, the highest figure so far for an arts series) and to       contribute to the chapter on the twentieth-century for the accompanying       book, Seven Ages of Britain: the story of our nation revealed by its         treasures by David Dimbleby (IMP7).
Advising cultural and heritage organisations     As a result of her research into the Pipers and British art more broadly       Spalding is regularly invited to deliver lectures in support of the Art       Fund, a national body which exists to benefit public galleries and museums       and impacts on tourism in Britain (IMP8).
She is regularly       approached by auction houses for advice of the correct attribution of       works of art.
She has advised the Government Committee for the Export of       Works of Art and sits on the Newcastle and Northumberland Diocesan       Advisory Committee in her role as a specialist in art and architecture.
Her recent essay `A Crisis of Belonging' forms part of the catalogue to       the current `Crisis of Brilliance' exhibition at Dulwich Picture Gallery,       on which she also advised, and she is frequently asked for advice on John       Piper exhibitions.
Leaving aside those in private galleries, the last       three years have seen Piper exhibitions at the River &amp; Rowing Museum,       Henley; in Hereford Museum; in Kent, where a tri-part exhibition was held       simultaneously at Mascalls Gallery, Paddock Wood, Tunbridge Wells Museum       and Art Gallery and at Scotney Castle, Lamberhurst; at Blenheim Palace;       Cardiff Art Gallery &amp; Museum; Dorchester Abbey, which mounted the       exhibition `John Piper and the Church'.
Spalding lectured at all these       venues and was instrumental in the decision to proceed with the Dorchester       Abbey exhibition.
A report on this event explains how she came to the       attention of the Abbey, was invited to visit it, met with a small party of       people and how her `encouragement...did more than anything else to       convince the trustees that it was a good idea' (IMP9).
Aside from prestigious public lectures given at English universities,       Spalding has also received invitations from abroad.
She lectured on       British art at Smith College in Massachusetts; at the request of the       Polish Ministry of Culture, in Krakow, and was invited to give the       prestigious annual Seymour lecture on biography at the National Library of       Australia in Canberra.
(Invitation in IMP4).
Further significant       evidence of the impact made by her Pipers book is the fact that, soon       after it was published, she was invited to join the Leverhulme Trust's       Advisory Panel.
The underpinning research's contribution to the art       history field nationally and internationally is well recognised (IMP10).
