     Most acute wounds heal without issue, but as we get older our bodies       become compromised by poor blood circulation and conditions such as       diabetes, leading to slower healing.
This can result in stalled or       hard-to-heal chronic wounds or ulcers.
Currently about two per cent of the       Western population develop a chronic leg or foot ulcer, and this figure       will rise as the population ages and diabetes becomes more prevalent.
Unfortunately a significant proportion of these chronic wounds fail to       respond to conventional treatment and result in amputation of the lower       limb.
To date, there have been no effective therapeutic agents available       to treat these wounds.
A key feature of the Nexagon technology is that it       is able to kick-start the healing of chronic wounds where healing has       stalled, thus addressing a widespread unmet clinical need.
Commercial impacts: Coda Therapeutics     CoDa Therapeutics was founded in 2003 by Becker and Green to develop       Nexagon technology.
In October 2006 CoDa Therapeutics raised $23m in       series A financing, and with this they completed GMP manufacture and       toxicity testing.
In July 2012 CoDa Therapeutics raised series B funding       of about $38m for venous leg ulcer and diabetic foot ulcer trials.
CoDa Therapeutics has 11 Biotech team members in New Zealand, including       five scientists based at the University of Auckland.
There are around       seven staff members at the San Diego site, from where clinical trials are       organised [a].
Thus far there are 11 patents relating to Nexagon at different stages of       being granted worldwide and two more in preparation [b].
Compassionate use of Nexagon:     In 2008, CoDa Therapeutics were given approval for compassionate use of       Nexagon on an amputee patient with a below-the-knee wound that had not       healed for 18 months.
The patient was scheduled for amputation above the       knee, but just two treatments with Nexagon, a week apart, triggered       healing and saved his leg from further amputation.
Nexagon has also been granted compassionate use approval from the New       Zealand regulatory authorities for treatment of persistent epithelial       defects following corneal burns.
So far Nexagon treatment has saved the       eyes of over a dozen people when given for compassionate use [c].
Orphan drug designation:     In 2009, CoDa Therapeutics were awarded FDA Orphan Drug designation for       Nexagon for treatment of persistent epithelial defects (PED) following       corneal burns.
Orphan Drug Designation entitles CoDa to seven years of       market exclusivity in the treatment of PED patients in the event of market       approval for this indication [d].
Results of clinical trials with Nexagon:     Clinical trials with Nexagon were started in 2008.
Nexagon successfully       completed Phase 1 safety trials for both skin (NCT00736593) and eye       (NCT00654550) indications.
In the Phase 1 trial for skin wounds, Nexagon       was found to be safe and well-tolerated following administration to 43       healthy volunteers given punch biopsy wounds.
Phase 2 trials are now in       progress or completed for both skin and eye indications.
Nexagon has also shown positive results in Phase 2a and 2b clinical       trials for venous leg ulcers, treated by a topical once-weekly       application.
The 98-patient Phase 2a clinical trial of Nexagon       (NCT00820196) showed that venous leg ulcers treated with Nexagon healed       five times faster than the current standard of care, with 31% healing       completely within four weeks, compared to 6% with the current standard of       care [e].
One participant in this study, who had suffered from       debilitating leg ulcers for three years, described this trial as "the         answer to my prayers...
I tried everything possible and this is the only         thing that worked" [f].
The 300-patient randomised, vehicle-controlled, double-blind Phase 2b       trial (NCT01199588) was completed in December 2012 and showed Nexagon was       both safe, and showed an increase in complete healing of leg ulcers.
CoDa       is preparing a paper describing the results of this trial that will be       submitted to a peer-reviewed medical journal.
A Phase 2 double-blind randomised vehicle-controlled clinical trial to       investigate the safety and clinical effect of Nexagon as a topical       treatment for subjects with a diabetic foot ulcer (DUNE; NCT01490879) was       started in July 2012, and expects to enrol 160 patients and complete in       August 2013.
Persistent Corneal Epithelial Defects occur following corneal damage,       particularly burns or chemical damage, when healing of the cornea does not       occur and eyesight is often lost.
An efficacy and safety double-blinded       study of Nexagon for Persistent Corneal Epithelial Defects (NCT01165450)       started in November 2011, and is due for completion in October 2014.
It is       being run by Dr B Jeng, University of California, San Francisco and       expects to enrol 72 patients.
Media coverage     Nexagon has received international media coverage due to its wide       potential importance [g].
