     New diagnostic tests     The impact of our research on diagnosis and clinical management of NCL       has been global.
Laboratories around the world now offer comprehensive       testing for the NCLs [a].
The diagnostic applications of this work       include prenatal and pre-implantation diagnosis for prevention, predictive       testing for pre-symptomatic diagnosis (important as experimental therapies       become available), as well as the definitive diagnosis of symptomatic       disease and determination of carrier status for relatives.
For patients       and their families the most significant impact has been the improvement in       the time taken to reach a definite diagnosis, which had taken several       years for some families but can now be as short as a few months or even       weeks.
UCL now offers diagnostic biochemical tests for CLN1, CLN2, and CLN10       enzyme analysis and DNA-based mutation tests for CLN1, CLN2, CLN3, CLN5,       CLN6, CLN7, CLN8 and CLN10.
Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH) performs       c.100 gene tests each year, for diagnostic, carrier or prenatal testing,       and 450 enzyme assays.
Pathological examination of skin biopsies using       electron microscopy has long been offered (now around 100 per year), and       because of UCL's position at the forefront of genetic discovery this is       also extended to research cases with international collaboration.
Five       hundred blood tests for vacuolated lymphocytes that are characteristic for       CLN3 disease, are also performed each year [b].
New diagnostic algorithms     The identification of genes and mutations underlying different types of       NCL has led to diagnostic algorithms being displayed on the NCL Resource       website [c].
These have been viewed 1,970 times.
Mole also offers       personal consultations on a diagnostic pathway approximately six times per       year.
Algorithms are updated as new genes are discovered, and are also       published in hard copy.
As a result of our work, accurate genetic       diagnosis now underpins disease nomenclature.
This provides the essential       information required for any clinical therapeutic intervention and ensures       that families know exactly what their disease is.
This new nomenclature is       also summarised on the NCL Resource website (viewed 1,874 times) and       published in hard copy.
NCL Resource     Since monitoring began in mid-2009, the NCL Resource website has received       more than 15,000 unique visits from 121 countries.
It is a unique resource       which is used: by families to learn about NCL after a new diagnosis and       particularly to keep up to date with the development of therapies [d];       by clinicians to learn how and where to access specialised tests for       diagnosis, and which ones to request; by researchers to be updated about       the wider aspects of NCL, recent gene identification and mutation data; by       other professionals to link to international groups including the UK       Batten Disease Professional Development Group.
The website is also used by       the media and is often cited in publications, particularly the mutation       database.
Expert advice     Mole is Scientific Advisor to the UK Batten Disease Family Association       (BDFA) [e].
This lay association represents and supports affected       families and professionals (medical, social, educational) involved with       them.
Mole advises on the content of leaflets and phone response       protocols, ensuring accuracy in terms of genetic, diagnostic, or research       information.
She has spoken about her research at many meetings over the       last ten years.
In 2008, Mole organised a meeting at UCL with BDFA       entitled `From bench to bedside.'
This meeting gathered together       scientists, clinicians, social scientists and nurses to discuss ways of       speeding the future availability of therapy in the UK.
From this, the BDFA       developed their `top ten priorities' for strategic support of research [f].
Public Engagement work     In 2012, Mole organised a two-day conference for families and       professionals that was integrated with the 13th International       Conference on Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinoses (Batten Disease) [g].
The scientific conference was co-organised with colleagues from King's       College London and the Evelina Children's Hospital, and covered all       aspects of Batten disease research.
The public engagement event was       co-organised with BDFA.
Events included: specialised workshops and       training events; broader workshops on science relevant to Batten Disease       families, such as on clinical trials or specialist education; a UK       networking event for different professionals who would otherwise not meet;       `lay summary sessions' to help families benefit from the research being       presented.
Over 260 people attended overall, including nearly 100 family       members.
One family member commented: "Really like your effort to make         complicated science available for parents of persons with NCL."
Then       "I must say that today's session for parents in the afternoon was even         better than yesterday (I now know there is something called a cell :-)).
We do appreciate these efforts to educate the parents" [h].
Sara Mole won the UCL Provost's Award for Public Engagement (senior       staff) 2013 for the integration of science and public involvement at       NCL2012.
She is also a member of the NIHR UCL Hospitals Biomedical       Research Centre (BRC) Strategy Board as representative for Patient and       Public Involvement, and especially advice on public engagement, from 2013.
