 Impact of Newcastle research on informing prevalence rates A fundamental difficulty in tackling the challenges posed by dementia was the lack of knowledge of the scale of the problem, including prevalence rates and progression pathway.
This was addressed by two reports that would prove influential in informing subsequent policy.
The first, a report to the Alzheimer's Society entitled `Dementia UK' (EV a), contains prevalence and incidence data that were largely contributed by the CFAS (R 1-2): "In terms both of sample size and scope the evidence base is dominated by the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study" (EV a, pg.
10).
Consequently, Dementia UK acted as the major source of information for the second report, a 2007 National Audit Office document (EV b).
These two reports formed the basis for the National Dementia Strategy (EV c), a high-level policy document published in 2009.
Impact of Newcastle research on an improved care pathway Newcastle research has informed healthcare improvement programmes that highlight the importance of early diagnosis, a well-performed disclosure and a well-planned care pathway.
When preparing the National Dementia Strategy, the Early Diagnosis and Intervention working group became aware of the lack of evidence to support opinions regarding earlier diagnosis and its more sensitive disclosure (EV d).
This prompted research that resulted in the publication of R6, which went on to inform the 2011 Health Foundation Improvement report.
This cites R6 twice (EV e, pg 74), stating:  "patients are most likely to benefit from an early diagnosis if there is a coordinated team with representatives of different types of health and social care to plan the care of the patient" "Patients and carers prefer to be told the diagnosis early, as this ends their uncertainty about the problem, allows them to learn more about the condition and how to cope with it.
It also gives them an opportunity to access support and allows them to achieve unfulfilled ambitions in the short term."
Impact of Newcastle research on policy implementation The Department of Health appointed an expert group to develop "commissioning packs" which enable the implementation of recommendations, via enabling health and local authority commissioners to design cost-effective services that are suited to local needs.
Professor Robinson was recruited to this expert group on the basis of her relevant research expertise.
She was able to bring to the group's deliberations both the results of her research on the beneficial effects of early diagnosis for patients and their families, and the findings from Newcastle-led research on best practice in disclosing a diagnosis of dementia.
The National Clinical Director for Dementia stated: "I ... confirm that the evidence and advice [Professor Robinson] provided in [her] role as a key member of the Department of Health [DH] Expert Group responsible for the development of the DH Commissioning Guidance packs for Dementia care, was crucial to determining key commissioning targets and outcomes of good quality care" (EV f).
These packs were also informed directly by Newcastle research (R5) and indirectly via the 2009 National Dementia Strategy (EV c, itself including Newcastle research).
The two Dementia Commissioning Packs (EV g, h), published in 2011, include the statement: "Identifying people earlier in the disease pathway enables more people suffering from the disease to make choices rather than at a point when it is too late" (EV g, pg.
15).
Newcastle research (R5) is included in EV h (pg.
9) as evidence that a rapidly and sensitively communicated diagnosis of dementia has several advantages to the patient over traditional diagnosis pathways, including "a better understanding of the situation" and "an end to uncertainty".
These packs also went on to form the basis of the Prime Minister's 2012 Challenge on Dementia.
The Prime Minister's Dementia Challenge In the latest step in policy development, the Prime Minister established a "Dementia Challenge" in 2012 (EV i) to increase implementation of recommendations.
Professor Robinson was appointed to a senior role, as confirmed by the National Clinical Director for Dementia (EV d): "[Professor Robinson's] expertise as a national researcher in dementia care contributed to [her] selection as Primary care advisor to the Secretary of State for the Prime Minister's National Dementia Challenge".
The National Dementia Challenge identifies major improvement targets for dementia care by 2015.
Its first interim report notes that those responsible for implementation believe they are on track for working with professionals to improve early diagnosis (EV j, pg.
38).
Summary Newcastle contributed to a large, multi-centre cohort study that broke with the prevailing focus of research.
The study showed that dementia was more common than previously thought, and that age was a significant risk factor, with implications for the ageing population.
Subsequent Newcastle research that identified poor quality of the diagnosis and care pathway informed several high-level policy documents, including the 2012 Prime Minister's Dementia Challenge, and guidance in the form of the Department of Health's 2011 commissioning packs.
