 As described below, the impact of the research has been to a) inform policy debate on the economic role of independent schools and discussion of social mobility within the state education sector; b) to shape government policy towards funding for the teaching of shortage subjects; and c) to improve public awareness and understanding of the issues.
The research has informed debate amongst practitioners and the education and economic policy community.
A clear finding of the research is that there are significant differences in pay and working conditions of teachers in shortage, STEM subjects between the state and the independent sector and that these differences contribute to the superior student performance in those subjects in the latter sector.
This finding on STEM subjects was communicated direct to government when the researchers were invited to give evidence to the House of Commons Select Committee on Children, Schools and Families on school provision (source 1).
The research was cited by the Royal Society in its "State of the Nation" reports (source 2) on `The UK`s Science and Mathematics Teaching Workforce' and `Science and Mathematics Education for 14-19 year olds' in 2008 and 2010 respectively: Royal Society 2008, State of the Nation &#8212; Science and Mathematics Education 14-19: "Indeed, owing to the fact that the data are not easily accessible, it has often been conjectured that a key factor in the high performance in triple science is that it is taught mainly in independent and selective schools, which have historically been better resourced to undertake teaching of the separate sciences.
Furthermore, as a recent research study based on the quarterly Labour Force Survey showed, there are higher numbers of specialist teachers in science and mathematics in the private sector (Green et al.
2008)."
(p. 43) The potential policy implications of the Royal Society reports, informed by the research, are clear.
The government should tackle the under-supply of teachers in shortage subjects in state schools by offering better pay and working conditions to graduates in STEM subjects.
In order to address declining social mobility, the government should also devote more resources to enable the academically best-performing schools and/or the most able pupils in the state sector to compete with their independent sector counterparts for places at leading universities and popular subjects, perhaps through early identification, provision of extracurricular activities and career guidance.
The Government responded to this debate in learned societies, parliament and the media, informed by this research, and has placed the teaching of STEM subjects as a national priority.
For example, George Osborne boosted the government's commitment to the teaching of STEM subjects in the 2011 Autumn Statement with a pledge of &#163;600 million to create schools dedicated to STEM subjects (source 3).
In this way the research facilitated non-academic research users and policy makers to create impact in changing policy towards the teaching of STEM subjects.
Finally, the research has had a far-reaching impact on improving public awareness and understanding via the widespread media coverage in the mainstream press concerning the economic role of independent schools and potential impacts on social mobility (source 4).
