     Institutional capacity development: providing resources for       practitioners     Scholte's engagements with GGI and CSO practitioners have helped raise       the quantity and quality of their interactions.
A concrete example relates       to the IMF, where in 2003 Scholte drafted the institution's `Staff Guide       for Relations with Civil Society Organizations', described by the Managing       Director as "a framework for IMF staff to understand and contribute to the       expanding dialogue and therefore make it more productive" (source 1).
Specifically mandated by the IMF Executive Board, the guide was circulated       to all staff.
The IMF also routinely distributes the guide to its CSO       interlocutors.
A testimonial from the Director of External Relations at       the IMF can corroborate Scholte's on-going impact (source 8).
He is       currently advising the IMF on the guide's revision, and presented       suggested amendments in view of lessons learned from his underpinning       research at the institution's annual meeting in Tokyo in 2012.
There he       convened a workshop with CSOs and IMF/World Bank officials to discuss       possible policy revisions, and wrote an informal report afterwards for IMF       civil society liaison officers (source 8).
In 2008-9 Scholte provided more specific advice to the IMF African       Department, consisting of 6 country reports based on fresh fieldwork, an       internally circulated paper `IMF Relations with Civil Society in Africa:       "Quick-Win" Steps to Improved Engagement', and a seminar at IMF       headquarters for leads of African country teams.
As a direct result of       Scholte's country visits, IMF representatives in Congo, Malawi, Mozambique       and Nigeria upgraded their relations with CSOs.
At headquarters, the       African Department designated a senior official for outreach and created       an Africa Regional Advisory Group including several CSO members.
In 2009       the Independent Evaluation Office of the IMF commissioned Scholte to       undertake a comprehensive review of IMF-CSO relations (source 2).
His       resulting report has encouraged IMF initiatives such as a substantial (and       very well received) programme to sponsor CSOs from poor countries to       attend the institution's Annual and Spring Meetings, as well as plans to       develop staff training on relations with CSOs (source 2).
Scholte has also given advice on upgrading relations with CSOs to the       Commonwealth (public seminar, 2011), ICANN (advice to its Vice President,       2011), UN Secretariat (public seminar, 2008), World Bank (staff seminars,       2008, 2011) and WTO (staff seminar, 2011) (sources 3 and 7).
In 2011 he       prepared the background paper on civil society and governance for a future       Global Fund for Young Children that the World Bank is currently exploring       together with leading international child welfare foundations.
In       addition, Scholte has provided inputs on CSO relations to the European       Commission (presentation of research results, 2010), the Haidian District       People's Political Consultative Committee, Beijing (two-hour meeting with       its leadership, 2008), the Mexico City Government (staff training seminar,       2012), the Netherlands Government Commission on Modernising Diplomacy       (two-hour testimony, 2012) and the UK Foreign Office (audience with       Foreign Secretary David Miliband 2008, Wilton Park briefing 2011).
Workshops of the Ford Foundation funded Building Global Democracy (BGD)       programme coordinated by Scholte between 2007 and 12 have involved several       dozen CSOs together with officials from the Arab League, Commonwealth,       FAO, Global Fund, ICANN, OECD, IMF, UNECA, UNESCO, UNICEF, UN NGLS,       UNRCPD, the World Bank and WTO.
At these workshops GGI officials and CSO       actors from around the world become acquainted, learn from each other, and       deepen trust that promotes substantive exchanges over policy and projects       (source 6).
Feedback from participants shows that they consider these       events to have been informative, stimulating new ideas and leading to new       connections between organisations.
BGD has also produced practitioner-       oriented booklets and toolkits to advance CSO inclusion in global       governance (sources 4 and 5).
Over 3,000 hard copies of the toolkits have       circulated (including in training seminars) and hundreds more       practitioners have accessed online versions on the BGD website (source 9).
Scholte has also advised the following foundations on their programmes       concerning civil society and global governance (sources 4, 5 and 6): the       Carnegie UK Trust (2008, 2012-13), Dag Hammarskj&#246;ld Foundation (2009),       Ford Foundation (2009), and Joseph Rowntree Foundation (2010).
Foundation       support to NGOs is vital in sustaining CSO engagement of global       governance.
Scholte also advises the One World Trust on its widely       consulted Global Accountability Project (since 2004) and CIVICUS on its       Global Civil Society Report (since 2011).
Scholte has contributed dozens of capacity-building sessions on GGI       engagement with CSOs as varied as the Tomorrow Project, London (2008), the       Congolese Coalition on External Debt, Kinshasa (2009), the Global Policy       Forum, Bonn (2010), the International Institute for Sustainable       Development, Geneva (2011), the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary       Action, Belfast (2012) and Eurodad (2013).
CSOs also continually seek       Scholte's ad hoc advice on when, where and through whom they can best       access global governance (sources 4, 5 and 6).
He also constantly connects       relevant persons across these circles to further GGI-CSO relations (e.g.
when CSOs in 2012 launched a global network on IMF advocacy).
Enhancing public awareness of global governance issues and informing         debate     Scholte's research-based public engagement work has widely raised       awareness of the possibilities of citizen engagement of global governance,       in order to promote the benefits identified in Section 2 above.
His 51       presentations to audiences including policy-makers, NGOs, trade unions,       social movements, think tanks, faith-based groups, journalists and the       general public in 23 countries during the REF reporting period reached       over 2,000 people.
His talk at Occupy London in 2011 attracted 23,000       followers on Twitter.
The BGD quarterly newsletter with regular items on       GGI- CSO relations circulated to 6,600 recipients in 162 countries.
The       BGD website attracted over 60,000 visits since its 2009 launch, from an       average of 114 countries per month in 2012.
The BGD Facebook page launched       in 2010 drew nearly 1,000 `friends'.
A public meeting round the BGD       workshop in Delhi drew over 200 participants, and the BGD workshop in Rio       was covered in 70 media outlets (source 10).
Scholte has also shaped media       coverage of civil society in global politics via outlets such as the BBC       World Service (2010) and Financial Times (2011).
