     The need     In the past few years, 50,000-60,000 dental sedation procedures have been       carried out each year       on children in England and Wales (data from FOI request to the NHS       Business Services Authority).
The majority of those were standard inhalation sedations with nitrous       oxide and oxygen, which       induces a mild state of conscious sedation in patients.
The technique is       called relative analgesia; it       has been used for a long time and has a very good safety record &#8212; hence it       is the first-line option       for sedation.
However, in a proportion of child patients, inhalation       sedation is not adequate due to       non-compliance and dental treatment cannot be performed.
A study published       in 2002 reported       that in a cohort of children receiving inhalation sedation within the       community dental service of one       primary care trust, 16% of dental procedures failed due to problems with       sedation (Bryan (2002)       PubMed ID: 12452982).
Previously, the only alternative to nitrous oxide for sedating children       had been dental general       anaesthesia, an unsatisfactory situation.
Since 2002, general anaesthesia       has been prohibited in a       primary care setting and must be carried out in hospital.
A hospital visit       for dental work is both an       unpleasant experience for the patient and is costly to the health service.
In 2010, the cost of a       dental general anaesthetic in hospital (staff and consumables) was       estimated to be &#163;719.90, more       than 2.5 times the cost of a sedation procedure carried out by a primary       care referral service       (&#163;273.01): see NICE clinical guideline 112: www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/13296/52185/52185.pdf.
Guidelines on dental sedation     In 2010, NICE published the guideline Sedation for diagnostic and         therapeutic procedures in         children and young people (Ev a).
It states:     "For a child or young person who cannot tolerate a dental procedure         with local anaesthesia alone,         to achieve conscious sedation consider: nitrous oxide (in oxygen) or         midazolam" (pg 19).
The full-length guideline development document, which accompanies the       concise guideline, shows       that all five trials considered by the Guideline Development Group which       involved a direct       comparison between nitrous oxide and midazolam were from Newcastle       University (Ev b).
The results of a sixth clinical trial performed at Newcastle University       (R4), which compared       intravenous midazolam plus nitrous oxide with nitrous oxide plus       sevoflurane was also examined       by the guideline development group &#8212; although combination techniques are       not explicitly       recommended in the guideline.
The NICE guideline applies to all NHS dental services in England and       Wales.
Dental practices in       Scotland follow the Scottish Dental Clinical Effectiveness Programme       guideline on dental sedation       of adults and children, which was updated in June 2012.
On child sedation,       the updated guideline       states:     "...intravenous sedation [midazolam is recommended earlier as the       drug of choice] of paediatric         dental patients has been reported as a safe and effective technique..."     and     "...intravenous sedation for children is appropriate in a minority of         cases."
(Ev c)     Two studies are cited as supporting this, both of which were carried out       at Newcastle University       and involved use of midazolam (R3 and R4).
The guidelines also state (citing R2, a trial of oral midazolam):     "Oral and transmucosal sedation is appropriate in a minority of cases"       but only where "titratable         techniques (inhalation and intravenous sedation) are deemed to be         inappropriate."
(Ev c).
The President of the Society for the Advancement of Anaesthesia in       Dentistry (SAAD) confirms       that "a large majority [of SAAD members] now apply the current         guidelines."
(Ev d).
Sedation in practice     Sedation with midazolam, usually administered intravenously and sometimes       in combination with       other drugs, is now the main alternative to nitrous oxide for conscious       sedation of children.
The       group that developed the 2010 NICE guideline stated in their report that:       "the use of midazolam         alone in dental procedures in adolescents and in oesophago-gastroscopy         is common."
(Ev b).
The NHS Business Services Authority does not centrally record data on the       types of dental       sedations paid for by the NHS in the UK (FOI response 3449), and there is       no recently published       audit of sedation practice containing that information.
Nevertheless, we       have statements from       several sedation providers, two of which* were named by the NHS         Business Services         Authority as belonging to the top ten providers of dental sedations       to children on referral in the       UK in 2011-12, which indicate that sedation with intravenous midazolam is       widespread.
- [text removed for publication]* (Ev e).
- [text removed for publication]* (Ev f).
- The Queensway Dental Clinic, Billingham, Teesside is one of the larger       specialist sedation       clinics in England.
It has received around 9,000 referred patients per       year over the last few       years, and in the year 2012-13 approximately 3,621 children were sedated       there with       intravenous midazolam in combination with nitrous oxide, sevoflurane       and/or fentanyl where       appropriate (Ev g).
- Cumbria Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS       Trust and       Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust have all acknowledged       in responses to       FOI requests that they carry out child dental sedations with intravenous       midazolam where       appropriate (Ev h).
Sedation training     In the UK, professional training in paediatric conscious sedation has       adapted to reflect that       midazolam is now the standard alternative to nitrous oxide.
The UCL Eastman Dental Institute is the largest postgraduate dental       school in Europe and is a       world-leading academic centre for dentistry.
They have confirmed in a       statement that their       Paediatric Dentistry DDent programme includes both teaching and practical       experience with       intravenous midazolam sedation (Ev i).
Also, in December 2011 the       Independent Expert Group for       Training Standards on Sedation in Dentistry (whose members overlap those       of SAAD) released a       training syllabus on advanced conscious sedation techniques which       include use of midazolam in       children (Ev j).
While sedation courses provide dentists with the       underpinning knowledge for       alternative conscious sedation of children, SAAD strongly advises that       substantial clinical       experience should be acquired before independent practice.
To facilitate       this, SAAD and the       Dental Sedation Teachers' Group provide a mentor list that details the       contacts of around 50       experienced sedation dentists (almost all in the UK, a few elsewhere in       Europe) who can supervise       trainees.
In the 2011 list, 13 of the mentors were listed as able to       supervise and train dentists in       intravenous sedation of children (Ev g).
