     Our research has resulted in a new treatment for periodontitis,       Periowave, that provides significant benefits over existing antibiotic       (and potentially invasive surgical) treatments.
The technology we       developed was licensed to Ondine Biomedical in 1998 for periodontal       treatment.
Over the following eight years, the company undertook a number       of collaborative projects with the EDI, including sponsoring a clinical       trial.
UCL has received more than &#163;1m in research investment from Ondine       to develop and evaluate this technology.
Licensing income received by UCL       from the commercialisation of the patents is approximately &#163;0.4m.
Further       income is also anticipated as a consequence of the technology being       licensed to Ondine for the treatment of caries [a].
Through this collaboration, Ondine developed the Periowave system.
This       consists of a hand-held light-emitting device and a syringe containing the       LAAA.
A solution of the LAAA is applied to the disease site by a dentist,       who then irradiates it with light from the athermal laser for 60 seconds.
The treatment takes only a few minutes overall and is painless and       stress-free, compared to a long course of antibiotics (up to seven days)       or repeated scaling of teeth.
This reduces concerns of limited patient       compliance and the risk of adverse side effects of antibiotics and/or       conventional periodontal treatment [b].
Periowave has been available commercially in Canada since 2006, and has       since been licensed in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Mexico.
The system       is currently under review by the Korea Food &amp; Drug Administration.
It       has also been given CE marking by the EC.
Six core staff are employed by       Periowave Dental Technologies in sales and marketing, along with a network       of distributors in various countries.
To date approximately 92,000       Periowave treatment kits have been bought and used on an estimated 313,000       patients.
Aside from trial data indicating clinical benefit, clinicians       and patients have attested to its benefits.
Comments include:     "Periowave photodisinfection is a rapid, painless approach to removal         of the harmful bacteria."
"Periowave is a painless and stress- free way to control the health of         my gums."
"My first Periowave treatment was just great.
It was completely         painless, and it was interesting to hear scientifically what was going         on.
There was absolutely no discomfort.
If somebody gave me a choice         between Periowave and an antibiotic, I would take Periowave&#8482; in a flash.
No antibiotics!"
[c].
The principles of LAAAs and Periowave have wider impacts on public health       than periodontitis.
One of the main problems confronting medicine in the       21st century is the increasing prevalence of       antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
This, combined with a shortage of new       antibiotics under development, means that the ability to treat infectious       diseases is diminishing.
A further impact of our work on LAAAs has thus       been their adaption for the prevention and/or treatment of other       infections.
Based directly upon the principles of Periowave (see company       website [d]) Ondine have now developed a system (MRSAidTM)       for eradication of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus       from the nose [e].
A recent study conducted by Vancouver General       Hospital of 5,000 patients revealed that use of this nasal       photodisinfection system reduced post-surgical infection by almost 40 per       cent and saved the hospital $1.3m in costs relating to post-surgical       infections and re-admissions.
The hospital was awarded a prize for       innovation by the International Consortium for Prevention and Infection       Control (ICPIC) in Geneva for this work, and have now adopted the system       into routine clinical practice [f].
Further applications of the principles of LAAAs are presently being       investigated for: (i) preventing catheter-associated infections (by       fabricating catheters from LAAA-containing polymers), (ii) reducing the       microbial load on hospital surfaces (by coating surfaces with       LAAA-containing polymers) and (iii) preventing wound infections (using       dressings containing LAAAs).
