 In the current environment where there is increasing demand for volume and speed of electronic activity combined with environmental concerns, asynchronous chips (a faster and more power efficient technology) has been welcomed by industry and users.
The pathway to this impact has been, over the last 20 years, laid through influential research dissemination by the Newcastle group, having the highest publication track record in the history of the IEEE International Symposium on Asynchronous Circuits and Systems, amongst the entire international asynchronous circuits and systems community.
Newcastle has had close and never-stopping interaction with the industrial members of this community, which includes several leading scientists and engineers from Intel, Sun (now Oracle), Fulcrum (now Intel).
The research has enabled automated construction of asynchronous circuits The results of research described in this case study have been used as the basis for Intel Corporation's Computer Aided Design (CAD) tools for asynchronous circuits.
In his letter [E3], Intel's Chief Scientist for Technology Development identified the longstanding problem of high levels of complexity that the inherent concurrency of asynchronous circuits pose to industrial designers, and stated that "The predominant means of analysing this concurrency is Petri Nets and the work by Alex Yakovlev and his colleagues have pioneered the application of Petri Nets to asynchronous circuits" [E3].
Specifically STGs, Petrify and related Petri net theories have provided (i) the basis of understanding and modelling performance analysis as well as optimisation of asynchronous circuits, and (ii) the formal basis of the slack matching optimisation algorithm (patented by Fulcrum Microsystem [E4]) which is a key technology for asynchronous circuits design.
In combination, together, (i) and (ii) have allowed Intel to produce higher performance asynchronous circuits ("Slack matching is one of the core technologies within the asynchronous CAD flow that my Intel division is using and this process is a pillar to us achieving higher performance than the synchronous alternatives in our past two products" [E3]).
Intel's press release on the acquisition of Fulcrum Microsystems stated: "Fulcrum Microsystems' [asynchronous] switch silicon, already recognized for high performance and low latency, complements Intel's leading processors and Ethernet controllers, and will deliver our customers new levels of performance and energy efficiency while improving their economics of cloud service delivery."
[E8].
The impact is evident in the wide deployment of the new circuits in the financial services industry; in particular, most transactions on the NYSE and NASDAQ (combined daily volume of trade exceeding &#163;80 billion) now rely on Intel's switch silicon &#8212; a design facilitated by the use of new CAD tools that depend on the research described earlier [E3].
Gartner Analysts reported that for the years 2010-2012 the total annual worldwide semiconductor revenue was on average $300 billion.
Intel Corporation had 16% of this market and was the world leading manufacturer of chips for high-performance computers ("no.1 semiconductor vendor for the 21st year in a row").
Tools &amp; techniques for improving synchroniser design has been adopted by industry Intel Corporation and Sun Microsystems (now Oracle Corporation) have used research results to improve measurement techniques and robustness in their synchronisers.
Benefits include new circuits and the valuable analysis capability of new tools, the ideas for which were triggered by Prof. Kinniment's methods to measure deep metastability and MTBF (Mean Time Between Failures).
The research has allowed better understanding of metastability, improved confidence in performance estimation of circuits and enabled previously unknown effects to be revealed, which significantly enhances system reliability [E1, E2].
As a result, faster and more power efficient synchronisers have been produced by Sun Microsystems in their desktop and server machines (Sun UltraSparc series), during 2008-2009 (and pre-2008).
From 2010 Oracle (who bought Sun Microsystems) has continued using research results to create the improved SPARC series of products [E2].
As a result of using synchronisers that have been designed and characterised using Newcastle's methods Oracle have been able to scale up the performance of their processors without reducing their reliability.
The SPARC processors are world leaders in terms of processing speed and several records have been broken [E5, E6] allowing Oracle to compete with other providers like IBM.
The Transaction Processing Performance Council, whose membership includes the major businesses in the field, indicate Oracle SPARC products as top ranking in the performance category [E7].
In 2013, the SPARC microprocessor was released by Oracle as the world's fastest microprocessor [E6].
Quote from John Fowler, executive vice president, Systems, Oracle: "The new SPARC T5 and M5 systems leapfrog the competition with up to 10x the performance of the previous generation, offering an unbeatable value for midrange and high-end enterprise computing" [E6].
Other notable impacts Other beneficiaries include Spanish company Elastic Clocks, who in collaboration with Newcastle during 2008-2010 gained improvements in their industrial EDA flow and achieved on average up to 30% power savings in microprocessor chips while maintaining performance.
More recently, the company Dialog Semiconductor with offices in USA, Europe and East Asia released a series of power efficient products (www.dialog-semiconductor.com/) designed using the tools provided by the research.
Due to the uptake by industry the research described in Section 2 is now an embedded element of teaching practice in asynchronous design, demonstrating that this vital area of professional training has been informed and stimulated by research at Newcastle University.
The impact on Higher Education extends significantly beyond Newcastle University and now around the world, most of the top engineering courses use Petrify and STGs in courses on asynchronous circuit design (e.g.
Columbia University in the USA, Technical University of Vienna in Austria, and IIT Delhi in India).
[E9] shows an example of course material used.
As Intel's Chief Scientist for Technology Development [E3] testifies: "The tool Petrify and STGs have become a fantastic means of teaching and explaining asynchronous design concepts".
