     The first impact concerns the planning and management of physical       activity services.
Findings led to recommendations regarding delivery, for       example appointing a project worker to liaise between the mental health       provider (AWP) and sport provision in the community (BCC).
While BALP       began under the auspices of AWP, continuation, expansion and       sustainability depended on developing an effective link between mental       health services and community sport provision.
Our recommendations led to       a full-time Physical Activity Development Officer for Mental Health being       appointed in 2009.
This appointment and subsequent improved management and       delivery has seen sport and physical activity provision in Bristol for       people with mental health problems expand.
Expansion is evidenced by       increasing attendance figures from 6150 in the 3 years from 2006-8 to 9183       in 2009-12 (49% increase in participation).
Attendances have continued to       increase year on year through 2009-10 (2615 attendances), 2010-11 (3003)       and 2011-12 (3565).
Additionally, by 2012 the number of activities offered       had increased to 30 [A] [D] [E].
The second impact concerns an impact on society through       increasing social inclusion of women in sport and physical activity.
This       stems from our findings concerning a low proportion of women with mental       health problems accessing sport and physical activity and the       sociocultural factors involved.
We recommended that other activity forms       should be incorporated within BALP to appeal to a wider range of women.
This led to the introduction from 2009 of new activities targeted towards       women including aerobics, African dance, martial arts, Tai Chi, yoga,       trampoline, and a women-only exercise group.
While in 2008 only 30% of new       referrals to activity sessions were female, this figure had increased to       39% by 2010-2011.
By 2012 the proportion of women had risen to 56% of       referrals [A] [D] [E].
The third impact concerns improved provision and access to health       and welfare services for people with mental health problems.
Delivery       changes resulted from our identification of the specific difficulties some       people with mental health problems faced in becoming aware of, accessing       and sustaining participation in existing sport and physical activity       provision.
BALP responded to these findings by (a) establishing an online       referral system and (b) establishing partnerships and referral pathways       through local support agencies.
Together, these changes provide multiple       referral routes (including self-referral) that facilitate and support       access and involvement among a socially excluded section of the community.
By 2012, 18 partner agencies had made referrals.
The BALP website has made       it possible not only to advertise and promote sessions but also to create       a publicly accessible point of entry.
By 2010, 50% of referrals were       received online and by 2012 all referrals were online.
By 2012 there had       been 7631 unique visits to the website indicating significant usage of the       website as both an information resource and a referral system which       partners and service users alike described as straightforward, practical       and efficient [A] [D] [E].
The fourth impact also concerns improved provision of health and       welfare services.
Our published findings document and theorise the       benefits that service users experience through regular involvement in       sport and physical activity.
These publications influenced practice within       AWP leading the Trust to begin hiring specialised sport coaches to deliver       sport opportunities in mental health contexts [D] [E].
Reference to the       publications helped stengthen applications for external funding [E].
These       funding applications (e.g., to the Football Foundation) have been       succesful over a 6-year period (2006-12) thereby supporting continued       provision of community physical activity and sport provision across       Bristol for people with mental health problems [A] [B].
The fifth impact concerns the development of resources to enhance       professional practice.
In addition to 10 papers in international       peer-reviewed journals, we have sought to increase the impact of the       research on professional practice by publishing a first of its kind book       [C] which provides a practically oriented but state-of-the-art resource       for mental health professionals, exercise leaders, and sport coaches.
The       book provides guidelines on effective provision of sport and physical       activity in mental heath contexts.
The book was published internationally       (by respected publisher Wiley-Blackwell), increasing reach from local       (Bristol) to international.
The sixth impact concerns an influence on professional standards,       guidelines and training through delivering research-informed CPD.
To date,       we have given 3 workshops for 45 mental health professionals, exercise       leaders, and sport coaches as an educational initiative to support the       development of skills in effective physical activity and sport delivery in       mental health settings [A] [D].
