     MoreLife is a spin out company of Leeds Metropolitan University providing       specialist and community weight management services across the UK and       internationally.
There are three elements to the impact of MoreLife:       treatment, professional practice, and policy and public understanding [A].
These relate to improved health and welfare for participants, development       of training and resources to enhance professional practice and projected       economic benefits through effective treatment.
Treatment: We are now treating more than 3,500 adults and 3,000       young people per annum, making us the largest provider of such services in       the UK.
The evidence provided by the underpinning research has facilitated       the growth in young people and adults treated as more NHS and other       contracts were secured by the University from 1999 and since February 2011       by MoreLife.
Research demonstrating how MoreLife interventions decrease       cardiovascular and metabolic disease risk and enhance the quality of life       and enjoyment of those who attend their interventions has been important       in engaging new NHS and other major clients, as well as refining and       maintaining high quality services to existing clients.
This underpins the       accreditation and recognition of our treatment services by the Department       of Health [B], the NHS [C] and government advisors [D].
Further evidence       of impact is associated with national awards [E] and recognition within       the NHS from PCTs and others that commissioned treatment and other       services [D,E,F], as well as from individuals and their families who have       received treatment [A].
MoreLife has delivered treatment services to more than 10,000 adults and       12,000 young people.
Annual numbers of those treated have increased       significantly since the company has spun out, increasing our impact.
Service delivery models offered for young people and adults include [A]:            Specialist &#8212; multidisciplinary services involving a range of         professionals (Hospital consultant, GP's, Dieticians, Clinical         Psychologists, physiotherapists and exercise specialists) delivered as         1:1 or group sessions.
Community &#8212; Face to face, group supports.
Self-care &#8212; Web based, virtual world, telephone, skype or text         support.
The impact of MoreLife treatments on the lives of young people and adults       is multi-factorial and includes: significant improvement in weight       management through behaviour change applied to physical activity and       healthy eating, improvement in self-confidence, physical self-worth,       physical competence and physical fitness.
There is also a clinically       significant decrease in cardiovascular and metabolic risk factors       associated with obesity, such as body composition (BMI, waist       circumference, percentage body fat and fat mass), blood pressure, lipid       profiles, and psychological concerns such as worries about body shape and       size.
Such impacts improve the physical, social and emotional health of       participants and contribute to a decrease in the current and future       economic resources required by the obese population.
Professional Practice: We are also commissioned by public sector       organisations to undertake reviews of their service provision for obesity.
We have employed our knowledge and expertise in delivery together with our       understanding of the evidence base to support local health commissioners       to establish best practice weight management systems [E,F,G], which has       been commended by the NHS [C].
We have developed and delivered specialist       and community weight management services to overweight and obese people in       more than 30 PCTs/Local authorities since 2007 through &#163;18.5 million worth       of NHS and other contracts.
Although they are based on a common set of       elements, our services are flexible and we tailor them to the needs       defined by the local context, which includes consideration of the       participants, the local services and staff that we work with, as well as       the specific requirements of the commissioners.
This approach helps       achieve sustainable local service provision through improvements in local       standards of professional practice which increases legacy and long term       impact.
Through our extensive training programmes we have significantly       improved the capability of over 1000 professionals involved in the       delivery of treatment services [A,B,C,E,F].
Policy and Public Understanding: MoreLife also has impact through       advisory roles, including informing policy.
Gately is a spokesperson for       the Department of Health on obesity [G] and sits on the British Heart       Foundation Prevention and Care Committee.
MoreLife contributed to the work       of The British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences on obesity and       advised on national guidelines for physical activity.
Impact in the       private sector is exemplified by Gately's role in McDonald's 20% reduction       in calories in Happy Meals from 2012. International impact is exemplified       by a grant awarded with Imperial College, London and Qatar University for       a 5 year prospective study to assess the impact of MoreLife treatment       services in Qatari young people [H].
Our cross-sectional and longitudinal       research on area level deprivation and obesity challenged data provided       from the National Child Measurement Programme to the health ministry.
We       showed that the relationship between obesity and deprivation is not linear       [6].
This has major implications for policy and targeting of resources.
The media impact of this research was extensive, reaching an audience of       23,461,698 (estimated by standard metrics [I]).
Prof Gately and MoreLife       have significantly impacted the public understanding of obesity through       the media reach associated with their interventions.
A selection of TV       shows includes: Old Before My Time, Nov 2013, BBC3; Tonight: The Unhealthy       Generation, September 2013, ITV1, 2.25m viewers; BBC Breakfast, August       2013, Oct 2013, BBC1, 1.5m viewers; Big Body Squad April 2013, Channel 5,       0.86m viewers; Too Fat to Toddle, 2008 ITV1, 3.89m viewers; The Duchess in       Hull, 2008, ITV1, 5.24m viewers.
Obesity is classified as an epidemic by the WHO, with over one billion       overweight adults worldwide and an estimated 22 million children under       five classified as obese.
Obesity increases the risk of heart disease,       type 2 diabetes, stroke, some forms of cancer, arthritis and respiratory       disease and translates into healthcare costs of more than &#163;5 billion every       year in the UK.
Overweight and obese children have measurable clinical       risk for type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases       that until recently were only associated with adulthood.
The Call to       Action on Obesity (2011) recognised the need for greater investment in the       treatment of adult and childhood obesity, which aligns with the vision and       impact of MoreLife.
The reach and significance of our work continues to       increase in the UK and internationally through interventions, professional       development, policy and public understanding in what is recognised as a       major public health issue.
