     Our distinctive perspectives on promoting lifestyle change allow us to       design bespoke approaches that enhance Public Health and personal       development through sport.
We work with so-called `hard-to-engage' groups,       consistently contesting the belief that they are inherently resistant to       change, while also confirming that careful planning can assure attainment       of specific outcomes.
Our approaches help to generate programmes that       attract inactive people to relevant and sustainable activities.
In       sport-for-development, providers are helped by deploying processes that       detail their assumptions about programme mechanisms and how these can be       managed to heighten impacts.
Our 3-year Derby `b-active' intervention (2007-2010, funded by Derby City       council (Professors McKenna and Long) identified a 9.9%       increase in the numbers of children achieving current PA recommendations,       when societal trends continue to suggest decline.
Item #116 of the       Corporate Performance Assessment Derby, 2009, conducted by the independent       Audit Commission [B] explained that `The Council's `b active' project         which aims to increase the number of people of all ages taking part in         physical activity, has organised much of the improvements.
A reason for         its success is the use of research methods delivered by a team from         Leeds Metropolitan University'.
Item #119 links to our commitment to       making research outcomes accessible and relevant; `Information on `b         active' and other physical activity programmes is easily accessible.
A         focus on ensuring access to physical activity for those from the most         disadvantaged areas and communities will help to reduce the health         inequalities that are often at their greatest in those areas'.
Responding to these outcomes, in 2010, Derby City Council made investment       in PA promotion one of five city-wide priorities.
In 2013 this led to us       collaborating in successfully bidding to deliver a new 3-year &#163;1m       NHS-funded health promotion service.
This shows the conviction of local       commissioners that our approach will deliver on NHS expectations for       delivering higher `value' services by combining better service outcomes       and a more positive patient experience.
Overall, this 9-year span       (2007-2016), facilitated by McKenna, represents a prolonged period       of positively influencing a local authority serving a city of almost       250,000 people, to address high levels of inactivity-related ill-health.
More recently we worked with the bidders to develop a persuasive and       integrated delivery and evaluation approach for the Leeds Let's Get Active       programme (2012-14; Sport England funded; McKenna).
This targets       under-served communities with little engagement in either sport or PA.
It       also builds on our experiences of reaching under-served men, established       through the Premier League Health (PLH) project ([D], Pringle and       McKenna).
PLH underlines the potency of our approach to evaluation       while also providing important `proof of concept'; with annual attendances       exceeding 12 million this shows immense Public Health potential.
A recent       commentary [E], whose authorship included the chair of the Royal Society       for Public Health, reported; `...Pringle et al.
's paper provides a         template which can and should be replicated in other countries and         sports throughout the world.'
As a result of this work, delivered       through 16 of England's most prestigious football clubs, we are now       represented on the Premier League evaluation (health) panel (Pringle).
This panel influences decisions about the &#163;111.6m invested through the       `Creating Chances' programme, benefitting 14m people.
Collectively, work       within football indicates how our group is supporting community PA through       our national sport.
The research that underpinned the Sport-in-Development monitoring and       evaluation (M&amp;E) manual (Coalter) has become part of the       research training for organisations around the world: Government of       Western Australia, Department of Sport; Government of the Western Cape,       South Africa, Department of Social Development; UNICEF in Brazil,       Argentina, Colombia, Jamaica, Mexico, El Salvador; UN Expert Group on the       World Programme of Action for Youth; Magic Bus and other Indian       sport-for-development organisation.
Workshops train development workers to       train others to work effectively in their own context.
The initial M&amp;E manual has been posted on the UK Sport website.
Since       publication of the `Sport-for-development impact study' [A] UK       Sport requires grant applicants to develop theories of change for their       programmes.
Recent contributions in this area are widely regarded as       unique in providing an integrated critical assessment of wide ranging       empirical research, theory, politics, policy and practice.
The issues       dealt with include the politics of research, peer leadership, HIV/AIDS,       perceived self-efficacy, self-esteem, social capital and programme       theories.
As a result of these impacts, Coalter is now the chief       design consultant for an 80-country study of 15-24 year-olds.
Outputs       linked to this publication have contributed to an increased awareness of       the need for more systematic consideration of nature and content of       sport-for-development programmes, the developmental potential of       theory-based M&amp;E and a better and more well-informed dialogue between       funders and providers.
