     Racism is a major societal and cultural issue, and over the last twenty       years sport has had a high profile within public debates about racism and       the development of effective antiracist strategies.
Our body of research over this time has impacted incrementally upon these       processes through the development of professional equality standards,       guidelines and policies and CPD; enhanced public understandings of race       and the multiple forms of racism; and the stimulation of debate to shape       policy and improve opportunities.
The first impact is on the development of professional equality       standards, guidelines and policies and CPD.
As a sensitive political       issue, studying racism raises complex implications for research practice       and the dissemination of findings in order to have impact.
An important       part of our research has been to establish long term relationships with       individuals based in a wide range of organisations and networks, locally       and nationally in order to maximise impact.
For example, researchers Long       and Spracklen have been members on national equity/diversity panels       responsible for developing and implementing equality standards in sport       [A], and others have moved into roles within the university from positions       within local anti-racist organisations and networks (Spracklen from Sporting         Equals; Hylton, a former member of the Black sports forum (BEMSport)       in Yorkshire, and his research on BME participation underpinned the       development of SportsWeb in Bradford).
The second impact has been to make significant contributions to       national agendas and emerging policy initiatives around racism.
Our       initial research for the RFL and the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE)       laid the foundations for the Tackle It campaign in the mid 1990s       [B] (the first anti-racist campaign by a national governing body of sport)       and, reflecting our sustained research relationships, its subsequent       re-launch in 2010.
Long has been a member of the national Accreditation       Panel for the Racial Equality Standard for Professional Football Clubs,       established by Kick it Out, and drew on research from the Centre       for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion on the intersection of race with       gender, sexuality, and disability in its subsequent development into the       now generic Equality Standard in 2009 [C].
Spracklen has played a       similar role as a verifier for the Equality Standard for Sport [http://www.equalitystandard.org/].
Although some time after our 2000 report on racism in football, the       English Footballing authorities have included some of our recommendations       in their 2012 `Inclusion and Anti-Discrimination Action Plan' [D] .
Flintoff was invited to present her research on BME students' experience       of PETE in two national CPD events aimed at teachers and teacher educators       in 2009: the annual conference of the national network of teacher       trainers, and the Association for Physical Education, Equity conference;       the report was also included on `Multiverse', a Professional Resource       Network, funded by the TDA, to support teachers to raise the achievement       of students from diverse backgrounds [E].
Our close relationships with       high profile practitioners and policy makers, and the high regard in which       our research on racism is held by those outside academia is evidenced by       Lord Herman Ouseley's involvement as one of the keynote speakers at our       2005 national conference on Sport and Anti-Racism in the 21stCentury,       and in his written introduction to Long and Spracklen's (2010) book, Sport         and Challenges to Racism.
More recently, our collective expertise       and reputation in the field led to our being commissioned to produce the       systematic review of participation by BME communities in sport and       physical recreation in 2009, providing an important evidence base for       underpinning the work of Sporting Equals and the UK Sports Councils to       increase ethnic diversity in sport [F].
Our third impact is on enhancing public understandings of race and       racism, nationally and internationally, including through media coverage.
Hylton's book on `Race' and Sport: Critical Race Theory, was       named as one of the top ten resources for thinking critically about       the role of sport in society, including a teachable summary of the book in       an innovative on-line North American based collection, The Social         Issues Collection by Routledge [www.socialissuescollection.com]; he       has had various media interviews and high profile keynote engagements as a       result of his work [G], and was invited to compile a special collection on       Race, Ethnicity and Sport of electronically/web-based materials deemed       significant for researching race, ethnicity and sport, for the British       Library [H].
Carrington's work has similarly reached international       audiences; he discussed his book on the BBC Radio 4 `Thinking Allowed'       programme (audience of 2 million) [I], and on Al Jazeera TV [I], and       through two 2012, keynote addresses at Runnymede Trust events, which       attracted journalists, policy makers, community activists and athletes       [J].
