     Our research has transformed UK and international thinking, policy and       practice in the areas identified above:     Sport coaching as a blended professional area: We have led the       international sport coaching policy community, including leadership       positions in the International Council for Coaching Excellence (ICCE) and       the European Coaching Council (ECC).
We host the ICCE Global Coaches       Office, and hosted the London 2012 Global Coaches House with 50+ speakers       and 500+ participants.
We also led on a successful bid to the European       Commission to rethink and redesign the institutional infrastructure for       coaching representation and service provision across Europe [A].
Our research has been used to inform national and international sport       coaching policy and practice.
For example, our work on professionalisation       has informed system building work in Ireland, the UK [B], South Africa       [C], and the Philippines [D].
A partnership with the ICCE and Association       of Summer Olympic International Federations has led to the development of       the International Sport Coaching Framework [E].
This provides a global       framework and benchmark for the development and delivery of coaching       systems, and the development and deployment of coaches, with impact       already identified in Switzerland and the United States [E].
We have       recently worked with the Football Association to benchmark its coaching       system against UK and international good practice both within and outside       sport.
Sport coaching as a segmented workforce: Our segmentation       proposals have had a significant influence on sports policy in the UK [F]       and South Africa [C].
They have also impacted on three of the top five       participation sports (swimming, football and golf) and many other       mainstream sports in the UK: archery, canoeing, cricket, gymnastics, rugby       league, rugby union, squash and triathlon [F].
This segmentation/modelling       approach assists governing bodies of sport to review and reorganise their       sport coaching systems.
For example, British Gymnastics has based its       Sport England funding submission, Participation `Gymnastics for All'         Strategy, and revised coaching structures on segmentation work       developed at Leeds Metropolitan University [G].
Sport coaching workforce development, education and qualifications:       Our research has underpinned coach development systems thinking in the UK       (the Coach Development Model) [H].
In particular, this research work has       helped to define the children and performer development coaching roles and       the Level 4 expertise associated with these roles [4].
The national lead       agency for coaching, Sports Coach UK, has based its Level 4 provision on       this work, and Level 4 programmes have been developed in basketball,       cricket, hockey, rowing, rugby league, rugby union, squash, and table       tennis, with development work currently taking place in canoeing,       equestrian sport, and judo.
The mechanisms of sport coach development and education: Our       research on coach development has led to professional development       programmes for the Football Association's Youth Coach Educators and High       Performing Coaches Academy [I].
Similar programmes have been put in place       for UK Sport and the Royal Yachting Association.
We have also undertaken       research work to examine and inform the Football Association's player       development pathway.
Research work in gymnastics and rugby league has led       to a redesign of their United Kingdom Coaching Certificate (UKCC) Levels       1-3.
We have undertaken ground breaking and highly regarded 1:1 coach       development work using audio-video capture and a reflective framework in       hockey, rugby league and sailing.
Coaching in context: Our research work on women and girl's,       disability, and black and minority ethnic sport has led directly to a       number of coach development resources utilised by Sports Coach UK and the       Women's Sport Foundation [J].
These are now being accessed through Sports       Coach UK workshops and resources by thousands of practising coaches.
Overall             Our central and very visible place in the UK and international sport         coaching policy environment and our very active research programme         situate us as very strong contenders for the world's leading university         in sport coaching policy, practice and development.
We estimate our research ideas, tools and resources have had a policy         and practice impact in over 30 countries, and directly on the work of at         least 26 international agencies and sporting bodies.
This will have         impacted on many thousands of coaches in terms of improved systems and         on sports participants and performers in terms of improved sporting         experiences.
