     The impact of the research has been in three areas; (i) policy changes       implemented by government agencies, which in turn led to (ii) prevention       of harm to future patients, and (iii) financial implications for implant       manufacturers and healthcare providers.
This impact was the result of       research carried out at Newcastle University (NU) and University Hospital       North Tees (NT) into (a) abnormally high levels of metal ions in patients       with the ASR hip, and (b) failure of all large-head MoM total hip       replacements.
NU has led the engineering research, such as the analysis       and characterisation of wear and roughness of the implants, whilst NT led       the clinical research, including the radiographic analysis of implant       orientation and blood ion levels.
The first change in policy relates to the use of ASR hip implants, in       both the resurfacing and total hip replacement form.
Although the       withdrawal of the ASR was voluntary, international healthcare bodies       changed their policy in the light of the growing body of evidence of the       poor performance of the ASR, for example calling for patients to be       monitored for the life of the implant (S1).
The second change in worldwide       policy concerned the use of large-head metal-on-metal (MoM) implants, of       which approximately a million have been implanted worldwide.
Regulatory       bodies, including the FDA began to issue new policies and guidance and in       early 2012 guidance was issued by the MHRA (Medicines and Healthcare       products Regulatory Agency) (S2), the Danish Orthopaedic Associations (S3)       and Health Canada (S4) recommending against the use of large-head MoM       implants until further evidence was available.
This worldwide impact was a consequence of the increase in understanding       of the vulnerabilities of the ASR and all large head MoM.
The importance       of the work has been recognised in several ways.
Both P1 and P3 are       included within the FDA's Executive Summary published in June 2012 (S5).
An article by authors from the National Joint Registry for England and       Wales and the MHRA (S6) stated that "Data critical of the performance       of the ASR were presented at numerous scientific meetings in 2008 and       onward to the time of this writing, particularly at meetings of the       British Hip Society (BHS) and the British Orthopaedic Association (BOA).
This factor, rather than the MHRA alert in July 2010, almost certainly       led to the subsequent drop in sales of that implant".
Newcastle       University researchers starting presenting their data on the performance       of the ASR at meetings in 2008, with one presented at the British Hip       Society meeting in February 2008, and two at the BOA Annual Congress in       Liverpool in September 2008.
The advisory document produced by the BOA in       March 2011 refers to the research performed at NT (S7).
In recognition of       his expert status, Joyce spoke at the House of Commons Select Committee in       May 2012, a session dedicated to discussing medical implant regulation and       several recommendations put forward by Joyce were accepted in the       Committee's final report (S8).
For example, recommendation 16: "The       Government should ensure that raw data from the National Joint Registry       (NJR) is published where possible.
In addition, explanted joints should be       analysed, and subsequent data generated should be reported to the NJR and       published."
The withdrawal of both the ASR and large-head metal-on-metal hips from       the market reduces the harm and prevents risk of injury to future patients       that may have been eligible for these implants.
On the basis that 1       million hips per annum are implanted (S9) and that, in the US, 35% were       metal-on-metal (S10) then 350,000 potential patients per year have been       protected from the adverse effects of metal-on-metal hips.
The financial       impact for health providers is also significant.
In the UK the cost of       replacing a failed artificial joint with a new implant in a `revision'       operation can be up to &#163;25,000 per patient.
With the latest Australian       data showing a 44% revision rate for the ASR hip, and almost 100,000       implanted worldwide, the costs of revision are projected to exceed &#163;1       billion.
Redress is also being sought in courts in a number of countries.
In the first ASR case to come to trial in the USA, the litigant was       awarded $8.3 million.
There are currently 11,000 ASR litigants in the US       alone, with class actions due to commence in that country in late 2013.
