     The Working Group discussions (chaired by Moore) that formed the       starting-point for A Wider Literacy involved the full range of       stakeholders; this meant that the impact of the document was relatively       swift.
The strategy derived from it by the NIFTC was taken up by four       departments of the devolved government: DE, as part of its `EmPowering       Schools' Strategy, the Department for Employment and Learning, DCAL and       DETI.
Within a year, it had led to the founding of three flagship digital       learning centres across NI.
These were located at the Armagh Multi Media       Access (AmmA) Centre, Studio-ON in Belfast, and the Nerve Centre in Derry       (see testimonial from the Chief Executive of the Nerve Centre).
The       recommendations in A Wider Literacy have also been adopted in       Namibia (where they are now part of the national curriculum; see       testimonial from Chief Technical Trainer, Namibian Broadcasting       Corporation) and South Africa (where they have informed teacher-training       programmes at City Varsity, Cape Town).
The research and development carried out by the Digital Economy Working       Group (of which Moore was a member 2009-10) had national legislative and       policy impact in that the Digital Economy Act 2010 and the National       Digital Participation Plan were derived directly from it.
More       significant, however, is that while spending cuts meant the Plan was       shelved by the incoming Coalition Government in the other home nations,       the NI devolved government immediately implemented Moore's Digital         Participation Plan for NI, believing that its recommendations would       have especially beneficial impact in the post-conflict environment.
These       recommendations have been enacted by government through the work of the       NIMLH.
One basic change brought about has been a significant redirection       of resources into the digital space, resulting in an increase in the use       of digital platforms for governmental business (ample evidence of this can       be found at www.nidirect.gov.uk,       perhaps especially at www.nidirect.gov.uk/department-of-agriculture-and-       rural-development, where there is now extensive online provision for the       farming community; see testimonial from Director of OfCom, Belfast).
But it is in the area of education that it has had most effect: the       implementation of the Digital Participation Plan for NI has       allowed schools more freedom to explore the benefits of digital       technologies in the classroom, as evidenced in the long-term projects       conducted by e.g.
Wallace High School, Lisburn (an ethnographic study into       the impact of `disruptive' technologies on a large secondary institution),       and St Mary's Primary School, Tempo (a pedagogical study of the impact of       creative technologies; see testimonial from a teacher at St Mary's Primary       School, Tempo).
Counting What Counts has, in the short time since its publication       in February 2013, had considerable influence on the debate over big data       and the arts.
It has also had impact in practical terms: the metrics tools       it examines, and whose integration it proposes (in a so-called `big-data       dashboard') are to be piloted formally by various Arts Council England       funded bodies.
The sectoral impact of Moore's programme of research more       generally is evidenced in the number of invited presentations, including       keynote addresses, he has been asked to make at international policy and       industry conferences, e.g.
national media literacy symposia in Greece,       South Africa and Namibia, and a national television forum in Argentina.
The research was also showcased at the Westminster Get Creative Forum in       2012, and cited by the European Commission as a key text for the EU: it       was the object of an invited keynote address at a meeting of EU culture       ministers in Lithuania (October 2013; see e-mail from Ministry of Culture       of the Republic of Lithuania).
Finally, it has ensured increased       visibility for NI as an international leader in the theory and practice of       creative digital participation.
