     Critical acclaim for historically informed performances       Between 2008-2013 Butt and the Dunedin Consort produced eight       historically informed musical       interpretations of Bach and Handel on CD.
In 2008 their recording of       Handel's Messiah was       awarded the Classic FM/Gramophone Baroque Vocal Album award and the March&#233;       International       du Disque et de l'Edition Musicale Award (Cannes) for a Baroque Album,       giving it immediate       worldwide renown in the classical arena.
On the release of Messiah,       Gramophone Magazine       stated `Butt and the Dunedin Consort marry astute scholarship to sincere       artistic expression and       the result is comfortably the freshest, most natural, revelatory and       transparently joyful Messiah I       have heard for a very long time.'
Further accolades have included the       nomination of the 2009       recording of Acis and Galatea for a ClassicFM/Gramophone Award;       together with Bach's Matthew         Passion they were named the `recordings of choice' in BBC Radio 3's       `Building a Library', greatly       enhancing their sales.
In 2011, Gramophone Magazine listed the       Dunedin Consort at no11 in the       World's Greatest Choirs.
Butt's research was key in understanding what was possible when       recreating original       performances of well-known pieces, considering the size, balance and       stylistic parameters of the       original forces and imagining them as they may have been when `new' and       unknown.
The blending       of historical performance knowledge and musical expertise brought       audiences the freshness and       originality that would have been conveyed when the pieces were originally       performed (listening       practice also being a crucial consideration in Butt's approach).
Taking       this approach with such       familiar pieces as Messiah, Bach's Passions and Mass,       and Handel's Cannons has enriched the       classical music culture for both audiences and critics.
Commercial success of recordings and performances       The recordings have been released by Linn Records, an independent record       producer based in       Scotland.
Originally established as a manufacturer of high-performance       music systems, Linn       began producing records 30 years ago because its founders felt that there       were too few that were       of a high enough standard to be played on their systems (all recordings       can be purchased in studio       master quality).
Linn Records has a reputation as a high-quality niche       producer with a modest but       stable turnover until the release of the Dunedin Consort's historically       informed version of Messiah,       which became the highest profile, best-selling production at that point in       their history, including       sales of over &#163;144K (20,000 copies).
Messiah was chosen by Linn to       feature in high quality LP       format, something which is particularly favoured by the Japanese market.
The success of the Dunedin Consort's recordings has meant that royalty       income can be reinvested       in future recordings; funds have also been raised through public       subscription, generous private       donations and schemes such as the `Big Give' (2010 for Esther and       2011 for Brandenburg         Concertos).
This stronger income stream has also helped seed public       funding, with support from       Creative Scotland rising in recent years (unlike most other       organisations), reaching &#163;90K in 2013.
All this funding has enabled an expansion of performing activity and       outreach.
Further to this expansion in funding is the growing number of       international touring opportunities,       including performances of Acis and Galatea in Tel Aviv (Israel)       and Chaise Dieu (France); Mass in         B Minor in Torroella de Montgri (Spain); Matthew Passion at       Bach's church in Eisenach (Germany)       and Messiah in Handel's church in Halle (Germany), Noirlac and the       Chapelle Royale of Versailles       (France).
The Dunedin Consort also broadcast Bach cantatas live in the Lufthansa Festival       on       BBC Radio 3 (22 May 2013) to an average listener audience of more than 2       million.
