     It is widely accepted that computation and simulation is a driver of       economic growth.
The most       important requirement for industrial adoption of any simulation method is       that the method must be       accurate enough to be `useful', essentially that it can be relied on when       making decisions.
This has       always been the overriding factor in, leading provider of atomistic       simulation software, Accelrys'       choice of codes to support within its modelling environment as it has been       determined to maintain       its position at the `high quality' end of atomistic simulations.
CASTEP       has had significant impact       because it predicts physical properties to an accuracy of a few percent       using no adjustable       parameters and requiring no prior information about the system, thus       clearly fulfilling industry and       Accelrys' requirements for simulation codes.
Accelrys' own success can       also be attributed to the       ease of use of its products.
For instance, it was the first company to       provide access to materials       simulation methodologies through a graphical user interface.
CASTEP is       completely aligned with       this philosophy, being the first quantum mechanical materials simulation       code that truly abstracted       all the complexity out of the calculations to make the methodology highly       accessible.
Given the       combination of accuracy, predictive capability and ease of use that CASTEP       provides, the final       factor determining the level of industrial use, as with any simulation       method, depends on its cost       effectiveness compared to other methods for obtaining the same       information.
Continuing research       has significantly decreased the computational costs of CASTEP calculations       over and above that       provided by Moore's Law, thus increasing the number of tasks that are most       effectively assigned to       CASTEP.
Furthermore, the continuing decrease in the cost of computation       means that even if a       simulation method is not cost effective at a particular time it is likely       to become so at some time in       the future.
Quantum mechanical simulations using CASTEP have provided the ability to       perform `virtual'       experiments on materials.
However, there are many different types of       materials and a vast range of       physical, chemical and materials properties of interest involving a wide       range of lengthscales and       timescales.
Therefore, simulation is not yet capable of replacing       experiment to determine all       materials properties of interest.
Accelrys stresses just how much CASTEP       offers in solving these       classes of problems, by advertising the software suite as able to `simulate         the properties of solids,         interfaces, and surfaces for a wide range of materials classes,         including ceramics, semiconductors,         and metals, with this premier density functional theory (DFT) quantum         mechanical code'.
Such       simulations enable customers to gain information about impurities in       semiconductors, optical       properties of materials, chemical reactions in catalysts, surface and bulk       diffusion, refine atomic       structures and generate the `experimental' spectra associated with these       structures.
The separate package CASTEP-NMR has provided is capable of generating the       NMR spectrum       associated with a model structure and thus the combination of experiment       and CASTEP-NMR       allows unambiguous determination of structures of crystals.
This is       particularly important in the       pharmaceutical sector where a drug patent has to not only specify the drug       molecule but also the       crystal structure (the particular crystal polymorph) of the drug in the       pharmaceutical product.
CASTEP-NMR helps to identify the actual polymorph and, importantly,       deviations in experimental       data from that predicted.
CASTEP-NMR is also used to identify low levels       of other polymorphs in       the product.
If these other polymorphs are not patented then competitors       may circumvent the       patent by marketing the drug in the form of the non-patented polymorph.
The greatest impact of quantum mechanical simulations is often when they       are used alongside       experiment, as in the pharmaceuticals example above.
For competitive       reasons companies tend to       be very secretive about their detailed use of simulation codes.
Illustrative examples of the       application of materials simulation approaches can be found in the IDC       report "Modeling and         Simulation: The Return on Investment in Materials Science," and the       Goldbeck Consulting report       "Economic Impact of Molecular Modelling".
These reports mention       many of the societal and       economic benefits clearly provided by CASTEP including (i) efficiency:       many different properties of       many different classes of materials can be determined using a single piece       of `apparatus', namely       a software package and computer; (ii) the broader exploration of materials       solution space possible       once simulation becomes significantly cheaper than experiment; (iii)       projects which had stalled       were restarted with information obtained from simulation and (iv) reduced       time to market.
That CASTEP has proved to be exceedingly useful to industry is reflected       in its use by more than       800 companies and its on-going sales in excess of &#163;1million every year       since 1998, with       cumulative worldwide sales now over $30million, demonstrating the value       placed by commercial       clients on access to the software.
Sales over the audit period have been       (US$): 2008 -       $2,349,254, 2009 - $2,067,239, 2010 - $2,527,064, [9].
The IDC research       [7] suggests that the       return on investment in atomistic simulation is of the order of a factor       of 7- which implies that the       total economic impact of CASTEP is &#163;hundreds of millions with benefits in       many different sectors.
Accelrys has expressed its confidence in the importance of the CASTEP       suite to the materials       industry.
With 830 unique customers, many of whom are household names       (Boeing, Toyota, GM       and DuPont for instance), the ability to make valuable predictions about       new materials being used       in new now ways offers huge scope to diverse industries to develop their       product portfolio, or have       confidence in the use of the materials in new applications.
Product       innovation has been enhanced       very substantially by CASTEP's use.
There are a number of published patents for materials or processes which       have been designed       partially based on CASTEP calculations.
The number of distinct (i.e.
not       counting multiple filings in       different regions) published patents that have used CASTEP as part of the       inventive process in       recent years are: 2008 - 12, 2009 - 5, 2010 -1, 2011 - 21, 2012 - 7 [10].
