     As a special advisor to The Surreal House exhibition at the       Barbican in London, Fotiade directed       new ways of presenting the link between Surrealist film and architecture &#8212;       one of the key aims of       the show.
In particular, her selection of films to complement the artworks       was a noteworthy       innovation to the creative practice, which was noted in the show's many       favourable press reviews.
Fotiade's specialised expertise helped the Barbican to attract 42,500       visitors to the exhibition,       contributing to the local creative economy and enriching public cultural       life through this most       interesting and enigmatic of subjects.
Fotiade's research expertise on the evolution of Surrealist cinema and       its legacy in post-war       France, Spain and the USA led to her being commissioned by the Barbican       Centre as an special       advisor to the exhibition in 2010.
The Barbican's senior curator contacted       Fotiade after reading her       contributions to specialist books on Surrealist visual art and the 1998       issue of Screen       magazine       devoted to Surrealist cinema which Fotiade edited.
Fotiade was approached       as the UK's foremost       expert on Surrealist cinema and was selected as one of four international       special advisors invited       to contribute to the exhibition and catalogue.
The 42,500+ visitors to the Barbican's exhibition had an opportunity to       experience firsthand some       of the best-known installations and visual art works related to the early       Surrealist period (including       paintings by Dali, Miro and Ernst) alongside later developments in the       Anglophone and American       post-war art world.
The show       brought together over 170 works, many of which had not been shown       before in the UK, including &#8212; in addition to paintings &#8212; drawings,       photography, installations and       architecture.
The Barbican's senior curator was keen to use films as a way of enhancing       the visitor experience       and Fotiade helped select the film content which became an integral part       of the exhibition.
Fotiade's choice of films for the Barbican exhibition reflected the       evolution of the Surrealist       movement in Europe and the USA, with representative illustrations from the       work of Maya Deren,       Jean-Luc Godard's celebrated Le M&#233;pris, and Andrei Tarkovsky's       last film, The Sacrifice.
Fotiade       also provided detailed essays for the exhibition         catalogue on Catalan architect Antonio Gaudi, Le       Facteur Cheval (a postman who built his `ideal palace' out of random       stones over 33 years), the       Villa Malaparte in Capri, and filmmakers Maya Deren and Andrei Tarkovsky.
These essays       focused on the interaction between Surrealist art and modern architecture       and between       architecture and cinema in addition to the legacy of the Surrealist       movement in the work of post-war       experimental/art-house filmmakers such as Deren, Godard and Tarkovsky.
Fortiade's analysis       of Tarkovsky's The Sacrifice was also chosen by the Barbican as       the closing statement of the       exhibition.
The Barbican curator described Fotiade's contribution:     Ramona, as one of the Advisors, made an invaluable contribution in terms       of helping decide       on filmic content for this exhibition.
She quickly understood the project       and my vision for it.
I       couldn't have done the exhibition without support from academics with       in-depth knowledge of       surrealism.
I think the films she suggested &#8212; Tarkovsky, Deren and Godard       &#8212; were central to       the success of the project.
It totally relied on the mix of disciplines       and cross-generational       approach.
The idea was that the blend of exhibits would render the whole       like a dream.
The       exhibition far exceeded audience target and was critically acclaimed in       many of the major       national papers.
The book is beautiful and well-researched.
Ramona's       contribution to that was       also incredibly welcome &#8212; her sensitivity to the subject and thorough       understanding of the       significance of these films to surrealism shines through in the text.
The exhibition was of great public interest and reached a wide       international audience.
The Surreal         House was described as an "excellent opportunity to see rarely       exhibited works brought together       under an interesting guise."
It was awarded four out of five stars by         Time Out           London and       recommended by the BBC.
The significance of the films selected by Fotiade was noted in the       reviews.
For example,       architecture and design magazine Blueprint stated: "The curators       have made an intelligent choice       over the use of sound, as a multitude of different voices and sounds from       various films situated in a       range of locations are allowed to collide and overlap each other creating       an atmospheric, confusing       and haunting effect."
Another review, in online magazine Interface,       also commended the curation:     I found `The Surreal House' to be a satisfying and stimulating exhibition       which, although       detailed and dense to the extent that it would practically be impossible       to watch all the films       and examine every item in one visit or for that matter list them all here,       the experience of the       curation enabled this visitor to read the whole and the detail together       and feel compelled to       embark on further inquiries into several of the works that stood out for       me.
