     Breathing problems in congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) can become so       severe that patients       require ventilators or die, while limb girdle weakness can result in       patients having to use       wheelchairs.
There is no cure, but these conditions can now be treated.
Impact on patients: diagnosis and treatment     As a result of the research at Newcastle and the collaborative work with       Oxford, it was revealed       that seven out of the eight CMS patients, in the Newcastle cohort, who       were not responding to       standard treatment with esterase inhibitors, had a non-AChR related       mutation of the Dok-7 gene.
Since then, a number of additional mutations have been discovered,       including GFTP1 [R4, Section       3; EV a].
Clinical molecular genetic testing is now available for the       majority of known CMS-causative       genes, and patients are being offered specifically tailored treatments       (depending on their       genetic mutation) and genetic counselling [EV a].
This is crucial because       inaccurate treatment of       these disorders is often not only ineffective, but can worsen symptoms [EV       b].
Based on the work       on genetic diagnosis of limb girdle myasthenia (LGM), the Department of       Health National       Commissioning Group introduced genetic testing for LGM in April 2007, via       the NHS Genetic       Testing Service (http://ukgtn.nhs.uk/find-a-test/search-by-disorder-gene/test-service/myasthenia-limb-girdle-familial-312/).
There       are three centres in the UK that specialise in neuromuscular       disease: Newcastle, London and Oxford.
Genetic testing takes place at the       Oxford Congenital       Myasthenia Service, a national referral centre for children and adults in       whom a CMS is suspected       [EV b, EV c].
Their data, published in 2013, show that 225 CMS patients,       which equates to 80%-90%       of all CMS patients in the UK, now have a confirmed genetic diagnosis [EV       d].
Around 50       patients are now diagnosed with CMS in the UK every year [EV e], and 72       individuals have been       diagnosed with the Dok-7 mutation since 2007 [EV f].
Professor Beeson, of       the Oxford Congenital       Myasthenia Service, has stated that, prior to the underpinning research       outlined in Section 3:     "...Dok-7 patients were frequently seen to lose ambulation and to         require mechanical ventilation         due to ineffective treatment.
However, thanks to the collaborative work         between Newcastle and         Oxford, all genetically diagnosed CMS patients can now be given         effective treatment, leading to         most patients reporting dramatically improved quality of life."
[EV       e]     Since 2009 clinics for patients with CMS have been run six times per year       in Newcastle and across       the North of England, providing counselling and treatment.
Further       research was conducted on the       basis of the suggested benefits of ephedrine for patients with Dok-7       mutations (R3, Section 3).
Published in 2013, that research confirmed that these patients also       respond favourably to       salbutamol [EV g].
Ephedrine and salbutamol are now both provided       routinely through specialised       neuromuscular NHS services [EV b, EV c].
This has had a major positive       impact on patients' well-       being and quality of life; the mobility of patients is improved (they can       attend school or work) and       the need to use a ventilator can be avoided.
In a recent study on nine Dok-7 patients (aged 6-15 years), all patients       benefited from increased       motor function within one month of starting treatment, and continued to       improve for up to 17       months.
In addition, three patients who had not been able to walk for many       years resumed walking       with assistance after just 2-4 weeks of starting treatment [EV g].
Salbutamol has a better safety       profile than ephedrine; ephedrine can have adverse effects on the       cardiovascular and central       nervous systems, particularly with long-term use in children [EV g].
In       the US, albuterol (a       salbutamol equivalent) has replaced ephedrine as a treatment for CMS       patients with Dok-7       mutations.
In 2010 a clinical trial in the US began recruiting CMS       patients, including those with       Dok-7 mutations, to determine optimal doses of albuterol for clinical       practice [EV h].
Reach of impact     International recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and further       research have been agreed       and published through workshops of the European Neuromuscular Centre       (ENMC); the most       recent one was held in 2011 [EV f].
These were convened and led by       Professor Hanns Lochm&#252;ller.
Professor Lochm&#252;ller also leads the activity on `patient registries and       biobanks' for TREAT-NMD       (http://www.treat-nmd.eu/), and has       an international (Europe, South America, Asia) cohort of       approximately 900 CMS patients, 680 of which were included in a recent       mutation screening study,       where 31 patients were found to have Dok-7 mutations [EV i].
Full genetic       testing for CMS is       currently available at four centres in the US and Europe: Rochester (New       York), Paris, Munich and       Oxford.
These have collectively diagnosed 1109 patients, and identified       157 (14%) patients with       Dok-7 mutations [EV f].
Most patients diagnosed with a mutation that       causes LGM are now given       salbutamol or ephedrine [EV j], as it is withheld only in patients with       very mild symptoms, which is       rare.
This means that patients with LGM are now able to walk and breathe       unaided.
Diagnosis and       treatment has therefore had a profound effect on their quality of life (EV       e).
