     The University of Glasgow has spearheaded the study of BD via its       research &#8212; disseminated in conferences, publications and exhibitions as       well as its undergraduate and postgraduate teaching and PGR supervision &#8212;       from the 1990s on.
As such the University has been instrumental in       shifting educational perceptions that now see BD as a valid subject       featuring on syllabi worldwide.
The academic effect is international &#8212;       courses are now widespread and largely part of university education &#8212; but       moreover our research has moved beyond the lecture theatre and into the       wider cultural and non-academic world.
The shifting perception of BD is       set within the context of the central University of Glasgow-based argument       that the comic strip is part of broader text/image culture which has a       long, often under-explored tradition.
Through key publications, invited lectures and exhibitions, as well as       the establishment of the Stirling Maxwell Centre for the Study of       Text/Image Cultures in 2011 and the Centre for Emblem Studies 15 years       previously, research at the University of Glasgow has been instrumental in       propagating a historical framing of text/image forms from Renaissance       emblem books to modern day comic strips and graphic novels.
Sir William       Stirling Maxwell (1818-1878) amassed the world's most complete collection       of emblem books, the world's most important archive in this field.
Research at Glasgow on BD and emblem books helps preserve and       contextualise these cultural artefacts and makes them available to a wider       public audience.
Developed in the 16th century, emblem books       were extremely fashionable and had enormous influence on literature and       the visual arts.
They featured symbolic pictures and text which expressed       a moral, political or religious message which was then decoded by the       reader.
Over the next 200 years, several thousand were issued from       printing presses across Europe.
Codes, emblem books and emblematic       thinking have featured prominently in popular fiction and films, most       famously in Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code.
Influence on culture and public engagement       In 2011 Grove organised an exhibition entitled `Breaking the Renaissance       Code: Emblems and Emblem Books' which was on display for three months at       the Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery, Glasgow, attracting 15,414 visitors.
The exhibition set emblem books from the Stirling Maxwell Centre alongside       contemporary artwork, advertising and BD, exploring the development of       emblem books in Europe during the sixteenth century onwards, their decline       and subsequent revival in the Victorian Age and the ways in which they       have influenced literature and the visual arts in the modern world.
In       addition to high visitor numbers, the show was well reviewed in the       Scottish press, receiving a 4-star rating from The List, being       included in the `Hit List' selection of `best' exhibitions, and being       selected as Critic's Choice in The Scotsman.
Figure 1.
Biblia pauperum, from around 1460.
Image courtesy of University of Glasgow.
The University of Glasgow also offers a public         searchable database of French Emblems which has recorded over 24       million hits since it was established in February 2009.
The database       resulted from a project, funded by the Arts &amp; Humanities Research       Council and led by Adams, to digitise all French emblem books of the 16th       century and their Latin versions.
The site allows scholars and the       interested public to find full text and page scans for these fragile and       rare books.
A sister site, `Alciato at Glasgow', provides access to 22       editions of the work of Andrea Alciato, considered the `father' of the       emblem genre.
The websites are consulted in broad iconographic terms &#8212; eg,       how are lions depicted &#8212; within and outwith academia &#8212; eg, booksellers,       curators, general public &#8212; and have been used as the model for further       sites &#8212; Dutch love emblems on the Emblem Project Utrecht, and the       University of Iowa's `Reading with the Mind's Eye: A Virtual Emblem Book'       exhibit.
Outwith academia, Grove has written about BD for the BBC News website (9       January 2009), which attracts 40 million unique users per week, and has       also made invited appearances on STV News (21 June 2013) and BBC Radio       Scotland (10 July 2013).
Influence on global educational curriculum       University of Glasgow researchers have drawn on the resources noted above       to set BD firmly within its historical context, and through talks,       publications and teaching have brought BD and the idea of BD as the       descendant art form of emblem books to a wider audience.
Their research       has created a shift in cultural perceptions towards comics and a greater       appreciation and awareness of BD in English-speaking academic and general       audiences.
Grove has been invited to lecture on BD and text/image related       material at the Universities of Cuenca, UC Dublin, Dundee, Durham,       Edinburgh, Grenoble, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Montpellier, Nicosia,       Odense, Paris IV-Sorbonne, Portland (OR), Rennes, Strasbourg and the &#201;cole       Normale Sup&#233;rieure (Lyon), the BnF and Palais du Luxembourg (Paris).
In France, comics and BD are considered far more seriously, often as a       way to disseminate political views and encourage serious public debate.
However, due largely to University of Glasgow research and dissemination,       BD is now widely seen as part of a broader culture of text/image       expression in English-speaking countries, with a historical context beyond       that normally attributed to comics.
This is demonstrated in the       introduction and subsequent widespread adoption of BD as an academic       field.
The influence of Glasgow research on this development is evidenced       by statements from roughly two dozen higher education institutions.
Selected statements include that from the Central Saint Martins College of       Arts and Design, University of the Arts London:     The books by Dr Laurence Grove have been pivotal, and the IBDS is a hub for     information and expertise.
[...] Glasgow (and Dr Grove) was very much the     starting point for what is now a well-established and thriving branch of     comics studies.
And from Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, USA,       My research and teaching of almost an entire decade has been immensely       enriched by bande dessin&#233;e-related initiatives issuing to a considerable       degree from the University of Glasgow.
Examples of courses worldwide that draw upon BD-related material and have       been influenced by ideas, contacts and resources gained at Glasgow       conferences can be seen at institutions such as the University of Wales       Trinity Saint David (since 2009, around 20 students per year), the       National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (around 15 students per       year), the University of Kentucky (since 2011, around 25 students), Miami       OH (since 2004, student numbers increasing from around 20 to 40 in       2012-2013) and Central Saint Martin's College of Arts and Design, London       (since 1995, around 40 students per class).
Undergraduate courses in BD are available in 15-20 universities in the UK       and across North America (such courses can be found at, for example, the       Universities of Leicester, Brighton, Sheffield, Manchester Metropolitan       and Dundee as well as Glasgow in the UK; the University of London       Institute in Paris, and Miami OH, Wharton College and University of       Michigan in the US).
Perhaps just as significantly, BD now features on       general cultural courses that are not BD-based.
Examples include `Gay       Fiction' at University of Pittsburgh, or `Belgian Culture' offered by       Queen Margaret University.
The National University of Singapore is currently developing a freshman       seminar to be introduced in 2015-16 on Comics, BD, and Manga, with Grove's       Comics in French: The European Bande Dessin&#233;e in Context assigned       as reading.
Figure 2.
Poster from IBDS Conference, Glasgow 2013.
