     Bradford's biographies provide a vital supplement to the reader's       experience of literature by offering vivid portraits of their authors, as       well as raising fundamental questions on the nature of modern literary       writing.
His work enhances both the academic and general reader's       understanding of individual writers, and the social, personal, and       cultural milieus in which they grew up.
Moreover, Bradford's work challenges public opinion and attempts to       revise often longstanding perceptions of the key literary figures on which       his research is based.
Influencing public discourse on cultural issues     Bradford's biographies supplement the general reader's knowledge of key       modern literary figures, and offer a reinterpretation of such figure's       lives.
The impact of these biographies makes fundamental the integral       nature of a writer's life and their creative output.
Bradford enjoys a       longstanding impact as a researcher and critic and his work is quoted in       academic and non-academic publications.
In 2012, for example, an essay on       British author, Zadie Smith, in Private Eye argued that Smith's work was       emblematic of Bradford's critical definitions of postmodern writing in The         Novel Now, published in 2006: `[Smith's work] fits squarely into the       fictional category defined by Professor Richard Bradford in his seminal       work The Novel Now as "domesticated postmodernism"'.
Bradford has       spoken at various important festivals and events throughout the UK,       including the Oxford Literary Festival, the Hay on Wye Book Fair, and the       Cheltenham Literary Festival.
He also appeared on Radio 4's `Today'       programme in 2011 to speak about his Martin Amis biography and Radio 4's       `Bookclub' featured the book (2011).
Bradford's impact is thus extended       through these invitations, and permits direct interaction with the public,       as well as the opportunity to extend the terms of the debate and the       context of the impact.
Bradford has engaged in media discussions on topics       including the `classless novelist' in 2009 for Nottingham BBC local radio       `experiences as a literary biographer' in 2011 at the Oxford Literary       Festival, and `the contemporary novel' in 2010 for Channel 4.
He was also       commissioned to write an essay on writing biography, `A Biographer's       Tale', by The Author, a trade journal for authors published by the       Society of Authors (2012, av.
quarterly sales 9200).
[See section 5,       sources 3 and 4]     Contributing to cultural enrichment for a non-academic audience       Bradford's work engages with a varied and diverse non-academic audience.
The reach of Bradford's work in a variety of different media also impacts       upon non-traditional readers, users and practitioners of literary       research.
For example, Bradford was interviewed in 2012 by Time Out       magazine on his biography of Martin Amis (av.
sales 255,000), and by the       New Zealand-based Listener (av.
sales 64,000).
Prior to the       publication of the Amis biography, he was also invited in 2011 to write an       article on the forthcoming book for The Sunday Times (av.
sales       2.4 million).
In recognition of his work on Sillitoe, Bradford was invited       to write the author's obituary for The Guardian in 2010 (av.
sales       350,000).
With regard to The Odd Couple, Bradford was commissioned       by The Sunday Times (av.
sales 2.4 million) to write a leading       features article on the book and its analysis of Amis's unpublished       letters, `The Lolita Letters of Lucky Jim', (November 2012).
[See section       5, sources 1, 2 and 6]     Contributing to growth of small businesses in the publishing industry     Bradford contributes to income generation for a range of small to       medium-sized publishing houses in Ireland and the UK: Peter Owen, The       Robson Press, O'Brien Press, and Constable and Robinson.
Several of his       biographies have, for example, appeared with Peter Owen, an independent       London-based publisher, and the former's published work thus contributes       to the lifeblood of small publishing within the UK.
Long Distance         Writer 2129, Lucky Him 2823, First Boredom 2753       hardback, 1821, paper.
These national sales have significant economic       benefits; trade books contribute to a &#163;3 billion UK publishing industry       which is variously engaged in employing a range of skilled workers who       assist in fuelling the creative economy, from editors, publishers, and       agents, to typesetters and printers.
[See section 5, source 2]     Citations in reviews outside academic literature     Bradford has received extensive praise from literary reviewers, with over       30 significant reviews in the mainstream literary and broadsheet press       since 2001, including in the Times Literary Supplement, The         Spectator, The New York Review of Books, The Observer,       and The New Statesman, and he was awarded the Elizabeth Longford       Award for Historical Biography in 2012 by the Society of Authors.
[See       section 5, sources 4, 5, 6 and 7]
