     Research at Newcastle has made significant contributions to international       best practice guidelines       used worldwide to restore damaged coral reefs.
The need      Coral reefs provide food and livelihoods, prevent coastal erosion,       attract tourism and host a wide       variety of biodiversity.
Globally, the value of the economic goods and       services provided by coral       reefs has been estimated at US$375 billion per year (Costanza et al.
1997,       Nature, 387: 253 - 260).
This essential resource is however under threat.
In 2008 it was estimated       (by Wilkinson, C.
(ed.
),       2008, Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network and Reef and Rainforest       Research Center, Australia)       that:     - 20% of the world's coral reefs have been effectively destroyed with no       immediate prospects       of recovery     - 24% of the world's reefs are under imminent risk of collapse through       human pressures,     - 26% are under a longer term threat of collapse.
Reef restoration offers a potential solution but the cost of active       restoration can be up to &#163;4 million       per hectare (depending on the region and approach; [E1]).
Thus       there is a need for management       guidelines to ensure cost-effective restoration.
Meeting the need     Research at Newcastle effectively assessed strategies for coral reef       restoration the results of       which were worked into a series of international guidelines.
The `Reef         Restoration Concepts &amp;         Guidelines' [E1]: Edwards &amp; Gomez 2007) (translated into       Indonesian, French and Spanish [E1]),       rehabilitation manual [E1] (Edwards 2010) and advisory paper [E1]       (CRTR 009/2010) have led to       measurable changes to the practices of NGOs, coastal managers, and the       maritime insurance       industry.
Documented impacts have occurred post 2008 and coral reef       conservation practice and       policy continue to be informed by the research.
Impacts on NGO's     Two thousand print copies of the Reef Restoration Concepts &amp;         Guidelines have been distributed       and over 1000 electronic copies downloaded from the CRTR website (www.gefcoral.org)       per year       while this was monitored (2008-2009).
Additionally 1000 print copies of       the Reef Rehabilitation         Manual were distributed within 4 months of publication.
The manual       and guidelines have been       requested by and sent to practitioners in at least 66 different countries.
Newcastle has received       feedback from the users that the guidance has been used on at least 26       reef restoration projects in       19 different countries on every continent except Antarctica [E2].
Of the 56 reef restoration       practitioners and researchers who have responded to our end-user       questionnaire (see [E2]) 42 had       carried out a reef restoration project post 2008 and 41 (97.6 %) of these       had made use of the       guidelines and/or manual.
For example, the restoration of the Mithapur Reef in India and the set-up       of the in situ nursery at       Lakshadweep and Gujarat was informed by the Manual.
This project led to       successful       transplantation of Acropora species and in 4 out of the 10       artificial reef sites juvenile recruitment of       Montipora, Favia and Goniastrea was observed in the       first year (2011).
Following this success a       further 23 artificial reefs were developed at Lagu and Mithapur with help       from Tata Chemical       Limited, the Indian Navy, the Indian Coastguard, the Gujarat Forest       Department, the Zoological       Survey of India (ZSI) and local fishing communities during April 2013 [E3].
Impacts on ecological consultancies     The guidelines constitute "scientific best practice in the consideration       and planning of proposing       coral transplantation as a mitigation measure related to IFC PS6       [International Finance       Corporation- World Bank &#8212; Performance Standard 6] and biodiversity       offsetting" [E4].
ERM is one       such company which has adopted the guidelines, with 140 offices in 39       countries it provides coral       transplantation plans for international projects in many countries       including Indonesia, Jordan, Hong       Kong and Colombia.
For each project "the guidelines and manual provided       the research and case       study evidence as to the rationale for purporting coral transplantation as       a viable option" and also       "the necessary management and monitoring programmes required to ensure a       successful       outcome" [E4].
Creocean is an international environmental consultancy which has used the       Newcastle Research       and subsequent guidelines in mitigating the impact of construction of the       Balhaf plant and shipping       terminal for Yemen Liquid Natural Gas (YLNG).
The research was used to       underpin the coral       transplant strategy for this US$5 billion plant construction:     "[B]because these [damaged] areas were too large to be integrally       transplanted and to increase the       chances of coral survival, it was decided a priori to selectively       transplant the largest colonies, the       rare or uncommon species, the slow growing species, and only the colonies       in good health.
Edwards and Clark (1998)1 argued that there has been too much       focus on transplanting fast-       growing branching corals instead of slowly recruiting massive species,       which generally survive       transplantation well but often recruit slowly."
This ensured only minor       transient reef damage and       healthy reefs have since spawned an estimated 100,000 - 140,000 coral       recruits onto new       substrates created by the development [E5].
Impacts on the International shipping industry     CTL Consult Ltd based in the UK has made use of the guidelines and manual       in 4 international       ship-grounding cases.
The "publications have provided CTL with a robust       and justifiable foundation       for the advice provided to ITOPF [International Tanker Owners Pollution       Federation] and the P&amp;I       Clubs [ship insurers] which has allowed us to produce an argument       [which]... substantially       reduce[d] their liability in all four cases" [E6].
The research has       been used to show that damage to       the reefs could be repaired through natural processes and hence       compensation claims have been       reduced.
For example, the settlement of Hanjijn Istanbul's grounding claim       contributed "to a       reduction in the claim against the ship owners from US$6,500,000 to a       settlement less than       US$600,000" [E6].
Both the reputation of the Newcastle authors and       the auspices of the World       Bank and GEF as funders of the work has meant that the manuals are readily       accepted as       international best practice helping to direct decision making regarding       damage assessment and       restoration options for coral reefs" [E6].
