     The importance of upland hay meadows     Species-rich upland hay meadows are an important part of the UK's       cultural and rural heritage.
These floristically diverse grasslands are unique to the UK and limited to       sites between 200 and       400 m above sea level.
Traditionally, low fertility soils combined with       grazing and cutting regimes       resulted in high plant species diversity with typically over 30 species       per square metre.
They also       support a variety of insect pollinators and provide breeding habitat for       endangered upland bird       species such as black grouse and curlew.
Although there is no quantitative       data it is likely that       upland hay meadows have declined considerably in the second half of the       20th century mirroring       the 97 % decline in lowland hay meadows (Jefferson (2005) Grass and Forage       Science, 60, 322-       331).
Conversion to species poor grassland as a result of modern farmland       management practices       and priorities has meant that there is as little as 1070 ha of pristine       upland hay meadow remaining       in Britain.
Consequently they are listed as UK Biodiversity Action Plan       (BAP) priority habitats (see       http://jncc.defra.gov.uk/page-5706       for more information) and are listed on the European Habitats       directive which means that they have the highest conservation priority.
The impact of Newcastle research on upland hay meadows     Newcastle research "...has made a huge contribution to our         understanding of hay meadow         conservation, and underpinned the development of agri-environment         measures for their         conservation."
Prior to the research "management         prescriptions...were simplistic and did not allow         flexibility to acknowledge different situations and starting conditions.
There was limited         understanding of the timescales and trajectories of meadow restoration         and the mechanisms         underpinning restoration.
The [Newcastle] research, along with         results from scheme monitoring,         led to pro-active enhancement activity to re-introduce and establish         species lost through intensive         agricultural practice" [E1, Senior Specialist, Natural       England].
Impact on policy and practice &#8212; the Higher Level Stewardship Scheme     This increased understanding of upland hay meadow dynamics stemming from       the research has       been incorporated into the UK government's Higher Level Stewardship       Scheme.
The scheme,       administrated by Natural England, offers payments to farmers, land       managers and tenants in       England in return for complex environmental management in certain priority       areas including the       uplands.
This scheme requires support and advice from Natural England       advisers to develop a       comprehensive agreement that achieves a wide range of environmental       benefits.
Farmers, land owners and tenants can identify hay meadows on their land       using the Farm       Environment Plan manual (2010; [E7]).
This manual has used the       Newcastle University research to       develop an identification key (key 2b, page 77) which allows farmers to       identify which meadows       can be included in the Scheme.
Natural England advisors then use Technical       Information Notes       (TINs) to develop strategies for upland grassland management and to set       indicators of success       used to judge the restoration of species-rich grassland under the Higher       Level Stewardship       scheme (options HK6, "maintenance of..." and HK7 "restoration of       species-rich semi-natural       grassland").
These TINs have been heavily influenced by Newcastle's       research.
For example, the       targets of restoration success identified through the research [P4]       have been incorporated in to TIN       050 (2009) [E1, E2].
The finding [P5] that yellow rattle       directly influences increased plant diversity       and indirectly increases nitrogen cycling in upland hay meadows has been       incorporated in to TIN       060 (2009) [E1, E2].
Recently, Newcastle research has contributed to the evidence-base that       underpins Natural       England's approach to delivery of agri-environment schemes and       partnerships with hill-farming       communities in relation to nutrient additions and spring grazing and hay       cutting regimes [E3].
The       Natural England evidence-review (2013) [E3] cites the Newcastle       team in justifying its approach to       management questions such as; "Which spring grazing levels and shut-up       dates maintain floristic       diversity and breeding bird populations of upland hay meadows?"
The       outcome of this evidence       review has fed into the broader process of developing Natural England's       advice to land owners and       managers.
The impact of this policy and practice on upland hay meadows     As a result of these policies and management prescriptions arising from       Newcastle research, 2500       ha has been placed under grassland management options (as upland hay       meadows or restoration       toward this) in the Higher Level Stewardship scheme in the Yorkshire Dales       and North Pennines       National Character Areas, with further areas (exact area unknown) in       Cumbria [E1].
Decline in hay       meadows still occurs due to a variety of causes, but there is recent       evidence that previously       degraded sites have improved [E4].
"Newcastle University's research has...directly led to the setting up         of successful meadow         restoration projects in the Yorkshire Dales National Park and the North         Pennines Area of         Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) (and elsewhere), and hence has         supported efforts to         safeguard the remaining species-rich meadows and to enhance and extend         the meadow         resource"[E5, Hay Time Project Officer, Yorkshire Dales       National Park]     Active restoration has taken place through local partnership projects       involving seed and hay       collection and transfer, covering 290 ha in the Yorkshire Dales, 240 ha in       the North Pennines and       100 ha in Cumbria [E1].
These hay meadow restoration projects have       benefited from the research       through, for example, understanding the need to include hay rattle seeds       to facilitate the colonisation       of other species at later stages in development.
In the Yorkshire Dales,       this insight fundamentally       underpinned the hay time project and without it the scale of restoration       would have been greatly       reduced [E5].
Seventy meadow restoration schemes have been launched       in the Dales resulting in       locally-harvested seed (mostly from the same dale) being added to 143       fields (281 ha).
All       restoration meadows were re-surveyed in 2011 and key species have been       successfully restored to       meadows in their 69 schemes covering 279ha [E5 &amp; E6].
Projects across the Yorkshire Dales       National Park, North Pennines ANOB and the Forest of Bowland ANOB cover       60% of the remaining       upland hay meadow in England.
