     Prior to Newcastle's research, it was commonplace to see statements such       as `[the] rodents did not experience pain' or `rodents and rabbits show no       signs of pain and so require no analgesics' in scientific publications.
However, our research has had a major impact in changing such attitudes.
The findings of the research at Newcastle were summarised and disseminated       to a wider audience via a website, workshops, conferences, text books,       book chapters, review articles and a Dutch television documentary.
The       website was set up with the aim of `...providing practical guidance in       recognising signs of health and good welfare and to help users of the site       to become better able to identify signs of pain, distress and poor welfare       in laboratory animals' (www.ahwla.org.uk).
The successful outcomes of research, coupled with the extensive and       sustained efforts to disseminate our results has led to worldwide changes       in a range of policy statements, practice guides, institutional policies       (academic and industrial) and individual research worker practices.
As a       result, analgesic use in research animals has increased.
This was       confirmed by repeating the literature review (1, above), for the time       periods 2005-6 and 2012-13.
Reported analgesic use for laboratory rodents       increased by 50%, from 14% to 21%, between these two time periods (in       preparation).
UK policy and practice     In the UK animal research which may cause pain, suffering, distress or       lasting harm is regulated under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act       1986.
In England, Scotland and Wales, this Act is implemented by the Home       Office.
It is clearly stated in the licence conditions that `The licence       holder must use analgesia or another appropriate method to ensure that the       pain, suffering and distress caused by regulated procedures are kept to a       minimum'.
The Home Office also carry out regular inspections to ensure       that all animal research is in accordance with licence conditions, and       have confirmed that their inspectors `...frequently make use of [the       Newcastle findings] when evaluating research procedures in rodents that       require assessment and alleviation of post-surgical pain' [E9] In       addition, the Inspectors `...frequently recommend research workers to         refer to [the Newcastle findings] when formulating their post-operative         care regimens' and `...regularly facilitate direct contact         between research workers and [the] group at Newcastle whenever         specialist advice on analgesia is required' [E9].
In the UK,       this impacts directly on up to 472,000 animals per year that undergo       procedures under general anaesthetic and so may require analgesics [E9,       Home Office Statistics of Scientific Procedures on Living Animals Great       Britain 2012, E8].
International policy and practice     In the US National Academy of Sciences Report (Institute of Laboratory       Animal Resources), reference to the work by the Newcastle group is given       in conjunction with the statement that `...fundamental to the relief of       pain in animals is the ability to recognise its clinical signs in specific       species'.
Their 2011 report [E4] informed revisions to Pain and       Distress in Laboratory Animals guidelines, produced by The Animal Research       Advisory Committee.
These mandatory guidelines, which form part of the       National Institutes of Health (NIH) policy, now clearly state that       `Pre-emptive measures should be taken to minimise or prevent the       development of pain and/or distress', citing the Newcastle work.
NIH funds       research at over 2,500 institutes and is the largest source of funding for       medical research in the world.
This guidance is also included by the USA       Department of Agriculture, Animal Welfare Information Centre [E7].
These policies impact significantly on European research, as USA-European       collaborations must adopt this guidance.
Hence approximately 4 million       animals per year in the USA would benefit.
In Canada, oversight of scientific animal use is the responsibility of       the Canadian Council on Animal Care.
They cite the Newcastle work on their       website (updated 2012, e.g.
Keating et al, 2012, and www.ahwla.org.uk),       stating that analgesic dosing `...should be tailored to the individual         animal' [E1].
The Australian and New Zealand Council for the       Care of Animals in Research and Teaching website also includes references       to the Newcastle findings [E2].
A further 0.6 million animals per       year would benefit.
As mentioned earlier, numerous institutions cite the       research work in their requirements for analgesic use (eg Univerities of       Western Ontario, West Virginia, Michigan, Iowa, Pennsylvania, Alabama, New       York School of Medicine)     UFAW (Universities Federation of Animal Welfare) is internationally       recognised as having led the way in improving, and promoting high       standards of, animal welfare, and their Handbook on the Care and       Management of Laboratory and other Research Animals serves to inform and       guide practice.
Their most recent edition (2010) frequently cites the       Newcastle research in relation to the assessment of pain and welfare.
The       behaviour-based assessment developed at Newcastle and their researcher       training system is suggested as an aid for researchers to `...identify         and score pain more accurately and reliably' [p.86, E3].
Education and training     The work at Newcastle has led to a major change in practice across the       world.
These changes relate to which analgesics are given, the dosing of       these products and the assessment of pain via behaviour observation [e.g.
E4].
The website AHWLA (Assessing the Health and Welfare of       Laboratory Animals, www.ahwla.org.uk)       was set up (with support from the Swiss 3R Research Foundation) to       `...provide practical guidance in recognising signs of health and good       welfare and to help users of the site to become better able to identify       signs of pain, distress and poor welfare in laboratory animals' .
Since       January 2008, the website has had 70,000 unique visitors from 75       countries, This material, together with instructional video-material       produced from data collected on the other studies listed above (in mouse       and rabbit) has been made available to those delivering training to new       research staff, and is used on numerous training course (e.g.
[E5],       [E10]).
The Newcastle work is also cited in the Australian       government's `Guidelines to promote the wellbeing of animals used for       scientific purposes', where the film is recommended as an educational       resource for behaviour-based pain scoring [E6].
The assessment       methods are taught at workshops at Newcastle (established with funding       from BBSRC) and elsewhere.
The dose recommendations have been incorporated       into the training notes provided to the majority of UK research workers       undertaking mandatory Home Office training in surgery and anaesthesia       (Module 4) and over 3000 copies of the CDs containing this material have       been distributed since 2008.
In addition to the specific impact on pain       relief for rodents and rabbits, the work has been extrapolated to other       species, so these activities impact on all animals used in research.
