     The internationalisation of Gross Profits Tax (GPT)     Vaughan Williams' research has strongly influenced the modernisation of       gambling taxes in the context of new technologies and new forms of       betting, through a move to GPT.
The chairman of William Hill commented       that GPT was "the single most important and influential development in       betting and racing in 30 years.
At a stroke it has removed the benefit of       betting offshore" (HM Customs &amp; Excise, 2003).
Bettors benefited as       bookmakers offered tax-free betting and lower prices.
Bookmakers' revenue       rose from &#163;7billion in 1999-2000 to &#163;32billion in 2003-04 and several       repatriated operations to the UK, creating 2,000 extra jobs (National       Audit Office, 2005).
The UK Government benefited as tax revenues from       general betting rose by a third to &#163;400million.
The benefits of a GPT regime were increasingly recognised by the       international gambling industry who welcomed the provision of a level       playing field and greater certainty, factors that provided operators with       more security leading to the introduction of new products and greater       choice for consumers.
Consequently the major gambling operators and trade       associations lobbied for the introduction of GPT as a way of enabling       countries to retain customer spend on gambling within their jurisdictions.
This led to both Spain and Greece, two Eurozone countries faced with       serious public finance issues, introducing GPT in 2011.
For Greece this       was particularly important since it is the sixth largest gambling market       in the EU.
Denmark and Italy followed suit in 2012 and 2013.
Tax harmonisation and the introduction of Machine Games Duty     The success of the switch to GPT led the UK Government to extend it to       bingo, pools betting and betting exchanges.
However gaming machines       remained outside the new gambling tax regime.
This reflected changes       taking place in the machine gambling market, in particular the       introduction in 2001 of fixed odds betting terminals into high street       betting offices, and a rapid rise in their popularity.
Given their higher       stakes and pay-outs than conventional gaming machines, this raised the       prospect of conventional gaming machines (which operated on higher       margins) being displaced.
At this time operators of gaming machines were       subject to amusement machine licence duty, linked to turnover and VAT.
Following research by Vaughan Williams and Paton in 2006 and 2008/2009, in       2009 the Chancellor announced plans to extend GPT to all gambling       machines.
In the Finance Act (2012), amusement machine licence duty and       VAT were replaced with a new gross profits tax called machine games duty,       which came into force in February 2013.
Setting the level of Machine Games Duty     In calculating the impact on government revenues of the new machine games       duty, HM Revenue and Customs constructed an economic model which compared       the differences between anticipated government income before and after the       tax change (corroborating source 5).
In setting the level of machine games       duty, HM Revenue and Customs used a price elasticity of demand of 0.5,       citing the earlier research of Vaughan Williams and Paton (2005) as the       basis for this (corroborating source 4, p.5).
Stake limits on Machine Games     As well as influencing the taxation regime (via machine games duty), a       secondary legislative impact of Vaughan Williams' research also relates to       the stake limits on machine games.
One possible justification for       discriminating against certain types of machine gambling is that they may       place vulnerable consumers at risk of becoming `problem' gamblers.
This       was rejected by Government when they decided to raise stake limits on       these machines and to increase the permissible number of machines in adult       gaming centres and bingo clubs.
The Minister for Tourism and Heritage       cited the work of Vaughan Williams et al.
(2008) in justifying the       decision to raise the stake limits on B3 gaming machines (corroborating       source 6, p.78).
This regulatory change was introduced on the 30th June       2011, as secondary legislation.
Overall, Vaughan Williams' research has consistently called for a move       towards gambling tax regimes based on ad valorem taxes, e.g.
GPT.
First       introduced for general betting in the UK, machine gambling was, until       recently, an exception in this regard, in that it was subject to a       turnover-based tax.
The introduction of machine games duty not only       brought this sector into line with the rest of the gambling sector, it       also marked the completion of the UK Government's switch to a tax regime       based on Vaughan Williams' research.
By this time the benefits of GPT, in       terms of achieving the twin objectives of efficiency and revenue       sustainability in a manner which is proof against technological and       economic changes over time, were sufficiently evident for other European       countries to follow suit, spurred on by the financial problems in the       Eurozone.
