     Preserving, Conserving, And Presenting Cultural Heritage     The development of an online library of approximately 30 books has       established one of the most substantial, free to access texts for Ulster       Poetry in the world (http://www.arts.ulster.ac.uk/ulsterpoetry/       and http://www.arts.ulster.ac.uk/ulsterscotspoetry/index.html).
These texts form a corpus which has multiple applications for the general       reader, for schools, for cultural tourism, language planning, for local       and national media and cultural institutions, as well as academic users.
Informing And Influencing Policy     Ferguson has acted as a consultant with the Ministerial Advisory       Committee for an Ulster-Scots Academy (MAGUS/DCAL), the Minister for the       Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure in Northern Ireland (DCAL), and       other public and private organisations in NI.
His work has improved public       understanding of Ulster literature, and contributed to on-going debates on       Irish and Scottish cultural, linguistic and literary identity.
Ferguson's       academic focus on Ulster writing is particularly relevant to contemporary       concerns about national identity and the place of vernacular language       within the public sphere.
He contributes significantly to debates on       Ulster literature and history in Northern Ireland and the Republic of       Ireland, which are particularly pertinent within the post Good Friday       framework where Ulster-Scots identities have been given much attention.
[See section 5, sources 2, 5 and 9]     Influencing Design and Delivery of Curricula in Education beyond HE     Ferguson's work has assisted in the development of teaching and learning       materials on Ulster-Scots literature in schools and adult education in       Northern Ireland by providing students, teachers, and the general public,       with free to access versions of the texts that the project has collected       in conjunction with a school reader, and a literary encyclopaedia.
It       makes a significant contribution to the updating of subject knowledge for       teachers, as well as the direct release of new material, fresh insights,       and interpretations into the non-HE educational sector.
[See section 5,       sources 1, 5 and 7]     The project assists in the integration of Ulster-Scots literature within       the NI curriculum.
It delivers talks in partnership with BBC Northern       Ireland and Libraries NI in venues across Northern Ireland.
To date it has       carried out approximately twenty poetry and/or history workshops in 10       schools across Northern and talks and workshops in 20 libraries across       Northern Ireland.
One teacher commented `the University of Ulster helped       Year 13 students explore the history, culture, and language of       Ulster-Scots poetry.
Pupils found the experience very enjoyable and were       able to apply the knowledge gained from the workshop to their A-Level       English Literature poetry anthology' (See section 5, source 11).
Enrichment of Cultural Life in Northern Ireland     The Poetry Project curated the `Every Townland Earned its Name in Song:       John Hewitt's Ulster Scots Tradition' which was launched at The John       Hewitt Summer School in July 2012, and which ran in several museums,       libraries, and other public cultural spaces across Northern Ireland,       including: PRONI, the Marketplace Theatre (Armagh), Carnegie Library       (Bangor), public libraries in Ballymena, Omagh, and Enniskillen, and the       University of Ulster's Magee campus in Derry during the celebration of the       City of Culture award (2013).
The exhibition is based upon Ferguson       and White's on-going research.
This year the project launched a new extensive exhibition based on the       life, work and legacy of John Hewitt as well as the publication of his       autobiography (co-edited by Ferguson and White) at the       John Hewitt Summer School.
This is one of the major cultural events of the       year in Northern Ireland.
The annual summer school is one of the most well       established and significant cultural and arts events in Northern Ireland,       and regularly attracts over 400 delegates per year, and boasts an       international audience and reputation.
This guarantees maximum media       coverage for the project and demonstrated the ability of the project to       engage in top-level outreach and dissemination of its research to the       public, placing the project at the forefront of cultural endeavour in the       province.
[See section 5, sources 1, 6 and 10]     Influencing Professional Creative Practice     Ferguson is a regular contributor to the BBC Northern Ireland and       consultant to television production companies, assisting them in the       development of programmes.
A colleague from the BBC has commented: `the       research work undertaken as part of the John Hewitt online project is of       great value to on-going Ulster-Scots programmes within BBC Northern       Ireland.
Some of our radio and web resources make reference to the       vernacular poetry of Ulster writers in the eighteenth and nineteenth       centuries, and the fact that the original texts are now available online       in an attractive and searchable format, adds significant value to our       programming' (BBC NI Ulster-Scots Director, 2012).
Ferguson works closely       with the BBC in disseminating his research findings through media       recordings and online publications: http://www.bbc.co.uk/ulsterscots/library/category/meetthe-ulster-scots#category-frank-ferguson;       and          http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00y1rqb/episodes/guide.
[See       section 5, sources 3, 4 and 8]
