     Nottingham City Homes took immediate and longer term benefit from the       most recent application of Mutch' s research.
Nottingham City Homes       recorded enduring impact in the form of improved working practices (i.e.
greatly improved data gathering procedures) and new roles and       responsibilities for staff leading to more effective management of       resources and improved service delivery, through improved use of       information within the organisation.
Following recommendations from the research team, Nottingham City Homes       now has a much improved evidence base regarding the impact of its work,       especially as it now considers wider social impacts than before.
This has       led to changes to the Secure Warm Modern programme in the form of the       re-allocation of resources.
For example, in a change to what was       originally planned Nottingham City Homes prioritised implementation of the       security part of the Secure Warm Modern programme, involving the fitting       of secure doors as well as windows, over the modernisation part which       involved fitting new kitchens, because research findings by Mutch and his       team provided an evidence base that demonstrated the increased social       returns that resulted from so doing.
As a result Nottingham City Homes'       tenants and the local community gained improved security, health and       comfort, and tenants have experienced an improvement in the quality of       service.
Nottingham City Homes' ability to demonstrate improved social outcomes by       virtue of the greatly improved evidence base it now had its disposal, was       also an important factor in the organisation securing the highest level of       funding outside London when budgets for the Decent Homes programme were       revised in 2012.
Improvements in sharing information with external agencies also resulted       in further impact within Nottingham.
Locally, the Crime Reduction       Partnership benefited from closer working relationships, with Nottingham       City Homes enabling them to target the use of police resources and other       public services more effectively.
What is more, this has acted as a local       model for other agencies.
For example as a result of the successful       outcome of the Knowledge Transfer Partnership, Nottingham City Homes has       become a full member of the Strategic Health Board for Nottingham,       rekindling a link between housing and health which had become neglected       and acting as a model of partnership working that has been adopted in       other areas.
Industry recognition     Wider impact has been experienced through the influence of the       application of Mutch and Valero-Silva's findings to Nottingham City Homes'       Secure Warm Modern programme on national best practice.
This has come       about via two routes.
Firstly through the Home and Communities Agency, the       national body that regulates, funds and oversees social housing, and       secondly through the auspices of Parliament.
In terms of the latter, the       MP for Nottingham South, Lilian Greenwood, has been highly supportive of       the Nottingham City Homes project and this was reflected in a       Parliamentary debate in 2012, when the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of       State for Communities and Local Government, Andrew Stunell, stated: "The       hon.
Lady referred to the study, undertaken by Nottingham City Homes with       Nottingham Trent University, of the wider impact of Decent Homes.
That       study has made a very useful contribution to our knowledge, and ought to       be required reading for those who doubt the importance of investing in our       social housing stock" (see sources to corroborate 7).
In terms of the       former, Nottingham City Homes has come to be seen as a frontrunner in the       evaluation of major refurbishment programmes like the Secure Warm Modern       programme thus impacting on the broader social housing movement in       England.
This is reflected in the Homes and Communities Agency, adopting       the approach taken by Mutch and colleagues as a model of best practice.
Further impact that is both local and national has arisen through another       member of the Nottingham City Homes Knowledge Transfer Partnership team,       Alice Jones who was the Knowledge Transfer Partnership Associate.
She has       established a consultancy advising other local authorities about       refurbishment programmes for social housing.
Utilising the findings from       the Knowledge Transfer Partnership project her firm continues to spread       best practice in relation to information gathering and programme       evaluation.
Another indication of the wider impact of this work is the contribution       that it made to Nottingham City Homes winning `Sustainable Landlord of the       Year' at the prestigious UK Housing Awards in May 2013.
The       "ground-breaking research to show the economic, social, health and       environmental impact" (see sources to corroborate 4), to cite the award,       was a key part of the case that Nottingham City Homes was able to make and       thus pointed the way to others in the sector.
The publication of the results of the project in a variety of trade       journals aimed at professionals in the areas of housing, information and       energy management, disseminated an approach which combined some practical       tools, such as information audit, with sensitivity to the organisational       context.
Research drawing on some rather abstract concepts was thus       translated into effective guidance for practice.
