     Murphy et al.
's programme of Fire &amp; Rescue research has had a direct       impact on the policy and practice of the Emergency Services in England and       in particular the Fire and Rescue Service in Nottinghamshire.
As other       countries followed England's lead, the research has also had an impact on       shaping policy and service reconfiguration overseas (e.g.
Eire).
The       beneficiaries are the government and policy makers; fire and rescue       services and related emergency services (with whom Fire and Rescue       Services have to cooperate); the owners of businesses and insurers as well       the general public, who benefit from improved services and risk       mitigation.
National       Following the announcement of a Strategic Review of the Fire Service by       the new coalition government in July 2010 Murphy, Liddle and Greenhalgh       disseminated their findings and helped shape the policy debate and the       strategic review and the effectiveness of performance management       arrangements across the public sector.
They articulated and promoted their       proposed new principles for any new framework for fire and rescue services       at policy and practitioner conferences.
In the run-up to the Department of       Communities and Local Government Select Committee' s review of the       abolition of the Audit Commission and performance management in local       government, they strategically disseminated their findings to key       stakeholders in the fire and rescue community such as the Chief Fire       Officers Association and the Local Government Association.
The people-centred regime supported by appropriate evidence-based       performance data that they advocated, stimulated the policy debate and was       subsequently supported by key stakeholders at the Department of       Communities and Local Government Select Committee hearings in       February-April 2011(most notably by the Chief Fire Officers Association       and the Local Government Association) (see corroborating source 9,       pp42-44).
They were later adopted by the Government in its' response to       the Select Committee report.
As a result, these principles were       incorporated in the new Fire and Rescue National Framework for England       published in July 2012 (Department of Communities and Local Government,       2012 - see Chapter 1 and Annex 1).
Murphy and Greenhalgh were subsequently specifically solicited by the       Department of Communities and Local Government to contribute to the review       of the interventions protocol for Fire Services (October 2012) and to the       fire efficiencies review led by Sir Ken Knight (January 2013).
They were       the only independent research team specifically invited to submit evidence       and their contribution clearly shaped and influenced the debate and       outcomes of these consultations.
Local/Regional       Phase 1 (November 2010 to July 2011): Murphy and Greenhalgh were       commissioned to work with Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue Service on their       Fire Cover Review.
They identified multiple inadequacies and, following       Murphy and Greenhalgh's advice, Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue Service       reviewed and reconstructed all of their databases, systems and structures       to meet the needs of a people-based Integrated Risk Management Planning       process.
Their expertise also underpinned advice and assurance on the       robustness of the Integrated Risk Management Planning process to both the       Fire Service and the Fire Authority as well as directly shaping the       implementation of the new service reconfiguration .
Phase 2 (July 2012 to present).
Following publication of the `Fire and       Rescue National Framework for England', in July 2012 all 46 Fire       and Rescue Authorities and Fire and Rescue Services in England were       required to reconfigure their deployment of resources as a result of the       changed responsibilities and patterns of risk over both the short and long       term.
Having previously assessed immediate and short term risks, Murphy       and Greenhalgh were commissioned by Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue       Service to undertake the county' s first Strategic Needs Assessment of       medium and long term risks for fire services under the new national       framework based upon the people-centred and evidence-led approach (Murphy,       Greenhalgh and Parkin, 2013).
International       The introduction of a people-centred evidence-led process to the       assessment of risk and deployment of Fire Services in England is       increasingly being replicated in the rest of the UK, in Europe and       overseas.
Following presentations to the 2013 meeting of the Federation of European       Unions (of Chief Fire Officers Associations), Murphy and Greenhalgh were       invited to examine some of the member countries (of the Federation of       European Unions) hardest hit by the recent widespread recession.
After       considering alternatives they have begun assessing Fire Service policy in       Eire which announced a new national framework and national service       reconfiguration in February 2013 (National Directorate for Fire and       Emergency Management, 2013).
Similarly they are also assessing the new Scottish National Fire and       Rescue Service.
The Scottish Government amalgamated the previous seven       regional fire services into a single service on 1st April 2013,       and published a the new national framework for Scotland (May 2013) and a       draft Strategic Plan (April 2013).
Both the Irish and the Scottish       frameworks claim to have adopted the principles of sector-led       evidenced-based and people-centred services and to have resulted from an       evidence based policy making processes using robust and transparent data       and intelligence.
