     1) Closing university courses in alternative therapies     The principles behind alternative therapies, such as reflexology and       homeopathy, are not derived from scientific experimentation and analysis.
Consequently, their teaching is neither scientifically informative nor       clinically relevant.
There are severe disadvantages to allowing       universities to offer degrees in these subjects, including: (i) the       representation of these subjects as science; (ii) the effect of promoting       these therapies as forms of medicine; (iii) the increased number of       "qualified" individuals who believe in &#8212; and profit from &#8212; these       non-medical and sometimes dangerous treatments; and (iv) government       spending on useless degrees.
Through critical investigation of these degree courses, drawing on his       knowledge of pharmacology and statistics, Colquhoun produced strong       evidence-based arguments to the Information Commissioner and an       Information Tribunal against the virtues of offering BSc and masters       courses in these topics.
This effort, documented on his blog and reported       in the media [A.i-v], led to the widespread closure of such       courses in universities across the UK.
In 2012, the Telegraph reported:     "The number of bachelor and masters degrees in subjects such as         reflexology, aromatherapy, acupuncture and homoeopathy has halved since         2007, from more than 40 to 21.
Many of the surviving courses are under         review."
"The closures are partly the result of a campaign led by Dr David         Colquhoun, professor of pharmacology at University College London..."     Degrees in naturopathy, reflexology and aromatherapy have now all       vanished from Britain's universities.
It is encouraging that prospective       students now appear to be returning to "traditional" degrees such as       physics and chemistry [A.vi].
Thus, it is already clear that the       closure of university courses in alternative therapies is benefitting       education.
The stricter policy on what subjects should be taught at degree       level means funding can be spent on more important areas of education.
2) Maintaining accurate NHS guidance on alternative therapies     The effectiveness of alternative therapies, such as homeopathy,       chiropractic and acupuncture, is not supported by evidence [B.i-iii].
At best, these therapies simply do not work beyond a placebo effect, and       their use in place of evidence-based medicine can therefore damage       patients' health while incurring unnecessary financial costs.
For these       therapies to be portrayed to the general public as a serious treatment       option is economically damaging and clinically counter-productive.
The Department of Health was therefore considered to have "failed the       general public" (David Mattin, ex-NHS Choices editor) when, in 2012, it       prevented accurate information about homeopathy from appearing on the NHS       Choices website.
Specifically, a new page on homeopathy appeared,       replacing the previous statement that "homeopathy is not part of       mainstream medicine".
The new page lent unjustified credibility to       homeopathy and, as documented on his blog and in the media, Colquhoun       campaigned heavily for the restoration of accurate information [C.i-iii].
The campaign was quickly successful, with the NHS Choices website now       clearly stating:     "A 2010 House of Commons Science and Technology Committee report on         homeopathy said that homeopathic remedies perform no better than         placebos, and that the principles on which homeopathy is based are         'scientifically implausible'.
This is also the view of the Chief Medical         Officer, Professor Dame Sally Davies."
[C.iv]     A similar story is emerging around the NICE guidelines for low back pain,       which currently recommend manual therapy (including chiropractic) and       acupuncture &#8212; techniques which are now thought to be ineffective [B.ii-iii].
NICE received a huge backlash from the medical and scientific community,       which has been documented and further publicised by Colquhoun [D.i-iii].
This effort contributed to persuading NICE to reconsider its back pain       guidance (in progress now).
3) What constitutes evidence?
Impact on public awareness     Colquhoun's blog also encourages the public to critically assess evidence       that is presented to them.
This is an important skill in a media culture,       where scientific findings are inflated and oversimplified for the sake of       a headline.
For instance, in 2008, the Telegraph told us that a "Sausage a       day can increase bowel cancer risk".
This headline was based on a 2007       report from the World Cancer Research Fund and, although the       epidemiological research within the report was performed well, the       conclusions were arguably too strong given the evidence.
By explaining the       concepts of causality, randomisation and statistical significance,       Colquhoun's blog posts on the subject over five years have done more than       simply point out where the media have gone wrong: they arm readers with       the tools they need to evaluate this type of evidence themselves [E.i-iii].
Colquhoun has written 367 blog posts which have generated 6,941 comments       (all figures in this paragraph to end July 2013).
He almost always replies       to comments, maintaining an interactive relationship with the public, both       on his blog and in newspapers.
The most read post is "Acupuncture is a       theatrical placebo: the end of a myth" (ref B.iii above), with over 21,000       page loads so far.
The blog has had 3.3 million hits to date       (605,000 in the last year), and there have been hits from almost every       country in the world.
The blog was featured on the Times 100 best blogs       list in 2009 [F.i].
The number of page loads per day rarely falls       below 1,000, but straight after a new post it rises to 3-7,000 hits per       day.
Colquhoun's appearances in the media (see H below) vastly increase       interest in his blog.
The record number of hits on one day was 24,305,       which occurred on 21 April 2013, the day that The Observer published an       article naming Colquhoun as a Rational Hero [F.ii].
As a result of the blog's popularity, Colquhoun has been invited to make       many media appearances and write newspaper articles [G], which, in       turn, encourage a wider blog readership.
He also has over 8,000 followers       on Twitter (@david_colquhoun).
This medium provides a rather different,       and highly interactive, audience for public engagement compared with the       blog.
