 Impact on patients The majority of our patients are well and off all prophylactic therapy.
One SCID-X1 patient who was atypical (adolescent at time of treatment and had previously undergone HSCT, which was failing) was treated on compassionate grounds, but did not reconstitute.
As discussed, we have had one serious adverse event (leukaemia).
This patient was successfully treated by chemotherapy and HSCT [a].
The only alternative treatment for our patients would have been HSCT.
Many patients who have undergone this treatment suffer from additional complications such as long-term effects related to chemotherapy, usually with alkylating agents (e.g.
lack of growth, compromised fertility, secondary malignancy, hearing loss, hypodontia).
Our recent study suggests a high incidence of cognitive and behavioural abnormalities in SCID patients following HSCT.
Since many of our gene therapy patients have not received chemotherapy we can reasonably expect to see a reduction in the appearance of such debilitating side effects and a consequent improved quality of life compared to patients who have had chemotherapy.
One parent whose child underwent gene therapy said: "Guy is now doing brilliantly; he can do all of the things his friends can do and more.
He is able to play football and ride a pony.
He wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the option of gene therapy treatment.
We are incredibly grateful to the whole team at Great Ormond Street Hospital, but especially Adrian Thrasher and Bobby Gaspar who pioneered this work.
To other parents who find themselves in our situation we would say `go for it'" [b].
Economic benefits The cost of gene therapy compared to the only other comparable treatment, HSCT, is reduced because the patient has a significantly shorter stay in hospital (4-6 weeks for gene therapy compared to 8 weeks on average for HSCT).
The cost of enzyme replacement for ADA-SCID is estimated at &#163;350,000 p.a.
minimum cost for the life-time of a patient.
A significant number of our patients are now off enzyme replacement treatment, with gene therapy thus offering an overall total cost saving of &#163;5 million to date.
Input into guidelines and policy Gaspar has been Chairman of the BMT and Gene Therapy Working Party of European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID), Chairman of the Inborn Errors Working Party of the European Blood and Marrow Transplantation Society (EBMT).
He has been involved in developing the current guidelines for the treatment of PIDs [c, d].
In 2006 we contributed to the European Primary Immunodeficiency Consensus Conference and their guidelines, which are still current [e].
Thrasher has acted in an advisory capacity to the US Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RAC), the US Federal Drugs Administration (FDA), the UK Gene Therapy Advisory Committee (GTAC) [f], the Medicines Control Agency (MCA) and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA).
Public engagement We have worked extensively with national and international patients' groups including the Primary Immunodeficiency Association (PIA) [g], the CGD Society, the International Patient Organisation for Primary Immunodeficiency (IPOPI) and Rare Disease UK [h].
This has included speaking at their meetings and contributing to newsletters.
For example, Gaspar is Chairman of the IPOPI Medical Advisory panel and is a member of the advisory panels for PID-UK and the Ataxia Telangiectasia society.
We have publicised our work to the general public through our interactions with the GOSH Children's Charity fundraising work, through talks, films and other promotional material.
We have also worked closely with the Jeans for Genes Campaign in schools and at other fundraising events, speaking and appearing in films to raise awareness of our work.
Our work has been presented as part of a living exhibition to promote the public understanding of science.
The exhibition, "Health Matters", has been on continuous display in the Science Museum throughout the 2008-13 period.
Our work also appears as part of a science exhibition at Bristol Museum.
We have worked extensively with the media to publicise our work.
We have promoted our research through films, newspapers and television, including BBC News, Newsnight and Radio 4, ITN News and Channel 4 News and also in numerous scientific documentaries, including BBC Horizon [i].
We have worked with the Science Media Centre in educating journalists about our work.
We are very active in scientific societies which relate to our work such as the British Society for Gene and Cell Therapy (BSGCT).
Thrasher has recently retired as the President of the BSGCT, and has organised education days for junior scientists and the general public.
We are hosting at tent at the forthcoming Bloomsbury Festival to showcase our work.
We have talked about our work in schools, to students of all ages from primary through to `A' Level students.
We have hosted school children to visit our labs and to hear presentations on our work.
We offer one week work experience placements to students in our labs on a biannual basis.
