     Population ageing is a key social issue of our times.
Not only do we need       to understand the factors which have contributed to increasing longevity       and how these may evolve; we also need to understand social differentials       in patterns and trends to inform policy making.
The immediate beneficiary of our research is the pensions provider Legal       &amp; General (L&amp;G).
L&amp;G provides retirement income to some       250,000 customers and has recently received several high- profile       financial services industry awards, including: Best Life Assurance, Term       Assurance, Protection and Critical Illness Provider, 2011 &#8212; Financial       Advisor Life and Pension Awards; 4* winner in life and pensions category,       2011 - FT Adviser Service awards.
The research has implications for the       valuation of pensions across social groups e.g.
public sector final salary       schemes, occupational (defined contribution) schemes and privately funded       pensions.
One of the important ways we support L&amp;G is to translate published       epidemiological evidence to meet their specific information needs in a       practical way.
Through engagement with UCL and DAHR seminars, L&amp;G have       also had the opportunity to hear `first-hand' discussions on the changing       needs, and matters relating to the provision of healthcare in the UK,       especially in relation to major chronic diseases now and in the future.
We       also contribute to joint monthly seminars between UCL and L&amp;G analysts       to enable mutual knowledge transfer and capacity building.
We have       disseminated findings in discipline-relevant media and in industry forums:       seminars, journals and magazines.
A key outcome of the academic-industry       collaboration is to achieve a collective view on the future evolution of       health and longevity and to spur the development of a range of insurance       and annuity products that are fair, affordable and could improve the       quality of life of all in retirement     L&amp;G report that direct benefits to them include:     [text removed for publication] [a].
Reputational benefits of the research to L&amp;G are not easily       measureable.
One measure of impact is that the lead UCL researcher       (Bajekal) is an invited member of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries       Mortality Research Steering Committee and contributed a features article       to the profession's premier trade journal `The Actuary' (see below).
All of the UCL/L&amp;G research outputs are in the public domain, so the       programme contributes indirect benefits to the pensions industry more       widely.
By filling the gap in public availability of socially segmented       longevity risk analyses, including their epidemiological drivers via the       medium of peer-reviewed publications, the pension industry gains by having       an externally acknowledged benchmark against which to align company       specific client portfolios and to project future trajectories based on a       better understanding of the reasons for past differentials and the likely       direction of travel.
Bajekal was invited to serve on the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries       Mortality Research Steering Committee (MRSC) in Feb 2012.
Since then, she       has organised a thought leadership seminar [b] and presented a       paper at the Institute's sessional research meeting [c].
She       continues to be active in the profession's research strand and is on the       scientific organising committee for the MRSC's bi-annual 2-day conference       in September 2014.
The research also has a wider impact on social and health policy &#8212; for       example, our research has been used by the ONS in their Statistical       Bulletin on Avoidable mortality in England and Wales, 2011 [d].
