     Kim's research articulating mission as `finding out where the Holy Spirit       is at work and joining in'       has been fed into the churches worldwide through her leading role in two       major church-sponsored       activities: the Edinburgh 2010 project and the World Council of Churches'       Commission on World       Mission and Evangelism.
Both produced statements on theology of mission       which were       substantially shaped by Kim and significantly influenced by her research.
These are having very       considerable impact on the mission theology and practice of churches and       Christian organisations       globally.
Edinburgh 2010     From January 2009 to March 2011, Kim was employed as Research Coordinator       of the Edinburgh       2010 project (E2010), by invitation of the Executive Committee.
E2010 was       the centenary project       of the World Missionary Conference held in Edinburgh in 1910.
This event       had been highly       significant both for the ecumenical movement and also for world mission       (Stanley, The World         Missionary Conference, Eerdmans, 2009, 5-7).
Its centenary attracted       global and pan-ecclesial       interest.
E2010 was sponsored and governed by a Council of mostly global       bodies including World       Council of Churches, Roman Catholic Church, World Evangelical Alliance,       and representatives of       Orthodox, Pentecostal and Indigenous churches.
With the support of the       Study Process Monitoring       Group (SPMG), Kim put her pneumatologically-informed approach of `global       conversation' into       practice by leading a `poly-centric' process which brought together       research from roughly 20       university research institutes, 22 theological institutions, 18 academic       networks and 22 church and       mission organisations.
Researchers and research groups were based in all       continents and in many       different countries, including, Australia, Argentina, Belarus, Bolivia,       Canada, Congo, Costa Rica,       Cuba, Denmark, Finland, France, Ghana, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India,       Indonesia, Italy,       Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, South       Korea, Sweden,       Switzerland, UK and USA.
Kim edited the collaborative reports on nine main       themes to produce       the preparatory volume for the E2010 conference (Balia and Kim 2010).
The conference was held at the University of Edinburgh on 2-6 June 2010.
The 300 invited       delegates at the conference were chiefly leading representatives of the       church and mission bodies       who sponsored the project.
Speakers and delegates interacted with the       reports and aimed to       crystalize their implications for action in the churches.
The conference       provided an opportunity for       Kim to test whether her approach of `finding out where the Holy Spirit is       at work and joining in with       the Spirit' captured contemporary mission theology.
During the conference,       she drafted the       Common Call of the conference, which is a condensed statement of       the main affirmations of the       different study groups and the only unified output from the process.
It       was discussed constructively       in plenary, approved by representatives of each of the main church bodies       of the Council and       affirmed in worship at the closing service.
The Call reflects the       theme of Joining in with the Spirit       (Kim 2009/2012) in that it defines mission (opening paragraph) as `sharing       in God's mission of love       though the transforming power of the Holy Spirit'.
Moreover, pneumatology       is used to justify an       affirming mission that extends to the whole creation, diverse peoples and       cultures, involving unity,       healing, gifts, sharing and empowerment, and at the same time includes       discernment in the form of       truth-telling and power encounter.
For sheer variety of denominations and nationalities, Edinburgh 2010 was       hailed as a `watershed       moment... the first time in almost 100 years that the Christian family has       met together like this'       (Archbishop John Sentamu, Anglican, York).
The Common Call stands       as an inclusive statement       of the intention of the churches to witness to Christ together (Archbishop       Mario Conti, RC,       Glasgow).
It was disseminated to the churches through the sponsoring       bodies and has been       translated into at least 10 other languages.
It was immediately taken up       by the world Christian       press (e.g.
Christian Post, Ecumenical News, Catholic World News) as a       renewed commitment to       mission.
The archives of E2010 are held in the University of Edinburgh and       will doubtless be       revisited on future anniversaries.
World Council of Churches     From 2007 to 2013, Kim served on the Commission on World Mission and       Evangelism (CWME) of       the World Council of Churches (WCC).
During this time she chaired the       drafting committee for the       main work of CWME: a new position statement on mission and evangelism for       the WCC.
The WCC brings together 349 national churches, denominations and church       fellowships in more       than 110 countries and territories throughout the world (www.oikoumene.org).
It represents over       560 million Orthodox and Protestant Christians.
It has a formal working       relationship with the       Roman Catholic Church and growing collaboration with Evangelical and       Pentecostal churches.
The       drafting committee for the new statement was tasked with bringing together       the findings of the       mission conference in Athens 2005 (www.mission2005.org;       at which Kim was an advisor and a       plenary speaker), the Edinburgh 2010 project and some other WCC-related       work.
The only       previous WCC position statement on mission and evangelism was adopted in       1982.
It used a       christological framework and the motif of the kingdom of God predominated.
In her role as chair,       Kim was mandated to bring her expertise in theology of the Holy Spirit to       bear to develop a       pneumatological perspective in the new statement.
The drafting of Together Towards Life: Mission and Evangelism in         Changing Landscapes began at       the Commission meeting in Bangalore in October 2008 and was continued by       working groups and       through a series of drafting group meetings until March 2012.
By       invitation of the working groups,       Kim gave direct input from her research to three of the four main sections       of the document -       mission and pneumatology (Joining in with the Spirit, chapter 2;       meeting in Manila, July 2011),       church and mission (chapter 10; Switzerland, May 2011), and mission       spirituality (chapter 9;       Jamaica, May 2011).
Furthermore, together with the Moderator of the       Commission, Metropolitan       Geevarghese Mor Coorilose and the Commission Secretary, Revd Dr Jooeop       Keum, she finalised       the introduction and conclusion.
Kim chaired all the drafting committee       meetings and checked all       the drafts up to the final one.
In this way she ensured that, in keeping       with her research: (1) the       whole document was cast in an explicitly pneumatologically defined       framework; (2) `joining in with       the Spirit' was the overriding theme (the phrase itself occurs in       concluding para.
110); (3) the       reference to `spirit' was plural as well as singular; (4) the ecclesiology       section was missional; (5)       the approach of affirming and discerning of spirits was clearly expressed       (especially the section on       `Spiritual gifts and discernment', paras 24-28).
In March 2012, Kim presented the draft statement to the WCC conference on       mission and       evangelism in Manila, where approximately 250 invited representatives from       church and mission       organisations studied and commented on it.
On 30 August 2012, she       presented a revised version       to the Central Committee of the WCC at their meeting in Crete, where it       was adopted as an official       WCC statement on Christian witness.
Since it addresses the second of the       three main foci of the       work of the WCC (unity, witness and service), this statement will play a       key role in re-defining WCC       policy at the General Assembly in Busan, Korea in November 2013 (http://wcc2013.info/en),       and       determining its activities in the next eight-year term and beyond.
The       CWME Moderator will       present the new document to the General Assembly of about 4000 church       representatives as the       centre-piece of the plenary session on mission on 5 November 2013 in       Busan, Korea.
(Kim will       moderate this session and is helping to prepare it).
It is being actively       disseminated globally and       ecumenically at a church level, for example by a Practical Guide       to prepare delegates to the       Assembly.
It has already been the subject of many discussions, including a       consultation with the       Roman Catholic Church and the basis of a European Ecumenical Study Course       (see WCC website       press reports).
After the Assembly, Together Towards Life will be       the foundation for the       deliberations, outputs and actions of the new CWME.
Like the 1982       statement, which endured for       30 years, the new document will be the key point of reference for anyone       wanting to know and       engage with the WCC approach to mission and evangelism.
It is likely to be       required study for       training of church workers and education of clergy in mission.
Through her central roles as research coordinator of the Edinburgh 2010       project and her       leadership in drafting and presenting the new World Council of Churches       statement on mission and       evangelism, Kim's research on Christian pneumatology in global perspective       has directly and       significantly impacted the mission policy of the World Council of Churches       and the conduct of       mission in WCC-related churches and in other churches worldwide.
In       particular, her proposal that       mission should be understood as `joining in with the Spirit' and her       approach of discerning the       spirits in mission are imprinted in documents that are being studied in       theological education as       authoritative statements and are being used in decision-making in churches       at local and global       levels.
