     Robertson's research on `heritage from below' and its significance to an       understanding of the use       of the past in the present more generally has been disseminated through       books, articles, radio       broadcasts (on the preservation of unpopular public buildings, for       instance) and public lectures.
This has led to an enhanced public awareness of the cultural role of       memory work and       memorialisation more generally, and of the possibilities offered by       heritage, when expressed from       below more specifically.
Robertson's commitment to bringing his work to a wider audience is       evidenced through a number       of different fora.
In 2006, for example, the Countryside Agency took the       decision to lodge the       archive of the outputs from the funding stream Local Heritage Initiative       (LHI) at the University of       Gloucestershire, partly in recognition that Robertson's work was the most       supportive of the       Initiative.
Usage figures for this archive compare favourably `to a couple       of other collections that we       have that are in a similar situation' (UG archivist).
LHI material has       also been used in a diverse       range of exhibitions, including Open Days, public lectures, reunions and       for the Gloucestershire       Rural Community Council Committee.
In October 2006, Robertson was researching a land disturbances       memorialisation project in the       Outer Hebrides and was invited to feed back his findings to the organising       committee,       Cuimhneanchain nan Gaisgeach.
This marked the beginning of wider       dissemination and       community engagement in the region.
Testimony to the nature of this impact       has been provided by       John Randall, chair of the Islands Book Trust, a major force for       regeneration in the Outer Hebrides.
According to Randall, Robertson's efforts have both enhanced `local pride       in and understanding of       the valuable heritage of these islands' and `had a beneficial impact on       some of the most rural parts       of the UK - through Iain's own visits, those of his students and the       higher profile given through his       presentations to the memorial cairns which now attract a significant       number of visitors.
I am aware       that the community-run shop, hostel and caf&#233; at the Ravenspoint centre on       South Lochs, Lewis, as       well as other local businesses, have benefitted from these visits'.
In 2010/11 Robertson acted as co-organiser of the AHRC-funded Living       Flood Histories workshops       which drew in arts practitioners, community groups and policy makers.
Robertson was co-leader of       the multidisciplinary conference that was the culmination of this network.
The conference combined       academic papers, musical performance, readings and drama in order to draw       in the widest       possible audience, alongside the art exhibition `Wateryscapes' that ran       immediately before and       during the conference.
Gloucester Guildhall suggests that 13,503 people       visited the venue during       the period of the exhibition.
The conference was reported by Heart FM and       Robertson was       interviewed for their mid-morning show.
One arts collective involved in       all aspects of the network       output was Walking the Land.
This resulted in important new work and       collaboration with       Robertson which, according to the principle artists, `was catalytic and       continues to influence the       way we make work'.
Further, Robertson's `input during 2012/13 has had an       impact on our ongoing       work with others, for example in a project called "River" which continues       to look at community       resilience and challenge ideas of landscape, or "taskscape" to use Iain's       term.
... For us and those       that we work with, it was a very fruitful collaboration'.
Robertson's current project returns to questions of land, identity and       heritage in the Scottish       Highlands.
Working in informal partnership (confirmed at Board level) with       the North Harris Trust       and other community organisations, this began with student-led field       recordings, which, according       to the Trust, had benefits similar to those described by Randall above.
Together, Robertson,       project partners and a long-standing Highlands resident working as a       locally-based Research       Assistant, have moved to create a digital archive which will be lodged       with various local history       groups (also involved with the data collection).
According to the North       Harris Trust's Development       Manager, this project matches well with their `cultural heritage       objectives', with outcomes of       significance and value `to this community'.
Indicative of this is the fact       that Robertson has given a       paper summarising the research to the annual conference of the Islands       Book Trust, which is       explicitly aimed at both the academic and non-academic communities, and he       has published a       summary of the paper in the winter 2013 edition of the island's local       historical society newsletter.
As articulated by the North Harris Trust's Development Manager, `Every       family here has       relationships and links with descendants of those who have had to emigrate       from the islands for       whatever reason and I am certain that the research will be of great       interest to them'.
