     Hunt's research has contributed towards the personal and professional       development of       practitioners and those interested in spirituality/meditation.
This has       been achieved through       numerous activities reaching various organisations and communities.
Hunt has developed several partnerships with faith based organisations,       through invitations to       speak at events as well as through her proactive approach and passion for       communicating her       research to learners outside a conventional academic framework.
She has       led several workshops       related to her research for local and national groups interested in       spirituality.
On 12 March 2011       she conducted a one day workshop `Uses and abuses of spiritual direction:       an orthodox       perspective' for the Harrogate School of Theology, an occasional `school'       of approximately twenty       lay persons who meet locally to study theology.
The format was a formal       lecture presentation       followed by a discussion based on texts issued.
On 10 March 2012 she led       `Spiritual Direction in       the Eastern Church' &#8212; a one day retreat for the World Community for       Christian Meditation (an       organisation which has over 250 groups in the UK), a series of short       lectures with directed study of       and silent meditation about sources from the desert fathers integrated       into the normal mediation       practices of the Benedictine monk John Main.
Also related to her research       on the desert fathers,       on 9 March 2013 she led a one day workshop for MONOS (a centre for the       study of monastic       culture and spirituality in Leicester) and was the keynote speaker at       their 7th annual conference       which explored `Christian mysticism and contemplation in new/lay       monasticism' (July 2013).
On 16       March 2013 she steered a discussion session on the desert fathers and       attitudes to the body for       the Catholic People's Week conference.
Verbal feedback from all of these       groups Hunt has worked       with was immensely positive.
Hunt has a strong involvement with MONOS, an inclusive and       interdenominational Christian       organisation that is primarily focused on fostering a Christian monastic       spirit within the wider       Christian community and society at large.
MONOS is developing an       educational wing to its       community base which comprises around six adults and other family members.
She gave the       keynote speech, entitled Spiritual Direction from the Desert to 11th       Century Constantinople: advices         and caveats for the spiritual pilgrim, for the MONOS conference in       July 2011, Douai Abbey,       Reading, which focused on `The Desert Fathers and their significance for       lay monastic living and       the wider Church as a whole'.
Her paper formed the basis of a weekend       study-retreat which       included worship and spiritual direction and involved around 25 lay       people.
Her ability to explain       academic ideas to non-conventional students within a pastoral setting       engendered not only       learning but spiritual nourishment according to informal feedback from the       session; she was       therefore invited to join the Board of MONOS and asked to address the       annual retreat in 2012, and       to deliver a day's teaching on acedia in the desert and desert attitudes       to the body on 9 March       2013 for the certificate course, for which she acts as informal       educational advisor.
She has been in       discussion with MONOS since July 2011 concerning their informal study       programmes, leading       towards the possibility of validation of their courses by Leeds Trinity       University.
In January 2013       she was formally co-opted onto the Board of MONOS as an education advisor.
Anthony Grimley,       Director of MONOS, has described Hunt's input as one which has offered       `sound and current       academic reflection couple with practical and spiritual application'.
According to Grimley this has       `complemented the ethos of MONOS but has also enhanced its educational       structure'.
MONOS       have particularly appreciated having a female perspective involved in its       educational programme.
Monastic culture is male dominated and consequently female perspectives       have been lacking       since MONOS was established.
Hunt's research has raised her profile nationally to the extent that in       convening (since 2009) the       Eastern Christian Studies Seminar Series at Leeds Trinity University she       is able to attract speakers       of international standard.
The ecumenical dialogue and opportunities for       experiencing worship in       Eastern Christian contexts which is associated with these gatherings is       explored more fully in the       Research Environment part of our submission.
