     Background to limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A     Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A is a rare progressive       muscle-wasting disease caused by       mutation(s) in the CAPN3 gene that result in reduction of protein       expression or loss of protein       function.
The disease, which usually becomes symptomatic at between 10 and       30 years of age,       manifests as progressive weakening of muscles in the hips and shoulders,       causing a slow       reduction in mobility, balance, and the ability to lift objects.
A patient       typically becomes wheelchair       bound 20 - 30 years after disease onset.
A study carried out in north-east       England estimated the       prevalence there of all the limb-girdle muscular dystrophies to be 2.27       per 100,000 individuals;       limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A is the most common type with a       prevalence of 0.6 per       100,000 (Norwood et al.
(2009) PubMed ID: 19767415).
A       separate study carried out in north-east       Italy yielded an estimated prevalence of 0.95 per 100,000 individuals       (Fanin et al.
(2005) PubMed       ID: 15725583).
Why diagnosis is important     While limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A is incurable, diagnosis does       benefit the patient in       other ways.
Health monitoring can be customised to the patient: the 2A       subtype, compared with       the other limb-girdle muscular dystrophies, is associated with a       relatively low incidence of cardiac       and respiratory problems, and so the affected person can be reassured and       given low-key health       surveillance.
Diagnosis also means that the patient can be given access to       the disease-specific       registry, and potentially a chance to participate in clinical trials of       future therapies.
Further, as it is       known that limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A is an autosomal       recessive disorder, precise       genetic counselling can be given to the patient and family members and       prenatal testing can be       done if requested.
In addition, diagnosis often has a positive       psychological effect on patients, who       welcome official recognition of their condition and the ability to share       their experiences with others       with the disease (e.g.
Bird (1999) PubMed ID: 12194381).
Diagnosis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A     Typically the diagnostic approach for the disease is multi-faceted.
Initial tests include symptom       assessment (pattern of affected muscles), measurement of creatine kinase       levels in the blood and       muscle histopathology.
If limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A is suspected on the basis of       these test results, calpain 3       immunoblot analysis is performed on a muscle biopsy sample (Ev a).
A       reduction in the level of       calpain 3, when considered in the context of amounts of other muscle       proteins (for example       dysferlinopathy is associated with reductions in the amount of calpain 3       and dysferlin), is usually       sufficient for confident diagnosis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type       2A to be made.
About one-fifth       of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A patients have normal amounts of       calpain 3 protein,       and for them sequencing of the CAPN3 gene needs to be performed after the       protein test for a       diagnosis to be reached.
In 2007 the European Federation of Neurological Societies published a       guideline on diagnosis and       management of limb-girdle muscular dystrophies.
It states (citing research       that used the Newcastle       University CALP antibodies):     "Immunoblotting [for calpain 3] has been the accepted test required         for the diagnosis of LGMD2A"       (Ev b)     Use of the Newcastle calpain 3 antibodies in Europe and the United         States     All muscle biopsies from suspected limb-girdle muscular dystrophy cases       in England, Wales and       Scotland are tested at the NHS Specialised Service Rare Neuromuscular       Disorders laboratory in       Newcastle, which was established in 2001 (Ev c).
The Newcastle unit       performed calpain 3       immunoblots using the Newcastle CALP antibodies on 186 samples in the year       2008/9 and on 164       samples in the year 2009/10, yielding molecular confirmation of       limb-girdle muscular dystrophy       type 2A in nine and six individuals respectively in those years (Ev       d).
There is also evidence of the       usage of CALP antibodies in Europe; in Paris 90 diagnostic tests were       performed in the last year,       (47 had calpain defects) (Ev e) and in Milan 52 samples were       tested in the last two years (3 were       calpain-deficient) (Ev f).
The antibodies are also used in the United States to diagnose the       disease.
Dr Melissa Spencer is a       Professor of Neurology and the Co-Director of the Center for Duchenne       Muscular Dystrophy at       UCLA, Chair of the Scientific Advisory Board of the Coalition to Cure       Calpain 3, and an authority in       US on the science and treatment of the disease.
She has stated that:     "Dr Anderson generated and characterized several monocolonal         antibodies ... and these         antibodies are widely used in calpain 3 research and are considered to         be the `gold standard".
"While there are a number of distinct mutations in the CAPN3 gene         which can cause LGMD2A, not         all of which result in a reduction or abolition of calpain 3 protein, or         an altered proteolytic         degradation profile, blotting for the protein in muscle biopsy lysates         using the antibodies developed         by Louise Anderson at Newcastle University is now a routine part of the         process &#8212; in the US and         worldwide &#8212; leading to diagnosis of LGMD2A."
(Ev g)     Worldwide sales of the Newcastle CALP antibodies     The Newcastle University CALP antibodies were initially sold through the       local university spin-out       company Novocastra Laboratories.
However, since 2009 a licensing agreement       has been in place       with the international bioscience company Leica Biosystems and they now       sell significant       quantities of the antibodies worldwide &#8212; including in North America,       Europe, Asia and Australasia       (Ev h).
Unit sales for the UK and Ireland     [text removed for publication]
