     Indicators of the impact and benefit of Lincoln's research in       these areas include invitations to lecture to those training for church       ministry, clergy, teachers and members of the general public,       recommendations to such groups by writers in journals and blogs about the       outstanding value of his work for responsible preaching and teaching and a       significant number of unsolicited emails from those who have employed his       work in preaching or appreciated its enhancement of their understanding.
Links to aspects of it also regularly feature on the text this week,       a lectionary and Scripture study resource, one of the most influential       Christian websites in the USA, generating two million hits a month mainly       from ministers and educators.
The Truth on Trial monograph generated email correspondence from       seminary students in the USA for whom it had been assigned as a set text,       enthusiastic recommendations on internet sites, and quotations being       reproduced in lectionary studies for preachers.
It led to the invitation       to give the only New Testament paper at a February, 2012 conference on the       Divine Courtroom in Comparative Perspective at the Centre for Jewish Law       and Contemporary Civilization, Yeshiva University, New York, where the       sessions were open to rabbis, students and members of the public.
The       commentary on John's Gospel has been made available electronically for a       wide international audience through Logos Bible Software and is       consistently listed in the top five commentaries.
In a recent article The         Expository Times, a journal designed to keep clergy and laity       abreast of developments in theology and ministry, states, "Lincoln's       commentary ... is up-to-date, elegantly written and at times inspiring.
It       must be regarded as one of the best single volume commentaries in English       currently available."
Research on John resulted in a variety of       invitations to address audiences beyond academia.
These include a week of       lectures at the Vacation Term for Biblical Study &#8212; a course for RE       teachers, clergy, lay readers and interested members of the general public       &#8212; at St. Anne's College, Oxford (July 2008); four addresses on "Life and       Death in the Gospel of John" to the West of England Ministerial Training       Course's residential Holy Week at Trinity College, Bristol (April 2009); 3       lectures and 2 workshops for German Baptist leaders in Hannover (October       2009); the annual lecture to churches in the diocese of Winchester in its       "Unlocking the Bible" series (November 2009), attended also by tutors and       students from the Southern Theological Educational and Training Scheme,       where the commentary was being used as a set text.
It was also a set text       at Oak Hill Theological College, where Lincoln gave four lectures       on John (April 2009; November 2010).
Essays arising from the research,       presented at conferences and subsequently published in conference       proceedings volumes, have been singled out by reviewers as of outstanding       value for pastors and teachers.
His videos on John for A-Level students       have also been noted and recommended by bloggers on biblical studies.
Lincoln's commentary on Colossians is regularly listed as among       the best available and frequently recommended for its usefulness for       teaching and preaching; pastors have sent emails expressing appreciation       for its help; and extensive quotations from it have been used, for       example, as the basis for Bible study materials in Lutheran dioceses in       the USA and in sermons for Earth Sunday, 2009.
It led to Lincoln       writing the material on Colossians for the Bible Reading Fellowship's Guidelines       series, which has a distribution of 10,000.
The gap between the academy and popular understanding of the Bible in       both church and society is particularly evident in the treatment of the       stories of Jesus' birth at Christmas.
Lincoln proposes ways of       being critically honest about the nature of the texts while negotiating       creedal statements on the birth of Jesus in a contemporary context.
Various parts of the research were presented, for example, to an audience       of students, faculty, clergy and members of the public in the Ethel M.       Wood annual lecture on the English Bible at King's College, London (March,       2009) and to the general audience of the Vacation Term for Biblical       Studies in Oxford in five lectures (August, 2011).
One of the clergy       present for the Oxford course later sent a copy of the sermon he had       preached on the Sunday before Christmas, incorporating insights from the       lectures.
Lincoln's recent JBL article on Luke has led to his       being commissioned to write a more popular article in this area for the Biblical         Archaeological Review, a magazine with a worldwide subscription for       a broad general audience eager to understand the world of the Bible       better.
His very recent book on the overall topic of the virgin birth has       already attracted enthusiastic attention from bloggers and others both       before and after its publication.
The implications of Lincoln's research on the concept of koinonia       in Paul's Letters were presented as a keynote address to the Porvoo       Conference (a consultation between the Church of England and the state       churches of Northern Europe) on Ethics and Communion (January, 2008).
This       contribution received a favourable mention in a more popular article in       the Church Times, because of its relevance to present problems       within the Anglican Communion, and led to participation in the Church of       England's further consultation with the German State Lutheran Church under       the Meissen Agreement in D&#252;sseldorf (November, 2008) on the topic of "The       Authority and Uses of the Bible in the Life of the Churches."
