     General impact on Primary Care Oncology       The research of Neal and Wilkinson and their colleagues (in Bangor and       elsewhere) has high policy relevance.
They have been successful in       obtaining funding from, and feeding results back to, the key stakeholders       in the UK, such as The National Awareness and Early Diagnosis Initiative       (a public sector/third sector partnership between the Department of       Health, National Cancer Action Team, and Cancer Research UK).
This has       given opportunities to put new evidence into practice quickly, as the       examples below illustrate.
In Wales, Wilkinson and Neal's membership of the Cancer Implementation       Group has allowed innovation from their research to feed through into the       Wales Cancer Plan (2012).
For example, the specific statement in the Plan       that primary care oncology must be developed in Wales (5.1) is a direct       result of their recommendations (5.2).
Their work has led to `early       diagnosis' being a key priority, and to an `Early Diagnosis Knowledge       Sharing Workshop' (Cardiff, October 2013, funded by Cancer Research UK, 40       delegates &#8212; including three government/policy maker, 19 senior       clinicians/cancer leads, seven cancer network/screening/registry, ten       third sector).
The Cancer Implementation Group is now measuring diagnostic       times routinely as a direct result of their work.
Funding was secured in 2011 from Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board       (one of the largest healthcare providers in Europe with 17,000 employees       and a turnover of ~&#163;1.2bn per annum) for a programme of work to facilitate       implementation of their cancer research into clinical practice and policy       (`Diagnose quickly, follow-up safely').
In collaboration with Macmillan       Cancer Support, the follow-up of patients with prostate cancer has been       re-designed, to make it more evidence-based and patient centred, including       progress towards introduction of a safer PSA surveillance system (5.8).
There are also early indications of a major new investment in primary care       oncology in Wales from Macmillan Cancer Support, as a result of their       work.
Improved primary care in the diagnosis of symptomatic cancer       Work in the development and evaluation of a tool to measure diagnostic       delay (section 2) has been influential in informing the production of the       Aarhus Statement, the first international consensus guidelines on       reporting early diagnosis studies (3.1), and the follow-on ASTRID study       (Neal co-investigator).
The tool has been adapted for use in major       studies, and service evaluations in both the UK, (North-East and East of       England, Fiona Walter, SYMPTOM study, 3653 participants to date) and in       the PC4 study in Western Australia (Jon Emery, 66 participants in the       published development phase and 620 to date in the main evaluation) (5.3).
Thus this work has had an impact on the practice of health care       professionals as well as on the health of the patients involved.
Neal's collaboration on the analysis of the National Cancer Experience       Survey (3.2, 5.5), and the RCGP National Audit of Cancer Diagnosis, has       already been impactful, informing policy and changing practice.
This is       evidenced by the `National Cancer Action Team/Cancer Networks Supporting       Primary Care 2011/2012' evaluation (5.4), which showed that the clinical       audit and Risk Assessment Tools were two of the main approaches used       nationally for quality improvement, and also provided evidence of the       extent of their uptake and the impact they achieved.
The work has also       informed `Improving diagnosis of cancer: a toolkit for general practice',       which is published and disseminated by the Royal College of General       Practitioners (5.4).
The Risk Assessment Tools for cancer diagnosis are       underpinned by case-control study evidence, including oesophago-gastric       (3.3) cancer, pancreatic cancer, bladder cancer, and kidney cancer.
They       have been disseminated to all (~8500) general practices in England and       Wales (5.4).
Evaluation (Macmillan) of the implementation of similar tools       in lung and colorectal cancers demonstrates that these have an important       impact on the diagnosis of earlier stage cancers, for example by lowering       GPs' threshold for investigating and referring patients with suspected       cancers.
By March 2012, Risk Assessment Tools were in use in at least 1104       general practices in England (5.4).
Contribution of primary care to follow-up and the management of           survivorship issues       The National Cancer Survivorship Initiative has been informed by their       work on personalised risk-stratification (5.6) in 2012, leading directly       to measures to improve risk management.
The Initiative's models for `key       workers' in cancer survivorship are partly designed according to findings       from their Cancer Research UK prostate studies.
Systematic reviews (3.3)       and the body of work on prostate follow-up (3.4) has led to the Prostate       Cancer Charity funded PROSPECTIV trial, field testing a psycho-social       nurse intervention (5.7), which is improving care for a neglected group.
Wilkinson &amp; Neal have worked with the third sector (Macmillan and       Prostate Cancer UK) to achieve an impact on prostate cancer care after       treatment is complete, in North Wales.
Further evidence for such impact       comes from a Macmillan project (&#163;250K to re-design the system for follow       up care of prostate cancer patients) in place in Betsi Cadwaladr       University Health Board (5.8), informed by the body of prostate cancer       work.
A particular focus is the exposure of men's unmet needs, and system       errors, and to embed new nursing roles to deliver the interventions       Wilkinson &amp; Neal helped to design.
This was presented at the North       Wales Urology Meeting in October 2013, with the outcome being an agreement       to harmonise follow-up practice and implement an automated PSA       surveillance system.
This will affect 5000 patients with prostate cancer       across the region.
There have been further similar interactions with       England's National Cancer Initiative pilot sites.
Communication of new cancer related science in primary care to           empower patients       The trials of risk communication in cervical cancer screening (3.5) are       part of the original body of work that led to the way cervical screening       information is now presented to women to achieve informed uptake and limit       anxiety.
The early work (3.7) was highly cited, and many health boards       used the information to inform their patient materials for screening.
It       was also taken up by Cervical Screening Programme in the UK.
The HPV core       messages project (3.5) has already been disseminated widely throughout the       cervical screening programme (5.9, 5.10), impacting on patients' wellbeing       since 2011.
