     The research described above, and in particular development of virtual       substrates and Ge epitaxy, led to the launch of a spin-out company in       2003.
Starting with &#163;2 M of venture capital funding and six employees, AdvanceSis       aimed to commercialise outputs from Warwick's NanoSilicon Group patent       portfolio [7].
AdvanceSis was initially nurtured within the Dept       of Physics, with a minimum of bureaucracy and full access to facilities.
This enabled the company rapidly to develop both the epitaxial know-how       and business acumen required for expansion [10].
In 2005, AdvanceSis       won the Lord Stafford Award for `Best University Spin Out'.
A significant       aspect of the business was to supply Ge-on-Si wafers into the R&amp;D       programme of a major semiconductor company that led (in 2009) to a       prototype short-range optical link using Ge detectors.
AdvanceSis       were complimented on producing much higher quality wafers than other       sub-contractors and delivering to schedule.
AdvanceSis moved to its own premises on the University of Warwick       Science Park in 2008 and identified a market niche in solar-power       generation by concentrator photo-voltaic (CPV) tech- nology, initially       using Ge solar cells.
To reflect this, in 2009 the company changed its       name to Circadian Solar [11].
By improving the efficiency of both       the solar cell material, advanced optics and sun-tracking control systems       accurate to 0.4&#186;, Circadian Solar made 30 m2 systems of       CPV modules that were more than twice as efficient as typical commercial       Si panels and could produce solar electricity at close to the critical       $1/W fully installed cost in regions with high levels of sun- shine [12].
As chairman of the board, Prof. Parker assisted the company, between 2003       and 2010, in raising a further &#163;12 M from Seven Spires Investments Ltd.,       who saw     "excellent management, defensible Intellectual Property, a well       characterised route to market and global scalability to an expected market       capitalisation in excess of $100 M." [13]     In 2010, Circadian Solar was ranked 16th on a list of       top university spin-out companies [14] and, by the end of 2011, was       established as a fully independent company employing 35 people and with a       'net worth' of &#163;3.5 M [15].
Employees include a number of researchers trained to PhD level in the       NanoSilicon Group (Parsons, Nash, Fulgoni, Palmer, Capewell) and also       ex-motor industry workers from the West Midlands.
Coventry South MP spoke       of the importance of the company whilst visiting in 2009:     "The Midlands used to be the home of the automotive industry so this       region has been one of the hardest hit by job losses resulting from the       recession.
Now we need to look to new industries such as solar power to       revitalise the region and help move us towards a low carbon economy.
We       have the facilities, design expertise and skilled workforce in place to       capitalise on any investment made into this fledgling industry that has       such great potential."
[16]     The growth of the company has generated business and employment for       sub-contractors not only in the UK but also abroad.
In 2009, tf2         devices B.V. was created as a joint venture with Radboud University,       Nijmegen, [17] to exploit the epitaxial lift-off process for III-V       semiconductors used to make Circadian's CPV modules.
As part of the       company's plan to demonstrate cost-effective energy yield in different       regions and environments module evaluation was performed in Cyprus in late       2008, and in 2010 Circadian established a test facility for its CPV solar       energy system in Lisbon to take advantage of the high level of direct       sunlight in Portugal [12].
With the solar cell market in 2013 being dominated by Chinese state       subsidised large-area, low- efficiency silicon panels (having a fully       installed cost of well under $1/W), many solar companies across the       Western world have collapsed.
By contrast, Circadian Solar       survived (albeit with a reduced valuation in July 2013 of &#163;1.5 M).
The       major impact in the REF Impact period has thus been to directly generate       employment and through the spending of over &#163;10 M in the economy including       sourcing components from sub-contractors.
Impact has also been achieved through:     (i) Collaborating with Industry on Research &#8212; Many European       companies started work in the SiGe field during the 1990's; the Warwick       group collaborated and published with Daimler-Chrysler, Philips, Siemens       (Infineon, Quimoda), ST Microelectronics among others.
In the REF period,       we have supplied several industrial collaborators with extremely high       quality epitaxial material.
For example, in 2008-10, Warwick supplied 120       epitaxial wafers of Ge layers on Si substrates to IMEC, where the       transistors were fabricated in a silicon industry compatible 65 nm process       by Intel employees to create the first strained-Ge transistors [18].
In       2009, over 100 wafers were supplied to MPI Halle for developing a layer       transfer process to create Ge-on-insulator platforms.
We have also applied       our expertise and characterisation facilities to analyse devices made by       companies.
In a joint activity with device modellers from University of       Udine, NXP Semiconductors (now part of TSMC) benefitted from a greater       understanding of their FinFET devices [19]:     "Key to building this understanding is the development and experimental       verification of charge transport models.
The characterisation ...       performed by the Warwick team has led to new insights and supported       greatly the development of predictive transport models that can be       incorporated into device simulation tools.
In this way the expertise and       capabilities of the Warwick team have impacted both the development costs       and development time of novel finFET-based CMOS technologies."
[20]     TSMC is now entering production with 20 nm node FinFETs [21], and these       could well become 20% of their $14 B annual revenue within the next 10       years.
(ii) Industrially Relevant Training &#8212; PhD students and PDRAs in       the Group have not only developed expertise in using advanced equipment       for fabrication and characterisation of semi- conductor devices, but have       also engaged with our collaborative partners (mentioned in (i) above).
This has included making use of exchange programmes with companies through       the SiNANO networks [9, 22] that Parker and Leadley played a pivotal role       in setting up.
15 PhD graduates and PDRAs from the NanoSilicon Group (list       available on request) have gone on to use their specific expertise working       for a number of companies and research institutes incl.
AmberWave, IMEC,       International Rectifier, IQE, NXP, Philips, QinetiQ, Sharp, VG Semicon,       and Circadian Solar.
These employed researchers have continued to       contribute to high technology development and to the economy throughout       the REF Impact period.
