     A.
Religious impact     Raphael's post-Holocaust theological engagement has continued to reach a       national and international audience through featuring in online blogs (see       5 A i-v) and broadcasts such as Radio 4's Beyond Belief in 2009       and Radio 4's prestigious Lent Talks that are given annually by a       variety of `household-name' figures, with several million listeners       nationally and worldwide (8 and 11/4/09) (see 5 A vi-vii.)
The presentation of a theology of love in The Female Face of God in         Auschwitz led to Raphael's keynote lecture at the University of       Oxford's interfaith symposium on Abrahamic theologies of love, co-hosted       by HRH Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad of Jordan (13/10/12).
The audience for       the event (which was recorded for television) was over a hundred clergy       and community leaders working to improve interfaith relations between the       Abrahamic faiths in the UK and abroad.
B.
Cultural impact     Raphael has enabled the public to re-examine their previous understanding       of Jewish attitudes to the visual dimension by introducing them to her and       others' new thinking about Jewish art and its theology of images.
The centrepiece of her 2008 Sherman Lectures on Jewish Art (hosted by the       University of Manchester and open to the public) was a lecture given to a       non-academic audience covering the whole denominational spectrum of       Manchester's Jewish community (see 5 B. i).
In 2010 Raphael gave a lecture       on Jewish art at Birmingham Progressive Synagogue's contribution to the       `European Days of Culture and Heritage' which led, soon afterwards, to her       series of lectures on Jewish art for `Mosaic' - a Birmingham-based Jewish       Studies evening class for people without formal Jewish education.
Professor Raphael's appointment as Oxford University's Walter Hussey       Lecturer in the Church and the Arts in 2011-12, previously held by       well-known artists such as the composer John Tavener, allowed her to       challenge widespread misconceptions about Judaism as an iconophobic       tradition and introduce people to its history of counter-idolatrous       image-making.
2012 also saw her give paradigm-shifting lectures at an       Oxford University Continuing Education Day School; a non credit-bearing       Woolf Institute Interfaith Day School for clergy, NGOs and other       non-academics.
Raphael was invited in early 2013 to join a team of       academic consultants for an architect-designed `Tri-Faith Space' in       Regent's Park, London, furthering the cause of interfaith relationships       through a common space for worship.
Professor Raphael's capacity to make new research accessible and even       entertaining has been evident in television and broadcasts to national       audiences such as that given on [Stephen] Fry's English Delight       (25/8/11) (see 5 B ii).
Consequently, new thinking about religion and       culture has been disseminated through talks to Gloucestershire societies       such as The Cheltenham Interfaith Group and The Newman Society with       audiences of about thirty to fifty people, many of whom are retired or are       working outside the religious field.
C. Political impact     After the publication of her work on Holocaust theology, Raphael was       appointed by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 2004 as the British       Representative (academic) on the International Taskforce on Holocaust       Remembrance, Education and Research, advising government ministers on the       commemoration of genocidal atrocities and assessing bids for films and       journalistic training on genocide-related topics.
This governmental       recognition of the authoritative role she has played in recent research on       the dangerous intersection of sexual inequality and racism led to her       being invited by The Imperial War Museum London to give a talk on sexual       violence against Jewish Women during the Holocaust in December 2010, as       well as to broadcast on Woman's Hour (Radio 4, 26/4/12 and       repeated on the weekend omnibus) and UCB Ireland's Sky Digital News       on 28/4/12.
D. Educational impact     The publication of Judaism and the Visual Image in 2009 has       influenced the content of ordination training (and thereby pulpit       preaching) through day schools on Jewish art given for Jewish (Reform) and       Christian (Ecumenical) ministerial ordinands such as in March, 2010 at the       Queen's Foundation, Birmingham, and in February 2011, at the Leo Baeck       College's programme for rabbinical training, London.
Raphael's       contribution to post-Holocaust theology is taught in rabbinical seminaries       from Seminario Rab&#237;nico Latinoamericano in Buenos Aires (but serving the       whole Latin American region) to the Jewish Theological Seminary in New       York, and the Leo Baeck College in London.
The DVD The Problem of Evil (2005), which includes Raphael       presenting a feminist theodicy of the Holocaust, remains a key resource       for schools' A Level courses.
On the strength of her name in this area,       she was invited to write the BBC Religion and Ethics Online Learning       article: `Feminism and Judaism' (2012).
These contributions help teachers       to introduce feminist theological ideas not normally prominent in the       curriculum to many cohorts of school pupils across the UK (see 5 D.i.
).
