     The reach of Bedford's and Hardwick's creative writing has been wide       through their teaching (in schools and residential workshops), critical       feedback to aspiring authors and poets, and public readings and talks.
Collectively they have engaged with over 3,000 young people (aged 11 - 17       through Bedford's work with schools nationally), approximately 1,500       adults (through public talks, readings and critical feedback), and       potentially up to 3-400,000 members of the public who accessed Hardwick's       poems published online at The Poetry Kit.
These activities have       had an impact on the professional development of aspiring authors and       nurtured the joy and meaning of reading and creative writing.
Bedford has       had notable successes with numerous authors who have gone on to gain       publishing deals as a result of his feedback.
Implementing his understanding, knowledge and experience of teenage       fiction (gained through researching and writing Flip and the       forthcoming Never Ending), Bedford has run more than 100 sessions       in visits to 46 schools since 2011.
These sessions have taken the form of       talks and readings to groups of 30-150 and running writing workshops for       groups of 15-25, ranging in age from 11 to 17 years.
Assuming an average       of 30 students per session, this equates to 3,000 young people, though the       total number Bedford has engaged with is likely to be greater than this as       numerous sessions involved up to 150 students.
Bedford has visited schools       all over Britain (dates and locations available on request).
Feedback from       these events includes the following from one parent: `My daughter recently       attended your creative writing workshop.
She really enjoyed meeting you       and taking part, in fact she was buzzing with ideas when she came home and       it was great to hear her talking about developing her imagination and       creative side again' (Guiseley School, Leeds); and from a senior       librarian, `The students all had a brilliant day and all the feedback has       been really positive.
They loved your workshop and found your answer to       their questions about Flip and writing fascinating' (Great Baddow       High School, Chelmsford).
Bedford's teaching has extended to adults through his involvement with       the Arvon Foundation.
He has taught on five residential courses for the       Arvon Foundation (2008 - 2012), one-week workshop-and-tutorial based       courses for 16 adult participants on topics including Starting to Write;       Fiction Writing; Starting a Novel; Novel Writing; Second Drafts; Writing       for Teenagers.
These workshops, particularly `Writing for Teenagers', were       grounded in Bedford's own research on teenage fiction.
A prominent example       of a developing writer who has gone on to become a published author       following teaching from Bedford, is Mirza Waheed, who attended a tutorial       based workshop run by Bedford (July 2008) with the Arvon Foundation, and       has since published The Collaborator (Penguin, 2011).
Aspiring writers have also developed as authors through receiving       critical feedback from Bedford.
From 2006-09 Bedford was a consultant and       critic-in-residence for the online writing forum YouWriteOn.com.
YouWriteOn was established in 2006 with Arts Council funding to assist new       writers to develop their writing.
Bedford's role was to help devise the       reviewing and ratings system used by site members to evaluate and provide       feedback on one another's work.
He also provided a detailed critique to       the author of each month's highest-rated work (totalling 24 critiques       during the period 2008-09).
In addition, from 2002 to 2009, he co-founded       and ran Literary Intelligence, a fiction-in-progress appraisal       service for new and developing writers, providing critical overviews and       annotated feedback on the texts of stories, novel extracts and full-length       novels.
During the period 2008-09, Bedford supplied appraisals to 22       clients using the Literary Intelligence service.
Prominent examples of       developing writers who have gone on to become published authors after       receiving feedback from these sources include: Linda Green, who received       feedback through Literary Intelligence (June 2008 and March 2009)       has published several novels including Things I Wish I'd Known       (Headline Review, 2010); and Guy Saville, who Bedford provided critical       feedback to through youwriteon.com (December 2008), and has published The         Afrika Reich (Hodder, 2011).
Both Bedford and Hardwick have promoted creative writing by giving       numerous readings of their work to an estimated total of 1,500 members of       the public.
Bedford has taken part in panel events such as readers' days       in Conwy (July 2008; audience 150) and Tyneside (May 2010; audience 200).
Similarly, Hardwick has given readings at Sheffield Off the Shelf       festival (2009), Ilkley Literature Festival (2010 and 2012), York       Literature Festival (2008-12), Beverley Folk Festival (2008-2012),       Glastonbury Festival (2009 and 2011), Poetry on the Lake (Italy, 2008),       Ware Literature Festival (2012) and many smaller venues in the UK, Europe       and USA.
Audiences for these performances were generally 40-50, although       at larger festivals (such as Glastonbury) this ran to hundreds.
In       addition to the public readings, Hardwick's creative writing has been       promoted to the public through the publication of his poems online.
In       December 2012 Hardwick was featured in The Poetry Kit's `Caught in       the Net' which is mailed to 10,000 subscribers and is expected to be read       by 3-400,000, the site attracting around 6,000,000 unique visitors per       year.
An email from the organiser of the site reveals that Hardwick's       poems received a significantly greater number of responses than normal (24       compared to a usual 5) and all were positive, stating that they had       enjoyed the poetry feature.
Hardwick also promoted creative writing to a wide audience when he was       commissioned by York City Council as Poet in Residence for the Olympic       Torch procession through York and on to Thirsk.
As well as being       interviewed on BBC Radio York (June 2012), the poems he produced for this       occasion appeared in the council-sponsored anthology York: poetry         artwork and photographs, published by Stairwell Books, 2012, a Small       Press Publisher.
Email communication with the publisher shows that they       have sold 145 copies and that this project was `very beneficial' for them,       leading to several other projects, due in part to the contributions of the       writers.
The Olympic Torch poems, along with several other of Hardwick's       poems, have also been published on the website yorkstories2012.com, a       community project for York 800 celebrations which aims to encourage people       to tell and share stories that are personal and unique to York.
Hardwick's       research into medieval literature and the influence of this on his work       particularly fitted with the historical celebrations.
The stories on the       website, along with Hardwick's poetry contributions, are in the process of       being archived.
York Stories 2012 are still in discussions regarding the       archiving process, though the emphasis is on inclusivity and       accessibility.
The project also plan to create a `QR story' across the       city where members of the public (with smart phones) will be able to scan       the QR code and access a story.
It is likely that Hardwick's poems will be       included in this.
