     McLoughlin's various works have been disseminated through books,       anthologies, articles, radio broadcasts, conference papers and public       performances, leading to an enhanced public awareness of the thematic       issues that his work addresses, through the public dissemination of the       work, but also through written and verbal interviews about his work, and       through informal discussions with audience members at performances.
These       all promote a wider cultural awareness of the formal and thematic concerns       being explored in contemporary Northern Irish poetry more generally.
The distinctively aural appeal of McLoughlin's work is evidenced       through invitations to perform his work at both prestigious and       lesser-known literary festivals and venues.
The smaller occasions       nonetheless attract a strong public presence and offer special benefits       and opportunities for audience engagement with new and challenging poetry.
He has been regularly invited to read to audiences at some of the largest       and most important poetry festivals in the UK and Ireland.
In the assessed       period he has read at Cheltenham Festival of Literature and Bristol Poetry       Festival among several others.
Audience sizes for his readings at smaller       events are usually about fifty, but at larger festivals his readings can       attract audiences in excess of one hundred.
McLoughlin's work       impacts on its audience in an immediate and visceral way, which may be       exemplified by the following quotations from the Crafty Green Poet       blog (source 1): `I discovered Nigel         McLoughlin's poetry at a recent         event, where he was reading.
I was impressed by the cadences of his       language and the obvious inspiration he finds in the natural world.
He       also has a very engaging reading style'.
Another reader replied: `Thank       you for this tip-off.
I thought McLoughlin's vocabulary was `crisp' and       most evocative'.
Because of the thematic issues dealt with in his work, he       has been invited to discuss the Northern Irish troubles and their effect       on the poetry of the 1960s and 1970s generation of new poets and to read       his work.
His 2008 Weekend Edition interview on United States       National Public Radio followed that of Senator George Mitchell and had an       audience estimated at 26 million (see audience figures quoted in source       2).
McLoughlin has discussed the importance of musical qualities of       poetry to its reception and composition in interviews and conference       papers as well as in published articles and book chapters.
The       performances exemplify this, and he was invited by Sir Andrew Motion and       Richard Carrington, directors of the Poetry Archive, to record an       hour-long reading.
The invitation is extended to `significant poets who       write in English' (invitation letter from Poetry Archive available for       inspection).
The Poetry Archive website currently receives 200,000 hits       per month.
The recording session was completed in December 2012 and the       recording is due to be made publicly available late in 2013.
McLoughlin's       work has elicited favourable public reaction both in performance: `at the       Derwent Poetry Festival...there was an audience of eighty-five for the       main Saturday evening reading, and [McLoughlin's] evocative live reading       was exceptionally well received' (private communication, can be       corroborated by Derwent Poetry Festival Director); and with regard to his       printed work, as exemplified by the following quotations from public       comments found on the poetry blog When the Dogs Bite (source 3)       which featured a review of Dissonances: `I've read the book and it       really is wonderful.
But if you ever get to listen to him read his       work....it's a real treat' and `It's the best modern poetry I've read';       and from a public comment on Peony Moon (source 4) which featured       a selection of his poems: `I especially like Chorus.
`The open-throated       song of morning' is gorgeous'.
In Issue 6 of The Shit Creek Review       (source 5) his poem `Snapshot', was praised by one of the editors for `its       triumph over the villanelle form...I've never read anything like it       before.
I liked it before I realized it was a villanelle.
When does that       ever happen?'
The critical reception of McLoughlin's poetry has been extremely       positive.
Since his first collection appeared in 2001, each of his books       has received very favourable critical notice.
A review of Dissonances       in Eyewear (source 6), commended his work for its `power and       dynamism', while in The Chimera (source 7), Dr Maggie Butt said of       the same collection: `this book caught me off-guard and quickly became one       of my favourite collections of the year' and `these poems have a real       music built into their bones, and are fleshed with sharp imagery, the sort       that makes you say "yes, that's how it is"...they form a tangible, sensory       connection between the poet and the world &#8212; a physicality which he appears       to transmit effortlessly to the reader'.
Dr Jan Fortune-Wood, writing in Envoi       Issue 151 (page 91) said his was `work not only of bravery and complexity,       but also deep humanity.
It is not always easy listening, but it is a       tremendous song' (source 8).
Critics of Chora: New and Selected Poems       have been similarly positive: in Ink, Sweat and Tears (source 9),       Ken Head states that `throughout the more than one hundred poems in the       collection and across a wider range of subjects than I've been able to       find space for...it is the directness of the poet's gaze that is so       noteworthy'.
In The Chimera (source 10), Barbara Smith commented       that the collection demonstrates the `expansion of a muscular aural and       oral talent'.
Chora was also one of the collections selected to be       featured by the Poetry Book Society in their Bulletin in 2009.
McLoughlin's academic work has also had significant impact, as       evidenced by the fact that his article `Stress Weight: Unwilled Order,       Clothes Lines and Crowned Teeth' was one of seventeen articles chosen to       represent the quality and breadth of the research published as part of the       tenth anniversary celebrations of the Taylor and Francis journal New         Writing: The international journal for the practice and theory of         creative writing.
This journal has a significant readership in       territories where creative writing has not yet entered the academy, and       among practising writers outside the academy internationally.
The       assessors noted that: they felt it was `innovative' in `[i]ts combination       of critical investigation and practice-led intention' and that `the       author's focus on poetry research from the point of view of a practice-led       philosophy was considered notable' (the quotations are taken from an email       from the editor of New Writing which is available for inspection).
Colleagues nationally and internationally have found McLoughlin's       work on creative writing pedagogy, and the practice and poetics of       creativity to be very influential in thinking about how the discipline is       taught and how courses are designed (contact details of two colleagues who       can corroborate this are supplied).
McLoughlin's practice-led research in poetry has also had impact       in an area into which it is more non-traditional for contemporary poetry       to cross: Hungry Bentley, a band from the north of England, used McLoughlin's       poem `Book of Invasions' as lyrics to a song of the same name on their       album, Closing Credits, which was released in 2008.
A review of       the album on Inner Ear Media (source 11) said of `Book of       Invasions': `The words are magnificent'.
The band have also used McLoughlin's       version of the Gaelic `Song of Amergin' as lyrics to a song of the same       name on their most recent album, Novel Grade Events, released at       the end of 2012.
Both these poems are from McLoughlin's collection       Blood.
This has brought McLoughlin's work to the attention       of a wider audience, through performances by the band at around thirty       venues in the UK and elsewhere, with average audiences of around fifty       people, many of whom are not habitual readers of poetry, the songs also       received airplay on independent music stations in the US and Ireland,       again broadening the reach of the poems to music fans, many of whom would       not otherwise engage with poetry.
The songs containing McLoughlin's       lyrics are available on iTunes and Spotify; to date there have been over       500 album sales and downloads for Novel Grade Events (data can be       corroborated by Hungry Bentley).
