     The body of research detailed above has contributed towards a better       informed public on Victorian literature, through public talks, events and       publishing in accessible formats.
Collectively they have engaged with an       estimated 100 members of the public (through public talks and events) and       up to 222,000 people who have accessed research published in an accessible       format (including readability).
De Gay has reached a wide audience with her research on Virginia Woolf.
Her monograph (which was published in hardback and paperback) has had a       wide readership that includes general readers as well as academics and       students.
It has had particular impact through its influence on subsequent       publications of Woolf's novels.
De Gay's research has been acknowledged by       at least one editor of the new, definitive edition of Virginia Woolf's       novels from Cambridge University Press (Mrs Dalloway, edited by       Anne Fernald (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, forthcoming)), so her       research has the impact of providing general readers with a more accurate       and informed edition of Woolf's work.
By invitation, de Gay gave the Virginia Woolf Birthday Lecture London       January 2009, delivered to an audience of 100, including general readers.
The lecture was published as a pamphlet entitled Virginia Woolf and         the Clergy (Southport: Virginia Woolf Society of Great Britain,       2009).
This pamphlet has been circulated among church groups interested in       the role of women in the church.
De Gay demonstrates that Woolf, although       not a Christian, offered a detailed critique of the religious structures       that exclude women.
This research therefore makes a contribution to       current debates about Women Bishops.
To aid public engagement with their research, the unit have communicated       their research outcomes in accessible formats, targeted at members of the       interested public.
Such publications have been on a national and       international scale with articles in the Oxford Dictionary of National         Biography (ODNB) and Literary Encyclopedia.
Both of       these are online resources widely available outside the academy.
Grounded       in his research on Victorian and early twentieth-century writing, Storer's       entries in the ODNB include the editor and publisher A.H. Bullen       (1857-1920); Sheffield professor G.C.
Moore Smith (1858-1940); and the       Victorian Shakespeare scholar and controversialist C.M.
Ingleby (1823-86).
Similarly Uglow has also made an extensive contribution, based on his       research in Victorian literature, to the Literary Encyclopedia,       contributing 21 articles (whilst at Leeds Trinity), and to the ODNB,       contributing two articles on Victorian artists.
Since publication (2002),       Uglow's articles in Literary Encyclopedia have been accessed over       222,000 times.
It is not possible to break this data down by year, but it       might be estimated that the articles were accessed around 101,000 times       during the REF assessment period, assuming an even number of hits per       year.
The public have also been engaged in a deeper appreciation of Victorian       literature through numerous public lectures and events hosted by the       institution.
Based on his research in Victorian literature and as Deputy       Director of the LCVS, Uglow has shared his expertise and knowledge with       public audiences through the coordination a seminar series from 2008 to       the present.
The seminar series drew in members of the public to hear       papers and engage in debates on topics in Victorian Studies.
There are six       seminars each year with an average audience size of around 12, of which       typically three are members of the public.
This has resulted in a total of       40 members of the public attending these public lectures.
Members of the       unit have also moved beyond the physical location of the institution to       deliver public lectures.
Storer has presented his work on F. R. Leavis at       the Leavis international conference in York, 2010, which was open to those       beyond the academy.
Storer's presentation was favourably mentioned in an       article on the Conference in the Times Literary Supplement.
In his       presentation Storer played a rare recording of Leavis reading some of       Eliot's poetry, an act that was described as `sensitively choreographed',       `one of the highlights of the afternoon' and that Storer's `introduction       made it clear ... that this was the voice of a man whose engagement with       Eliot's poetry ran deep' (TLS 19 November 2010).
The public's knowledge of the period has been influenced and enriched       through inviting non-academic yet interested parties to events, hosted at       the institution, broadly linked to Victorian literature.
De Gay, for       example, organised an interdisciplinary colloquium on Victorian       Spiritualities (March 2012) which attracted 35 participants from around       the world, including members of the public.
The event featured an       exhibition by the newly-founded Friends of Lawnswood Cemetery and a short       talk from one of its members: they provided some positive feedback,       commenting that it was useful to actually mount a display and as a       consequence they have taken this, or a version of it, to various other       events, thus raising their profile.
They also found the level of interest       in the display rewarding and they made useful contacts, including a member       of the Friends of a cemetery in the south, who supplied them with a       fundraising idea of producing sympathy cards using pictures of monuments       from Lawnswood.
Establishing a partnership with the Mercer Art Gallery, Harrogate, and       based on his research in 2009-11 Uglow organised a one-day conference on       Leeds artist Atkinson Grimshaw (held at Leeds Trinity, May 2011).
This       coincided with the Gallery's hosting of the first major exhibition of       Grimshaw's work for a generation.
Speakers included artists, curators and       poets as well as academics, and 27 people attended.
An unpublished       biography written by his descendants has been unearthed, revealing a sharp       sense of humour, a love of art and a fierce dedication to his family.
There are photographs and sketchbooks, letters and personal effects,       creating stories that turn the paintings from fairytales into history.
Feedback from members of the public (including a member of Grimshaw's       family) afterwards expressed appreciation of the event.
