     "The Handbook of Sustainability Literacy was a landmark publication         which has had an         immense impact on the integration of sustainability into teaching         practice across the HE         sector."
(source 3 in section 5)     The first type of impact of the research is the direct kind that occurs       when producers of a discourse       read research which exposes unintended negative consequences of the forms       of language they       are using and change both their language and practice as a result.
One       example is the animal       products industry, where the industry journal Poultry Science       published an article directly and       extensively quoting from Dr Stibbe's research and concluding that it is `necessary         to reconsider         several aspects of animal production relative to ideology, discourse,         and practice... a real ethic of         care and respect...must be embodied not just in our practices but also         in the internal and external         discourse of animal agriculture' (source 8).
This is important       because it shows that ecolinguistic       research articles are read by those in the industry, understood, and can       lead to internal calls for       action.
Similarly, research by Arran Stibbe which exposed hidden messages       in the Millennium       Ecosystem Assessment was read by the director who, as a direct result,       called for future reports to       be more balanced in their representation of the natural world.
The       research was published in an       accessible form in conservationist publication ECOS and in Scottish       National Heritage's in-house       newsletter in 2012, receiving praise from practitioners `on the ground' as       being useful for their       communication practices (source 5).
This led to an invitation from the       United Nations Environment       Programme for Dr Stibbe to be part of a working group examining humanities       approaches to       improving national ecosystem assessment reports, and a role as reviewer of       the UK National       Ecosystem Assessment.
What started as a critique of ecosystem assessment       discourse from the       outside ended up as a chance to work directly with the producers of the       discourse and help shape       it through a range of reports that Dr Stibbe has written as part of his       work with UNEP (source 4).
To multiply further impacts, Dr Stibbe founded a research network in       2004, the Language and         Ecology Research Forum, whose membership has more than doubled since       2008 to reach 272       researchers from around the world (source 7).
The Forum disseminates and       develops the theories       of ecological linguistics, and members write articles which critique       specific discourses, exposing       hidden messages which encourage people to protect or destroy the       environment, with the aim of       having an impact on those who produce the discourses.
So far the Forum has       published 44 articles       and membership is continuously growing.
The second type of impact is on curricula and the pedagogical practices       of educators across the       UK and the world.
Dr Stibbe has conducted extensive outreach activities to       inform educators about       the findings of the theoretical and pedagogical research.
Since 2008 he       has given keynote       speeches for the English Subject Centre, the Art Design and Media Subject       Centre, and the       Institution for Environmental Scientists; presentations for the HCA       Subject Centre and the LLAS       Subject Centre; and guest lectures at Cardiff University, Schumacher       College, Oxford Brookes       University and other institutions.
He has written feature articles on       ecological linguistic pedagogy       specifically tailored to a) English language, literature and creative       writing for the English Subject       Centre b) media and culture studies for the ADM Centre, and c) linguistics       subjects for the LLAS       Centre.
Hard copies of some of these publications were delivered directly       to approximately 3000       lecturing staff in the UK.
This is in addition to case studies for the       English Subject Centre website       and numerous journal articles and book chapters which disseminate the       pedagogy to lecturers       across disciplines.
In this way the underpinning research was converted       into a form that is       practically and directly useful for teachers `on the ground', and evidence       shows that they have both       used these resources and benefited from them in the period 2008-2013       (source 2 and 6).
Dr Stibbe has also applied his research beyond humanities disciplines by       taking a leading role in       Education for Sustainability generally in the UK, as convenor of the       Sustainability in Higher       Education Developer's group (SHED) from 2006-2012.
SHED is the main forum       for sustainability       educators in the UK and is a joint project of the EAUC and HEA.
As part of       this role, Dr Stibbe       organised a major national project sponsored by the HEA involving a       conference, seminars and the       editing of the book The Handbook of Sustainability Literacy       (published in 2009).
This handbook       applies the underpinning research by giving a prominent role to ecological       linguistics within       education for sustainability, as well as bringing together perspectives       from educators across a       large number of disciplines.
The book, and its corresponding multimedia       website which includes       video interviews with authors and all 51 chapters, has sold over 3400       copies, received tens of       thousands of views on the website per year, has been favourably reviewed       by numerous       publications and played a practical role in transforming teaching (source       3 and 6).
Complimentary       copies of the book were sent to all HEA subject centres and 370 key       individuals and institutions       across the country on their request.
Dr Stibbe was awarded a National       Teaching Fellowship in       2009 for being `known nationally and internationally for his contribution       to Education for       Sustainability', `making a significant contribution to Education for       Sustainability within the English       Language discipline' and `bringing together a community of educators from       across the UK for       national efforts to update education' (NTFS website).
Initial testimonials gathered by the University of Gloucestershire       revealed that the research had       had an impact on curricula in a variety of educational institutions in the       period 2008-2013       (summarised in source 6).
A new module, Ecolinguistics, has been       developed and successfully run       at Cardiff University from 2011 based strongly on the theoretical concepts       and pedagogical       approaches arising from Dr Stibbe's research.
The testimonials also       revealed that the work of Dr       Stibbe has been drawn from and incorporated into the curriculum at the       University of York,       Nottingham University, Greenwich University, South Downs College, London       South Bank       University, Ball State University, the University of Graz, the University       of Modena, the University of       New Mexico, and Luxemburg University among others.
An indication of the       extent of the impact is       demonstrated by testimonials gathered such as `The work of Arran Stibbe         and the work that         emerges from the Language and Ecology Research Forum have had a         tremendous impact on my         teaching...
In addition, both the Forum and Dr Stibbe have influenced         the International         Environmental Communication Association' (source 1).
To gain systematic and independent evidence of the impact, a consultancy       firm, The Innovation         Partnership Ltd, was commissioned to conduct research and write a       report (source 6).
The       resulting report `The Ecological Linguistics Research of Arran Stibbe and       its Impact on Education       for Sustainability' was based on structured questionnaires of academic       staff in 12 institutions and is       available for inspection.
The key findings of the report are a) all       respondents had used research       produced by Dr Stibbe within the period 2008-2012 b) all stated that Dr       Stibbe's research had       developed the area of Education for Sustainability generally, the majority       indicating `significantly' c)       75% indicated that Dr Stibbe's work had had an impact specifically on       Education for Sustainability       in the linguistics discipline, 66% for English Literature, and 66% for       Cultural Studies d) 92% of       respondents confirmed that Dr Stibbe's work had influenced their teaching,       particularly general       thinking, content of courses and pedagogy, and e) 83% confirmed that Dr       Stibbe's work had       impacted upon the understanding of their students.
Multiple respondents       described how the       curriculum change based on Dr Stibbe's work had helped make students more       aware of the       linkage between the environment, nature, and conservation on one hand and       language on the       other.
For example, one respondent wrote `Students appreciate the       insertion of topics about the       environment and are fascinated by the possibility of working on these       issues from a linguistic point       of view' (source 6).
The report also found evidence that Dr Stibbe's       research had facilitated       engagement with various organisations in both the voluntary and commercial       sectors, and       concludes that `A greater appreciation of sustainability-related issues,       and of what sustainability       means in practice, as opposed to in the abstract, were key impact       areas...It was also noted that Dr       Stibbe's work has impacted upon the whole student journey, from specific       projects undertaken       during study, to decisions about future careers once study has been       completed' (source 6).
Finally, the research has had ripple effects in inspiring others to work       actively to promote the       linkage between language and environmental issues, as the following       testimonial illustrates:     "Arran Stibbe's work and writings have influenced our thinking and ideas,       and encouraged us to       embark on a project that is now about to come to fruition.
He once said       that the world needed more       storytellers to engage with environmental issues.
Having been very active       in this field for many       years, we decided to heed his call.
The outcome is a book: entitled Storytelling         for a Greener World       by 21 leading environmentalists who are also professional storytellers and       authors.
Jonathan       Porritt (CEO of Forum for the Future) has written an enthusiastic Foreword       and we have already       received great support from other leaders in the field" (from the editors       of the book).
