     The body of research detailed above has contributed towards, through       public talks, media appearances and publishing in accessible formats, a       better informed public on the Victorian era, particularly regarding the       powerful stories told by historic buildings, landscapes and collections.
Collectively they have engaged with an estimated 640 members of the public       (through public talks at local museums and to local history groups) and       potentially up to 20,000 people who have accessed research published in an       accessible format (including readability).
During the REF assessment period, Drummond and Mitchell undertook a pilot       collaboration with Abbey House Museum (Leeds).
Abbey House Museum is an       interactive museum with recreated Victorian Streets and a history of       childhood gallery.
Through this thematic link with `childhood', two of the       museum's staff became involved in the `Victorian Childhoods' colloquium       (held at Leeds Trinity on 20th March 2010).
This       interdisciplinary colloquium sought to achieve a rounded understanding of       childhood and constructions of childhood in Victorian Britain.
The curator       of social history and the educational officer at Abbey House each       presented a reflection on the interpretation of childhood to children at       the museum.
Feedback from the museum staff shows that this involvement was       of great benefit to them by providing an opportunity, within an academic       framework, to show how history can be communicated through museum displays       and object- focused learning (email communication).
One of the curators at       Abbey House has since been involved with a further event held at Leeds       Trinity, the Yorkshire Women's History Network conference (a network for       independent researchers and members of the public, as well as academics       and those involved in the heritage sector).
At the inaugural conference       `Women and the Other' (25th June 2011), which focused on       gendered and raced identities in the nineteenth century, the curator       brought a series of artefacts and papers from the museum on women in       Yorkshire and Women's Suffrage from the Leonora Cohen collection, to       portray the compelling story of the Leeds suffragette.
This enabled the       museum to promote their less well known archive on the suffragette,       encouraging greater use of this collection (email communication).
This partnership with the museum has been strengthened with reciprocal       talks being given by both Drummond and Mitchell to the `Wednesday club', a       group formed of members of the public who meet at the museum to hear       papers on diverse historical topics.
Drawing on their research in the       Empire and indigenous people's responses, Victorian identities and       Victorian historical cultures, Drummond and Mitchell have used their       expertise and shared their knowledge with public audiences.
Influencing       and enriching peoples' knowledge of the period they have given talks on       `The Art of George Bernard O'Neill' (Mitchell, June 2010), `Leeds Railway       Engineering works and their experts' (Drummond, June 2011), and `Leeds       Suffragettes' (Drummond, March 2011).
A particular feature of this latter       presentation was the inclusion of a role play of the court indictment of       Leonora Cohen, after which artefacts from the museum's Leonora Cohen       collection were examined.
Audience figures for each of these talks were       around 25.
At a national level, Drummond has been giving popular talks to various       Family History and Local History Societies and to museums since 2001.
Through these she has facilitated public engagement with the processes of       historical enquiry by enabling their access to evidence, and discussion of       hidden and family histories.
More recent talks have included `Railway       Ancestors' to the Yorkshire Archaeological Society (22nd       September 2012, audience approx.
35), `Women in a man's Town - The Women       of Crewe, 1843-1914' to the Cheshire Local History Association (27th       October 2012, audience approx.
300) and a similarly themed talk to the       Crewe Local and Family History Society, (25th March 2013,       audience approx.
40).
In the REF assessment period, it is estimated that       Drummond engaged an estimated 570 members of the public through these       public lectures.
Forthcoming talks by Drummond include `Railways Change       Lives: Using The National Archives and National Railway Museum Collections       for researching the social impact of railways' to be given at both the       National Archives in Kew and the National Railway Museum at York in       September 2013.
A similar partnership to that with Abbey House has been developed with       the Mercer Art Gallery (Harrogate).
After delivering a public lecture in       2007 on `Social Realism in Dickens and Frith' as part of a programme of       activities for the `Painting the Victorian Age: W.P.
Frith' exhibition       (Mercer Art Gallery, Harrogate, and Guildhall Art Gallery, London),       Mitchell initiated the organisation of a collaborative day colloquium (May       2011), open to and attended by the public.
This coincided with the       Gallery's hosting of the first major exhibition of Grimshaw's work for a       generation.
An unpublished biography written by his descendants has been       unearthed, revealing a sharp sense of humour, a love of art and a fierce       dedication to his family.
There are photographs, sketchbooks, letters and       personal effects, creating stories that turn the paintings from fairy       tales into history.
The colloquium was an interdisciplinary event,       co-ordinated by Dr Nathan Uglow (Associate Principal Lecturer in English,       Leeds Trinity University).
It featured speakers from those who contributed       to the catalogue and members of the Leeds Centre for Victorian Studies       (including Mitchell), as well as creative contributions by practising       artists, curators and poets.
In total 27 people attended.
Feedback from       members of the public (including a member of Grimshaw's family) after the       event expressed appreciation that the event had taken place.
As a result       of this link with the Mercer Art Gallery, Mitchell has recently been       invited to contribute an essay to a catalogue for a forthcoming major       exhibition at the Guildhall Art Gallery in London.
To further aid public engagement with their research, Drummond has       communicated her research outcomes in accessible formats.
This idea of       `accessibility' has included writing in a manner that is readable for a       public audience as well as publishing in formats that are physically       accessible to the public.
Related to her research on railway workers in       Britain and her Empire, Drummond has published in the BBC magazine Who         Do You Think You Are?
(see Drummond, D. `Focus on Railway Workers',       April 2010), which in 2010 had a readership circulation of 20,407 in the       UK and 1,966 overseas.
Drummond has continued to further engage interested       public in discovering their railway ancestors through her accessible book       Tracing Your Railway Ancestors: A Guide for Family Historians, (Pen       and Sword Books, Barnsley: 2010).
This book guides people through       discovering their own family histories so that they can enjoy the past by       immersing themselves in their own stories.
This was reviewed in the US       based publication Federation of Genealogical Societies Forum       (Spring 2011) as a book that `puts the problem in perspective, provides       excellent guidance on how to do research, and illustrates well what can be       found on the companies and their workers' (Paul Milner).
Similar       favourable reviews were given in UK based publications with the book       described as `a thorough and sympathetic guide to the complexities of both       railway staff records and railway history' (Dr Jill Murdoch, Who Do         You Think You Are?
May 2010), and `an invaluable tool to tracing       one's ancestor, but also provides advice on putting this information into       context and learning more about the way he worked and lived' (Jonathan       Wright, Your Family History, June 2010).
Pen and Sword Books are       specialists in military history and have expanded into transport, meaning       that Drummond's accessible work is particularly suited to them.
The       publishers have stated that the book is part of a `particularly successful       series' and sold in line with their expectations.
Mitchell, meanwhile, has written several online articles about       nineteenth-century historical fiction (on Walter Scott's Ivanhoe, 1819,       and the historical romances of William Harrison Ainsworth) for the US       online blog, Open Letters Monthly: An Arts and Literature Review.
The review is widely read, and posted responses (August 2011 and August       2012) and recommendations show the impact of these pieces on public       understanding of the nineteenth-century historical novel.
The first of the       two pieces provoked a dialogue about the impact of Ivanhoe and the       dangerous idealisation of chivalry and war in America with a Vietnam war       veteran and member of Veterans for Peace (email communication February       2013).
Mitchell and Drummond have also appeared in the media discussing their       research.
Discussing women and the railways, Drummond was interviewed on       Michael Portillo's Great British Railway Journeys (episode 13),       broadcast on BBC2 during January 2010.
The first broadcast of this show       attracted 2.88 million viewers, with a second broadcast attracting 1.7       million.
Similarly, Mitchell in 2009 appeared on The One Show       (BBC1) being interviewed by Dan Snow (in 2009) on the topic of the       significance and evolution of Victorian beards, which related to her       research on gender roles and identities.
Average viewing figures for this       programme are 4.4 million.
This interview was filmed at Abbey House,       providing added exposure for the museum.
She has also spoken on BBC Radio       Leeds (April 2011), discussing St George on St George's Day, particularly       referencing artistic representations of the saint, and BBC Radio Teesside       (Feb 2013), discussing Victorian child poverty in response to the       publication of a report by End Child Poverty that analysed the effects of       the 2013 Budget.
