     Thornley's research has made a significant, pervasive, and continuing       contribution to       understanding the issues facing low-paid women workers; the problems of       and reasons for gender       pay inequalities; and the nature of the work that women undertake.
These       issues are of central       concern to unions, Pay Commissions, professional bodies, policy makers,       employers and workers.
The significance of these issues is indicated by the large number of       workers implicated: the NHS       and local government are the two largest employers in the UK, each with a       predominantly female       workforce.
Around a third of all women workers in the UK economy work in       the public sector, and       disproportionately high numbers of the women employed in this sector work       part-time.
The impact of Thornley's work in the period 2008-2013 has been       underpinned by dissemination       activities in preceding years.
Dissemination of Thornley's research, and       the subsequent change in       understanding by key stakeholders of the issues raised, has taken place       since the 1990s (1994-2005).
Key findings from Thornley's research have been disseminated through the       publication and       distribution of reports (see Section 2), by UNISON, to managers and other       key authorities in both       the NHS and local government.
This has led to invitations for Thornley to       present her findings as       evidence to the Nurses' Pay Review Body, the Health Select Committee, and       the Low Pay       Commission.
Hansard cites evidence from Thornley's UNISON report about the       nature of health       care work and unknown reasons for pay discrepancies [for example, source       1].
Thornley's findings       were used as evidence by the National Joint Council Trade Union in       national pay negotiations       (2002-2004), the Local Government Pay Commission of 2003, and the Low Pay       Commission.
A       report from the Local Government Pay Commission [source 2] directly cites       Thornley, particularly       in relation to her research on the poor implementation of the Single       Status agreement.
The deliberative bodies to which Thornley provided evidence made       substantive recommendations       on the pay of workers, which have fed into policy decisions around wider       employment and payment       systems issues that have had considerable impact in the period 2008-13.
For example, the Local       Government Pay Commission Report was favourably received by both Local       Government       employers and by Central Government policy makers [corroboration from       Local Government Pay       Commission], and directly informed the 2004 national agreement for Local       Government Services       which set a deadline for the implementation of Single Status agreements,       reached in 1997,       requiring individual councils and unions to carry out job evaluation       exercises and construct new       pay structures by April 2007.
Although many Local Authorities missed this       deadline [source 3], the       structures have continued to be implemented from this point onwards, the       effects of which extend       throughout the impact period and beyond.
These are one of the most       significant mechanisms       through which equal pay for all workers is being delivered in the UK       [source 4].
Many of the findings of Thornley's research, particularly concerning the       substitution of lower-paid       workers for higher-paid workers, and the pay inequalities experienced by       women workers,       challenged policy makers' prior assumptions, transforming their       understanding of the problem and       their approach to dealing with it.
Thornley's work continues to make a       path-breaking contribution to       understanding local government sector employment and, in particular, the       issues facing UNISION's       branches and activists in negotiations over the Single Status agreement       [corroboration from       UNISON].
Birmingham City Council has recently (October 2013) been ordered       by the Supreme       Court to pay an estimated &#163;890 million to over 11,000 mostly female       workers occupying lower-paid       posts.
Although a Single Status pay scale was introduced in 2008 it was       found to be sexist,       continuing to reward those in predominantly male-held posts (such as road       workers, street       sweepers and dustmen) with greater pay than those in predominantly       female-held roles (such as       cleaners, care assistants, caterers).
Led by trade unions, the fight for       pay equality has taken place       over the past six years and resulted in the compensation pay out by the       City Council [source 5].
Thornley's work on skills, tasks and the valuation and pay of both       registered and non-registered       nurses in the NHS has been particularly influential on managers'       perceptions and in policy terms.
Her research has helped encourage recognition of the essential       contribution of these workers and       consequently led to improvement in their working conditions [corroboration       from UNISON].
In       addition to providing evidence for national pay negotiations, resulting in       similar outcomes for low-paid       health workers as in local government, Thornley's work has had a       sector-wide impact on the       valuation, education, skills and training of healthcare workers.
A significant example of this impact is in the review, development and       implementation of a national       approach to supporting and developing the clinical healthcare assistant       role in Scotland.
Thornley's       research is liberally cited in the main review document published in 2010,       and used by the review       to elaborate understandings of healthcare assistant work, specifically in       relation to the role and its       evolution, the general age and experience of healthcare support workers,       and their interest in       undertaking training [source 6].
This evidence sits alongside guidance and       educational resources       for clinical and non-clinical healthcare support workers developed as a       result of the review and       launched in June 2010.
This is part of an online toolkit aimed at NHS       executives, boards and       educational professionals and sets out nationally agreed education       requirements and core skills       [source 7].
As one of the main reviews of its kind to date, the Royal       College of Nursing       recommends the toolkit as a core source of guidance on good practice for       healthcare workers       across the UK, stating that it promotes high-quality care for patients and       good standards of practice       for all staff [source 8].
Understandings of healthcare assistants' work developed though Thornley's       research continue to       inform key stakeholders.
For example, the Royal College of Nursing policy       briefing on Healthcare       Support Workers draws on this, as does the July 2013 Cavendish Review       for the Government into       the use of healthcare assistants and support workers in the NHS, both of       which cite her research       [source 9].
Her work is also cited in healthcare assistant training       publications, such as Clinical         Skills for Healthcare Assistants, to emphasise the importance of       such skills for high-quality patient       care [source 10].
Thornley has also written an invited piece on issues of       healthcare worker       employment for NHS publication Employing Nurses and Midwives,       distributed to NHS managers       and board members [source 11].
She is also highly cited (20 citations) in       the review of healthcare       support workforce regulation commissioned by the Nursing and Midwifery       Council [source 12].
