     This research has been the basis of calculations made to assess the       viability of CCS as a technology to ameliorate the effects of carbon       emissions and their impacts on climate change.
The mathematical models and       their successful comparisons with field data have provided policy makers       with the information needed to estimate the quantities of CO2 that can be       stored and to evaluate the risks associated with leakages from underground       reservoirs.
This research has impacted European policy makers through the European       Academies Science Advisory Council (EASAC).
As a result of his research,       Huppert was invited in 2011 by the president of EASAC to be the Chair of       the Working Group on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS).
The President of       EASAC [11] writes "Professor Huppert was nominated by the Royal Society to       chair the working group that carried out the study on the basis of his       research on the fluid dynamics of carbon dioxide stored in geological       formations, and his extensive efforts to lecture to a wide range of       audiences on this important and topical issue".
The CCS Working Group has       published the report, Carbon storage and capture in Europe, (2013,         pp95) [8] for the European Parliament.
The report, which makes       explicit reference to the research outlined in section 3, was distributed       to all politicians, scientists and policy makers on energy in Europe in       May 2013 and will inform political debate and international strategies on       climate change.
The report was released at a press conference on 21 May       2013 and at the Royal Society in London on 12 June 2013 [13].
This report       is highlighted on its website by the CCS Association which has industrial       members representing a wide sector of UK industry [10].
Huppert's research has also had a significant impact on the policy of the       Australian Government on CCS.
According to the Chief Executive of CO2CRC       [9],       "This work in turn provides confidence to Government and the community at       large that underground storage of CO2 is understood, that it can be       monitored and that it works.
The impact of this on public policy in       Australia is that CCS has become recognised as an important mitigation       option for Australia and the Government has provided significant funding       (in excess of $1 billion) to support CCS.
Obviously this has been the       consequence of the work of many people in CO2cRC and other organisations,       but the work by Herbert and his collaborators has certainly contributed.
It is also appropriate to mention the various public presentations that       Herbert has given in Australia which have been picked up by the media and       which have provided a factual and positive account of what the relevance       of CCS is to the whole issue of climate change and mitigation".
On the basis of the research outlined above, Huppert was asked to present       this work to the All- Party Parliamentary Group for Earth and       Environmental Sciences, to an audience of around 100 people, including       both MPs and Peers, on 16 October 2012.
Huppert was awarded the Bakerian Lectureship of the Royal Society for       2011 [7].
This is the major lecture in the physical sciences delivered       each year at the Royal Society.
The title was `Carbon storage: caught       between a rock and climate change' and was based on the whole gamut of       Huppert's research, explaining the concepts of carbon dioxide       sequestration and the possible consequences to an audience of over 250.
The Royal Society [12] states that "The total viewing figure for "Carbon       storage: caught between a rock and climate change" from it being given on       24 March 2011 to today (1 May 2013), is 1618, according to our Google       Analytics record.
The webcast has been accessed from 59 countries, with       the ten most popular being the United Kingdom, United States, Australia,       Canada, Germany, France, Switzerland, Netherlands, Spain and China".
This       accessible presentation of this research encouraged the audience to engage       with current scientific and political debates on solution to climate       change.
