     HIV-infected infants are at high risk of disease progression and death.
But initiating them on lifelong antiretroviral therapy (ART) is       problematic because:            it is a lifelong commitment       it costs money       the drugs can have side effects       the earlier infants start treatment the more time there is for         resistance to develop.
Until 2008, national and international guidelines recommended initiation       of antiretroviral therapy on the basis of a low CD4 percentage or count, a       high viral load, or the presence of clinical symptoms, whereas the       treatment of asymptomatic infants with high CD4 values was not mandated.
The early results of CHER were released at the 4th       International AIDS Society Conference on Pathogenesis, Treatment and       Prevention in July 2007.
In response to these results, a number of key       national and international guidelines were changed.
In February 2008 US national guidelines were changed to recommend       immediate treatment of HIV-infected infants [a].
WHO held a meeting in April 2008 to look at the evidence from CHER in       relation to their guidelines, and launched new interim guidelines in June       2008, recommending immediate treatment of HIV- infected infants.
These       were then incorporated into the full guidelines when they were revised in       2010 [b].
The Paediatric European Network for Treatment of AIDS (PENTA) changed       their guidelines to recommend immediate treatment of HIV-infected infants       in November 2008 [c].
WHO guidelines are very influential for national HIV policy, particularly       in African countries, where most HIV-positive infants live.
A survey of       national HIV policymakers, carried out in 2008, found that WHO was an       important and frequent source of information to inform HIV policymaking in       Africa [d].
Therefore the incorporation of recommendations from       the CHER trial into WHO policy has had a knock-on effect on national       guidelines in Africa.
Following the changes to WHO guidance, individual       countries began to follow suit by changing their national guidelines.
For       example, in South Africa the Essential Drug List Committee approved the       recommendation in November 2008, and it was included in the national       guidelines issued in December 2010, following the costing study [e].
The Malawi Ministry of Health updated their guidelines in April 2008 [f],       and the Uganda Ministry of Health updated their guidelines in June 2009 on       when to start infants on treatment [g].
National guidelines are very important determinants of the treatments       given in practice in low- income settings.
In many African settings most       children are treated by clinical officers rather than doctors.
These       clinical officers have less training than doctors, and therefore use       national guidelines as the basis of how they treat patients to a much       greater extent than doctors in high- income countries.
One paediatrician working in Zambia describes the impact of the trial as       follows: "These changes were quickly adapted by many African countries         including Zambia, a step that enabled many HIV infected children to be         started early on ART and not only have these children survived but they         have been able to lead a relatively normal childhood.
Currently it is         estimated that about 43,000 children 0-14 years old are receiving ART in         Zambia, a 50% increase from the 21,120 in 2009 (WHO, UNAIDS, UNICEF         Progress Report 2010).
The impact of the CHER trial has not only been on         outcome of children but the findings have also helped push for improved         laboratory diagnostic services in order to initiate early treatment in         as many infants and children as possible in Zambia...Deaths from         HIV/AIDS have dramatically dropped in infants and children, as most of         the children are identified early and commenced on treatment.
The CHER         trial results have had a great impact on treatment of HIV infected         infants and children, subsequently on survival, hospital admissions and         ultimately cost of treatment and care for HIV infected infants and         children" [h].
As the results have led to changes in guidelines for HIV-infected infants       worldwide, the research has had a global impact on infants living with HIV       in both high and low-income settings.
It is difficult to say exactly how       many children have benefited as a result of this research, as the routine       data collected by most countries does not disaggregate ART coverage       figures into small enough age- bands.
We can, however, extrapolate how       many lives could potentially be saved based on global figures.
Each year       around 390,000 children are infected with HIV [i].
The vast       majority of these children were vertically-infected infants.
CHER found       that early ART reduced infant mortality from 16% to 4%.
If we assume that       the WHO guidelines were fully implemented worldwide, the results of this       trial would lead to around 46,800 lives being saved each year (although       the number of infected infants will decline with the scale-up of       Prevention of Mother To Child Transmission programmes).
The costing study found that early ART for infants had lower costs per       child to the health system than deferred ART or the strategy that was       routine care at the time in South Africa ($1,387 vs $2,440 vs $3,008       respectively) [ref 3, above].
This means that the health system in       South Africa (and possibly other settings) will benefit through reduced       costs of treating HIV-infected infants, as they require less       hospitalisation.
In 2011 there were approximately 29,000 new infections in       children in South Africa.
If all these newly-infected infants had been       treated early, it could save the South African health system as much as 47       million USD.
