     This research has had a number of impacts:     4.1.
Firstly, in terms of its impact on the establishment and development       of the disciplinary field of public affairs in the UK and Europe and its       contribution to the international body of knowledge.
This is demonstrated       by editorship of journals, research publications and recognition by       professional and academic institutions.
4.2.
Secondly, in terms of how the research has been disseminated into       professional practice and influenced public and political debate about the       role, practice and regulation of political lobbying in the UK.
This is       demonstrated by recognition by industry and government taking advice       resulting from research and presented at boards and committees by the       researchers.
Harris first submitted evidence to the first Committee on       Standards in Public Life in 1997 a paper on the direct links between       lobbying and political fundraising, and in 2012 gave evidence to the       inquiry launched by the All Party Parliamentary Small Business Group       considered the role of entrepreneurs in driving economic growth (Breaking         Down the Barriers to Entrepreneurship).
This has been followed up       with a number of articles and presentations with a collaboration of       interests in Europe, Asia, Australasia and America.
Attendance at events       in China in 2011 and 2013 have impacted on both Chinese academic and       business communities - evidenced by endorsement from the head of a       distinguished Institution based in Beijing (see section 5).
4.3.
Thirdly, the research has had a direct impact on corporate public       affairs practice.
This is particularly through the global research project       into best practice in global public affairs operations which has fed back       into the structures, training and policies of global operating companies.
The award of a major public affairs research project to Moss and Harris in       2010 by Unilever is further recognition of the work that has been       conducted.
4.4.
Public Affairs Management Research was used extensively by Harris,       Adderley and Russell with the support of Moss to pull together a report on       the impact of the potential closure of MBNA (Bank of America), Chester's       major Financial Services Business.
MBNA is Chester's largest private       employer, employing approximately 3,550 people on site, with an annual       payroll of &#163;155 million.
The research indicated that there was a lack of       understanding of this company, its business and impact by local and       regional decision makers.
The confidential report outlined the scale of       the Chester-based MBNA operations and its impact on the local, regional       and national economy.
Another published report by Harris, Pyke and       Adderley (2011) referred to below further corroborates the impact of the       research.
4.5.
The University of Chester calculated that MBNA's overall economic       impact on the region is &#163;543.9 million per annum making MBNA a major       contributor to the Financial Services Sector in the North-West of England       and an important part of the national economy.
Significantly, 15% of       MBNA's annual payroll is paid to staff located in the Chester postal area       while there are also high concentrations of employees within areas already       known to be suffering from high levels of deprivation (e.g.
Birkenhead,       Tranmere, and Ellesmere Port).
This undoubtedly means that any job losses       would be significantly magnified in those areas.
MBNA plays a key role in       training and building knowledge based skills within the region.
In       addition, MBNA spends &#163;215 million per annum in the supply-chain, which       equates to &#163;10.75 million per annum of local spend.
Over 1000 suppliers       have contracts with MBNA for less than &#163;100,000, representing a range of       dependent small and medium size businesses.
Given this, the University       calculates that MBNA's spend in the supply-chain leads to an additional       3,834 people being employed, in addition to staff directly employed by       MBNA.
4.6.
MBNA is of significant importance to the economic well-being of the       UK economy as a whole.
The report calculated that MBNA pays the UK       government &#163;173 million in taxes, rates, NI and PAYE per annum (correct as       of 2010).
MBNA is a major regional sponsor of cultural, economic, social       and sporting events and organisations and over the period 2010-2013 has       donated/committed &#163;1.4 million to organisations and supplied &#163;2.3 million       in corporate sponsorship.
MBNA's operational transactions in the UK are       worth &#163;11 billion per annum, which equates to 9% share of the market.
4.7.
The report was given confidentially by the team to a number of       local, regional and national government decision makers, alongside a       number of local presentations by the team which informed decision making.
The research conducted helped communicate the impact of the potential sale       and closure of this business to regional and national decision makers       including the Secretary of State for Business and led directly to       increased stakeholder recognition and support for the retention of the       business.
Furthermore, this allowed MBNA UK management to stabilise its       position and exert pressure to maintain a viable business in Chester and       contribute to wealth creation in the North-West.
4.8.
Evidence of impact may be found in endorsements from organisations       named in section 5.
Comments include "the business community is grateful       for the way the University is assisting to shape regional economic policy"       and "The Bank of America has benefitted greatly".
