     Impact on NICE Guidelines:     Our evidence regarding CVD was used by NICE in the 2009 update of their       schizophrenia guideline (CG 082).
This recommends that annual physical       review of these patients should focus on cardiovascular risk factors       including blood pressure, cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, smoking and       diabetes.
The guideline cites five of our papers as the reason for       focussing on CVD risk factors in annual reviews for people with       schizophrenia in national mental health policy.
Nazareth was on the expert       advisory panel of the NICE Schizophrenia guideline group [a].
Impact on European Guidelines:     Our work was cited as the research evidence justifying a position       statement by the European Psychiatric Association (EPA), supported by the       European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and the European       Society of Cardiology (ESC) in 2009.
Their statement was designed to       improve the care of patients suffering from severe mental illness.
They       cite two of our papers as the rationale for focusing on CVD risk screening       in people with SMI.
The statement refers in detail to our systematic       review regarding the relative incidence of CVD risk factors in SMI, as       well as our research demonstrating excess CVD mortality in young people       with SMI [b].
The position statement from the EPA has had further impact both in the UK       and Australia.
The EPA position document is referenced as the rationale       for specific algorithms to help mental health professionals to deal with       cardiovascular risk factors in people with SMI [c].
In turn the       Australian guidelines have recently been adapted and endorsed by the Royal       College of General Practitioners, Royal College of Psychiatrists, Royal       College of Nursing, Royal College of Physicians, HQIP, Rethink Mental       Illness and Diabetes UK to provide guidance in line with the SMI QoF (see       below) and NICE guidance, which largely originates from the research done       at UCL [d].
These guidelines have been sent to every GP and       psychiatrist in the UK.
Impact on Psychopharmacology guidance:     The British Association of Psychopharmacologists produces evidence-based       guidelines for international and national prescribing in mental health,       aimed at all psychiatrists and other clinicians who prescribe in mental       health.
Their schizophrenia consensus guidelines cite two of our papers       (Osborn, 2006; Osborn 2008) in making their recommendations regarding       prescribing antipsychotics and screening for CVD risk factors for people       with SMI who have been prescribed antipsychotic medications [e].
Impact on Department of Health Policy:     The Department of Health published a new mental health strategy in 2011       titled "No health without mental health".
It made a number of       recommendations regarding the interface between physical and mental       health.
This included six main objectives, including "that more people       with mental health problems will have good physical health".
Osborn was       invited to present our research findings to specific workshops run by the       DH to formulate this strategy [f].
Once published, the policy was developed into a guide for general       practitioners by the Centre for Mental Health, in alliance with seven key       national mental health organisations.
These third sector organisations       (outside the NHS) such as RETHINK cite our mortality work as one of the       reasons why general practitioners should focus on CVD screening for people       with mental disorders [g].
Impact on the Quality Outcomes Framework:     In 2011, our influence on NICE guidelines led to changes in the national       GP contract, through the Quality Outcomes Framework (QoF) for people with       severe mental illnesses [h].
GPs are now remunerated for ensuring       that people with SMI have had specific cardiovascular risk factors       measured within the last 15 months.
The QoF documents explicitly state       that their recommendations are in line with the NICE schizophrenia       guidelines regarding CVD screening and hence include screening for BMI,       cholesterol, blood pressure and diabetes screening in the outcomes       framework for SMI (see above).
Our research has thus directly impacted on       the day to day care provided for people with severe mental illnesses in       general practices across England through NICE and into QoF.
Impact elsewhere in the UK     Further, the two most cited of our research papers on this topic were       used by the Scottish QoF in 2008, recommending that Scottish GPs included       these cardiovascular measurements in their annual assessments [i].
These important changes within the NHS are thus leading to a reduction in       the inequalities of care that occur in people with schizophrenia and       severe mental illnesses.
