     a) Development and on-going review of the UK universal child vision         screening programme     Our research findings provided the first robust evidence base for the UK       National Screening Committee's policy on universal childhood vision       screening and surveillance.
This has led to the revised programme status       and standards for the Newborn and Infant Physical Examination Programme       (NIPE) and discontinuation of 9-month and pre-school vision screening       examinations [a].
More recently we have completed a commissioned       systematic review for the National Screening Committee (NSC) which is       currently forming the basis of their policy review of the content and       timing of the 4-5 year/school entry vision screening examination [b].
b) Improving the quality of paediatric ophthalmology services     Our work has underpinned the development of new quality standards for       paediatric ophthalmology services.
A number of our publications are cited       in the Royal College of Ophthalmologists (RCOphth) standing report,       Ophthalmic Services for Children (Updated August 2012) for which Rahi       acted also acted as reviewer.
Our work provides epidemiological background       and supports recommendations on the involvement of parents, on the early       detection of ophthalmic disorders and on certifying children as       sight-impaired [c].
Our study of the needs and experiences of       families of newly diagnosed visually impaired children informed the       successful implementation of a novel regional-level `key worker' service,       the Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH) Ophthalmology Community Link Team,       which provides information, support and liaison to families of our       patients [d].
This was taken as a model of key worker provision       and cited in the above document.
Following on from this, Rahi helped to develop Quality Standards for       Paediatric Ophthalmology on behalf of RCOphth [e].
These quality       standards are now in regular use in clinical practice.
For example, this       can be seen on the GOSH website, which describes how it has measured its       services against the Quality Indicator Tool that we helped to develop [f].
In 2012, Rahi contributed to the first Atlas of Variation in Healthcare       for Children and Young people which was produced by the Department of       Health's QIPP (Quality, Innovation, Productivity and Prevention) programme.
This document presented variations across the breadth of child health       services provided by NHS England together for the first time to allow       clinicians, commissioners and service users to identify priority areas for       improving outcome, quality and productivity.
Map 7 highlighted variation       in the proportion of eligible premature babies tested for retinopathy of       prematurity (ROP) within the recommended timeframe, and made       recommendations on improving services [g].
c) Improving the management of congenital cataract     Congenital cataract is the most common surgically treatable cause of       childhood visual impairment worldwide.
Our studies on congenital cataract       have been conducted through the British Congenital Cataract Interest       Group, a network comprising over 150 ophthalmologists which we established       in 1995.
This has led to timely implementation of findings to improve       clinical practices and provide improved outcomes information for parents       of affected infants [h].
For example, during our ongoing research       on intraocular lens implantation, we have used this network to spread use       of the data collection forms that we developed as part of the study.
These       are now more widely used as routine clinical pro-formas for patient case       notes, leading to standardisation of key aspects of management nationally.
GOSH, for example, report that:     "The per-operative data entry proforma currently used by our surgeons         at GOSH was developed as part of the IOLu2 [Intraocular lens under 2]         study by Dr Lola Solebo in 2009... Not only is [it] still used and can         be sampled for future studies it is now used by all the other surgeons         in the team...
The team has found it promotes good record keeping when         performing childhood cataract surgery...
It has also be shared with many         other centres through our lectures and when we have visiting         ophthalmologists.
The proforma helps the department to enter clinical         data in an efficient, standardised and thorough manner" [i].
d) Improving patient involvement in research     Our research over the years has directly involved service users and       patient groups.
For example, our systematic review of Patient-reported       outcome measures (PROMs) in paediatric ophthalmology involved a service       user (visually impaired herself and parent of a visually impaired child)       as a co-investigator [j].
In the first stage of our work to develop our `quality of life'       instrument, we worked with the pupils in the Visual Impairment unit at       Exhall Grange, a specialist school in Coventry that caters for children       and young people with a range of disabilities.
Specifically, we conducted       focus groups and interviews with these pupils to help us identify the       content for our instrument.
In the focus groups we elicited the children's       thoughts and views about the impact of living with visual disability.
The       mobility officer working with these children, who helped facilitate the       focus group discussion, was struck by how much the children opened up       about their lives and felt there was a broader benefit of this context.
Subsequently, he reported to us that as a result of this experience, the       Visual Impairment unit initiated a `forum for the visually impaired       pupils' where the pupils meet weekly or monthly for an `around the table'       discussion of any issues that they might have (modelled on their       participation in our research).
Finally, the school was commended by       Ofsted for this initiative [k].
