     The independent evaluation for Arts Council England stated: `A small       number of projects [including RILEDA] were consistently identified, by       arts organisations and audiences alike, as showing innovation in terms of       art form development and production, creating genuinely new experiences'       and "[RILEDA] is both a high quality artistic experience and highly       innovative."
RILEDA was short- listed for a Digital Humanities Award in       the category: "Best Digital Humanities blog, article, or short       publication" and awarded 2nd runner-up (Feb 2013).
The awards       recognise talent and expertise in the digital humanities globally and are       decided by public votes.
Impact and Reach: RILEDA is principally distributed via the       internet.
Significant global audiences have engaged with the digital essay       (9 Aug 2012- 8 Aug 2013); 49,208 visits, 118,165 page-views, 30,569 unique       visitors.
Average visit duration is high (7+ minutes) and bounce-rate low       (2.6%) evidencing positive engagement.
Returning visitor numbers are high       (39%); readers are re- engaging with the content.
The UK represents 43% of       visits with USA, Canada, Germany, Australia, India and Brazil sending high       levels of traffic.
Referral traffic is the strongest driver of visits       (49%) and social sharing sites perform well.
The `Writer's Blog'       documenting the early part of the project had 3,239 visits, 6,988       page-views, and 2,100 unique visitors from 10 May 2012 to 8 August 2012,       mainly from the UK (62%).
Social media provided insight into public       sentiment.
Analysing tweets from the first month showed 96% of comments       expressing an opinion were positive.
In September 2012 The Space became available on Freestat channel 908.
On       9 September 2012 the RILEDA documentary of Prof Self's research trip to       Prague, directed by Ian Potts (BBC), was broadcast on the Community       Channel (Freeview channel 87).
`Kafka's Wound' also generated various live iterations and performances       including a CD version (Kafka's Wound, Peter Wiegold and Notes       In&#233;gales), itself a studio re-composition of material embedded in the       essay and improvised live performances.
There have been performances at       Club In&#233;gales in London (http://www.clubinegales.com/),       and the Cheltenham Literary Festival (August 2013), and the CD was well       reviewed by The Telegraph and The Independent.
Digital Humanities Impact: LRB held a debate on the       `Digital Essay', in September 2012, with Prof Self, Helen Jeffrey       (Associate Publisher), Nicky Spice (Publisher) and Dan Franklin (Digital       Publisher, Random House), with an audience of 100, including two leading       figures from the BBC.
The film is online (1,250 views to 8 August 2013).
The debate was reported in the Association for Management Education and       Development's `e-Organisations &amp; People', in the article "Writing with       the internet: paradise or desert for developers?"
by Clare Coyne,       concluding; "For e-O&amp;P, then, the digital essay offers an exciting       possibility, and one that should be harnessed sooner rather than later."
The         Literary Platform, an online magazine covering current thinking       about books and technology, featured RILEDA in two editorials by Kat       Sommers: `[RILEDA] shows that the fusion of associative thinking with       linear reading leads to an immersive reading experience.'
Helen Jeffrey (LRB) presented RILEDA in a `Future Glimpses' session at       the Digital Research Conference, University of Oxford (2012).
Johannes       Birringer (Brunel) gave a keynote on RILEDA at the Digital Echoes       Symposium: The Digital Economy, Coventry University (2013), dealing with       digital archives and new modes of arts documentation and preservation.
RILEDA was referenced by Russell Bowden, in "New information and         learning landscapes &#8212; challenges to bridge the information 'gaps'",       presented at the IFLA World Library and Information Congress, Singapore       (August 2013).
RILEDA is referenced by a number of academic institutions as a digital       resource for students; examples of transliterative text (University of       Alabama, USA), online resources (Edinburgh College of Art, UK) , `digital       writing' (Duke University, USA) and in the American Creative         Nonfiction Magazine article `Binary Truths: Creative nonfiction in       our electronic age: Required Reading' by Eric         LeMay.
The Bodleian Library, Oxford, in requesting permission       to add RILEDA to their digital archive, stated that `Kafka's Wound' has       been identified as being of lasting research value and worthy of permanent       preservation for the benefit of historians and researchers.'
Technical and Intellectual Property Impact: RILEDA has already       changed archival and technological practice and policy.
LRB       implemented technology developed for RILEDA to display footnotes within       their 34-year online archive and to incorporate audio and video into new       essays.
RILEDA technology was adapted for a micro-site to showcase       `Enquirer', a site-specific drama performed in Glasgow, London, and       Belfast in 2012, and exploring the state of the UK newspaper industry       through journalists' testimonies (1,949 visits Oct 2012-Aug 2013).
Oliver Brock (digital archive researcher) gave a "Rights and IP" seminar       in the BBC Academy programme `Building digital capacity for the arts', in       July 2012, outlining his approach to rights clearances in the context of       RILEDA (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OGQYJdwTzAk)       He was invited to present the project at the International Federation of       Television Archives World Conference, London, in September 2012.
Cultural Innovation and Policy, Publishing Impact: the BBC College       of Production invited Helen Jeffrey to participate in a podcast, Arts in       the Digital World, November 2012, discussing the experience of working on       RILEDA.
Helen Jeffrey (LRB) also presented RILEDA at the `Festival of       Publishing', London, in January 2013, encouraging independent book       publishers to engage with innovative digital projects.
The success of RILEDA has supported the case for a future development of       a public digital arts service.
The ACE evaluation comments that The Space       has been a huge success, proving the concept for a digital platform that       offers the Arts.... we are actively exploring a new iteration of the       platform, which we aim to launch [in 2014]."
RILEDA was noted as the       project most `consistently identified' by practitioners, arts       organisations, and the public as `showing innovation' and `creating       genuinely new experiences'.
