     The reach of Sayer's public engagement of her research has been wide       through her media appearances, consultation work with museum staff on       exhibitions and displays, and numerous public lectures.
Her research has       informed three popular TV series (Victorian Farm, Edwardian Farm,         Wartime Farm) focused on agriculture, and influenced an exhibition       on the Women's Land Army at the Yorkshire Museum of Farming.
Sayer's       particular involvement in Wartime Farm has brought the rural       experience into the discourse of WWII which predominantly focuses on the       urban experience (particularly London).
As a result of these activities       Sayer has engaged with the general public, tourists and visitors to local       museums, and those particularly interested in agricultural and women's       history.
In the making of the Farm series, Lion TV (one of the leading and most       successful independent producers in the UK) used specialists in       agricultural history as consultants and on screen to ensure that each       series remained accurate, and that the scripting could be fully referenced       by the production team.
Sayer was specifically sought out by researchers       involved in the series (broadcast on BBC 2 in 2008, 2010 and 2012) due to       her research on electrification in the countryside and the way in which       her research makes the history of technology accessible through real life       examples.
Sayer's interpretation of material culture and experimental       approach to modern history (which draws on approaches from archaeology)       was particularly attractive to the producers.
Sayer acted as a consultant for all three series and her involvement       increased throughout as she was interviewed for one episode of Edwardian         Farm (2010) and appeared in three episodes of Wartime Farm       (broadcast during September 2012: episode 1 (establishing the need for       paraffin); episode 2 (laundry and women's history); and a Christmas       Special (use of garden produce, e.g.
flowers; thriftiness and       provisioning), for which she was also interviewed and cited on the BBC       website).
When consulting with the researchers of Lion TV's Wartime         Farm, Sayer provided primary material, grounded in her research on       rural domestic life, that could be used either by her or the regular       presenters experimentally, and that in the process of filming could lead       to the interpretation of material objects, discussion of which led to a       narrative of social history framed by the experiences of rural people       1939-1945.
The process of interpretation through the handling of material       objects on screen was grounded in archival research and Sayer's academic       work on the period, and had to fit into the storyline/script and narrative       of the broader episode, but was also open to discussion and uncertainty in       that the final product or the object in use might or might not work.
This       uncertainty was in itself engaging for the audience, and addressed the       difficulty within media presentations of the past, the production of a       rather one-sided narrative.
Specific examples of Sayer's contributions       include advising on the use of an electric oven (which producers       originally thought they would be able to use), access to the national       grid, and the use of soap and its alternative, lye.
Producers at Lion TV       described her input as `pertinent' and one which `really bolsters our       storyline' (email communication May 2012).
They also particularly valued       Sayer's work on electric fencing and the provision of water for livestock,       two subjects which producers found to be `scarcely written about'.
Consequently Sayer's involvement was `vital for putting these sequences       together' (letter from Wartime Farm producer, August 2012).
The Wartime Farm series aired on prime-time BBC 2, with the first       episode receiving 2.38 million viewers and subsequent episodes receiving       around 2.5 million viewers (then repeated on other platforms).
The series       has been positively reviewed, for example, Sarah Dempster, The         Guardian Saturday 1 September 2012, described it as `a winning       attempt to recreate a year in the life of a busy Hampshire farm'.
In a       similar vein, David Chater, in The Times Saturday Review 1       September 2012, p. 40, designated Wartime Farm `Pick of the day.'
Sayer's       research has also been cascaded through BBC books linked to two of the       series (Edwardian Farm and Wartime Farm).
In addition,       Sayer provided information on the Women's Voluntary Service helping       everyday people for a feature on the BBC website.
This feature discussed       the role of women during wartime Christmas, coinciding with the Christmas       special of Wartime Farm.
There is evidence to suggest that the general viewing public showed       positive and interested responses to the Wartime Farm series.
Tweets relating to the Christmas special were archived on 23rd       December 2012 and analysed.
146 tweets were sent that simply mentioned the       episode, promoting the broadcast time.
However, a significantly greater       number (248) provided their opinion on the show (such as `Watching wartime       farm on BBC 2 and learning so much' and `Christmas Wartime Farm.
Another       fascinating, thought-provoking history programme from the BBC'), or       engaged with the content, mentioning specific details that Sayer was       involved in (`According to Wartime Farm Christmas, during the war, British       people made Christmas decorations from salvaged Luftwaffe chaff.
Cool.').
In addition to being aired across the UK, Wartime Farm has been       distributed to other countries, meaning that Sayer's consultation work and       appearances in the series have reached both national and international       audiences.
Knowledge Network in Canada, which encompasses a consortium of       75 of the country's top universities part funded by the provincial       government and 35,000 individual donors, has signed up for the Wartime         Farm series.
ViaSat, a DBS distributor and TV broadcaster, owned by       the Swedish media conglomerate Modern Times Group, has purchased the       distribution rights for Eastern Europe and Russia from distributor       All3Media International.
These other countries that have broadcast Wartime         Farm all have large rural areas.
This suggests that there is an       interest from such countries in the rural experience portrayed in the       series rather than the urban wartime experience that dominates the       discourse.
Though Sayer's input to the Farm series was grounded in her research on       the rural, `Nature' and the countryside, farming and the farmed animal,       Lion TV have asked Sayer questions which have not yet been fully addressed       by the academic community.
This led Sayer to access archives at the       Yorkshire Museum of Farming (and to further academic research) in order to       address these questions.
Sayer developed this relationship with the       museum, offering to deliver public lectures centred on her research.
Aligning with the broadcasting of the Wartime Farm series and the       (then forthcoming) Christmas special, Sayer gave a talk in December 2012       at the museum, which included an object handling session.
It was attended       by 39 members of the public including Women's Institute groups, local       history societies and the coordinator for the East and West Ridings       Women's Land Army Reunion Group.
Following this Sayer has worked with       museum staff (Dec 2012-Feb 2013) in the interpretation of panels for an       exhibition on the Women's Land Army (WLA), that opened in Spring 2013.
This exhibition aimed to raise awareness of the WLA through using the       collections of the museum to create a permanent exhibition and a programme       of outreach events.
The museum has stated that they have benefited from       Sayer's `expertise, connections and enthusiasm for the project'.
Visitor       comments regarding the exhibition have shown an appreciation for the       promotion of the WLA ("A wonderful exhibition doing the vital work of the       WLA proud.
So great to see land girls inspiring work being recognised and       appreciated.
Many thanks.")
and indicated an engagement with the displayed       collection ("Excellent informative displays.
Makes you think about the       past.").
Sayer's research has therefore also had impact through       contributing to the quality of the tourist experience in a cultural       heritage setting and developing stimuli to tourism.
