     From the 1990s to the present, Leece's research has combined       methodological innovation in econometric modelling with the provision of       practical resources for financial analysts working in the housing and       banking sectors.
(i) Impact on the mortgage market's role in financial crisis:     Leece's substantial impact on the financial sector during the assessment       period is founded on his earlier contribution to the fundamental review of       the United Kingdom's mortgage market, conducted for the Treasury by David       Miles, Professor of Finance at Imperial College London in 2003-4.
A draft       of Leece's 2004 book was consulted by the review team and he is       acknowledged as an important reference point in the appendix to the final       report [source 1].
On the basis of his research on mortgage markets, Leece       was commissioned by the Consumers' Association to reflect and comment upon       the interim report of the Miles review and to present his findings to the       review team.
His contribution offered a significant corroboration of the       predominantly short-term, myopic perspectives governing mortgage choices,       highlighted in the final report.
The analysis and recommendations of this       final report of the Miles Review attracted considerable media interest       [sources 2 and 3], and continued to have an impact on world-wide debates,       banking practices and mortgage policies between 2008 and 2013.
Through the       Miles Report, Leece's research has influenced the functioning of the       housing market in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Work by the Research Institute for Housing America, for example,       comparing mortgage contract designs internationally, cites the report       [source 4].
An Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development       Working paper [source 5] notes the problems highlighted by Miles in the       adoption of fixed rate mortgage contracts in the UK and the need to       finance mortgage supply with covered bonds.
The Miles Report called for       changes in Financial Services Authority (now Financial Conduct Authority,       FCA) regulations regarding covered bonds and the FSA changed the       regulatory regime for such bonds in early 2013 [source 6].
Furthermore, Leece's research has had specific focused impact on policy       after 2008 through the Institute for Fiscal Studies Green Budget.
A       preview of the official UK Budget in mid-March, the IFS Green Budget is       published annually and regarded as a `comprehensive and thought provoking       document for anyone with an interest in the state of the UK economy or       public finances' (The New Economist, 31st January 2008) [source 7].
In 2008, Leece's analysis of the differences in the risk characteristics       between fixed nominal and variable nominal rate debt contracts was cited       for its contribution to expert understanding of the mortgage market       [source 8].
This work was produced in collaboration with Morgan Stanley       (see section ii, below).
Leece's research on mortgage market economics is       increasingly cited in the research papers of financial institutions,       indicating enduring and wide impact on understanding of the role of       mortgage contract design and household choices in the financial crisis and       on financial practices and policies.
A review by McAuslan [source 9]       highlighted Leece's work as an important exception to the general neglect       of this area by UK researchers, while in 2012 the Norwegian Central Bank       [source 10] drew on Leece's work in connection with the modelling of       interest rate expectations in the mortgage market.
(ii) Impact on the practices of the financial sector:     Leece's published research, his contribution to the Miles Review, and his       earlier experience of advising financial institutions led to a substantial       consultancy with Morgan Stanley, the leading multi-national financial       services corporation in 2007-8, through a grant award of &#163;75,000.
He       worked with the Structured Credit Department to model the loan performance       of subprime mortgage debt.
Leece assisted Morgan Stanley in the valuing       and hedging of the subprime loan securities in its possession.
His       statistical analysis was discussed throughout 2007 and 2008, leading to       new ways of approaching the data, and deployed from 2008 onwards to       produce better understanding of how a likelihood model could be used to       hedge securities.
Leece's analysis ensured that the organisation       understood the problems with previous mortgage securitisations approaches       and contract designs, and these insights were used from 2008 onwards to       hedge the securities and to prepare the bank for the period when       securitised markets re-opened.
