     The impact of French's research has been on the improvement of employment       conditions for migrant workers through better enforcement of National       Minimum Wage (NMW) and by developing these workers' understandings of       employment rights.
Although the focus of the research has been on migrant       workers, consequences have also led to fairer practices for all low-paid       workers and to fairer conditions for businesses [source 1].
The first impact has been through the work for the LPC.
French was       invited to present the LPC research on migrant workers to a retreat       meeting of the full Commission and the research was referred to in the LPC       report [source 2] as strengthening the view of the Commission and       providing one of their key recommendations to government that enforcement       of NMW should be targeted at sectors with high concentrations of migrant       workers [Source 2: pp.
276-7 and XXV].
Following this, the LPC reported in       2008 that the government was producing information leaflets about       employment rights in a variety of languages as a response to this need       [source 3].
Further, a report on NMW compliance by BIS stated that a       help-line for workers launched in 2009 has translation facilities       available in order to ensure support for the most vulnerable workers       [source 4].
This research also influenced the development of, and justification for,       part of a new Employment Bill in 2008.
This Bill changed the law to       increase the powers of inspectors to enforce and bring legal proceedings       against employers and employment agencies illegally paying below minimum       wage, with the purpose of reducing this problem.
In 2007, the LPC       recommended to government that there should be better enforcement of NMW       [source 2: Ch.
6].
A consultation document on the Employment Bill produced       by Parliament [Source 5] cited the research by French and M&#246;hrke (2006: p.       42) when outlining the reasons for the proposal and the LPC report [source       2: p. 2] when identifying the need for greater penalties for employment       agencies flouting the law.
Following responses to this consultation, the       Employment Bill 2008 was passed by Parliament, meaning penalties can now       be imposed on employers found to be illegally paying below NMW and giving       inspectors greater powers to obtain and use employment agency documents to       bring proceedings.
The outcomes have been outlined by BIS [source 4],       stating that in the first year of the new law, employers have been fined       over &#163;100,000 in penalties.
The second impact followed the report by French and M&#246;hrke (2008)       relating to the structures and organising strategies of the UNITY trade       union.
As a direct result of the research, the union conducted an internal       review to provide a better service to migrant workers through delivery of       ESOL language courses, the translations of union literature into Polish,       the employment of a Polish speaker to advise and liaise with migrant       workers, and through greater partnership with local councils to develop       services and encourage regeneration of the area [source 6].
Evidence from       the BIS [source 6: p. 4] report identifies that the research conducted by       French `had a dramatic effect on the union, far beyond the changes       envisaged at the outset.
The research element [of the review] was perhaps       the most valuable, highlighting issues such as outdated practices and       mindsets, which have led to attitudinal changes...It's enabled the union       to develop a strategy to move away from its traditional base and towards a       new position, taking on the role of an active partner in civil society'.
The third impact relates to research by French (2012) undertaken for the       regional LLN, analysing the employment practices of East European workers       working in east Staffordshire and Derby and the mismatch between their       qualifications levels and the under-employment of skills in low-paid work       in migrant dense sectors.
The research was presented to a high profile LLN       stakeholder conference where the long-term settlement patterns of many       migrant workers, their propensity to undertake further education and the       barriers to vocational courses were highlighted.
A former Deputy Principal       of Burton and South Derbyshire College stated that the report was very       beneficial and contributed to the College's strategic plans regarding       curriculum development and design.
The research has also had a more general impact beyond those       commissioning the research.
Findings by French and M&#246;hrke (2006) that       highlighted the lack of knowledge of migrant workers of employment rights,       and of the illegal wage practices of some employment agencies in paying       migrant workers, were cited as evidence by the House of Lords Economic       Affairs Select Committee.
This was used as evidence for their       recommendation that more effective means should be found for enforcing the       law against employers `who employ immigrants at wages and employment       conditions that do not meet minimum standards' [source 7: p. 28].
The       research (French and M&#246;hrke, 2006, 2008) was presented to a conference of       local stakeholders organised by the Strategic Local Partnership and       Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) in Stoke-on-Trent and informed the successful       bid by the CAB to become a HMRC Centre of Excellence, providing advice and       guidance on employment, benefits and wages for migrant workers.
Finally, French has made an important contribution to discussion of       methodological issues and the relative strengths and weaknesses of migrant       labour research to policy makers and practitioners through the ESRC       seminar series (2009-11), for which he acted as principal investigator.
The seminar series was designed to engage stakeholders (including trade       unions, ACAS, and the Equality and Human Rights Commission) and each       seminar included a range of practitioners, including among the presenters.
Written feedback following the series from practitioners (e.g.
from unions       Unite and GMB) indicated the benefit of the seminars [source 8], notably       in how trade unions approached organising migrant workers.
