     The XMaS project provides opportunities that underpin the UK material       science community through novel research infrastructure.
It delivers       economic and commercial impacts, stimulates public discourse on science,       transfers knowledge to a broad range of society, facilitates new       experimental techniques, and provides training to UK and international       stake holders.
A significant impact of the XMaS project has been through the       commercialisation of intellectual property, generated as a result of       developments made in the specific research infrastructure to implement new       experimental advances, to produce products of generic applicability to       synchrotron-based infrastructures.
To date, 9 commercial licences have       been generated (shared between Liverpool and Warwick).
We hold agreements       with the National Physics Laboratory (NPL) and American         Magnetics, and we have formed a close partnership with Huber         Diffraktionstechnik GmbH &amp; Co [7], who are world leaders in       supplying specialist x-ray equipment with an annual turnover of ca.
&#8364;8 M.       In the REF period, sales of licensed XMaS instruments to customers in the       US, Europe, and the Far East have produced a turn-over of &#8364;750 k for Huber.
They write:       "We have benefitted enormously through the XMaS collaboration through       which we have been able to add to our product range and ensure that we       stay at the forefront of the worldwide market in x-ray instrumentation.
This benefit is not just from the additional new Huber instruments that we       have developed in partnership with the XMaS team but also through the       increased market share this partnership brings to Huber.... With the XMaS       products, we were able to sell complete integrated systems... to meet the       future needs of our customers."
[7]     An article in the EPSRC newsletter, Connect, describes the impact       of the XMaS instrumentation as `big business' highlighting that "research       can have impact through innovative instrumentation as well as science"       [8].
By adopting the XMaS-developed research infrastructure, SR facilities       world-wide can enhance their capabilities, extend their reach and run       experiments more efficiently.
"If these XMaS designed slits were not available commercially we would       have had to develop them ourselves" [9].
As an example, our XYZ-cryostat mount [10] enables the sample to be       repositioned remotely, aligning its position on a micron scale.
At the US       Advanced Photon Source       "use of the XYZ cryostat mounts saves ~1 day of beamtime per experiment       ... which equates to $9072/day ... directly saving the APS facility $1.5 M       per annum" [11].
Since 2008, eleven XYZ-cryostat mounts have been sold globally.
Including       the 7 sold previously, and used throughout the REF impact period, we can       extrapolate a total annual saving of ~ $4 M to the sector.
Since the XMaS project has been running, several new central facilities       have been built or up-graded, including DIAMOND, APS and the LNLS in       Brazil.
Through knowledge transfer and direct interaction of staff between       these facilities, we have enabled projects to be completed more       efficiently and cost effectively.
This was typified by the deliberate       sequential appointment of a post-doctoral researcher (Gemma Newby) to work       on XMaS for two years before transferring to DIAMOND in 2009.
"This saved us a year of development time [and] cost saving equivalent to       ~&#163;40 k " [9].
Another example of exchange of processes is the installation of an       electric-field capability, developed by XMaS with NPL, at DIAMOND [12].
More recently, in 2013, the Swiss Light Source and the APS have       implemented our methods for controlling the incident polarisation, which       has       "pioneered the use of thin etched silicon...the fast switching piezo       stage...rapid acquisition of high quality data" [11].
Commercial organisations making use of our facilities include the (US)       National Standard Laboratories of NIST, the NPL, the Swiss national       laboratory EMPA, as well as St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Mary Rose Trust,       Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam and the Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna.
XMaS has also developed sample environments that allow materials to be       studied under a range of atmospheric (gaseous or liquid) conditions.
These       metrologies are well suited for cultural heritage and anthropological       studies where       "XMaS is making a significant contribution to preservation of the heritage       of the EU...extending the lifetime and our understanding of beautiful       artworks and artefacts" [13].
Two leading museums (Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam; Academy of Fine Arts,       Vienna) use the unique capabilities of XMaS to provide "deeper insights"       and develop new strategies to prevent atmospheric corrosion, and thus       preserve their collections for future generations [14].
Other examples,       which have also entered the public domain, include corrosion studies of       Tudor cannon balls from the wreck of the Mary Rose, highlighted in The         Sunday Telegraph and on-line [15]; as well as how teeth enamel can       be used to trace migratory patterns of early humans [16].
These types of       study:       "ensure that the huge contribution heritage tourism makes to the GDP of EU       countries will continue" [13].
As a major facility we communicate, disseminate and transfer knowledge       and ideas to a wide community which includes both industry and the public:       we circulate an annual newsletter world-wide, hold open user meetings, and       present at events such as the Technology World conference,       organised by the DTI and attended by over 1,000 global companies.
In       conjunction with commercial partners such as NPL and DIAMOND, we co-host,       sponsor and run specialist meetings and workshops for both academic and       industrial researchers.
One outcome of these metings was a new web       resource detailing metrology standards for electrical measurement hosted       by NPL [17].
As a result of this collaboration XMaS and NPL became       partners in a major EU project that brings together the premier EU       metrology labs with commercial partners such as IBM [12].
Furthermore,       some 3,000 members of the public visit the ESRF annually (50% students,       50% general public or industrial visitors).
The on-site XMaS staff conduct       tours and highlight the importance and relevance of science conducted in       this large-scale European facility.
The XMaS project is committed to train the next generation of material       scientists with specialist expertise in advanced synchrotron radiation       techniques.
Since 2008, more than 50 post-doctoral researchers have been       trained.
23 have since drawn on their research in positions at central       facilities around the world, including 10 who have taken up roles at the       home of synchrotron science in the UK (DIAMOND).
As noted by the Institute       of Science and Technology in Art director       "only institutions such as XMaS enable young researchers to be trained in       synchrotron techniques by experienced scientists ... extend their own       scientific network..., and to be one brick in the wall of Europe's       scientific ability to compete with the US and Asia" [14].
The diverse range of people trained on XMaS - undergraduate and       postgraduate students, post-doctoral researchers, international visitors -       have been able to transferred their knowledge and experience to their       current roles These span industry, other central facilities (as mentioned       above) and education in schools.
We highlight four examples: Stuart Bland       is an editor at Materials Today, which is a monthly open-access       journal presenting material science research in an accessible way; Alex       Pym works at Kromek, an SME developing digital colour x-ray imaging in       County Durham; Rachael Houchin is a physics teacher at the Royal Grammar       School, Newcastle who brings her XMaS experience into the classroom,       especially an ability to develop engaging experimental demonstrations;       Mark Gallagher is a project scientist at IDT, which is an advanced       engineering company specialising in beamline components:       "My training on XMaS gave me invaluable insight as a synchrotron user to       the importance of precision, reliability and stability of experimental       instrumentation to the end goal of a synchrotron experiment.
It is       difficult to envisage a more appropriate experience for my present       position and has added great value to my role within the company" [18].
