     Shaping national policy     The research has contributed to revisions of policy, changes in       implementation, assessments of progress, and challenges and changes to the       thinking of national bodies.
The direct beneficiaries were HEFCE, the       Learning and Skills Council (LSC), BIS and the Association of Colleges.
As       a result of the enhanced capability of these organisations in a hitherto       underdeveloped area of policy, choices for students have improved and       partnerships between colleges and universities have been better supported.
The core recommendations of the 2002-03 research were accepted by HEFCE       and, following a review in 2005-06, implemented as sector policy [S1].
The       measures adopted included `a minimum period (three years) of security for       the funding and student numbers available to them, so that colleges have       more opportunity for long-term strategic investment in higher education'       (HEFCE 2006).
In another revision of policy consequent upon the research,       HEFCE developed guidance on clarity and transparency in indirect funding       partnerships.
The same research, along with the findings of the 2001-02       LSDA study, underpinned the thematic review undertaken by Parry (2004) for       the Foster inquiry into further education colleges in England (Foster       2005).
These studies and the 2006-08 ESRC research were among the       `fundamental basic resources' used by the LSC to guide its policy on       higher-level qualifications (LSC 2008).
As a result of its engagement with the Sheffield research, HEFCE funded a       series of follow-on projects between 2007 and 2010 to advise on policy and       assist with development.
One of these, an independent monitoring and       evaluation of the introduction of the new measures, led to a redesign of       the implementation plan.
These interventions, guided by the research       evidence on how colleges managed their higher education, enabled HEFCE to       secure higher education strategies from 240 out of 256 eligible colleges       (HEFCE 2011).
For small providers in particular, this was the first time       their higher education was underpinned by an explicit strategy, with a       positive impact on curriculum integration, student progression and the       management of standards and quality.
Another type of impact was policy learning.
Those benefiting were the       responsible officers in HEFCE, the LSC, the Higher Education Academy       (HEA), the Learning and Skills Improvement Service (LSIS), the AoC and the       government directorates for higher and further education.
In the absence       of an overarching machinery for cross-sector policy development and       intelligence, the research has enabled officials working in one sector to       better comprehend contexts and complexities in the other.
`For those of         us implementing policy for higher-level qualifications, the research has         been insightful and critically interrogative.
It has extended our         understanding of policy history and development, including how sector         strategies may sometimes diverge, even when the policy goal is the same'       (Head of Qualifications, Skills Funding Agency) [S2].
As a result of the 2011-12 BIS research, early assumptions about the       costs and characteristics of higher education in colleges have given way       to more evidence-based understandings.
Advice to ministers and advisers       from the research team made plain the difficulties surrounding growth and       competition by further education institutions.
The vehicles for achieving policy learning were (a) research briefings       for government officials (BIS) and ministers (Hodge, Howells, Willetts)       (b) expert consultancies for sector bodies (LSIS) (c) memberships of key       policy and advisory groups (the AoC, HEA and the Quality Assurance Agency       for Higher Education) and (d) invitations to contribute to national       inquiries (Commission on Adult Vocational Teaching and Learning).
Given       the turnover of agencies in further and higher education, an unanticipated       impact was the opportunity to inject a policy memory into public debates       and decision-making, including the work of think tanks (Policy Exchange       2011) [S3].
Informing institutional strategy     The research has strengthened the capacity of colleges to develop, manage       and monitor their strategies for higher education.
The main beneficiaries       were college managers, tutors and governors, especially those in the Mixed       Economy Group and 157 Group of colleges.
Three follow-on projects undertaken for HEFCE were dedicated to the       strategic development of higher education in colleges.
The first evaluated       a pilot exercise on the appraisal of college strategies (Parry and       Thompson 2009) and the second drafted guidance on Writing Higher         Education Strategies (HEFCE 2009).
The latter was used by 240       colleges in preparing their submissions (attracting 552 page views).
The       third was a national leadership programme (2008-10) led by the Sheffield       team and targeted at senior college managers.
The expert programme of       seminars and materials production was informed by the body of research       completed since 2001, including the 2009-10 study on institutional       profiles.
Unique to its impact was the combination of resources assembled       by the research team and contributed in confidence by participant       colleges.
A total of 176 colleges were represented at five regional seminars.
One       of these events was designed for college governors and led to the       production of a Guide for Governors and Clerks published by LSIS in       2009 [S4].
Sent to all college governing bodies, it is a key reference for       their responsibilities and decisions on higher education.
Each regional       seminar featured inputs from HEFCE, QAA and the Leadership Foundation for       Higher Education (LFHE) with contributions from college principals.
A core       text for the programme was a book Managing Higher Education in         Colleges authored by the research team and published by Continuum in       2006.
This was written specifically for college personnel and its       checklists are routinely used as tools in institutional planning.
The       success of the expert programme, as attested by HEFCE, was its reach and       authority in equipping college leaders with a strategic reading of the       changing landscape of higher education.
This included international       perspectives on the college mission in higher education.
The impact of the expert programme extended to Australia where Parry was       invited to undertake an equivalent exercise in 2012.
The funders were the       Australian government, TAFE Directors Australia (TDA) and the University       of Melbourne.
The beneficiaries were federal and state government       departments along with dual-sector and mixed-sector institutions in New       South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia.
Managers from over       60 colleges and universities were represented, including private       providers.
`The lessons for Australia of the research on franchising         were timely and influential.
By bringing Gareth to Australia to share         and debate these findings, we were able to equip our institutional         strategies with an evidence base not previously available to colleges'       (Director of Policy and Stakeholder Engagement, TDA) [S5].
Guiding professional practice     The research has enhanced the professional development of staff in       colleges and partner universities.
The beneficiaries were (a) front-line       lecturers, course leaders, curriculum managers, partnership directors and       learning support workers; (b) the sector bodies responsible for continuing       professional development; and (c) the student unions, including their       local and national officers.
These were the audience for a 200-page good practice guide Supporting         Higher Education in Further Education Colleges: Policy, Practice and         Prospects.
Authored by the Sheffield team and published by HEFCE in       2009, the guide has been one of its most requested reports.
A total of       2173 hard copies were distributed (receiving 2510 page views in the first       year of publication).
Alongside a synthesis of research evidence, the       guide showcased examples of good practice contributed by 60 organisations.
The content was reviewed by a team of 26 readers from individual colleges       and universities as well as the National Union of Students and the staff       unions.
Designed as a tool for staff development, it became the standard       reference for professional practice: `We valued its widespread use         across the sector.
As higher education moved up the policy agenda, every         college had reason to access the guide, not least in meeting policy         expectations which the authors had played a part in shaping''       (Assistant Chief Executive, AoC) [S6].
Directories, databases, websites, networks and training programmes were       created for user groups by each of the five research studies.
In accessing       these resources, the colleges strengthened their capacity to manage,       monitor and argue for a larger role in higher education.
Their impact and       importance were quickly recognised by the sector bodies who subsequently       assumed lead responsibility for these services.
Since 2007, a database on       higher education coordinators compiled by the Sheffield team has been       published by the HEA.
In 2008, a directory on work-focused higher       education in colleges and universities was produced by Foundation Degree       Forward based on bibliographies and commentaries in the underpinning       research.
In 2012, the AoC published its own guide to higher education       policy and practice.
In 2013, LSIS and the LFHE launched an accredited       professional development course based on a design developed three years       earlier by Sheffield researchers for the HEFCE expert programme.
In sum, the research has benefited each of the responsible authorities       and all of the further education colleges involved in higher education.
The effects were planned, sustained and cumulative as well as indirect and       sometimes contingent.
The influences spanned high policy and local       practice.
Policy-making, capacity-building and strategic thinking have       been enhanced.
An infrastructure has been established to maximise present       and future impacts.
