     This research has had an impact via two main pathways:     (1) Influence on probation &#8212; professional practice and development of         training programmes       The lead reviewer of the ESRC evaluation of the Young Adult Desistance       Study provided an early indication of the influence of the research on       professional practice, stating that: `The Sheffield study has made radical       and far-reaching recommendations (e.g.
that probation needed to embrace       insights from research into desistance) for the probation service on the       basis of its findings to date'.
Dissemination of the study's findings led       to invitations to discuss its implications with the Number 10 Policy Unit       (July 2010, leading to its circulation within government), and with the       (then) Commissioning and Commercial Director for the National Offender       Management Service (NOMS) (March, August 2009).
The research has       influenced the development of NOMS' understanding of correctional practice       and, in so doing, directly affected the content of the Offender Engagement       Programme of NOMS, particularly within the Skills for Effective Engagement       and Development (SEED) year-long training programme for current probation       staff, which was rolled out nationally in 2012 [S1].
SEED is currently       being evaluated by the University of Sheffield, with funding by NOMS,       under the direction of Professor Shapland.
The SEED programme is now a       major workpackage in an EU grant (coordinated by NOMS) to explore       implementation and evaluation in other European countries, in this       instance, Romania (grant JUST/2011/JPEN/AG/2892, 2012-2014).
In       contributing to increased understanding of how and why people stop       offending, the research has helped NOMS re-orientate its thinking about       how its frontline practice needs to be commissioned and delivered [S1].
The research has played a key role in shaping the training of probation       staff [S2, S6, S7].
During this period there were three providers of       training for future probation staff (Portsmouth, De Montfort and Sheffield       Hallam Universities).
All were required by NOMS to teach trainee staff       about the research on desistance from crime as part of their studies, and       to encourage staff to remain aware of the main messages of this research       during their time as probation workers.
Key messages drawn from the       desistance research undertaken at Sheffield University were taught to       trainee probation staff by these consortia [S7].
For example, the       Sheffield Hallam module "Positive Probation Practice" (part of the       Probation Qualifying Framework: Level 6) drew heavily on the material       produced by members of staff at Sheffield University [S7].
Both de       Montfort and Sheffield Hallam universities have web links to the       University of Sheffield's `Discovering Desistance' blog [S7].
(2) The film has increased understanding of desistance among         practitioners and policy-makers       The Road from Crime ([R4] above) uses interviews with current and       former service users, probation staff and academic experts in the UK and       the USA to highlight how the process of desistance unfolds and how the       criminal justice system could be moulded to assist these processes [S3].
Film screenings and discussions among practitioners have led to increased       understanding on the part of probation staff (at all levels) concerning       the supervision and assessment of offenders, and resulted in revised       training programmes emphasising the benefits of making assessments of       offenders' needs which allow for the identification of the positive       aspects of an individual's life [S2].
The Project Advisory Group for the       film included representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Scottish       Government, the Probation Board for Northern Ireland, those training       probation staff, and former service users.
The film was shown at eight       seminars throughout the UK (between April and June 2012) funded by the       ESRC, and at numerous events since.
These raised awareness and provoked       discussions between policy makers, service providers (state, private and       voluntary sector), service users, and their families about how current       service provisions could be re-orientated to better facilitate desistance       [S2 and S7].
The film has also been packaged as a DVD (translated into       French, Spanish, German and Finnish) and made freely available via the web       [R4], [R5].
A copy of the DVD was given free to every delegate at the       Probation Chief's Association (PCA) conference in March 2013, with the PCA       funding the 200 DVDs this required.
The film and the web-page have started a wider debate amongst       practitioners about how formal institutions can help people to stop       offending [S4].
Examples of the use of the film include screenings to       people being supervised in the community (to encourage thinking about an       individual's past offending), to mentors (to further their understanding       of the lives of those with whom they will be working), and to staff in       other branches of the criminal justice system, such as the police and       magistrates (to make them aware of processes of desistance).
The web-page       has also become a forum for debate amongst policy makers and       practitioners.
It has had over 61,788 visits (`hits') by 32,414 unique       visitors between 18/08/2011 and 31/7/2013.
The film is playing a major       role in increasing understanding of desistance by professionals and policy       makers, and has helped combat common misperceptions of offending behaviour       [S2].
A screening of the film in July 2012 in Glasgow was attended by       around 200 people, including the Scottish Justice Secretary (Kenny       MacAskill MSP), who praised the film: "This has helped my officials and me       in better understanding the reality of desistance from crime, and in       considering how public policy can better remove obstacles to desistance"       [S5].
Key showings of the film include that to the Scottish Parliament in       February 2013.
Farrall was invited by the French Minister of Justice       (Christiane Taubira) to speak about desistance to a specially convened       citizens' jury in February 2013.
The film has been added to the Home       Affairs Section, House of Commons Library, the Librarian having commented:       `This could be very useful as a source &#8212; just the sort of thing that       Members [of Parliament] would be interested in seeing'.
The film is free       to view from the web-page above, and has been played online or downloaded       4,930 times between 18/08/2011 and 31/7/2013.
The briefing paper [R6] has       been downloaded 1,066 times and read online 5,881 times between 18/08/2011       and 31/7/2013.
Because the film is free to view on the web, it is not       possible to document all instances when it has been seen.
The film has       been accessed in Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, South America and North       America.
The feedback from the film screenings has been enthusiastic, for       example:     "This film is a rallying cry for a paradigm shift; I recently viewed the       `Road From Crime' and have ordered a DVD for myself.
I just wanted to pass       along that it is outstanding" (anonymous workshop participant).
The research and resulting film have affected the way in which court       officials see their role in relation to probation sentencing.
For example,       during a seminar held at the School of Law, Leeds University (12 November       2012), at which participants included representatives from the Magistrates       Association, Wakefield Prison, West Yorkshire Probation Area Trust and       former service users, the representative from the Magistrates Association       stated that the organisation needed to increase the number of its members       who were former service users.
The film has been included in training       programmes for probation officers [S1] and [S2], and some probation       services have created posts to further promote the embedding of desistance       approaches into frontline services [S6].
