     The research has had an unprecedented influence on government policy       makers and practitioners       in England and Wales, where there has been a significant shift towards       using RJ driven directly by       the research findings.
The research has also had impact internationally.
(1) Influence on government policy and on practitioners in England         and Wales     The research has directly provided the evidence base for legislation to       promote pre-sentence RJ in       the Crime and Courts Act 2013 (s.44 and Schedule 16), whilst also       informing the government's       policy Action Plan and guidance to practitioners.
In November 2012, Jeremy       Wright MP (Minister       for Prisons and Rehabilitation) wrote in the Foreword to the Restorative       Justice Action Plan for the       Criminal Justice System [S1]:     "When the Bill is enacted, restorative justice will then be accessible at       every stage of the       criminal justice process, from initial arrest through to prison, for those       victims and offenders       who are willing.
The benefits of restorative justice are well known by those working       within the sector.
85% of       victims who go through restorative justice conferences find it helpful.
For offenders who take       part in restorative justice, there is a 14% reduction in reoffending       rates.
However, despite this,       restorative justice is not being used enough.
This action plan sets out a series of actions which the Government will       drive forward, with our       partners in the restorative justice field, to bring about real change in       the delivery and provision       of restorative justice across England and Wales."
At the end of the document, the source for `further information on the       evidence base for restorative       justice' directs the reader to the Restorative Justice Council (RJC)       website, which states [S2]:     "Restorative Justice Works     There is a strong and growing evidence base that restorative justice       meets the needs of       victims and reduces the frequency of re-offending.
The Evidence     The Government funded a &#163;7 million 7 year research programme looking into       restorative       justice.
In her independent evaluation, published in four reports (see       'Ministry of Justice       Evaluation' below), Professor Joanna Shapland found that in randomised       control trials of RJ       with serious offences (robbery, burglary and violent offences) by adult       offenders:            The majority of victims chose to participate in face-to-face meetings         with the offender, when         offered by a trained facilitator;       85% of victims who took part were satisfied with the process;       RJ reduced the frequency of re-offending, leading to &#163;9 savings for         every &#163;1 spent on         restorative justice."
The pathway to this policy action has included presentations to key       practitioners and policy makers       as well as direct advice by Professor Shapland, drawing upon the lessons       from the research.
The initial invited keynote presentations by Shapland include: 5th       Annual Conference on       Restorative Approaches (London, June 2008); Restorative Justice Consortium       Annual General       Meeting (London, July 2008); Independent Commission on Youth Crime and       Anti-social Behaviour       national conference (May 2011); Restorative Justice Council Annual       Conference (London,       February 2010).
The RJC, formerly the Restorative Justice Consortium, is       the key practitioner       forum issuing guidance on RJ practice and is becoming the main path to       accreditation.
Shapland attended meetings and question/answer sessions with: Chief       Scientific Advisor to the       Home Office (London, July 2008); Youth Justice Board Strategy Group       (London, September 2008);       sentencers in Thames Valley (April 2009); Commission on English Prisons       Today (London,       November 2008); and senior civil servants from the MoJ/the Victim and       Witnesses Unit (London,       January 2009).
In December 2010, the Coalition government issued a Consultation Paper       which drew on the       results of the research in identifying increased opportunities to use RJ       approaches in England and       Wales [S3], accompanied by Green Paper evidence which directly quoted the       research [S4]:     "A joint Home Office and Ministry of Justice commissioned evaluation of a       number of       restorative justice pilots found that 85 per cent of victims who       participated in the restorative       process said they were satisfied with the experience.
The evaluation also       found that when       looking at these pilots together, they were effective in reducing the       frequency of reoffending       (Shapland et al.
2008)."
The government response to the results of the consultation in June 2011       confirmed the value of RJ       approaches to victims and endorsed the research findings on this point       [S5].
The research formed       the basis of a BBC Panorama programme in November 2011, in which the then       Minister of State at       the MoJ, Crispin Blunt, confirmed that the government was developing       policy to provide RJ in       relation to both adult and young offenders [S6].
In 2012, the National       Offender Management       Service (NOMS) commissioned trainers to develop the expertise base across       the country to       undertake RJ in accordance with the recommendations made in the research       [S7]:     "Many victims say the best way harm can be repaired is through       participation in restorative       justice.
We are proposing using restorative justice interventions at each       stage of the justice       system."
The research has influenced the RJC through regular briefings and       updates, with several chapters       of Restorative Justice in Practice being serialized in Resolution,       the Council's magazine for       practitioners:     "This seven-year study is the most important research evidence on       restorative justice (RJ) in       this country.
The work has challenged some of the myths around RJ;       confirmed earlier findings       of the strong victim benefits from RJ; and provided new evidence of the       impact of RJ in       reducing re-offending, leading to cost-savings across Criminal Justice"       (Lizzie Nelson, Director       Restorative Justice Council, flyjacket endorsement of Restorative         Justice in Practice.)
Shapland has been responsible for drafting several sections of the Best         Practice Guidance for         Restorative Practice, which RJ providers are now expected to meet,       in her capacity as a member       of the joint Working Group of the RJC and the MoJ established to formulate       professional guidance       [S7].
Shapland was invited by the MoJ to join their Steering Group which met in       summer/autumn 2012 to       draft the government's Action Plan for the development of RJ policy and       practice.
She was the sole       academic on the Group [S1].
The government also commissioned `train the       trainers' work in       2012/13 to increase national capacity to deliver the new plans for RJ in       England and Wales [S8].
Shapland continues to advise the RJC and MoJ on specifications for data       recording and monitoring       for the new provision of restorative justice.
(2) Influence on government policy and practice in other         jurisdictions and internationally     The research has influenced policy and practice in several jurisdictions.
In Scotland, Shapland       gave a keynote presentation on `Restorative Justice: the Research       Evidence' to the Scottish       Government Conference (Edinburgh, 21 February 2008), and contributed to       roundtable       discussions with policymakers (Edinburgh, 22 February 2009), with       discussion continuing into       2013.
In Northern Ireland, the research was discussed with senior policy       makers and practitioners       (Belfast, 9 March 2011).
The research has been referred to extensively by       the Republic of Ireland's       National Commission on Restorative Justice &#8212; this `important piece of       recent research' [S9]       providing the basis for the Commission's recommendation for nationwide       implementation of RJ       services by 2015.
The research informed the successful application by the European Forum       for Restorative Justice       (the European NGO for RJ schemes across Europe) for an EU grant       (2009-2011: 291,000E,       Shapland was on the Steering Group), to explore more widely schemes'       experiences with       conferencing and mediation.
Shapland gave keynote presentations at the       Forum's 6th Biennial       Conference (Bilbao, June 2010) to some 600 practitioners, and the biennial       conference of Dutch       and Belgian police chiefs (14-15 May 2009), subsequently published in the       Dutch/Belgian series on       policing and practice.
