     Development of a training resource for the public sector:       Sheffield University Management       School's impact strategy seeks to develop routes to impact by working with       regional and national       government agencies and umbrella organisations to maximise the       dissemination of its research.
To       this end, since 2010 Birdi et al have focused on enhancing the leadership       and innovation skills,       attitudes and behaviours of public sector managers in the local South       Yorkshire area through the       Sheffield City Region Leaders Programme (SCRLP).
This programme was       developed       collaboratively by the University of Sheffield (UoS) and Sheffield Hallam       University (SHU) with the       aim of improving public service delivery in the Sheffield City Region.
The       programme comprises       five modules, two led by academics at SHU and three led by academics at       the UoS.
Birdi designed       and conducts a two-day, 10-credit UoS module on innovation built around       the Clear Ideas (CI)       model, where participants apply the model to real-life problems facing       them.
The evaluation data       collected from the workshops as well as new research has been used to       continuously refine and       improve the CI methodology.
The CI model has also been used with members       of national bodies       such as the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (2012), the       Scottish Government (2011,       2013) and the British Psychological Society (2010-2013).
Since September 2010, participants in the CLEAR IDEAS workshops have       included 216 public       sector managers and employees from: seven Councils (Sheffield, Barnsley,       Rotherham, Bolsover,       North East Derbyshire, Doncaster and Chesterfield); NHS institutions (e.g.
Sheffield Children's       NHS Foundation Trust, NHS Blood and Transplant service and Sheffield Care       Trust); South       Yorkshire Police; South Yorkshire Fire and Rescue; three educational       institutions (Sheffield       College, University of Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam University); South       Yorkshire Forest; and       Sheffield Homes.
CLEAR IDEAS has therefore reached many of the major       significant public sector       bodies in the Sheffield City Region.
Evidence of impact on enhancing innovation resources and skills of         employees: Analysis of       questionnaire data from 181 workshop participants has shown       statisticallysignificant       improvements in all targeted innovation-related competencies (e.g.
generation of new ideas,       planning for implementation).
The SCRLP evaluation reports also showed       that 98%       agreed/strongly agreed that the CLEAR IDEAS model was a useful way of       dealing with problems       and 99% agreed/strongly agreed that the workshop was relevant for their       job need.
Therefore,       managers have used new innovation resources to improve their professional       practice [S1].
The       SCRLP itself was Highly Commended in the European Foundation for       Management Development       (EFMD) Awards 2011, with the impact part of the application focused on the       CI module [S1].
Downstream impacts of the CLEAR IDEAS training framework     The examples below demonstrate how significant organisational impacts       have been achieved by       application of the CLEAR IDEAS principles to a work-related problem in       either workshop/group       activity formats with colleagues or individually, using them to structure       their development of a new       initiative.
Organisational efficiency and economic impact in adult social care:       Based on the principles       learned whilst attending CI workshops in 2010 and 2011, Sheffield City       Council (SCC) managers in       the Communities Portfolio used monthly `Thinking Aloud' sessions in 2011       to embed regular time       for innovative thinking and application of CLEAR IDEAS approaches.
The       monthly sessions       contributed to the development of a new and more efficient Community       Access and Reablement       Service (CARS) for Sheffield aimed at providing support for older people       and those with physical or       sensory impairment.
The basis for CARS arose from application of CI to the       challenge of saving       costs by reducing demand for adult social care services.
In the twelve       months after its       implementation in July 2012, adult referrals requiring formal assessment       for social care needs fell       from 80% to 31%, due to improved efficiency of the new system.
The new       system is also estimated       by management to have saved SCC &#163;1.7M in the first year [S2].
The Head of       Improvement and       Development, Communities Portfolio, Sheffield City Council stated: "It         is really clear that there is a         direct link between the ideas that were generated in the CLEAR IDEAS         session and the significant         reablement programme that is now in full swing and making a very         significant impact on reducing         assessment costs and waiting times and diverting people effectively from         adult social care.
"[S2]     Influence on planning and management of services and on continuous         improvement         training in the police service: Following positive experiences from       their SCRLP participants,       South Yorkshire Police (SYP) have written into their continuous       improvement strategy document       that the CLEAR IDEAS model has been adopted as a supporting toolkit from       2013 onwards [S3].
This involves training officers, staff and service improvement groups in       all four of the SYP districts       in the use of the CI methodology so that this can be used throughout the       organisation.
To date, 30       employees of differing ranks in Rotherham district have taken part in       workshops with the aim of       developing innovative methods of reducing burglaries, vehicle crime and       promoting more efficient       working.
The progress of the ensuing initiatives is being monitored.
For       example, one group is now       working on implementing the `Pawn Shop Partnership', a new strategy for       reducing the second-hand       market for stolen goods.
Development of more cost-effective smoke alarm fitting: South       Yorkshire Fire and Rescue       (SYFR) used creative thinking techniques introduced on the CI workshop to       improve their smoke       alarm fitting by adopting a simple and effective solution (Velcro pads) to       solve the problem of dust       and alarms falling off ceilings in 2010.
This solution overcame an       organisational health and safety       issue surrounding the fixing of alarms to ceilings containing asbestos and       reduced the need for       trained individuals to re-fit alarms that had been previously poorly       fitted.
SYFR has fitted       approximately 19,000 smoke alarms in the last three years and the       reduction in materials alone       was estimated to save 3p per alarm fitting [S4].
New resources to improve road safety and citizenship of young people:       SYFR participants       realised that by using the CI techniques in a workshop the efficiency of       road safety communication       to schoolchildren could be improved by pooling cross-agency resources.
The       resulting initial `One       Message' project was piloted in Sheffield primary schools in 2011 and       indicated the viability of the       approach.
This then led to them being given a budget of &#163;98k from South       Yorkshire Safer Roads       Partnership to commission a new integrated road safety education package.
The education       package centres on an interactive and hard-hitting video presentation       entitled `Collision' which was       launched on 30th Jan 2013.
SYFR are now working with local schools to       ensure that as many       young people in the county as possible can see the film, with the aim of       improving road safety in       the future [S4].
Furthermore, another new educational package called       `Routes 4 U' aimed at 14-16       year olds has been developed by SYFR with the Open College Network.
This       arose from an initial       CI workshop on how to deal better with the anti-social behaviour of NEETs       (young people Not in       Education, Employment or Training).
This initiative is designed to help       young people learn       teambuilding, citizenship and employability skills and was launched in       South Yorkshire in February       2013 and to date has been delivered in four locations with more lined up       [S4].
Improved health care practice: A Medicine Information Pharmacist       in Sheffield Children's NHS       Foundation Trust noticed problems with poor patient compliance and drug       administration with a       gastro-oesophageal reflux medication.
Using the CI workshop techniques he       was able to influence       the choice and adoption of a different drug in 2012, reportedly leading to       more accurate       administration, dosage and patient compliance.
As he says "... by and         large it is has been a         success... the implementation of the change went a lot better than I         thought with over 90% of         patients changed over to the new medicine within 2 months...
There was a         predicted financial         saving for the Trust (c. &#163;10k per annum), and these savings seemed to         have been realised despite         a 15% increase in prescribing of the new medicine.
Other hospitals         around the country asked for a         copy of our guidelines with a view to implementing the same         innovation..." [S5].
Changed strategic approach to environmental planning: South       Yorkshire Forest (SYF) is       responsible for managing over 200 square miles of rural and urban       landscapes and a million       people live within its boundary.
It was tasked with developing a Local       Nature Partnership to bring       about improvements in the local natural environment.
The SYF Director used       the CI approach from       2011 onwards in a series of meetings with partners in order to expand       membership to include the       private sector and therefore provide a more widely inclusive and effective       partnership than       originally envisioned.
He says "The CLEAR IDEAS model gave us a         framework to look carefully at         strategic development and business development opportunities, and not         just to think in terms of         usual projects.
The Commit, Lead and Engage aspects were extremely         valuable tools in helping to         identify the economic benefits of our (collective) work and to develop         productive new partnerships,         particularly with the private sector.
This has proved invaluable because         the firmer focus on jobs         and growth has placed a much clearer emphasis on working with business         sector partners.
The         LNP is quite a long strategic development process...but has already         delivered more efficient         working through service integration."
[S6].
