     The case demonstrates economic, commercial and organisational impacts.
The research findings       were used by the Department for Transport (DfT) and by the Chartered       Institute of Management       Accounting (CIMA) to inform and encourage best practice within retail       organisations.
Pathways to Impact &#8212; Government, Industry and Professional Bodies     Reverse Logistics was an important area of investment for the Department       for Transport (DfT) as it       fell within their Sustainable Distribution agenda.
In 2008, when the       toolkit was completed, it was       put on their Freight Best Practice site [S1, S2].
This site, managed by       AECOM, was highly       regarded in the freight industry as it provided essential industry       relevant information on topics such       as saving fuel, developing skills, equipment and systems, and performance       management [S1].
All       materials were available to download free of charge.
The site was archived       in 2010 on completion       of the programme's funding.
Reflecting on the reverse logistics project a       Manager at DfT said: "the         work undertaken by Bernon and Cullen in developing their Reverse         Logistics Toolkit has played a         significant part in providing organisations with the ability to review         their reverse logistics processes         and also identify performance improvement steps aimed at improving         efficiency, reducing costs         and improving customer service" [S1].
In 2009, the toolkit was also       published on the Chartered       Institute of Management Accounting (CIMA) website and follow-up workshops       were held with CIMA       members.
In Feb 2012, CIMA and The American Institute of Certified Public       Accountants (AICPA)       launched a Global Joint Venture called Chartered Global Management       Accountants (CGMA), a       new professional designation for Management Accountants.
The CGMA is       designed to elevate       management accounting and further emphasise its importance for businesses       worldwide.
Cullen       and Bernon's Reverse Logistics Toolkit was one of the first twelve       toolkits selected to feature on       the CGMA website [S3, S4].
Approximately eighteen months after it had been       featured, the toolkit's       webpage had had 563 unique visitors and the toolkit itself had been       downloaded 960 times [S3].
User Engagement and Impact     The 40 managers who contributed to the co-design of the toolkit through       the industrial forums and       workshops benefitted significantly.
They were able to take ideas back to       their organisations, share       good practices, identify benchmarks, and implement new processes.
Industrial partners who       supported the development of the reverse logistics toolkit (named on the       published version of the       toolkit on the Department for Transport Freight Best Practice website)       included Avon, Christian       Salvesen, Consilium, Dale C Rockell, DHL, Entertainment UK, Fuel Champ,       Halfords, LCP       Consulting, Linpac, Menzies Distribution, O2, PC World, Stiller Group,       Vivendi Universal Games       and Wincanton [R2].
Statements from different company representatives were       included in the final       presentation to the Department for Transport.
For example, a supply chain       manager at Avon said:       "It has been useful to see that other companies face similar         challenges, and to share experiences         with colleagues working to capture the significant benefits this area         offers, with the `cradle to grave'         approach across their business practices that it takes" and a       customer services manager at PC       World noted that: "The reverse logistics project is a great opportunity         to meet with other retailers to         discuss relevant issues and share best practice" [S5].
Three       examples from the many companies       that have benefitted from the toolkit are detailed below:     Halfords Group plc     At Halfords, one of the organisations involved in the co-design, the       impact has been extensive [S6,       S7].
As a result of making several changes to its reverse logistics       processes through the use of       avoidance techniques and increased transparency of information, there was       a 40% reduction in       returns and, also due to the changes to the reverse logistics processes,       non-compliance at stores       level with agreed returns processes fell from 15% to 2% [S6].
As a       consequence of specific       interventions aimed at Far-East suppliers, Halfords' reduced its       direct-sourced returns level from       Far-East suppliers by 40% over a two year period resulting in a reduced       risk of exposure to the       business and significant financial and customer service improvements [S6].
Finally, thanks to       changes introduced through the reverse logistics project, the value of       returns during the period fell       by on average &#163;450,000 per month which represents an annual reduction of       around &#163;5.4 million       per year [S6].
The Head of Quality &amp; Cost Reduction at Halfords Plc       was involved in the project       from the beginning and the whole of the Halfords Reverse Logistics       (Returns) processes have       been influenced by the research work undertaken.
A sample quote from him       is: "The reverse         logistics project had a major influence on the introduction of new         reverse logistics processes within         Halfords.
It helped to increase awareness of the issues and the large         potential for improvement to         both bottom line performance and customer service through the         introduction of improved         processes.
The identification of new tools and the support provided by         discussions at the         workshops played a vital part in the implementation of change at         Halfords" [S7].
The work has       impacted on relationships with all aspects of the supply chain and the new       processes impacted on       all 460 stores in the UK and also on supply chain partners with around 40%       of supplies coming       from the Far East [S6].
[text removed for publication]     [text removed for publication] the UK supermarket sector, [text removed for publication].
Managing       reverse logistics is very important to this company.
Utilising ideas       embedded in the toolkit, which       the company's Trading Account and Returns Manager downloaded from the CIMA       website in       2010, he and the other members of the project team implemented new       processes relating to       returns avoidance, alternative disposition routes and performance       measurement.
These new       processes have led to benefits and savings for the company [S8].
[text       removed for publication].
Vax     Vax Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hong Kong based TechTronic       Industries Co.Ltd (TTi); a       multi-billion dollar company owning a large portfolio of brands within the       power tool and floor care       sectors.
As a result of a review of reverse logistics processes which was       influenced by       engagement with the research team, a pilot scheme with two specific       retailers resulted in       significant improvements.
Returns attributed to `no-fault found' reduced       by up to 40%.
Pre-authorization       of returns reduced the number of returns from one of the retailers by 90%       within a       short period of time.
The annualised net savings from these initiatives       was calculated at nearly one       million pounds [S9: S10].
These savings figures are conservative as the       full implications of       designing out quality problems will take time to mature as future product       families will reap the real       benefits over the initiatives.
For example, on one product line alone (not       recorded in the figures       above), the company has reported a 6% reduction in returns levels [S9:       S10].
