     Challenging conventional wisdom and stimulating a policy debate     In December 2007 Williams presented the findings of the 2007       Eurobarometer survey to the European Commission's Directorate-General       Employment, Social Affairs &amp; Equal Opportunities, and discussed the       need for undeclared work to be harnessed and legitimised rather than       eradicated across the EU-27.
Following this, he was: (a) invited by the EU       Presidency to present advice and policy recommendations on tackling       undeclared work to the Employment Committee of the European Commission       (ECOM) in March 2008; (b) invited to join the European Commission       delegation visiting Mexico, led by Commissioner Spidlia, to establish       dialogue with the Mexican government on employment relations and social       protection in April 2008; and (c) invited by the French EU Presidency of       the European Council to the governmental conference on `illegal employment       practices' in 2008.
The impact of this engagement was to enable Williams'       rethinking of the nature of undeclared work and his call for a more       coordinated approach to take hold in EU policy circles, resulting in a       resolution being passed in the European Parliament as well as a European       Parliament legislative initiative being tabled.
Shaping a European Parliament resolution     In September 2008, Italian MEP, Pier Antonio Panzeri, put a motion to the       European Parliament for a resolution to tackle undeclared work [S1].
Williams' 2008 report, Tackling Undeclared Work in the European Union       [R5] was the only reference cited.
The Motion called for a       shift towards enabling the formalisation of undeclared work, the       development of a `knowledge bank' of good practice policy measures to       facilitate this shift, and for more coordinated action across governments,       all recommendations in Williams' 2008 report.
The motion was passed by a       large majority (479 in favour, 50 against and 47 abstentions) [S2].
In 2009, to implement the recommendation for the `knowledge bank',       Eurofound commissioned Williams (with Regioplan) to expand its coverage       from 5 to 28 countries, and in 2012 to update and expand the coverage of       the knowledge bank to also include the five EU candidate countries [S3].
This is the only source of `good practice' policy ideas available to       governments throughout the world and since its creation this knowledge       bank of policy measures has had 61,449 views.
Stimulating EU legislation     In 2010, to implement the recommendation in the Panzeri resolution for       more coordinated action at the EU-level, the European Commission issued a       &#8364;460,000 tender to evaluate the feasibility of establishing a coordinated       EU-level approach towards, and platform for, tackling undeclared work       [S4].
Williams (again with Regioplan) won this contract, and following       extensive consultation with senior government officials, as well as       employer and employee representative organisations, throughout every       member state of the EU-27, put forward a proposal for a European-level       platform between labour inspectorates and other enforcement bodies, which       would take the form of an Expert Network with the European Commission       providing the secretariat, in order to coordinate and join-up action to       tackle undeclared work across the EU-27 [R6].
In April 2012, this platform designed by Williams and his Regioplan       colleagues was then taken forward when the European Commission announced       in its communication, Towards a job-rich recovery, that it would       launch a "consultation on setting up an EU-level platform between labour       inspectorates and other enforcement bodies to combat undeclared work,       aimed at improving cooperation, sharing best practice and identifying       common principles for inspections" [S5].
Following this, in October 2012, the European Commission's 2013-14       Legislative Work Programme announced that legislation would be put before       the European Parliament in 2013/14 to establish a "European platform" to       tackle undeclared work which "aims for a more coherent approach by       covering all the key areas influenced by undeclared work and supporting a       more effective fight against undeclared work by way of improving       cooperation, sharing best practice and identifying common principles"       [S6].
Joining up policy at the national level     Arising out of these European-level actions, and since Williams' original       call for joining-up policy arose out of research in a UK context, in       October 2012, he decided to encourage implementation of the "platform       model" he designed for the EU-27 at the UK national level.
Sponsored by an       ESRC award (RES-622-26-515) he founded and now Chairs the "Hidden Economy       Expert Group", whose mission is to facilitate greater coordination and       cooperation of all stakeholders involved in tackling the hidden economy       [S7, S8].
The Group's membership comprises government departments and       agencies (including Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs; Home Office;       Department for Work and Pensions; Business, Innovation &amp; Skills;       Gangmasters Licensing Authority) and social partners (such as Trade Union       Congress, Federation of Small Business, Chartered Institute of Taxation,       Oxfam).
To date, a number of issues have been identified for joined-up       strategy and action (e.g.
facilitating the formalisation of informal       entrepreneurs; promoting greater commitment among UK citizens to the value       of paying taxes) and sub-groups have been formed to formulate policy       proposals for consideration by the main Expert Group.
In establishing this       Expert Group, moreover, Williams' intention has been to ensure that the UK       will have a national coordinating body on undeclared work, through which       proposals can be channelled both upwards to, and downwards from, the       proposed European platform.
