     The impact on public policy has reached the highest levels of the UK and       Scottish Governments, helping shape the political debate, and has also       raised minimum pricing up the policy agenda overseas, e.g.
in Australia       and Canada, and helped to inform potential interventions in the EU (S4).
The UoS research has been highly visible in the wider public arena,       helping to inform public understanding of the issues around price       interventions and subsequent benefits.
a) Impact under the Labour Government in England and Wales:         2008/9-2010     After the Sheffield team reported to the DoH in 2008, the Labour       Government's Chief Medical Advisor Sir Liam Donaldson drew up plans in       early 2009 to implement a minimum price on alcohol in England, where no       drinks could be sold for less than 50p per unit of alcohol (as supported       by the research of the UoS team).
If introduced nationwide, he argued       (using statistics directly from UoS research, see R1-R4) that alcohol       consumption would be cut by 7%, deaths per annum would fall by just under       3,400 and there would be an estimated 97,900 fewer hospital admissions       (S1).
The UoS research published in The Lancet estimated that a       minimum price set at this level would save up to 50,000 individuals from       illness in a decade, where the largest harm reduction would be for those       individuals aged 45 and over with chronic ill health.
However, the then       Prime Minister Gordon Brown refused to endorse the scheme on the grounds       that it would also penalise `moderate drinkers'.
b) Continuation of influence under Coalition Government: 2010 onwards     Under the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition Government the       Chancellor in his June 2010 budget outlined the intention to review       alcohol taxation and pricing to tackle problem drinking without unfairly       penalising responsible drinkers, pubs and important local industries.
Whilst the Home Office reports fed into the review of pricing, the       Treasury led the review of taxation holding informal consultations during       the summer of 2010 between industry players, considering in particular the       rates and structure of duty on different products, the differential       between rates on high and low strength products, and the interaction       between tax and price.
In the March 2011 budget the government announced a       2% above inflation rise on duties for beer, wine and spirits, over and       above flat rate increases previously imposed.
In England and Wales a ten week consultation period was launched by the       Home Office (28th November 2012 - 6th February 2013)       on a plan to set a minimum price of 45p per unit of alcohol as part of a       drive to tackle problem drinking.
It also considered banning multi-buy       promotions e.g.
two-for-one offers.
The consultation sought views on five       key areas: (i) banning multi-buy promotions; (ii) review of mandatory       licensing conditions; (iii) health as a new alcohol licensing objective;       (iv) cutting red tape for businesses in order to reduce the burden of       regulation; and (v) minimum unit pricing (MUP).
Meetings and events were       held with key stakeholders.
The intended audience of the consultation       were: (i) licensed premises; (ii) licensing authorities; (iii) other       responsible authorities; (iv) health bodies; (v) the police; (vi) the       public; (vii) professional bodies; and (viii) trade bodies (S9).
However,       on 17th July 2013, following analysis of the consultation's       responses, the Home Office minister Jeremy Browne announced that the       government would not be proceeding with minimum unit pricing, despite the       previous commitment shown, but this would "remain under consideration."
The Home Secretary Theresa May stated in a post consultation Home Office       document (S10 page 3) "We are not rejecting MUP &#8212; merely delaying it until       we have conclusive evidence that it will be effective".
Instead a ban on       the sale of alcohol below the level of alcohol duty plus VAT would be       implemented, coming into effect no later than spring 2014.     c) Reach beyond England and Wales     The research undertaken by the UoS team has also influenced the public       policy recommendations of the devolved Scottish Government, e.g., relating       to the introduction of an Alcohol Bill as part of their `Improving Health'       programme (see http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Topics/Health/Services/Alcohol/minimum-pricing),       where it is stated that `The Chief Medical Officer believes that &#8212; like       the smoking ban &#8212; minimum price would save lives within a year.
Recent       research by the University of Sheffield supports this &#8212; their model       suggests a 40p minimum price would save about 70 lives in year one, rising       to 365 lives per year by year ten.'
In May 2012 the Scottish Health       Secretary Nicola Sturgeon announced a minimum price of 50p per unit.
The       `Alcohol Minimum Pricing Scotland Bill' (S6) was the final stage of the       parliamentary process and it was anticipated that the policy would be       implemented in April 2013.
However, the Scottish Whisky Association (SWA)       took legal action against the proposal which it believed contravened       European Law.
The SWA lodged a complaint to the European Commission and       filed a petition for judicial review with the Scottish Court of Session.
This was ultimately rejected in May 2013 although the SWA has since lodged       an appeal which has delayed the implementation of a minimum unit price in       Scotland.
In Northern Ireland the Health Minister Edwin Poots was joined by the       Irish Republic's Health Minister Dr James Reilly and Minister of State for       Health R&#243;isin Shortall where a cross-border strategy on a minimum price       for alcohol was decided in 2011.
Plans for minimum pricing between 45p and       50p per unit of alcohol were favoured following a consultation plan       announced by the Social Development and Health Ministers in March 2011       (S7).
After a cabinet meeting in October 2013 it was announced that a new       Public Health Bill would be introduced with measures to curb the       advertising of alcohol and set a minimum unit price for drinks based on       their alcohol content.
In 2012 The Australian National Preventive Health Agency (ANPHA) was       tasked by the Commonwealth Government to examine the public interest case       for a minimum price for alcohol, to discourage harmful alcohol consumption       and promote safer consumption.
A consultation document `Exploring the       public interest case for a minimum (floor) price for alcohol' was released       for public consultation in June and a draft report (S8) produced in       November 2012 which directly cites the UoS research.
The ANPHA presented a       final report to Government in early 2013 and subsequent policy action is       currently under consideration.
d) Informing the public debate     Members of the public are one of the groups the ten week consultation was       aimed at.
However, more generally, the exposure of the general public to       the policy debate has been on-going since the UoS report was initially       published.
There has been extensive media coverage, e.g.
The Financial       Times, The Guardian, and The Daily Telegraph.
Examples of public exposure       to the issues around alcohol minimum pricing and its affects are evident       from prime time television coverage, e.g.
Question Time (26/05/2011) http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00h7569;       and Panorama (28/09/2012) http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01mrmfd.
Awareness of the Sheffield research has reached the retail sector, trade       associations and advertising trade journals.
For example, the Wine and       Spirit Trade Association website, http://www.wsta.co.uk,       where there is extensive discussion of the pricing debate, most recently       in relation to MUP in Scotland and the on-going legal action by the SWA.
