     Cooper's extensive archival research and study of the physical remains of       the church in Florence furnished the fundamental data for the virtual       reconstruction of the chapel, and Cooper acted as a consultant to the       V&amp;A for the re-display of the chapel.
The most important beneficiaries       have been museum visitors - including families, tourists and school       children - who have been provided not only with a more accurate       reconstruction of the chapel and a better understanding of its historical       and physical contexts, but also with a greater appreciation for the museum       environment itself and the effects of presentation on visitors' perception       and understanding of objects.
The museum staff, in particular the curators       with whom Cooper worked on re-designing the chapel display, also       benefitted from his expertise and detailed study.
Their understanding of       the chapel's history and physicality was enhanced by his `outstanding       research' (Motture).
Cooper's research allowed the curators to plan the chapel re-design on       the basis of a detailed understanding of the original church and its       artistic programme.
The dismantling of the high altar chapel in 1861 and       the conversion of the nave into office space meant that achieving an       accurate display of the Santa Chiara chapel would be challenging.
Cooper's       research and expertise on Renaissance interiors informed decisions on       multiple aspects of the display, including decisions on lighting (to echo       the chapel's original fenestration and disposition of candles) and the       installation of sympathetic floor materials (using terracotta tiles       consistent with surviving Renaissance flooring in other Florentine       churches).
By working closely with Chief Curator Motture, the assistant       curators, and Interpretation Specialist Frost through regular meetings at       the museum, Cooper ensured that the presentation of the chapel closely       reflected its original appearance.
Furthermore, Cooper's research led to the inclusion of other objects       newly associated with the chapel, such as the marble altar frame (object       no.
748-1863), a link that was pivotal to the long- term loan of       Perugino's Madonna of Loreto to the V&amp;A from the National       Gallery to place within it, thereby refining the gallery's re-display.
The       new installation of the Santa Chiara and related objects in the `Chancel'       area of the Medieval and Renaissance Galleries presents and reinterprets       some of the largest and most significant objects in the museum's       collections for the broadest possible public.
Cooper also worked closely with Interpretation Specialist Frost from 2006       on the virtual reconstruction of Santa Chiara Church, which integrates the       architectural elements in the V&amp;A and the remains of the church nave       in Florence.
Cooper's archival research, photography and site measurements       provided the fundamental data for this virtual reconstruction.
Cooper       worked with the team from the Department of Informatics at the University       of Sussex who created the virtual graphics.
Cooper wrote the text and       commentary for the interpretation to accompany the virtual reconstruction       in the galleries, subsequently revised by Frost and the Museum's       multimedia manager.
The virtual reconstruction:            Helps visitors visualise the original context of the Santa Chiara         chapel.
Helps visitors understand the basic layout of the church in which the         chapel was situated.
Introduces visitors to the main characteristics of Florentine         Renaissance church architecture.
Gives an accurate impression of the original appearance of the chapel         and the altar frame.
The virtual reconstruction is presented in the galleries via a       sympathetically designed monitor in front of the chapel itself with a       touch screen to allow for interactive features.
It is also available       online via the V&amp;A's website.
The distance between the lost spaces of the Renaissance church and the       modern gallery environment is made explicit to visitors through the       virtual reconstruction of Santa Chiara, which allows the viewer to       understand the dislocations that museum objects have undergone and to       resituate them in their original contexts.
The virtual reconstruction also       allows visitors to appreciate how Renaissance men and women, lay or       religious, often viewed artworks differently.
For example, the nuns of the       Santa Chiara convent would only have seen the chapel and its altarpiece in       the distance through the grates of their choir.
Cooper's research has meant that, for the first time since its arrival in       London 150 years ago, the display of the Santa Chiara chapel is founded on       a detailed understanding of its original Florentine context.
Exploiting       the monumental spaces of the V&amp;A's Aston-Webb wing, the new display       evokes the historic sacred space of Santa Chiara.
Recent evaluation of       visitor feedback (V&amp;A 2011) suggests that the re-development of the       Medieval and Renaissance Galleries has been successful, of which the Santa       Chiara reconstruction forms a focal point.
The majority of visitors       described the galleries as `beautiful' (71%) and enjoyed their visit `a       great deal' (64%).
Most visitors to the gallery were motivated by a desire       to `improve their knowledge of art and design', and it appears that this       was achieved, 51% of visitors felt that they learnt more about the       Medieval and Renaissance periods, and 34% strongly agreeing that the       galleries `illustrated what the art and objects of the period meant to       people at the time'.
Evaluation of the visitor experience in the `Chancel'       gallery (V&amp;A 2013) established that the Santa Chiara chapel was the       most visited object there, engaging 41% of all visitors.
The visitor dwell       time in the `Chancel' gallery was also higher than comparable spaces in       the Medieval and Renaissance Galleries (on average 3.2 v. 2.2 minutes).
54% of visitors to the `Chancel' gallery who used the touch-screen       interactive digital reconstruction of Santa Chiara said it `significantly       enhanced' their enjoyment of the chapel was, and 37% said it was `somewhat       enhanced'.
Only 9% were indifferent.
In addition, 60% said the interactive       also made them look more closely at the chapel afterwards.
97% of visitors       were satisfied with the design and atmosphere of the display; 89% with the       themes and subjects and the tone of information; 92% with the amount of       information.
One visitor commented: `Amazing how they got it [the chapel]       here!
'; another: `Love the idea of reconstructing the chapel.
Gives an       interesting perspective.
Better for viewing the pieces in context'.
`Light', an aspect of the installation that owes directly to Cooper's       research, was singled out by many visitors as one the features they `liked       best'.
