     Development of design guides/ tools that have advanced professional           practice     The design guides/tools developed by Professor Kang, based on his       research in sound propagation and soundscape, have been adopted by built       environment and industry professionals worldwide.
These include:     1) Noise abatement best-practice guide, requested and initially used by       BP in 2001 and since adopted worldwide by acoustic consultants for use on       large-scale noise-mapping projects, including, within this REF period,       urban noise-mapping projects in Taipei and Wuhan, and industrial       noise-mapping projects for BP Shanghai and BP Grangemouth.
The consultants       for these projects, Acoustic Modules Ltd, assessed it as a "comprehensive       guidance" [S1];     2) A design guide for soundscape in urban open public spaces published by       the EU in 2004, and correspondingly, a neural network model for predicting       perception of soundscapes.
Both are now used worldwide as benchmark       guidance for planners, architects and urban designers, such as in 5 urban       soundscape projects since 2008, in Harbin and Dalian (China), Valdera       (Italy), Assen (The Netherlands), and Antwerpen (Belgium) [S2];     3) Design guide for long spaces, requested and initially used by Hong       Kong Mass Transit Railway Cooperation, and finalised in 2002.
Its       applications since 2008 by consultants and planning authorities include       underground projects in Buenos Aires, Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai, Tianjin,       Guangzhou, Harbin, and road tunnels/motorway enclosure projects in New       Zealand and Australia.
For example, the use of these design tools in       underground station projects has led to improved speech intelligibility of       public address systems [S3], which has been strictly regulated since the       King's Cross fire in 1987.
Conversely, 2012 documents from DLA Piper [S4]       demonstrated that employing Professor Kang's long space design tools over       conventional acoustic design theories would have saved multi-million A$       worth of remedial work on a railway tunnel project.
Invented sustainable low-noise products that have led to commercial           outputs and environmental improvements.
Based on his acoustic theories for building elements, Professor Kang has       invented and, together with industrial partners below, successfully       commercialised a series of construction products for sustainable       environmental noise abatement that satisfy the requirement of Planning       Policy Guidance: 24 (Planning and Noise).
These include low noise domestic       ventilation systems manufactured by Greenwood and Titon; acoustic       green-roof systems developed by Kingspan; and road noise barriers       manufactured by Acoustic Modules Ltd.
In particular, since 2011 a novel       acoustic window system, designed by Professor Kang, has made significant       contributions to overall built environment sustainability in six major       projects led by the Hong Kong Housing Department [S5].
The system reduces       external noise while allowing effective day-lighting and natural       ventilation, with a typical saving of &#163;60k per year per building over the       use of standard air- conditioning systems.
Organised networks and workshops that have helped define the           regulatory agenda     Based on his research in sound propagation, soundscape, and green       acoustic components, Professor Kang has set up and chaired three       professional networks to propagate research and best practice and inform       the development of relevant regulations:     1) European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) [S6] Network on       Soundscape of European Cities and Landscapes (2009-2013, &#8364;500k), which       created an international network of 83 participating organisations from 22       COST countries and 7 partner organisations outside Europe;     2) EPSRC Noise-Futures network [S6] (2006-2009, &#163;100k, Professor Kang is       joint Chair), with 52 participating organisations including policy makers,       consultants and researchers;     3) Worldwide University Network on Environmental Acoustics (2004- ) with       major world-leading acoustic centres.
32 workshops have been hosted by these networks across the EU, attended       by over 2000 people, to discuss and define environmental acoustic practice       and policy.
Sonic installations following COST workshops in Brighton, in       2011, demonstrated a ground breaking soundscape implementation that       enhances public safety and improves crowd behaviour [S7].
The workshop       outputs also formed the foundation of the first ISO Standard for       soundscapes: ISO/TC 43/SC 1/WG 54: Perceptual Assessment of Soundscape       Quality &#8212; a key standard for designers, planners and policy makers.
Part 1       of this standard was published in 2012 [S8].
Influenced development and adoption of international policies on           environmental noise     A major impact of Professor Kang's research is that urban planning now       takes better account of environmental noise.
Professor Kang's soundscape       research has been delivered to policy makers through invited keynote       lectures at international and national conferences and workshops organised       by local authorities and government policy-making organisations.
In 2009       Professor Kang delivered a keynote speech to 150 practitioners and       policymakers at the Tranquil Spaces conference, organised by the       Greater London Authority [S9].
Ten similar presentations have been       delivered since 2008 in London, Brighton, China, India, Malta and Sweden,       with a total audience of over 500.
As a consequence, Professor Kang's       research is now included in the recent DEFRA benchmarking report [S10] on       soundscape and creation of quiet areas, following the strict requirements       by the EU Directive 2002/49/EC.
The impact of his research on international policy is evidenced by       Professor Kang being appointed as Chief Environmental Acoustics Adviser to       the Planning Department of four major Chinese cities, Dalian, Harbin,       Huludao, and Taiyuan.
In this role he is able to apply his research to       guiding planning policy to integrate environmental noise and soundscape       issues with a fast urbanisation process.
The dissemination of Professor       Kang's research and its adoption as part of national and local planning       policy has been encouraged by media coverage of his work on urban sound       environment, including BBC, Times, Radio New Zealand National, and China       Changsha TV.
