     The evolution of planning obligations policies in the UK since 2008 has       been shaped by the research undertaken at Sheffield on the incidence of       obligations, their value and the way they have been delivered.
The       research team developed a strategy to maximise the impact of their       findings that was based on three sets of complementary activities:     (i) Co-production of the research agenda and research design: a       range of stakeholders (including policy makers and researchers within       DCLG, Welsh Assembly Government, Countryside Agency, Housing and       Communities Agency (then Housing Corporation), the National Housing       Federation, Halcrow Consultants and local planning and housing       practitioners) were involved at various stages in establishing       policy-relevant research questions, co-designing research methods, and       analysing and interpreting results in partnership with our team.
These       stakeholders played different roles in different projects.
They acted       variously as commissioners of research, members of the research teams,       research subjects and steering/advisory group members; and assisted in       distilling the key messages from the research.
This ensured that the       research was robust, relevant to the challenges faced by policy makers and       practitioners, and that the findings were accessible to different user       groups.
(ii) Dissemination of Best Practice: the team has engaged in an       extensive UK-wide programme of dissemination of findings to       housing/property, legal and planning practitioners involved in policy       implementation.
This includes the publication of articles in the       professional press (e.g.
Planning), Continuing Professional       Development activities and contributions to around 20 best practice       briefings.
The events programme included numerous national symposia       reaching around 400 members of the planning profession (e.g.
the RTPI       Planning Convention (2009), the RTPI S106 and CIL Seminars (2008x2, 2009,       2010; 2011 and 2012 [latter two chaired by Crook]); a series of local       events including workshops on the value and incidence of obligations in       London, Leeds and Bristol attended by representatives of 57 different       local planning authorities; and presentations to around 100 property       industry leaders at the British Property Federation Seminar (2010), to       House- builders' Heads of Legal Forum hosted by lawyers Nabarro LLP (2010)       and to the planning partners and their teams at lawyers DLA Piper LLP       (2008, 2010).
(iii) National Policy Engagement: ongoing engagement with       national policy makers involved in new policy formation, including invited       seminars at the Treasury, Welsh Assembly Government, and DCLG (2009);       presentations to meetings of the UK and Irish Chief Planners; and the       provision of evidence to Select Committees (for example S1).
The cumulative effect of this extensive approach to user engagement with       the planning obligations research programme can be seen most clearly       through three important, demonstrable impacts.
(i) The research has been influential in informing government         thinking about policy reform on the role of planning obligations and       its relationship to other forms of funding of affordable housing.
Our       evidence on the way in which state subsidies from the Homes and       Communities Agency were used (with little impact on the level of       provision) contributed to the restructuring of grants for affordable       housing on sites subject to planning obligations (now formalised in the       Homes &amp; Communities Agency's National Affordable Housing Programme for       the years 2012 to 2016) and thus to a more efficient use of &#163;2.8bn per       annum of public expenditure on affordable homes (S2).
(ii) Our evidence on the value of obligations has had a direct impact         on the development of the Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL)       influencing the reach of the levy and leading to a larger proportion of       sites contributing to infrastructure funding and provision.
This influence       can be tracked from the Barker Review of Land Use Planning (S3)       through debates about the nature and shape of post-Barker Reforms       including the subsequently abandoned Planning Gain Supplement proposal and       its successor, the CIL (S4).
Our work was a central       component of the evidence base for the development of CIL, being the only       research quoted in the series of DCLG consultations on the policy and       regulations (e.g.
DCLG, `CIL', August 2008, p13) (S5).
Our work on       `Common starting points for S106 negotiations' indicated that proposals       for statutory guidance on negotiations would prove to be ineffective.
This       proposal was dropped.
Furthermore, our estimates of obligations' value and       incidence also had a prominent role in the official regulatory impact       assessments (DCLG `CIL Impact Assessment', p 8 &amp; 16) because they shed       light on how the previous framework has been operating, and specifically       evidenced the limited incidence of obligations and supplied unique       estimates of the additional revenue to be raised via the Levy (S6).
(iii) the findings influenced local authority and private sector         (including legal) policy and practice by showing how specific       approaches to negotiations and to monitoring were strongly related to the       number and value of obligations secured.
Our first study of the Value of       Obligations for ODPM provided the basis for the Planning Obligations:       Practice Guide (DCLG, 2006) and our updates (supported by the       dissemination and CPD certificated contributions outlined above) have       continued to be influential throughout this REF period with, for example,       the 2010 study (R1 above) used extensively in the impact assessment       concerned with renegotiating S106 Planning Obligations (S7) which       has sought to steer local practice in response to the market downturn.
More generally, our research has been credited by many, including the       former Director of Policy at the RTPI, with providing a rationale for       greater formalisation of policy, better preparation for - and structuring       of - negotiations, and much improved monitoring of policy delivery (S8).
These changes in practice have been associated with improved levels of       value capture.
In sum, the programme of research led by The University of Sheffield on       planning obligations has influenced the design and development of policies       in ways that have helped to secure additional homes for low-income       households and to ensure that public infrastructure provision is better       resourced at local and national levels.
The research team has influenced       the behaviour of practitioners and contributed to improvements in the way       in which planning obligations policies have been implemented by local       government.
As the former specialist adviser to House of Commons Select       Committee on Communities and Local Government has commented "[this         research] has added considerably to the capacity of local authorities to         deliver affordable homes and infrastructure for new development" (S8).
This has led to improvements in access to housing, the provision of public       goods and physical neighbourhood quality in a great many local communities       throughout the UK.
