     Impact summary     Barlow and Turner have provided the evidence base for       self-management programme research.
This unique body of research has       enabled charities, healthcare professionals and others to implement       self-management programmes in a wide variety of settings, and for those       with different individual problems, on the basis of clear evaluative       evidence that the interventions work.
In the past five years, Turner       and colleagues have developed several bespoke HOPE self-management       programmes and trained over 300 health professional and patient tutors.
The HOPE roll-out has occurred on a local, national and international       scale and has impacted on several underrepresented groups, such as people       (and their care givers) affected by: cancer, dementia, multiple sclerosis,       HIV, and for parent caregivers of children with attention deficit       hyperactivity disorder.
HOPE addresses key quality of life indicators such       as living well with a long-term condition and positive mental well being       as set out in the National Cancer Survivorship Initiative (NCSI) and the       National Dementia Strategy.
Impact on public policy and services     The HOPE Cancer Programme is cited as an example of self-management       support for cancer survivors within the NCSI Vision document (2013) [a].
In response to the Government "refresh" of the Carers Strategy document,       Macmillan encouraged dialogue with the government and local authorities to       explore the potential of the HOPE Carer Programme [b].
The research undertaken by this team has had a strong impact on the       evidence base, as demonstrated in the report Helping people help         themselves: A review of the evidence considering whether it is         worthwhile to support self-management which examined over 550       self-management studies, 13 of which were conducted by Barlow et       al [c].
The report concluded that self-management improved people's       behaviours, quality of life, clinical symptoms and use of healthcare       resources.
Self-management programmes are also cost effective and provide       a social return (e.g.
increased employment) on investment (see Kennedy       &amp; Philips, SelfCare 2011:2:10-20).
Impact on health and welfare (measures of improved wellbeing for         people affected by a long-term condition)     HOPE cancer survivors     Macmillan Cancer Support commissioned Turner, based on his       expertise, to develop a flexible self-management programme co-delivered by       cancer survivors and health professionals to replace their existing       lay-led self-management programme.
HOPE for cancer survivors has been       rolled out across the UK since 2012.
Over 100 HOPE programmes have been       delivered to over 1,000 cancer survivors and carers in the community and       as part of the cancer care pathway [d].
The cancer survivors report       enhanced generic quality of life (e.g.
negative and positive moods) and       cancer specific quality of life (e.g.
fear of recurrence).
There have been       several media reports, including BBC online [e] describing the positive       life enhancing impact of attending HOPE.
Macmillan have commissioned and       piloted HOPE self-management programmes for people from black and minority       ethnic backgrounds and for people with learning difficulties.
In an extension to the cancer HOPE programme, forty patients who have       completed treatment for colorectal and testicular cancer have attended       HOPE self-management workshops at University Hospital Southampton.
Participants have reported improved confidence in managing their follow       up, and have made improvements in physical activity and healthy eating       [f].
HOPE MS     HOPE programmes have been delivered to 30 people affected by MS.
Participants have reported improvements in fatigue, depression and hope       [g].
A self-management website specifically for MS patients of       child-bearing age (http://www.mumsandms.org.uk/)       has over 300 registered users, including people from the USA and Canada,       and has had over 5,000 visits since 2012.
HOPE Parent caregivers     Seventeen HOPE programmes have been delivered to over 150 parent       caregivers of children with Attention Deficit Disorder, recruited by       Coventry Carers Centre [h].
Participants experience less depression,       anxiety and more positive emotions and gratitude after attending.
One of       the tutors, who was a former participant, has described the positive       change HOPE had on her confidence, self-esteem and psychological       resilience in magazines about autism.
The tutors have also produced a       video diary (see https://www.hopeprogramme.co.uk/hope/facilitators.aspx)       describing the positive benefits of HOPE.
Dementia Self-Management Programme     Over ten group-based and one innovative Skype (Internet Video       Conferencing) programmes have been delivered to over 50 people living with       dementia and over 25 caregivers in the West Midlands.
People with dementia       experienced a reduction in stigmatisation and social exclusion.
Caregivers       benefitted from an enhanced and deeper understanding of dementia.
The       Skype group learnt how to use the technology to connect with family who       lived abroad.
Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation Trust have       incorporated the dementia self-management programme into the `menu' of       early interventions as part of the assessment/diagnosis pathway.
Impact on practitioners supporting people affected by a long-term         condition     An important element of the impact of this research has been in the way       it has influenced changes in the provision of self-management support in       targeted areas within the UK.
Front line staff from a range of       professional groups have been trained in motivational interviewing and       behaviour change techniques.
The National Cancer Survivorship Initiative       and Birmingham East and North Primary Care Trust service improvement       project tested the HOPE cancer survivors' self-management programme as       part of a project redesigning the aftercare pathway for breast cancer       survivors at Good Hope Hospital [i].
Specialist breast care nurses were       trained to co-deliver with cancer survivors.
Delivering HOPE raised their       awareness of the benefits of self-management programmes for patients, made       them aware of a range of service delivery issues which patients wanted       improving, and widened and enhanced their own knowledge, skills and       attitudes.
Reach of self-management programmes     HOPE is demonstrating international reach, as it has been implemented in       Greece in 2009 for women with a long-term condition [j] and a       self-management programme developed for gay men living with HIV has been       delivered in the US since 2008.
Feedback from both programmes has shown       positive outcomes.
Men attending the HOPE HIV self-management programme       reported improved medication adherence, satisfaction with life,       self-esteem, confidence to find employment, more hope and were less       depressed and anxious [k].
In order to extend the reach of HOPE to long-term condition patients we       have used social media tools, such as Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/HOPE.Programme)       and Twitter (@hopeprogramme).
More than 50 parent caregivers who attended       the HOPE Parent caregivers have set up their own HOPE Programme Facebook       Group.
Conclusion     Turner and colleagues have collaborated with NHS and charity       sector partners to develop and evaluate a diverse range of innovative       self-management programmes, which have had a significant positive impact       on the quality of life of a diverse range of people living with and       affected by a long-term condition.
In summary, Turner and       colleagues have helped provide the evidence base for self-management in       the UK.
The following quote is indicative of the positive impact of HOPE.
"It really prepared me for the big operation &#8212; and I definitely wasn't         as panicky as I was for the first operations.
The surgeon said         afterwards that I'd make a `remarkable recovery' and I put that down to         feeling more positive and more relaxed about it all.
