     Process     The research has been undertaken with a philosophy that embraces a need       to involve a wide constituency within the work.
Key findings have had an       impact on the study of IT within the visualization of design detail,       environmental performance, and the application of innovative methods       within urban design.
Beneficiaries     Beneficiaries of the research include partners whose engagement with our       research has centred on the development of new policy, or the instigation       of debate, or has focussed on undertaking studies related specifically to       skills, expertise or methods available through RGU.
Examples include       Aberdeen City Council, who have been a close research partner throughout       the REF period.
Our work has enabled the development of policy       (through the sustainable urban mobility plan and transport masterplan) and       through engagement with academic-led or -steered debate (including       that within CARE North and Build with CaRe, where initiatives and       aspirations of the authority were placed in a wider context).
Our work       with Robert Gordon's College allowed pupils and staff to engage in a       participatory design process, which had practical (design of a       green campus) and educational (engagement with University staff       and students) benefits.
Such positive outcomes for beneficiaries served to       validate the approach to impact, and indicate a suitable route to impact       for future research.
Reach: Work from the theme has been disseminated through high       profile public lectures and events (2010 built heritage lecture series @       RGU, 2012 Professorial address by Laing; 2013 North Sea Commission       Conference, Porsgrunn), and has been developed in partnership with       industry partners (Innovation Vouchers 2008-2010) including the Scottish       Government (via NB Planning and Architecture), and, Down to Earth       Self-Build Housing.
Our research with Interreg (CARE North 2009-present, Build with CaRe       baseline study 2009) has involved working with industry and public       partners, including Municipal Authorities in Germany, the Netherlands,       Sweden, Belgium, England and Scotland, to develop sustainable strategies       towards low carbon urban environments.
This process has led to the       development of an innovative series of outputs, including those for both       academic (conference) and industrial (films, fact sheets, public events)       audiences.
Recently, our work with Robert Gordon's College (a private       school, without affiliation to RGU) during 2012-13 involved all pupils       from the ages of 5-18 in a participatory design exercise.
Apart from the       immediate benefits to be derived from design outputs themselves, there are       clear benefits to the participants in that they were enabled to       participate in a large scale design process.
Corresponding benefits to RGU       were clear in that the challenging delivery of a high quality design       experience resulted in a deeply satisfying (and award winning) research       project.
Members of the group have organised and chaired high profile professional       and academic conferences (Bennadji, Laing) throughout the       submission period (ASCAAD 2010, IV/BuiltVis 2007-present), and have been       active in the delivery of invited lectures across Europe.
The group has       represented the RICS on the European Construction Technology Platform       since 2008 (Laing).
Research from the architectural audits has been       disseminated through exhibition and conference (Scott 2006-10).
Significance: Almost all of the group activity has been undertaken       in partnership with colleagues from industry or the public sector, and has       had a direct feed into policy and practice (e.g.
Greenspace EU and         Scottish Government, Streetscapes Scottish Enterprise, Urban       Connections Aberdeen City).
Work from the group has appeared in leading international academic       journals, within which work of significance and key to debate within the       discipline is published.
The work carries significance in terms of       methodological innovation (environmental monitoring, visualisation)       and in relation to online user participation (from Streetscapes,       onwards).
Nature of the impact     RGU was a key partner in `CARE North' (Interreg IVB), which aimed to       promote the use of sustainable urban transport as a key component within       urban design in the North Sea Region.
Aberdeen City Council (ACC)       commented that our role in this (and the associated Build with CARE       project) provided visible improvements in City Mobility and Building       Policy in the City- The City Car Club and renewable boiler at Marischal       House (ACC headquarters) being tangible benefits and legacies from those       projects, along with the renewable hydrogen buses which will be on the       Aberdeen Streets by 2013/14.
In early 2013, ACC was awarded the European       Sustainable Transport Mobility Award in recognition of masterplanning       which emerged from CARE North, and from processes involving RGU as a core       partner.
Engagement in smart cities stakeholder platform (link provided in         section 5).
Recognition through European sustainable mobility awards, with ACC.
Instigation of new projects (i.e.
low carbon transport, build with         care)       Robert Gordons College participatory design.
Evidence and indicators            Participation in the smart cities stakeholder platform (including an         RGU proposal highlighted         from over 120 received)       Robert Gordon's College project (public engagement, including         children)       Aberdeen City Council (2013) award winning sustainable           urban mobility plan (including introduction of electric car club,         hydrogen buses, and receipt of EU           award).
Co-hosting of major CARE North event, with elected members         and members of the public (2010)       Completion of participatory design (Core           77 design award 2013)          Dates when the impact occurred            Heritage and professorial lectures (2010 and 2012)       CARE North (2009-2013, development of sustainable urban mobility plan         2012)       Build with CaRe (consultancy, seminar and baseline study 2009-2010)       North Sea Commission (presentation and debate, Porsgrunn, 2013)       Robert Gordon's College `Greening the Campus' (2012-13)
