     The design outputs have been cited as best-practice case studies and have       become benchmark       for low-energy sustainable designs.
The design concepts and principles       have been adopted by       housing associations, local authorities and other housing providers.
The work has proved to be both scientifically and practically       significant, this evidenced through       actual design and publication with reach and dissemination strategy       involving academic,       professional, industrial and public groups.
The research has typically       been undertaken in       partnership with colleagues from industry or the public sector, and has       had a direct feed into policy       and practice (e.g.
Zero Carbon Scottish Enterprise, Scottish       Architectural policy and Scottish       Government.
`PassivHaus' Standards has had an influence on policy at the       national level       (Architectural Design Scotland, Sust case studies).
Specifically,       these design outputs demonstrate       the application of principles of design economy, very low-energy       consumption, combined with       careful observation of site specificity and use of materials and       construction, including modern       method of construction in pursuit of affordable, yet high quality       contemporary low-energy       architecture.
They have been continuous modification of construction       techniques and details and       the houses are monitored and feedback from the construction process and       from the users informs       subsequent designs.
Reach: Work from the theme has been disseminated through high       profile public lectures (2010-       02), and has been developed in partnership with industry partners       (Innovation Vouchers 2008-       2010), KTP, and Scottish Enterprise.
Members of the group have organized and chaired presented high profile       professional and       academic conferences (Deveci, Scott, Bennadji) and have been active       in the delivery of invited       lectures /workshops across the UK and Europe.
The group has previously       represented Scotland on       the European Task 28: Sustainable Solar Housing (Deveci until 2005)       and the recent Nordic       Passivhaus conferences since 2011 (Deveci).
Case studies from the       practice based research       output disseminated through exhibitions and conferences (Deveci, Scott).
Significance: The work has proved to be both scientifically and       practically significant, this       evidenced through actual design and publication with reach and       dissemination strategy involving       academic, professional, industrial and public groups.
Almost all of the       group's activity has been       undertaken in partnership with colleagues from industry or the public       sector, and has had a direct       feed into policy and practice (e.g.
Zero Carbon Scottish Enterprise,       Scottish Architectural policy       and Scottish Government.
Passive Housing Standards has had an influence on       policy at the       national level (Architectural Design Scotland, Sust case studies).
Looking forwards, the towards `'PassivHaus' research proposal (2012&#8212;13)       acknowledges Scottish       Enterprise' strategic priorities and ambition of to all new buildings,       including the new housing in       Scotland to the Zero Carbon standards by 2016.
Working in conjunction with       volume house-       builders such as CHAP - Dandara and Scotia Homes Ltd, the study proposes       adopting standard       basic housing typologies to a certified German `passivhaus' standards, as       well as completing a       life-cycle cost analyses, to identify quantifiable benefits to the volume       house builder and the public.
The research, therefore, carries significance in terms of technology       transfer and Innovation.
Process     The research process was innovative in exploring the parallels between       the disparate, but linked,       research and design activities.
It has been undertaken with a philosophy       that embraces a need to       involve a wide constituency within the work.
Key findings have had an       impact on the study of IT       within the visualization of design detail, environmental performance, and       the application of       innovative methods within the design of sustainable housing.
Key beneficiaries of the research     Beneficiaries of the practice-based sustainable housing research include       housing providers and       policy makers whose strategies have focussed on meeting their low carbon,       good quality design       and social inclusion agendas, including the fuel poverty.
The design       outputs were particularly       selected and awarded by beneficiaries, to reflect their own initiatives       and aspirations.
The design       outputs incorporated within their design guides, best practice case       studies, and policy reports for       the others to inspire and follow.
Other key beneficiaries for the design       outputs have been the public       and the occupiers of the social housing sector where their running costs       were being reduced       considerably to improve their life standards and dealing with the fuel       poverty.
Housing associations, local Authorities and other social housing         providers       Scottish Enterprise       Affordable House providers       Owners and tenants       Construction professionals          Nature of the impact     The research-based practice outputs of the sustainable housing exemplify       the real and tangible       ways in which our research also impacts on society and the environment       outside of academia.
The       high quality architectural responses have resulted in design outputs which       set a high benchmark       for future affordable housing.
For example, Argyll and Bute Council       declared that `Tigh Na Cladach         development sets an unmatched example of exceptional design in terms of         response to the site         and setting, building performance and architectural solutions in the         context of social housing         budget constraints'.
The research outcomes are recognised and       embraced by decision and policy       makers and formed or influenced their following, social cultural and       economical agendas:            Housing design policy and standards: promoting good quality housing         and place making       Social housing provision: Affordability in capital and running costs       Social Inclusion: fuel poverty       Design quality, through adoption as best practice case study          Evidence and indicators     The design outputs have been included as exemplars by the Scottish       Government, forming part of       the national Government agenda to promote good quality housing design and       place making       throughout Scotland.
It is a 'live' resource database, intended to inspire       positive change within       practice, and designs were selected to offer value to professionals       working in the built       environment industry, as well as those with little or no design       experience.
Two Passivhaus case       studies have been included in a specific website databases, such as the       certified European       `passivHaus' data base, and the architectural library publications.
