     The research undertaken by Professor Francis over the last 11 years has       generated impact in       shaping professional debate and contributing to changes in policy and       practice.
This has resulted       in direct changes to the ways in which professional associations intervene       in social mobility issues       through setting up their own Work Experience schemes in an attempt to       address the issues raised       by Francis &#8212; in particular Inner Temple's Pegasus Access Scheme.
It has fed directly into the       formation of key recommendations within the Legal Education and         Training Review (LETR),       and has changed the outreach practices of a national Widening         Participation initiative.
The legal       profession and its regulators now take social-economic background       seriously as a potential barrier       to the legal profession.
Moreover, Social Mobility and Access to the Legal       Professions is now a       central concern of the UK Government, policy-makers and legal regulators       (source 1).
The research demonstrates the differential way in which students can       secure access to legal work       experience and the importance of an early and frequent engagement with       these groups prior to       University.
A number of policy changes and schemes have been established       to address these       gaps, most prominently, Inner Temple's Pegasus Access Scheme.
In       June 2010, Francis (and       his collaborator, Professor Sommerlad) organised a workshop to showcase       the Legal Work       Experience project findings with support of the Legal Service Board at its       London offices.
This       workshop was attended by leading regulators and policy-makers, including       Magic Circle Law firms,       Inns of Court and representatives from the Bar Council, Law Society and       the Institute of Paralegals       (source 2).
Francis was invited to apply to the prestigious Inner Temple       Academic Fellow       programme, designed to enhance dialogue between the profession and       academics.
He was       appointed as one of the first five Academic Fellows in November 2010,       predominantly because his       research on social mobility was of utmost interest to Inner Temple.
As       part of this Fellowship he       was invited to provide a keynote address at an Inner Temple conference in       February 2011 (source       3), which generated further media and policy engagement with his research       on legal executives,       part-time law students and legal work experience (source 4).
The findings       on legal executives saw       a follow-up piece based on the research published in the trade press.
This       piece included a       response from the Chartered Institute of Legal Executives (CILEX) and       generated 57 online       comments (source 5).
Francis' involvement with Inner Temple has enabled leading Law firms and       barristers' chambers to       respond to the findings highlighted in Francis' research by establishing       new social mobility and       access schemes, in particular, Inner Temple's Pegasus Access Scheme.
Inner       Temple testify to       the impact of Francis' research on the Pegasus Scheme, stating that his       work informed the way in       which the scheme was formulated (source 6).
It was launched in 2012, and       led to work experience       opportunities for 50 students in its first year.
The success of the first       year has resulted in a larger       intake in 2013.
Keele University links with Inner Temple have been further       strengthened through a       PhD studentship, jointly funded by Inner Temple and Keele University, to       evaluate the success of       the Pegasus scheme.
Middle Temple has now launched a similar scheme to run       from 2013.
The       research findings were kept at the forefront of policy and professional       debate, through citation in a       number of Legal Service Board publications (source 7, source 8) and       through speaking to the       profession at events at Inner Temple.
A number of leading firms have now       also established       prominent social mobility schemes, for example, Allen &amp; Overy,       Clifford Chance, and Freshfields       (source 9).
The second major impact has been the transformation of the Aim           Higher &#8212; Access to the           Professions (A2P) scheme.
This is hosted by Keele but has a       national reach to learners       throughout the UK.
Francis worked with A2P to ensure that his research       finding about the       importance of regular and early contact with the profession can be       achieved, and has ensured that       his key research findings about `what the recruiters are looking for' are       directly communicated to       learners from non-traditional backgrounds.
During 2012/13, for example, 66       learners have been       supported by the A2P programme, with all participating feeling more       confident about their career       plans as a result of the programme.
Francis has drawn on the lessons from       the Inner Temple       access scheme, through the connections established by his research, to       enhance mentoring       practices within the network by putting in place new mentoring protocols       for A2P.
Finally the recommendations of the LETR have drawn directly on       the research findings of       Francis in its final report and earlier publications.
LETR draws       explicitly on the conclusion/insight       that work experience represents a key (and differentially experienced)       barrier to entry into the       profession (source 10: p. 11; source 11: pp.
13-14).
In particular, the       report recommends that       informal work experience should be subject to the same equality monitoring       and selection       processes as Formal Vacation Schemes.
It recommends professional standards       for internships       and work experience, as well as a central clearing house for work       experience (source 12: Rec.
20       &amp; 25) to address concerns expressed in the research about knowledge,       awareness and the basis       upon which applicants secure informal work experience (source 12: paras       6.32, 6.44).
This drew       on Francis (2011), which highlighted the importance of providing students,       particularly from non-traditional       backgrounds, with early access and information (source 12: para 6.146).
A key recommendation of the LETR, developed through the Discussion Paper       on social mobility is       that there should be greater diversity of and support for non-graduates       and a wider range of entry       points into the legal profession (source 12).
At the same time the LETR       has acknowledged,       drawing on Francis's research, that notwithstanding alternative routes of       entry, non-traditional       aspirants to entry in the profession may still experience disadvantage       (source 10: p. 16 in relation       to part-timers (including issues of age &#8212; source 11: p. 9) and source 10:       pp.
22-3; source 11: pp.
27-8 in relation to legal executives).
Francis' work on part-time law       students maintained a       significant profile in advance of its use in the LETR, through a follow-up       article in the professional       press, attracting 8 comments (source 13).
