     Impacts on commerce:     Sarissa was founded in 2002 as a spinout from the University of Warwick,       and began commercial operations in 2004.
The underpinning research has led       to 2 patent families being awarded to the University of Warwick7-9       and licensed to Sarissa.
In 2012, Sarissa applied for its first patent to       cover biosensor arrays (SMARTCap) for diagnostic use10.
Sarissa's biosensors have international commercial impact as evidenced by       US Investigators who have used Sarissa's biosensors to provide       underpinning evidence in three US patent applications: US20100284984,       US20100165634, WO2013049725.
In addition to investment income from two       venture capital sourcesA, Sarissa has raised grants from       Advantage West Midlands 2010 to develop a prototype clinical device for       measuring analytes in whole blood - the SMARTCap; and was an SME partner       in an FP6 consortium called SANTS (2006-2009,         http://www.sants-nanosilicates.com/) providing its expertise,       exemplified in refs 2,3,7-9, in silicate fabrication methods to the       consortium.
Further successful grant funding to develop and evaluate, in       substantial clinical trials, new clinical devices based on the IP       generated from the underlying research has followed.
In 2013, Dale and       Sarissa were the lead applicants in a successful bid to the National       Institute of Health Research (NIHR) for an Invention for Innovation (i4i)       Product Development Award for &#163;575k entitled "SMARTChip: a       field-deployable blood test for stroke, capable of detecting brain       ischaemia from the earliest stages of pathology".
Employment: Sarissa has continually employed at least one       person since 2004 and more during externally funded special projects.
In       addition, it employs external UK-based consultants for accountancy and       business development, creating a total of 13.3 FTE since 2004.
Economy: The company had a turnover of &#163;83k in 2012, up       from &#163;62k in 2008, generated mainly from sales into the preclinical       scientific communitiesB.
Business sector: Sarissa is currently working with       scientists and clinicians to investigate and promote the adoption of their       biosensor technology for diagnostic purposes.
They provide workshops with       hands-on demonstrations, external demonstrators (from Europe and USA) and       speakers (from UK and USA) to inform customers and potential users about       the technology.
The fourth workshop was held April 15th 2013.
All workshops have attracted delegates from the UK and overseas (Europe,       Canada, US), including researchers and representatives from the pharma       industry, as well as other biotech SMEs interested in the technology.
The       workshops provide excellent networking, marketing opportunities and have       resulted in new customers adopting the biosensors, including customers       from the Pharma sector.
The current product range is the most complete in the world and provides       microelectrode biosensors for ten different analytes.
Sarissa sells to       researchers in the USA, Canada, Japan, Europe, and the UK.
These buyers       include research groups in universities and increasing sales (10% of total       sales in 2012) into non-academic sectors: the pharma industry and US       government agencies (FDA)B.     Impacts on healthcare, practitioners and patient services:       Arising from the characterization of the RP biosensors3,8, and       the use of biosensors to measure release of purines during       ischaemia5, Dale and Sarissa are the lead investigators, in       collaboration with two NHS Trusts (University Hospitals of Coventry &amp;       Warwickshire (UHCW), and University Hospital of North Staffs (UHNS)), in       the first clinical trials of the RP-coated purine biosensors for the       diagnosis of stroke (funded by NIHR).
This area of innovation is seen as a       key area for the NHS, as stroke costs the NHS some &#163;7bn annually, and       there are roughly 150,000 stroke incidents per year.
The technology       invented by Sarissa provides an extremely rapid measurement (minutes) of       an analyte (the purines) that is produced within minutes of the onset of       stroke symptoms.
This test has the prospect of greatly speeding diagnosis,       enabling more patients to receive thrombolysis and reducing time from       diagnosis to onset of treatment.
Every minute saved by Sarissa's       technology will improve patient outcomes and reduce the annual cost of       stroke treatment to the NHS; even modest improvements resulting from       application of Sarissa's technology would give very substantial absolute       savings.
A clinician from UHNS verified that "This technology has the         potential to improve treatment rates and outcome for stroke patients         nationally and worldwide.
This has been recognised by the Acute Clinical         Studies Group of the Stroke Research Network, who encouraged and         supported Professor Dale to develop this into the now successful         application for an i4i grant".C     The development and characterization of the RP biosensors3,7-10       has led to adoption of this technology by clinicians in patient research.
Prof Chris Imray, a Consultant Vascular Surgeon at UHCW has been using       Sarissa's biosensors during surgery to monitor brain ischaemia       (2012-2013).
Very exciting results suggest that the preoperative level of       blood purines may allow better prioritization of patients at risk of       stroke and transient ischaemic attack.
Dr Gareth Ackland, a Consultant       Anaesthetist and Research Fellow from University College Hospital, LondonD,       has used Sarissa's biosensors with blood samples from patients suffering       from sepsis and surgical trauma (2013).
His collaboration with Sarissa is       developing proof-of-principle evidence that underpins new IP jointly       created with UCL to develop bedside diagnostics of sepsis and trauma, to       be exclusively licenced to Sarissa.
"Dale's work has enabled the         development of novel modes of detection of inflammation and how this may         be managed clinically in real-time"D. The       potential market for sepsis/trauma diagnostics is probably an order of       magnitude bigger than the stroke market.
Industrial collaborations: A collaboration agreement is in       place with Pinnacle Technologies Inc, USAE, in which Sarissa       uses its methods to coat their sensor assemblies.
This has allowed       Pinnacle to offer a wider range of biosensors, and Sarissa to offer       biosensors in a format suitable for chronic in vivo recordings.
Approximately 10% of Sarissa's product sales now involve biosensors made       on the Pinnacle Technologies' assemblies.
Between 2004 and 2010, Sarissa provided business to Sycopel International       Ltd by subcontracting them to make microelectrode biosensor assemblies,       which Sarissa then coated with a sol-gel biolayer to make a fully       functional biosensor.
Sycopel also generated further sales through       manufacture, to our specification, of a dual potentiostat, an essential       instrument required for making the biosensor measurements.
This provided       to Sarissa's customers suitable instrumentation for use with the       microelectrode biosensors and assisted dissemination and uptake of the       technology.
In 2010, Sarissa bought the rights from Sycopel to take       fabrication of biosensor assemblies in-house, using their jigs and       methods.
Collaboration is now underway with another SME, Whistonbrook TechnologiesF.
Whistonbrook is subcontracted by Sarissa to develop two instruments for       clinical use in the NIHR i4i project: one for the SMARTCap device and a       second instrument for use with the field-deployable SMARTChip device.
In       addition Whistonbrook has designed a further dual potentiostat for the       non-clinical customers who use Sarissa's sensors.
These subcontracts       support the development costs of the instruments and will ultimately give       Whistonbrook further sales.
