     Shaping and informing practitioner and public debate: Each of the       QoWLP reports has generated a substantial number of media hits.
Information from Kindred (the CMI's PR agents) revealed that the 2012       study generated over 520 hits in media such as the Financial Times, the       Daily Telegraph, the Independent, Public Finance, Sky TV News, BBC Radio 4       and 5, the Huffington Post and several regional BBC Radio channels.
Worrall       and Cooper also took part in a CMI sponsored webinar with practitioners to       discuss the implications of their research.
Clear evidence of impact on       management practice can be seen from the award of the CMI's "Management       Article of the Year 2013" to Worrall and Cooper.
The CMI       Management Articles of the Year competition was introduced in 2011 under       the oversight of CMI's Academic Advisory Council.
The purpose of the       competition is to assist universities in disseminating their research       findings to a wider audience, to help them demonstrate societal impact and       to raise the profile of their work with managers and employers.
The aim of       the competition is to produce articles that will benefit practising       managers "by providing them with insights from credible, authoritative and       leading edge research".
The articles are rated for their usefulness and       rigour by CMI members &#8212; the clear majority of whom are practising       managers.
Worrall was the principal author of the 2013 winning       paper.
Impact in Telford and Wrekin Council: The research has provided a       comparative base against which individual organisations have been able to       benchmark themselves.
Telford and Wrekin Council, with consultancy support       from Worrall, conducted biennial surveys using the QoWLP       questionnaire to gather evidence to design and deliver an organisational       development strategy.
This process ran from 1998 to 2009 during which time       the council was classified as an "Excellent" council.
By being able to       benchmark itself against the QoWLP norms, the council could identify its       strengths and weaknesses and put in place a development strategy that       could be monitored and continually evaluated.
During the consultancy       intervention, targeted actions by the Council resulted in the level of       bullying in the council declining by half.
Insights developed from the       QoWLP were built into the council's organisational development strategy.
The former Chief Executive of the council (Michael Frater CBE) stated that       the research had been "absolutely essential" to the identification of       issues in the council, in monitoring the effectiveness of policy and in       learning from interventions.
The Telford and Wrekin research was published       in 2011 as "A case study in organisational analysis and organisational       development" in Dundon T and Wilkinson A (eds) Cases in global people       management, strategy and innovation (Sydney: Tilde Publishing).
Impact in Simplyhealth: Additional questions were included in the       survey to support product and strategy development in Simplyhealth.
Simplyhealth also decided to work with the CMI/QoWLP team to improve their       brand positioning.
Meesha Birch, Product Development Manager at       Simplyhealth stated that the survey enabled them to achieve their targets       of brand awareness and that the survey had had a significant commercial       impact.
More specifically, Birch indicated that the survey helped them to       "steer their marketing", to improve their marketing focus and had changed       "how we talk to our customers" [b].
She also indicated that the survey had       been used to improve their products and their credibility with their       customers.
She indicated that the study would generate long term benefits       for the company and have a significant commercial impact from the       development of new business.
Simplyhealth intend to fund further research       through the QoWLP/CMI in 2014.
Simplyhealth has also extensively broadcast       the research through its own publications and website.
Impact in the CMI, AIM and MPC: The research was used extensively       to reshape 75 Australian Institute of Management (AIM) leadership and       management courses delivered to practising managers in Australia and New       Zealand.
The prime input from the research was the analysis of leadership       styles and their effect on issues such as employee engagement [d].
The CMI       reported that the 2012 main report had been downloaded 373 times and the       executive summary had been downloaded 169 times.
The survey had been       extensively covered in the CMI's house journal &#8212; Professional Manager &#8212;       which was distributed to all of its 90,000 members.
The CMI estimate that       the research will have reached over 100,000 of its stakeholders via the       CMI newsletter [a].
A "Workplace, Wellbeing and Stress" summit hosted by       the CMI and Simplyhealth in November 2012 attracted 60 practitioner       delegates from major UK employers all of whom were influential in the       field.
CMI estimated that the survey generated an advertising value       equivalent (AVE) of &#163;126,000 and AIM estimated that the survey generated       an AVE of &#163;75,000 in Australia and New Zealand.
Research with Ahmed in       Malaysia assisted the Malaysia Productivity Corporation (MPC) to improve       employee welfare programmes.
These research findings were presented to the       MPC and onward to the Malaysian Ministry of International Trade.
The       research was publicised widely, including on Malaysian TV and in the       Straits Times [f].
In 2012, Lindorff presented the QoWLP research to a       workshop comprising 200 of the most senior public officials in Sri Lanka.
The workshop was designed to assist the development of employee health and       wellbeing policy and programmes in Sri Lanka's public sector.
Impact at the Work Life Balance Centre (WLBC) http://www.worklifebalancecentre.org:       In 2008 and 2009, Worrall and Skinner undertook research into       work-life balance in parallel to Worrall's research on the QoWLP.
The surveys were designed to complement each other.
Hurst (Director, Work       Life Balance Centre, WLBC) estimated that the advertising value equivalent       (AVE) of each survey was in excess of &#163;60,000 and that the research had       achieved over 300 media hits annually [c].
As a result of the research the       WLBC had secured business from BP, BT, Welsh Water and the Royal Mail       valued at over &#163;70,000.
The publication of the research has had       significant reach, having been quoted in the House of Commons and House of       Lords, and covered in BBC News 24, BBC1 News, the Daily Express, the       Guardian, Personnel Today, Radio 5 and the THES.
Impact in Spring International: Worrall has been appointed as a       founding member of the Global Advisory Panel (GAP) of Spring International       which is an HR and OD consultancy based in USA.
Spring International       established the GAP to demonstrate to its international clients that it       was aware of HR/OD developments worldwide and as a basis for providing       international comparators to its clients particularly Wal-Mart and Amazon.
The availability of UK comparators has made a significant impact in Spring       International by enabling them to secure work from Amazon's European Order       Fulfilment Centres.
Jameson (Senior VP of Spring International) commented       "having access to research from outside the USA &#8212; especially in the UK       where our clients Staples, Cintas, Amazon and Walmart have a significant       presence, gives my company a significant competitive edge which we are       trying to develop further with Professor Worrall's help through       the continued development of our Global Advisory Panel" [e].
Impact in the National School of Government: Coventry University       (Talbot) has delivered a leadership development programme to the National       School of Government at Sunningdale.
Research from the QoWLP was used to       underpin a developmental programme that explored the relationship between       organisational trust and leadership styles.
Feedback from the executive       development programme for senior civil servants labelled the programme as       "excellent" and "thought provoking" (Moira Wallace, Permanent Secretary,       DECC).
Summary of impacts and the research dissemination strategy A       three-tier dissemination strategy was adopted.
The first tier focused on       producing peer reviewed journal articles and book chapters in publications       targeted on practitioners and those engaged in masters/executive level       education.
The second tier focused on mainstream practitioner-oriented       publications such as Professional Manager, People Management and Personnel       Today [g,i].
The aim of these publications was to put the research into       the practitioner domain in order to raise practising managers' awareness       of the salient points arising from the research.
The third tier focused on       disseminating the research more widely to engender public debate using       vehicles such as the TES; the THES; the Guardian [j], the Financial Times       [k], BBC Radio 4's Today Programme; and, a regular set of articles in the       Sunday Times Business Section.
Conclusions     In summary, the QoWLP has made impacts at four levels and has had a wide       reach:            It has had an impact by encouraging public debate as evidenced by a         significant volume of high quality media hits (for example, the         Financial Times, the Times, BBC Radio 4/5 and over 500 other media         articles in one year);       It has had an impact on policy development in professional and         governmental bodies such as the CMI, AIM and the MPC as evidenced by its         dissemination to 90,000 CMI members and over 100,000 CMI stakeholders       It has had an impact on improving how individual organisations are         managed as evidenced by the consultancy work conducted at Telford and         Wrekin Council for over a ten year period; and,       It has had a commercial impact in organisations such as Simplyhealth         which has used the research to improve their market positioning and         product development and by Spring International which has used the         research to win new business and to provide international comparators         for their consulting work in large, international organisations such as         Wal-Mart, Amazon and Staples.
The geographical reach of the research has also been considerable and has       included the UK, Australia, Malaysia, the USA, Sri Lanka and New Zealand.
