     In developing the device, Singer worked closely with the manufacturer       (formerly Doptex, now       Deltex Medical), a British company based in Chichester.
This close       collaboration allied his clinical       and translational expertise with their engineering and technical skills.
The device, now marketed as       the CardioQ, has "changed the way in which doctors can care for         patients having major surgery or         in intensive care.
It allows doctors to intervene quickly and safely         based on small changes in         circulating blood volume and so avoid the dangers of reduced oxygen         delivery" [a].
To date, more than 500,000 patients have benefitted from the use of the       CardioQ in surgery and in       intensive care.
By the end of 2012, a total of 926 monitors had been       installed in the UK and       monitors have been sold widely in many other countries including the US,       Canada, South America       and Continental Europe [a].
In the period 2008-13 this amounted to       over &#163;33m in sales for Deltex       [b].
The company employs around 65 people, mostly in the UK, and       the CardioQ is their sole       product.
The outcome benefits (reduced complications, shorter ICU and hospital       stay) accruing from the       perioperative optimisation studies were evaluated and endorsed       independently by the US Agency       for Healthcare Research and Quality [c] and the NIHR Health       Technology Assessment       Programme [d].
In March 2011 NICE published its Medical       Technologies Guidance (MTG3)       recommending the use of oesophageal Doppler monitoring (ODM) in high-risk       surgery.
NICE       estimated that its use could save around &#163;1,000 each time it is used for       high-risk surgery, and up       to &#163;400m per year for the NHS as a whole [e].
In the same year, the NHS Innovative Technology Adoption Procurement       Programme (ITAPP)       selected oesophageal Doppler-guided intra-operative fluid management as       one of three       technologies for wider adoption by the NHS in England [f].
Later       that year, the NHS Innovation       Health &amp; Wealth Review named ODM as one of six high impact innovations       and called for the       widespread implementation of ODM for fluid management in surgery, stating       that this technology       "can reduce mortality rates for elective procedures, improve the         quality of care for more than         800,000 patients a year, and save the NHS at least &#163;400m annually" [g].
This was reported in the       media at the time, including on the BBC News website [h].
In May 2012, the NHS National Technology Adoption Centre published its       Intraoperative Fluid       Management Technologies (IOFMT) Adoption Pack to encourage adoption       throughout the NHS as       a recommended High Impact Innovation [i].
Hospital trusts have to       implement ODM at projected       target levels in 2013/14 or lose access to their CQUIN payments, which       make up 2.5% of their       budget.
Looking outside the UK, the device has been adopted or is under formal       evaluation by health       regions/large hospital groups in the USA, France, Spain, and Canada.
The       Entralgo Agency in       Spain have evaluated the device and confirmed its utility.
In April 2013,       the US Centres for       Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) granted ODM its own unique code for       physician       reimbursement.
In addition, CMS set a standard amount of $101 that it will       reimburse US doctors       for each use of an ODM probe in either surgery for patients requiring       intra-operative fluid       optimisation or for ventilated patients in intensive care.
This is a very       significant development for       the ODM in the USA and very rare that the CMS grant an individual       technology with such a code       (especially to a small British company) [j].
In May 2013, the professional body for anaesthetists in France Soci&#233;t&#233;       Fran&#231;aise d'Anesth&#233;sie et       de R&#233;animation ('SFAR') published new guidelines setting out recommended       fluid management       best practice for its members.
These guidelines make it clear that       ODM-guided fluid management       should be used in all high risk surgery in France, estimated to cover       circa 750,000 patients a year.
All of these recommendations are graded in the highest category '1+',       meaning that SFAR       members are expected to comply because the evidence level is high, and       that future evidence is       unlikely to change the conclusions from the current evidence.
In France       clinical guidelines from       professional societies determine the standards expected of their members       based on clinical       benefit.
The recommendations are based on the ODM evidence and the       guidelines make it clear       that this evidence should not be assumed to apply to alternative       technologies.
The       recommendations apply to all high risk surgery, defined as surgery with an       increased risk of post-       operative complications due to either the health of the patient or the       nature of the surgery; typically       this excludes minor day-case surgery and surgery lasting fewer than two       hours with low levels of       post-operative complication [k].
Deltex Medical won the National Outstanding Achievement category in the       2013 UK Healthcare       Business Awards held at the NHS Healthcare Innovation Expo [l].
