     Clinical practice and patient benefit     As a result of the neuroimaging work described above, we have       increased the number of children       who can be considered for surgery.
This approach has underpinned the       development of the       epilepsy surgery programme at Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH), now one       of the largest       epilepsy surgery units in Europe and the largest in the UK.
Numbers of       patients per year have       increased from 40/year in 2004 to 70/year in 2012 [a].
The benefit of this surgery to the patients is reduction if not abolition       of seizures.
Children are       carefully evaluated to determine whether the seizures are coming from one       area, and whether that       area can be removed without further functional compromise.
Secondary       benefits that have been       suggested have included optimisation of neurodevelopmental progress and       behavioural       improvement.
We have evaluated outcome in several groups of children, and       demonstrated benefit       over time [b, c].
Since 2001, Cross has led the International League Against Epilepsy Task       Force for Paediatric       Epilepsy Surgery which has established referral guidelines for children       with epilepsy for surgery       [d], with recent evaluation of newer technologies and the       development of an evaluation protocol       [e].
The team has also contributed evidence and participated in the       working groups of the Safe and       Sustainable Paediatric Neurosurgical review currently being undertaken in       England and Wales with       the recent development of the national Children's Epilepsy Surgery Service       (CESS), launched in       November 2012, for which GOSH is the lead of four centres, and Professor       Cross is Clinical       Advisor [f].
The organisation Epilepsy Action report that: "Professor         Cross's work identifying both a         shortfall in the number of operations undertaken in the UK and also the         benefits of early surgery on         neurodevelopmental and psychosocial outcomes has greatly assisted in the         campaign to improve         children's surgery in England.
The outcome of our (and others)         campaigning, underscored by         Professor Cross's work, led to the NHS in England agreeing in 2012 to         nationally commission         children's epilepsy surgery [the CESS]" [g].
Following our establishment of an evidence base for the ketogenic         diet, our study is now widely       quoted in service developments and the numbers of children who have been       initiated and       sustained on the diet in the UK have increased considerably.
The ketogenic       diet service at Great       Ormond Street Hospital has been established and funded since 2008 with a       clinical consultant       lead, two dieticians and epilepsy nurse support, taking referrals from the       North London area and       linking in with other London centres [i].
A clinical network has       been established amongst other       centres now set up in the South East; Evelina Children's Hospital, St       Georges Hospital and       Addenbrookes Hospital.
A recent EME NIHR grant has been achieved involving       nine centres       across the UK for a randomised controlled trial of diet utilisation for       the treatment of epilepsy in       children under two years of age, led by Cross and GOSH.
Cross has worked for many years with a parent support group, Matthew's       Friends, which was       launched by a parent involved in our ketogenic diet study in 2004.
The CEO       of this organisation       reports that: "We have seen a huge increase in ketogenic services         throughout the UK and globally         and the trial results proved to be a major part of successful business         cases being made for centres         to set up a service.
Without this evidence proving the efficacy of the         treatment then I very much         doubt we would have as many people using the diet as there are currently.
Professionals from all         over the world quote the results from this trial and have publically         thanked the team for carrying out         such a trial as the information from it has furthered their own services         and allowed them to treat         more patients in their own healthcare systems" [j].
Cross is Chair of the Medical Board of the charity and works with them to       support parents and       professionals considering and implementing the ketogenic diet.
She has       been involved in several       parent and professional information days, as well as preparation of       material to help implementation       of the diet.
She was on the scientific committee of two of the three       global conferences on dietary       therapy of epilepsy and neurological disorders (co-organised with Matthews       Friends in Edinburgh       in 2010) and is leading on organisation of the meeting to be held in 2014.
All have resulted in       publications as supplements to peer-reviewed journals, one of which Cross       co-edited in 2012 [k].
From expertise and experience gleaned from the research, she has recently       jointly edited a guide       and cookery book for utilisation by parents with colleagues from Australia       [l].
In 2012, NICE guidelines on the diagnosis and management of the       epilepsies in adults and       children in primary and secondary care (for which Cross was on the       Guideline Development       Group) made the following recommendation: "Refer children and young         people with epilepsy         whose seizures have not responded to appropriate AEDs to a tertiary         paediatric epilepsy specialist         for consideration of the use of a ketogenic diet."
The guideline       made specific reference to the       underpinning research described above as supporting evidence for this       recommendation [m].
Cross was also integral to the international consensus guidelines for       optimal management of       children utilising the ketogenic diet, published in 2009 [n].
Media and public engagement     As a result of this work, we have contributed to various newspaper and       television news articles and       supplements including the Daily Mail, Daily Express, Sunday Times, Times       and BBC.
The epilepsy       surgery and ketogenic diet programmes have also been the focus of TV       documentaries and news       features, the most recent at the launch of the CESS programme in 2012.
Following development of       the CESS, Cross has worked with Epilepsy Action on information documents       about the CESS       programme for parents and professionals, and the results of research       performed have ensured       accuracy of information [g].
She has also worked with Young       Epilepsy, a charitable organisation       working towards improving the lives of children and young people with       epilepsy [o].
Young       Epilepsy through their information and education unit, with advice from       Cross, run training days for       both parents and professionals, disseminating information about the       benefits of surgery and early       referral.
Training     In addition to the training above, the unit has developed an       international reputation for training       clinical fellows from around the world.
Great Ormond Street is the lead       for the development of the       National Epilepsy Surgery Programme.
Cross has been integral to the       development of       standardised epilepsy training courses through the British Paediatric       Neurology Association.
Over       3,000 paediatricians have now passed through the courses and Cross remains       Chair of the       Steering Committee [p].
