     The underpinning research described above has had a major impact in       transforming the management and identification of patients with FH.
The       three specific impacts described below are: (1) development and validation       of screening methods which are now in use throughout the UK; (2)       contribution of research to the development of NICE guidelines (CG71); (3)       impact on the design of the NHS's Vascular Checks programme to increase       the reach of our work.
FH is one of the most common Mendelian disorders, affecting 1 in 500       members of the general population &#8212; or approximately 120,000 people in the       UK.
People with FH have very high levels of low density lipoprotein       cholesterol (LDL-C) from birth and are at extremely high risk of       developing early heart disease.
This can be prevented by early treatment       with a high intensity lipid-lowering therapy such as statins.
Unfortunately, only 15,000 FH patients have been identified to date and       are being adequately treated.
Since FH is a monogenic disorder, the best       way to find new FH patients is by identifying the genetic mutation in the       proband and "cascade testing" all their first degree relatives, 50% of       whom will also be carriers.
DNA screening methods we developed have been used commonly in DNA       diagnostic laboratories throughout the UK.
The identification and       characterisation of the common mutations in LDLR, APOB and PCSK9 in FH       patients in the UK led to the development of a DNA test kit which was       commercialised by Tepnel (now Geneprobe) during the Department of       Health-funded London IDEAS Genetic Knowledge Park of which Professor       Humphries was CEO.
Although now superseded by new technologies, the       availability of the Elucigene FH20 kit allowed labs to take on FH genetic       testing and offer it widely and therefore led to the identification of the       molecular cause of FH in a large number of patients.
This information was       then used for testing their relatives.
In 2008, Humphries also contributed       to the first UK Genetic Testing Network "Gene Dossier" for FH obtained by       the GOSH DNA laboratory [a].
The demonstration of the feasibility, acceptability and       cost-effectiveness of FH cascade testing carried out at UCL was a major       part of the evidence that was presented to the NICE Guideline Development       Group, which led to their recommendation that DNA testing should be       offered to all FH patients to confirm their diagnosis and to use the DNA       information for cascade testing in their relatives [b].
The NICE       guidelines (CG71) for the identification and management of FH patients       were published in 2008 and Humphries was the Lead Clinical Advisor for       these guidelines.
Implementation guidelines and costing tools were also       part of the NICE work, along with further NICE Quality Standards,       published in August 2013.
Progress in implementing these guidelines was examined in a pilot audit,       again led by Humphries and run through the Royal College of Physicians,       which reported in 2009 [c].
This was followed by a national audit       of 140 Lipid Clinics in the UK which reported in December 2010.
The audit       revealed that DNA and cascade testing had been implemented well in       Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales but almost not at all in England.
Nevertheless, 26% of patients seen over a 5-month period at the surveyed       clinics were offered a DNA test.
At that time, only 21% of trusts reported       that they had access to a family cascade testing system for FH, but where       individuals had a DNA test, the process of cascade testing was initiated       in 72% of adults and 54% of paediatric cases [d].
According to the       Clinical Molecular Genetics Society Audit of Data for the year 2011-2012,       a total of 3,235 DNA tests for FH were performed in the laboratories of       its members (including all the Regional Genetic Laboratories) during that       period.
The audit reported that this was an increase over previous years [e].
Humphries has continued public awareness work since the report was       published, with articles about cascade testing appearing, for example, in       the Daily Mail, on BBC News and in the Guardian [f].
In order to identify further FH patients as index cases for cascade       testing, Humphries has worked with the National Screening Committee to       include FH criteria in the NHS Vascular Checks programme [g].
Individuals with a total cholesterol level over 7.5mmol/l who, based on       the diagnostic criteria of the Simon Broome Register, are likely to have       FH, will be flagged and referred to their local lipid clinic [h].
Information on FH has been made available to all UK GPs through a 2009       BHF factfile prepared by Humphries [i].
Our research findings are       outlined (and directly referenced) in the information given, and cascade       screening is recommended.
Information based on our research is also given       to patients through articles in the HEARTUK magazine and their website [j].
