     Adoption of sentencing guidelines     Based on his underlying research that identified the need for and most       effective form of sentencing guidelines, Wasik was appointed as the first       Chair of the Sentencing Advisory Panel (`the Panel'), advising first the       Court of Appeal, and then, from 2007, the Sentencing Guidelines Council.
The Panel's work involved quantitative analysis of sentencing statistics,       assessment of critical academic writing, wide consultation with interested       organisations and individuals, including victims of crime and the general       public.
It was recognised as high-quality, thoroughly researched work, but       directly applicable to practice.
The Panel also commissioned independent       empirical research into public attitudes to sentencing.
Lord Chief Justice       Woolf said: `The advice of the Panel under Martin Wasik's authoritative       chairmanship is always thoroughly researched, carefully considered, and of       the highest quality' (source 1).
In their text Easton and Piper refer to       the `value of the reasoned and researched advice given by the SAP       [Sentencing Advisory Panel]' (source 2).
The advice from the Panel on the       basis of this research was adopted and their guidelines have been issued       on 11 occasions by the Court of Appeal and on 12 occasions by the       Sentencing Guidelines Council.
Some guidelines set out general principles, based on proportionality.
These include guidelines on offence seriousness, sentencing of young       offenders, and allocation of offences.
Others provide clear and detailed       advice for judges dealing with difficult and emotive areas, such as       sentencing for rape, burglary, driving offences causing death, child abuse       offences, fraud, handling stolen goods, minimum terms in murder, and the       reduction in sentence for a guilty plea.
This last guideline is `the       reference point' for judges dealing with the 90 per cent of defendants who       plead guilty (source 3).
This guideline has been referred to in appellate       cases on 445 occasions in 2013 alone.
The guideline on domestic violence       was strongly endorsed by Hallett LJ: `Investigators, prosecutors,       defenders and judges should read and re-read the guideline, and ensure       they are truly aware of its implications' (source 4).
Early guidelines       developed by the Panel, such as those on handling stolen goods in Webbe       [2001] EWCA Crim 1217, remain the standard for any judge or magistrate       sentencing for that offence.
This guideline has been followed and endorsed       by the Court of Appeal in 129 cases (63 since 2008).
Many changes to       sentencing practice have resulted from the Panel's advice and the       resulting guidelines, including the principle that the starting point in       sentencing for rape should be the same in `stranger rape' and       `acquaintance rape' cases (source 5), and the adoption of a scale of       seriousness within child abuse images as a means of achieving consistent       sentencing for the offense of downloading child abuse images from the       internet (source 6).
The Lord Chief Justice had previously sought the       views of the Panel in relation to issuing guidelines for this offence and       substantially adopted the Panel's advice in this case.
The guideline on       sentencing for child abuse image offenses has been referred to and       endorsed in 268 appellate cases (54 since 2008).
The guidelines for       sentencing in rape and child abuse image cases were subsumed within the       compendious guidance on sentencing for all sexual offences, issued by the       Panel and the SGC in 2005.
The sex offence guidelines have been referred       to in 97 appellate decisions in 2013 alone.
In the early years of the Panel there was considerable judicial       scepticism about the guidelines project, but that was overcome, so there       is now a high degree of agreement within the profession of the value, and       therefore the impact, of sentencing guidelines.
The Home Secretary who       sponsored the creation of the Panel said in 2008 `It is a remarkable       achievement that the Panel is now so highly regarded, not only by the       Court of Appeal but by practitioners, academics, and other jurisdictions'       (source 7), and the Lord Chancellor during the same period said: `The       acceptance of the Panel, and the good relationship it built up, initially       with the Court and with the SGC, is due in no small part to [Wasik's]       chairmanship ... [Wasik] made a huge contribution' (source 8).
Lord Chief       Justice Phillips in 2007 said that `... [Wasik's] ability to draw together       academics, judges, magistrates and other practitioners, as well as       individuals from outside the criminal justice system, has contributed       significantly to increasing the Panel's influence' (source 9).
Wasik was       appointed CBE in 2008 for services to criminal justice.
Importance of guidelines for practitioners           Judicial training     The proper understanding and application of sentencing guidelines is now       a key feature of training for all judges and magistrates who sit in       criminal cases.
Wasik, due to his role on the Sentencing Guidelines Panel,       is one of two keynote speakers (with Professor Ormerod QC) invited to       deliver the compulsory judicial training organised by the Judicial       College.
In 2012 Wasik addressed 90 full-time and part-time Crown Court       judges over two days in September.
He ran two training sessions for High       Court and Court of Appeal judges at the Royal Courts of Justice in October       and November 2012.
He was the keynote speaker on sentencing in Judicial       College courses in April and September 2013 (a total audience of 200       judges).
He has been retained for similar presentations through 2014 and       2015.
The published sentencing guidelines are reproduced in full in the       relevant practitioner works: Blackstone (where Wasik writes the       sentencing material) and Archbold.
Blackstone is a leading       practitioner work, with copies available on the bench in every criminal       court and is regularly cited by the Court of Appeal.
Wasik's continuing       impact on judicial education was strengthened by his appointment in 2005       (to present) as a part-time Crown Court judge, and he sits for up to 30       days each year on the Midland Circuit.
Training new practitioners and       re-training older ones has a direct impact on the effectiveness and       integrity of the criminal justice system throughout the UK.
Criminal law e-letter     Wasik produces (with Professor Ormerod) a monthly criminal law e-letter       which is mailed by the Judicial College to all judges who sit in criminal       cases.
This has been described by HH Judge Phillips, Director of Training       for the College as providing a `massive contribution [to] keep[ing] judges       up to date with recent developments in criminal law and to alert[ing] them       to forthcoming changes.
[Wasik and Ormerod] combine academic excellence       with a down-to-earth practical approach' (source 10).
Informing policy debates in other jurisdictions     The working process of the Panel, and the guidelines they produced, have       had international reach.
The Panel hosted visits from judges and officials       from the USA, Canada, South Africa, South Korea, Scotland, New Zealand,       and Australia.
According to Freiberg (source 11), the Sentencing Council       in the Australian State of Victoria chose to follow the Panel's model,       since `its membership was broader than that of the US Commissions and its       consultations were very wide, partly in order to democratise the       decision-making process'.
