     Mason, and more recently Joyce, have made a major       contribution to the research in high-powered ultrasound and have taken       their research findings beyond the laboratory to create impact in health,       environment, economic and public engagement.
Health impacts       Professor Feng Wu (leader of the Clinical High Intensity Focused       Ultrasound (HIFU) unit at Churchill Hospital, Oxford) has stated that "...       Mason was instrumental in introducing High Intensity         Focused Ultrasound technology to the UK in 2002.
As a respected         professional figure and research leader, Mason was         responsible for establishing contacts between UK and Chinese clinical         units and facilitated negotiations for the introduction, establishment         of clinical trials and delivery of the equipment to the UK.
He also         provided advisory services to researchers at Chongqing Medical         University and Chongqing Haifu Ltd in order successfully to communicate         their clinical trial results.
He played an integral part in securing the         very first operational High Intensity Focused Ultrasound equipment to be         delivered from China to the Western world" [a].
This featured in the       Research Councils UK 2011 publication "Big ideas for the future" [b].
Impacts on the Environment       Mason and Joyce's position as experts in the ultrasonically       assisted purification of drinking and wastewater in municipal systems has       led them to provide advisory and consultancy research services to two       companies in Germany in the wastewater treatment sector.
In the first instance, Professor Uwe Neis (Ultrawaves GmbH) stated that Mason's       work regarding the practical application of ultrasound technology and his       cooperation in disseminating advances in sonochemistry through a series of       conferences in the second half of the 1990s were of fundamental importance       [c].
He stated they informed the development of the approaches that Neis       introduced to the German market and which are currently operational in       over 150 locations around the world.
According to Neis, Ultrawaves,       founded in 2001 in Germany, and with subsidiaries in the UK and in the       Baltic states, has become a world leader in the market for       ultrasound-based treatment of water, wastewater and biomass.
The       technology developed by Ultrawaves takes into account advances in the       practical application of ultrasound technology developed at Coventry       University which has allowed the company to steadily grow since 2001 to a       current yearly turnover of &#8364;2 million.
Ultrasonic Systems GmbH stated that collaboration with Mason to       test the combined ultrasound with ozone technologies previously developed       at a start-up stage were of fundamental importance in establishing a       successful business [d].
Mason's input was to take the 4-inch       prototype testing machine that Ultrasonic Systems currently uses and test       it in various ways in his laboratory.
Dr Ulla Poeltsch, Director of the       company stated that the testing and validation research that Coventry       conducted and published was crucial as it showed that the technology was       independently validated by a world-leading group.
Furthermore, Mason       went on to help them develop their own 4-inch prototype which has allowed       Ultrasonic Systems to pilot test solutions for clients before they have to       commit to buying the large-scale system.
Thus small-scale ozone units,       developed with the Unit principally for enabling piloting of larger       projects, have proved to constitute a separately marketable product.
In addition, Mason has taken the experimental work on control of       algae from the laboratory out to a local test site, through cooperation       with Coventry City Council and Aquatic Plant Management.
Over the last       year a local park lake has been monitored for natural algal growth and       subsequently ultrasonic equipment will be installed.
This project will       monitor the effects of ultrasound for one year followed by the same period       of monitoring in the absence of ultrasonic treatment.
As Mark Yates of       Coventry City Council stated "... using ultrasound to thwart the growth         of algae in ponds will prevent considerable threats to public health".
Although the study is still in an early stage, initial laboratory based         results indicate that ultrasound will significantly reduce the amount of         algae and hence the health risks to humans and animals as well as the         environmental damage cause by mechanical skimming and disposal of the         algae.
Yates, stated that "the ultrasound technology developed ...will         circumvent the use of environmentally harmful chemical algaecides, which         endanger wildlife and contaminate the surrounding environment by leaking         in to the soil".
Economic Impacts       Through sustained relationships, the group has contributed to validating,       testing and developing new methods of applying ultrasound technology in       different sectors.
The significance for the partner companies varies from       small inputs such as testing existing processes, to more significant       impacts that have resulted in new companies being formed, global markets       opened, and the accrual of both economic and environmental benefits.
Joyce and Mason have also been involved in the formation       of multidisciplinary partnerships supporting a number of SMEs in their       research and development functions, thus sustaining the SMEs'       competitiveness.
Key in these projects is the knowledge exchange between       partners, SMEs and Coventry University, allowing partners access to       scientific expertise and University facilities.
Examples of SMEs involved       in such research include Chestech Ltd (UK) and Dioxi Ltd (UK) in addition       to Ultrawaves GmbH (Germany) and Ultrasonic Systems GmbH (Germany)       mentioned in the earlier section on impacts on the environment.
Jonathan Sellars of Chestech Ltd stated his company lacks an R&amp;D       division, so that collaboration with Mason and Joyce       allowed them to address particular customer problems.
An example is the       case of the improved and greener electroless coating technology for GPS       antennae.
This technology is sold to global companies such as TomTom and       Garmin through Sarantel.
The flexibility and quality of Coventry       University's work allowed the company to retain and expand their market       share.
In some cases the work of Mason and Joyce has helped       companies in deciding not to proceed with ultrasonic technologies.
Thus       Dioxi Ltd was interested in using ultrasound-enhanced ozone fogging       technologies as a new way of sanitation for hospital rooms.
After       preliminary trials Joyce and Mason advised Dioxi Ltd that       ultrasound would not be an economically feasible method thus preventing       economic loss.
As Bray, Dioxi Ltd, stated the "...research has been         fundamental in correctly testing the bacteriological impact of their         technology and will inform its future development.
Joyce         and Mason had ideas about where the technology         could be applied in the livestock sector and this has enabled the         company to move into a new market" [e].
This shows that       collaborating with Joyce and Mason has improved the       company's ability to test business ideas independently and practically in       order to develop a commercially viable product.
There are numerous       examples of Mason and Joyce and their team helping SMEs to       benefit from their expertise.
However, the research is not just limited to       SMEs; their research has helped larger companies.
For example,       GlaxoSmithKline in the field of food technology, a long-time specialism at       Coventry, and Sibelco in terms of mineral washing.
It can be argued that without Mason's research and help,       Chongqing Haifu Ltd's High Intensity Focused Ultrasound technology would       not have established as quickly in the Western world as it has.
There are       now 20 Haifu units throughout Europe in four different countries.
Therefore, Mason's research and endorsement contributed to the       business development of this global company by facilitating its access to       new markets.
According to Nick Yin, Chongqing Haifu Ltd., in the past 5       years the company has generated a cumulative turnover of &#8364;40 million from       the sales of new machines, and from operating existing installations in       Europe [f].
Public Engagement       Mason has been a passionate advocate for increasing public       awareness of the science and the application of ultrasound.
Over the years       he has delivered numerous School and Public lectures to explain the       benefits of this technology.
The research of Mason and Joyce       was selected as an exhibit in the form of an interactive exposition unit       entitled "the Power of Sound" at the 2009 Summer Science Exhibition of the       Royal Society, an event visited by more than 5000 people and widely       covered by popular media throughout the UK [g].
Conclusion       Over the last 30 years Mason and latterly Joyce have       undertaken research to explore the potential uses of power ultrasound to       make an impact in terms of it use in health, environmental protection and       economic benefits.
In addition, both have contributed to public engagement       by increasing the awareness of science and in particular the use of power       ultrasound to improve and maintain the environment by making processes       cleaner, more efficient and safer.
