     This research has had a significant impact on practitioners and       professional services in the UK and internationally, evidenced by its       influence on guidelines, citation in strategy or other similar documents,       debate among practitioners and resulting changes in professional       behaviour.
Routes to Impact     Following publication in 2002, the Landscape Character Assessment &#8212;         Guidance for England and Scotland was made widely available by the       funding bodies in both hard copy and online.
The hard copy was reprinted       as the first run of 2000 copies ran out within 12 months.
It has always       been, and remains, free to download from three websites (Countryside       Agency (now Natural England), Scottish Natural Heritage and the       Countryside (later Landscape) Character Network (LCN)).
Statistics from       the sites are patchy but to give a sense of the continuing demand for the       documents, the most recent available figures from the LCN, for six months       in 2010, show total hits on the guidance document of 20,709, or an average       of 3,451 per month, with a maximum of 5,313 in January 2010.
On the       Natural England website the guidance was downloaded 5,001 times in the 13       month period from the end of September 2012 to the end of October 2013.
The topic paper on sensitivity and capacity (R3), the only available guide       to this difficult area of practice, is also free to download from the same       websites and LCN statistics show total hits of 3,704, or an average of 617       per month, with a maximum of 815 in January 2010.
Swanwick has been widely       involved in dissemination of the guidance and applications of the approach       to practitioners.
She was invited to deliver six regional launches of the       LCA guidance in 2002; keynote addresses at national events on Sensitivity       and Capacity, notably at a Countryside Character Network launch event in       2003, at the ICOMOS/IUCN Conference in May 2004 and the annual conference       on Historic Landscape Characterisation for the Society of Antiquaries in       2008; seven training events in the period 2003 to 2005 for       agri-environment advisors who would be using LCA to inform their advice;       and, in 2013, a series of 14 `Masterclasses' on the application of LCA to       420 members of the Landscape Institute.
Swanwick has also contributed to a number of events on LCA and its use in       relation to the European Landscape Convention, signed and ratified by the       UK in 2006/07.
She was invited to give advice on the application of the       LCA approach in Denmark (Danish Ministry for the Environment and their       advisors) and in Sweden (National Board of Cultural Heritage) and helped       to develop training on LCA for the Heritage Council in the Republic of       Ireland.
The work has been the subject of presentations at many       conferences and workshops including the 2008 US IALE conference in       Madison, Wisconsin, two workshops in Japan, (Tokyo and Ohmi Hachiman) in       2007, and in China (Nanjing) in 2009.
UK Impact on practitioners and professional services.
The Landscape Character Assessment &#8212; Guidance for England and         Scotland is the definitive statement about the UK approach to       landscape character and has had a substantial impact on policy and       practice in the UK.
Since its publication in 2002, a significant proportion of local       authorities in the UK have used the guidance to develop their own       Landscape Character Assessments.
The Landscape Character Database, which       retains a record of all LCAs carried out until 11 Nov 2010, shows that       from 2008 until the database was closed due to lack of continuation       funding, the majority of LCAs referenced the guidance as their key source.
(S1)     The Topic Paper on sensitivity and capacity has had an equally       significant impact and has led to a considerable number of studies by       various tiers of local government to assess the sensitivity and capacity       of their landscapes to different forms of development.
The proliferation       of wind energy developments has meant that there has been widespread use       of the approach to produce sensitivity and capacity studies for wind farm       developments in different parts of the country and there has also been       emphasis on their use in relation to housing.
The research has had an impact on practice in Europe and in particular       has helped to shape the approach set out in the European Landscape       Convention (ELC).
It has been described by Tveit (S9) as internationally       one of "three of the most widely applied practical frameworks for       analysing visual qualities."
The EU funded research project on a European       Landscape Character Assessment Initiative (ELCAI) acknowledges the       influence of this work on practitioners in its final report (S6, S10).
Two 2009 articles, one in Landscape and Urban Planning (S3) and       one in Land Use Policy (S4), a journal aimed at practitioners and       policy makers as well as academics, mention the influence of the approach       in developing a parallel approach in Belgium.
The Danish guidance on       landscape character assessment emerged directly in response to the       influence of the UK guidance (S2).
In 2012 the LCA work had an impact on policy development in the       International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Heritage       Programme through a study intended to improve guidance for the application       and assessment of criterion (vii), one of the ten criteria used by the       World Heritage Committee to identify land as having Outstanding Universal       Value sufficient to merit World Heritage status.
The study report (S9)       makes extensive reference to the LCA method and the UK guidance and       devotes a separate annex to explaining the approach, concluding that       several aspects of LCA are particularly relevant to the application of       criterion (vii).
It notes, for example, that "LCA offers guidance on         techniques and vocabulary that can be adapted to different environments         and provides a level of consistency across similar types of areas that         may be assessed by different individuals.
A similar type of guidance         could be developed for assessment of aesthetic values under criterion         (vii)".
The lead author, Nora Mitchell, commented "our thanks &#8212;         [...] for all your work in this field which has been foundational"       (e-mail, 30th January 2013).
