     Research in the Finch-Savage group, and by Rowse, has provided knowledge,       patented techniquesa-e and processes and, most recently,       identified influential genes and beneficial alleles of those genes to       enhance seed performance.
Cumulatively, the impact of this research is       several- fold.
Firstly, the end product of seeds with greater vigour       improves crop establishment for farmers to enhance their crop productivity       and resource use efficiency, and therefore more widely food security.
Secondly, the enhanced seed is requested by farmers and so has increased       value to the seed companies, increasing their profitability while       protecting and enhancing their market share.
Providing precise data from       competing seed companies and a multitude of farmers is not feasible and       therefore testimony from representative seed companies of contrasting       sizes (national (Elsomsg, Seed Enhancements Ltdh)       and global (Syngentah, Bayeri)) from different       origins are used as indicators of these impacts.
Elsoms, the UK's leading       vegetable plant breeder and seed supplier, confirmed that `the knowledge       and expertise related to all aspects of seed germination/technologies from       the Finch-Savage group continues to help the industry going forward in       today's more challenging and unpredictable production environment'.
Furthermore, `The input we have had from the Finch-Savage group has led to       the injection of new technologies into our organization so that we can       offer better solutions for UK farmers and growers.
Without such help       larger multinational organisations can be ahead of our technologies, and       we need to `keep up' with them so that we can support our industry in the       UK'g.
For example, Elsoms started to use drum priming on a       small-scale approximately 15 years ago with support from Rowse, but during       the review period they have greatly increased the quantity of seeds and       species treated following feedback from farmers on the commercial benefits       they see in the performance of their seeds.
Throughout the world, seed companies supply farmers with seeds, a product       that is judged on its field performance.
The seed producers are also plant       biotechnology companies, and seeds are their means of delivering genetic       innovations across space and time.
In global and European agriculture, the       seed market is thought to exceed US$40 billion and &#163;5 billion,       respectively, identifying this as a major industry.
Syngenta is one of the       three largest global seed companies and has adopted technologies developed       by Finch-Savage.
For example, the innovative Syngenta seed products       PreNova and PreMagic (sold principally in the USA) emerged from       Finch-Savage's work and were considered to infringe his 1990 patentc,       and so Syngenta were challenged by the British Technology Group, which was       charged with licensing the patent.
After several years of dispute,       Syngenta purchased the patent in 2005.
More recently, Syngenta have been       using alleles in B. oleracea identified by Finch-Savaged,e.
The company confirmed `technology advancements in crop production have led       to an increased demand from growers and young plant raisers for high       quality seeds.
Simultaneously seed producers face challenges such as       increased climatic uncertainties.
These developments increase the       importance of genetic backgrounds such as those identified by Prof       Finch-Savage, which have intrinsic high seed vigour and can be reliably       produced under different conditions'.
In addition: `our collaboration with       Prof Finch-Savage has allowed us to show that the alleles indeed provide a       major seed quality benefit when used in relevant commercial seed       production environments'.
An example of this benefit is described in       section 2.
The company is now extending work into other crops, such as oil       seed rape, and this genetic approach is thought to be the way forward for       enhancing seed performance in agricultureh.
Innovations that enhance seed performance are adopted slowly by the seed       industry.
For example, significant adoption of the drum priming technique       invented by Rowse began 20 years ago, but with continued research and       development its use has expanded rapidly throughout the period of       assessment and continues to expand.
Seed Enhancements Ltd, New Zealand       state that `The technology is widely used by seed companies and seed       treatment companies throughout the world, and I believe that it is the       single most widely used priming technology - a huge compliment to Hugh       Rowse, Bill Finch-Savage and the team at Wellesbourne'f.
Prototype equipment, built by Rowse and Finch-Savage at Wellesbourne, was       installed and demonstrated to this company in 2008-2009 and they now       supply New Zealand and some of Australia with primed seeds.
Seed       Enhancements Ltd also confirmed, `I would estimate that the increased       value of crops that we prime, to the growers would be many hundreds of       thousands of dollars'.
This is just one of many seed companies using drum       priming and so this scale of benefits is reproduced many fold.
In the UK,       Elsomsg reported that `In a conservative industry where change       can take a long time... the quantities of primed vegetable seeds that are       used in the UK are significant and rising every year as growers of       different crops now realise the many benefits that they have from using       primed seeds.
As demands on producers become greater and growers need       seeds to germinate both quickly and uniformly, I see no other option for       growers than to use more primed seeds in the future'.
This view is echoed       by other seed companies, including Nunhems seedsi, the plant-       breeding and seed-producing subsidiary of Bayer: `Seed quality levels       required by professional growers of vegetables are increasing       continuously'; `drum priming has many advantages over other methods of       seed improvement', and `as a result, drum priming is now used commercially       for several crops in our company, and also by other companies involved in       seed enhancement of vegetables, field crops and grasses.
Each year new       applications/crops are added to the list of uses of drum priming'.
The work by Finch-Savage and Rowse, both independently and       collaboratively, has been funded by Government ministries and,       subsequently, by the BBSRC.
In keeping with the philosophy of both       funders, there have been close links with the seed industry throughout via       direct funding, partnership, patent licencing and consultancy.
As       discussed above, the research has led to the technologies being taken up       and developed further by the industry partners and other companies.
Research and development in support of a portfolio of earlier patented       inventions by Finch-Savage (1989-1996)c and by Rowse       (1992,1996)a,b has extended into this review period (2008       onwards).
The work by the Finch-Savage group on the genetic basis of seed       performance in B. oleracea, in partnership with Syngenta, has IP       cover from a patent published on 6 September 2013d .
A second       patent application on this topic was filed on 23 August 2013 through       Warwick Ventures Ltde.
The Finch-Savage group continues to interact with many other seed       companies to pass on accumulated knowledge on the improvement of seed       performance.
Finch-Savage was invited into Syngenta and Germains Seed       Technology for internal workshops in 2011-2012 to present the results of       his research.
The purpose of the workshops was to coordinate research and       development within the companies and to introduce new innovations in seed       science.
In both cases these workshops brought together company personnel       from around the world working on seed quality.
He was invited speaker at a       commercial growers conference (60 participants) in New Zealand (2011)       organised by Pukekohe Growers Supplies Ltd.
He has presented his research       findings and discussed these in the context of commercial seed production       at a "Seeds Master Class" for seed company employees, run by the       University of Wageningen (2012).
As President of the International Society       for Seed Science he also regularly interacts with commercial seed       organisations such as the International Seed Testing Association based in       Switzerland.
