     The primary intention was to significantly raise awareness of the impact       of abuse and exploitation on the educational, social and emotional       development of vulnerable children and young people.
The researchers set       out to make a material difference in terms of extending both professional       and policy-maker knowledge and understanding of the needs of abused young       people.
A range of dissemination strategies were employed to maximise the impact       of the research findings.
These included: sharing the outcomes of the       research with key national and local government departments and agencies,       charities and voluntary organisations in the UK, the European Commission's       Directorate-General Justice and the Children's Commissioners' for England       and Wales; correspondence with the Archbishop of Canterbury's office and       the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales.
An international       dissemination event was held in Birmingham on 22 February, 2011 and       simultaneously streamed to the European Commission, Germany and Romania.
A       total of 94 delegates attended the conference including: a representative       of the Children's Commissioner for England, Birmingham City Council       Children and Young People Directorate, British Red Cross, Children's       Society, Dudley and Walsall Mental Health Trust, ECPAT, `Just Whistle'       Child Exploitation, NHS West Midlands and the UK Border Agency .
The       findings were also communicated to all Director of Children's Services for       Birmingham and the Black Country, England.
The impact in terms of awareness-raising at a national political and       policy level is reflected through communications with local members of       parliament and government departments.
Following the publication of the       European Commission Daphne report, Gisela Stuart, Labour MP for Birmingham       Edgbaston, wrote `your findings are very powerful and I wanted to make       sure that the Home Secretary is aware of them' ( correspondence dated       09/02/2011).
In response Lynne Featherstone MP, Parliamentary Under       Secretary of State, replied that she had `sent it [the report] across to       the relevant policy leaders to inform future policy development'       (correspondence dated 03/03/2011).
Circulation of the research to the Children's Commissioners for England,       Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland had a positive impact in terms of       endorsing its potential for awareness raising &#8212; a view supported by the       Children's Commissioner for England (correspondence dated 13/03/2011).
In       addition, the Children's Commissioner for Wales acknowledged the value of       the case study material generated through the research and said, `I       particularly wish to acknowledge the work you have done in obtaining the       perspectives of victims of violence, exploitation and trafficking and the       case studies will be of considerable value' (correspondence dated       15/03/2011).
The dissemination of the research has had a positive impact on       faith-based organisations.
For example, following receipt of the European       Commission Daphne research report, the Senior Policy Adviser for the       Catholic Bishop's Conference of England and Wales endorsed the importance       of the multi-agency and multi professional strategy advocated and wrote,       `this report will help us draw on the evidence based research...to support       the development of a proactive multi-agency approach within the church'       (correspondence dated 11/03/2011).
While the Archbishop of Canterbury       wrote, through the office of the Deputy Secretary for Public Affairs, of       his intention to bring all research reported through the case study to the       attention of `colleagues who specialise in some of the areas addressed'       (correspondence dated 24/10/2012).
Correspondence from the European       Commission acknowledged the value `of your work in combating violence,       exploitation and trafficking and your contribution to the Daphne       Programme.'
(29/04/2011).
It is at a local level where we have been able to more easily gauge the       long term impact of the published research on policy and practice.
For       example, the Vice Principal of Shenley Academy and Sixth Form, Birmingham,       recorded in recent correspondence (letter dated 17/06/2013) that the work       has `been discussed at Governors meetings' and has helped in `shaping and       `confirming' policy and practice'.
He reported that `on the evidence of       this paper [Tucker, 2010] we have expanded our reporting systems, to       include a remote, confidential electronic system, with a link to the       Academy Website'.
He also points to how the development of a `clear ethos       of reporting issues, appropriate confidentiality, and rigorous responses       to information shared has significantly increased the students' confidence       and trust in the academy'.
While at Holte School, Lozells Birmingham, the       Deputy Headteacher reports that consideration of the research has `caused       me to consider the content of future training and also how my staff       support young people when referrals to external professionals, who don't       know them, have been made... we can always do better and research assists       this on-going development' (letter dated 07/06/2013.)
