     Greenwood's review of the EU Transparency Register (RR3)       attracted a significant blog       exchange in May 2013 between European Commission Vice-President Maro&#353;       &#352;ef&#269;ovi&#269; (IR-1) and       Transparency International's Europe Office (IR-2), each of which       cited the article extensively ahead       of the opening of the official review of the launch in June 2013.
Another       EU NGO also made a       number of references to RR3 as part of its campaigning report       `Rescue the Register' released at       the time of the review.
Greenwood presented his work at an event in       November 2013 (chaired by       the respective European Parliament-Commission Vice Presidents) called by       the working group on       the review of the Register for an exchange of viewpoints with academics       and experts in the domain       of lobby regulation.
Two stakeholder organisations made reference to RR3       in their (public)       submissions to the Review (http://ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/info/consult-       register/whatsNew.do?locale=en).
A variety of Twitter traffic       accompanied the publication of RR3       and the blog exchange (available on request), including the Slovak embassy       in the UK.
The BBC       Radio 4 programme series `File on 4' broadcast a programme on `Tobacco:       the Lobbyists' on       16.7.2013 which used statistics published in RR3 (http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-23330553).
The       impact has continued beyond the census period, with continuing       Commissioner citations at public       events (available on request).
The launch event of the third edition of Greenwood's Interest         Representation in the EU in       Brussels in 2011 featured the Vice-President of the European Commission,       Maro&#353; &#352;ef&#269;ovi&#269;, as       keynote speaker.
The event was attended by around 100 people.
Martin       Westlake, the Secretary       General of the European Economic and Social Committee, blogged positively       afterwards about his       attendance at the event (IR-3): "What Justin and his guest         speaker had to say was of great         interest to me...a welcome reminder that there are others out there who         are trying to flesh out the         somewhat amorphous concept of participatory democracy."
In 2009 Greenwood was commissioned by the Jordi Pujol Foundation       (Catalonia) to write an       online article explaining the way in which the EU political system seeks       to use organised interests       as a pathway to a `participatory democracy'.
(IR-4).
He was       interviewed by Chicago Public Radio       in 2010 (MP3 file available on request) as part of a series of programmes       looking at the influence       of the American Chambers of Commerce outside of the USA.
He was also       invited by the EU-       China programme secretariat in Beijing (a mechanism to provide support to       China's integration into       the world trading system) to present two seminars to Chinese government       officials in 2010 on       mechanisms of participatory democracy centred on interest groups (event       cancelled due to       extraneous circumstances).
Greenwood has been a long-standing participant in events hosted by the       NGO European       Citizen Action Service (ECAS), with requests to contribute research       insights continuing beyond the       census period.
Within the current impact assessment period he has       commented on an early draft       of the ECAS Charter on European Citizenship (http://www.ecas-citizens.eu/content/view/494/)       at       the invitation of the ECAS Director Tony Venables (April 2013; email on       file CI 1), and delivered       plenary addresses at `ECI Link' conference events that ECAS co-sponsored       in Vienna (October       2012, at the Austrian Federal Ministry of the Interior, over 130       participants) and Brussels       (November 2012, at the European Economic and Social Committee); the       Brussels event was       attended by over 180 civil society activists, academics, legal advisors       and representatives of EU       institutions (http://www.ecas-citizens.eu/content/view/464/280/:       webcast available at       http://www.ecas-citizens.eu/content/view/446/400/).
Bouza Garc&#237;a contributed an article on the       ECI to the El Pais newspaper's blog `Alternativas'.
He       collaborated with the Spanish think tank       `Fundaci&#243;n Alternativas' and produced a paper on the ECI for them (IR-5).
This paper was re-       published by the `Fundaci&#243;n Alternativas' in the wake of the Spanish `15M'       or `Indignados social'       movement, as an instance of an institutional proposal to reconnect       political processes with civil       society.
It was also posted on the blog of the Basque Ombudsman (IR-6)       and the Newsletter of the       Basque government (IR-7).
One of his 2012 co-authored articles in       PEPS has also been cited in a       student blog on `Re-imagining Europe' (http://bigidea2025.com/6-european-citizens-initiatiative/       ).
Greenwood also held a Brussels workshop in October 2011 attended by 30       practitioners       from the regional offices to discuss preliminary results from the British       Academy sponsored       research.
His impact on the `Brussels circuit' is reflected in the diverse       training/seminar events he       has been commissioned to undertake.
These include:-            the External Relations Directorate of the European Commission for a         half day internal         training session on `Networking and lobbying' (Brussels, 2009) (26         participants);       the European Climate Change Foundation, as the keynote speaker at a         dedicated seminar         for their wider network of environmental organisations on NGO lobbying         in the EU, with the         Director of the WWF Brussels Policy Unit as discussant (Brussels,         February 2011; c. 25         participants);       the Government of Catalonia (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) also         commissioned training from         Greenwood at their Brussels office in September 2011 on `the role of         lobbying in EU decision         making' (Brussels, September 2011; c. 25 participants); (repeat         invitation for 2013 - event clash)       a day's training at the College of Europe Development Office         `Intensive Seminar on the         EU' (annually since 2002), and intermittent dedicated training events         run by the Development         Office (total attendance c. 900).
Greenwood's regular courses on Masters programmes at the College of       Europe (where he       has been a Visiting Professor since 2002) on `Interest Representation in       the EU' and `Business       Politics in the EU' have assisted an estimated 50 ancien in their       subsequent employment in       organisations engaging with EU institutions.
His earlier work on business       interest representation,       reflected in his Inside the EU Business Associations (Basingstoke:       Palgrave Macmillan, 2001),       has continued in impact terms through:            a sustained Brussels `Euroconference' event bringing together         practitioners and academics         to share perspectives on EU business associations.
Greenwood established         the event with two         conferences in 2000 and 2002 from an EU Framework Programme `High Level         Scientific         Conference' series grant, bringing together 300 participants over both         events, and subsequently         passed the event over to a Brussels-based association management         company, Kellen Europe, to         operate on an annual basis (IR-8);       a co-facilitator role at a member event of the EU engineering         association Orgalime in         2008, jointly with a PhD student/Brussels practitioner (c. 30         participants);       membership of the CBI Trade Association Forum (TAF) Final Awards         judging panel (IR-9).
The awards are aimed at developing best practice in a variety of         categories; he has been invited to         serve on the panel every year since 2003;       a keynote speaker role at the TAF Annual Conference in 2011 (estimated         audience: 150).
Greenwood was a member of an ESRC awards panel (2006-2010) designed to       incentivise       training by postgraduate research students in Advanced Quantitative       Research Methods.
This       resulted in him being commissioned by ESRC to evaluate the scheme and to       make policy       recommendations.
The implementation of these is documented in an email       sent to panel members       of 5 February 2009 (available on request &#8212; CI 2) by the       responsible departmental head at ESRC,       entitled `Follow on to the Greenwood Report'.
The changes include an       increase in the amount of       the training grant element, the removal of the award from the first year       of study (when students are       developing their ideas), and the concentration of studentships in centres       with high quality       quantitative training.
Halpin's research on lobbying by organized interests led to an       invitation from the Organization for       Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to be a panel member at a       workshop on the       `Economic and Trade Implications of Policy Responses to Societal Concerns'       in 2009 (IR-10) (and       beyond the census period at the Australian Parliament on lobby       regulation).
The Scottish Council       for Voluntary Organisations invited him to give an extended presentation       to the Policy Officers       Forum on 27 August 2009.
Results were also discussed with the Scottish       Government's Office of       the Chief Researcher and the Constitutional Policy and Civic Participation       Team on 15 January       2008.
Results were requested by the Scottish Government Library Service       (on behalf of the       Cabinet Communications Division) on 20 February 2011.
His work on the       participation of organized       interests in Scottish Government consultations was featured in an article       in the Government       section of The Herald (Bella Gordon, `Who shouts the loudest?'
21.10.2008, p.18).
