     The two research projects that form the foundation of this submission       were conducted in response       to the high rates of unhealthy lifestyle behaviours in young adults,       particularly Higher Education       (HE) students within the United Kingdom (Steptoe &amp; Wardle, 2001;       Steptoe, et al., 2002).
The findings revealed both that the health of this population is a cause       for concern and that       unhealthy behaviours aggregate in clusters.
Seventy per cent of the young       people in this study did       not meet the recommended guidelines of physical activity, 66% ate less       than the recommended       servings of fruit and vegetables per day, and 56% reported binge drinking       at least once in a seven-day       period.
Psychological stress was also high amongst the sample, with       females experiencing       greater psychological stress than males.
This research suggests that       health promotion       interventions targeting this population should be a priority and that such       interventions should not       focus on unhealthy behaviours in isolation from each other.
Interventions       should consider how       behaviours cluster together and design effective programmes that mirror       the patterns within       clusters.
There has been limited previous research on the clustering of unhealthy       lifestyle behaviours in this       particular group, and there is a clearly identified need for the       development of effective intervention       programmes for this population.
Both projects resulted in journal publications and conference       presentations.
The findings have had       regional and national impact.
In particular, the Division of Health       Psychology conference is       attended by both practitioners and academics, with the practitioner       audience including Health       Psychologists working within both the NHS and third sector organisations.
Considerable interest in       the research has been expressed verbally at these conference       presentations.
Dissemination has included the following audiences:     3rd International Congress on Physical Activity and Public Health, 5-8       May 2010, Toronto, Canada       (Al-Nakeeb, Y., Dodd, L. &amp; Nevill, A.
Young Adults' Lifestyle,         Adiposity and Health).
Division of Health Psychology Conference, 9-11 September 2009, Aston       University (Dodd, L., Al-       Nakeeb, Y., Nevill, A., &amp; Forshaw, M. Lifestyle Risk Factors of         Students: A Cluster Analytical         Approach).
European College of Sports Science, Sport Sciences: Nature, Nurture and       Culture, 14th Annual       Congress of the ECSS, 24-27 June 2009, Oslo, Norway (Al-Nakeeb, Y., Dodd,       L., &amp; Nevill, A.       Lifestyle and Health Behaviours of University Students).
Division of Health Psychology Conference, 9-12 September 2008, University       of Bath (Dodd, L.       Predicting Physical Activity Intention and Behaviour using the TPB         within Students: Gender         Specific).
