     The University of Westminster's research has contributed to significant       improvements in the management and experience of the night-time economy in       England and Wales and hence to social, economic and environmental       sustainability.
The Purple Flag scheme was directly informed by the University of       Westminster's body of research on the night-time economy and good practice       in the management of night-time city centres.
Purple Flag accreditation       provides a `badge' of quality for local authorities and their partners in       other public and private local agencies in managing the night time       experience.
The research demonstrated that more people would go to town       centres in the evening and at night if centres were more accessible, had       less anti-social behaviour and offered more choice with regard to places       to eat and drink, live performance and festivals and highlighted best       practice with regard to their management through partnerships.
Paul Davies of the Civic Trust drew extensively on the University's       research in NightVision, the final report for the Special Project,       in 2006 (see section 5).
Pages 101-103 demonstrate that the University of       Westminster's research comprised four of the seven studies.
The findings       were reinterpreted and repackaged as assessment criteria and evaluation       methodology for Purple Flag scheme.
The Purple Flag web-site refers to the       research undertaken for the Special Project as the `Civic Trust research'       as underpinning the Purple Flag criteria.
The scheme, administered by Paul       Davies, is currently hosted by the Association of Town Centre Managers       (ATCM) and is backed by central government.
At the time of writing thirty       six town centres in thirty-five local authority areas have achieved Purple       Flag status.
The University of Westminster research has therefore had a demonstrable       impact on the environment of night-time town and city centres.
This impact       does not only relate to the introduction of a new policy instrument, but       has also been acknowledged by businesses and individuals.
To illustrate, a       study commissioned by Purple Flag found economic benefits from       accreditation.
These include a 13% increase in footfall in comparison to       other similar places, in the context of the night-time economy having a       value of &#163;6.6bn p.a., employing 1.3m people and producing 27% of town and       city turnover.
Purple Flag accredited centres enjoy a raised profile and       an improved public image, wider patronage from different social groups,       lower crime and anti- social behaviour and a more successful mixed-use       economy.
The output of the desktop study (see Section 2) influenced policy and       practitioners.
This report, following a rigorous process of peer review by       the ODPM, Home Office and Department of Health, was sent out by the ODPM       to all local authorities in England and Wales in 2004-5.
The report       continues to be cited in national and local authority policy documents,       for example, the Secured by Design guidance for licensed premises       seeks `to build on the knowledge base established in the publication'       (p.2) (see Section 5 for reference) and examples drawn from the report are       cited by Wickham, M. (2012) Alcohol Consumption in the Night-time         Economy GLA Economics.
The identification of best practice continues       to be relevant to the conduct of professional work in managing the       night-time economy.
The University of Westminster research has had an international impact on       practitioners and professional services.
The Alcohol Advisory Council for       New Zealand called attention to the local authority survey in their       comments on the masterplan for rebuilding Christchurch (http://www1.ccc.govt.nz/council/agendas/2011/october/cncl3-12th/22079_AlcoholAdvisoryCouncil.pdf       (doc 15.09.2011).
Vienna City Council is disseminating the innovative       methods used in the Soho study (see Section 2) to a wider audience of       practitioners in guidance for public space design (See Section 5 Item 8).
Prof. Roberts contributed to legislative change.
Some recommendations       from the Select Committee reports have since been incorporated into       statute, for example a late night levy on operators in centres with high       levels of crime and disorder (Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act       2011).
Prof Roberts, together with other experts contributed expertise to       the Joseph Rowntree Foundation backed campaign `Object' to redress an       unintended consequence of the Licensing Act 2003, including an appearance       on a Channel 4 documentary (Dispatches: The Hidden World of Lap Dancing,       6.10.2008).
The campaign was successful and the Policing and Crime Act       2009 gives local authorities powers to control lap dancing on licensed       premises.
The House of Lords Library requested a copy of the University of       Westminster research on the impacts of the Licensing Act (see S.3).
The research has contributed to public debate, Prof Roberts participated       in a discussion about hen parties on Woman's Hour, (BBC 14.6.2013,       3.5m listeners) and community activists and politicians in Westminster       have disseminated the findings locally.
