     Weeds present a major global challenge to food security, accounting for       more crop yield loss than both pests and diseases in many areas.
Glyphosate is the world's most important herbicide and genetically       modified glyphosate-tolerant (Roundup ReadyTM) crops are grown       on over 100 million hectares of land.
A large increase in glyphosate use       occurred when Monsanto introduced Roundup Ready crops in the mid-1990s,       resulting in the widespread and often exclusive use of glyphosate for weed       control.
These changing use patterns were accompanied by the widespread       evolution of glyphosate resistance in weeds, which is now estimated to       impact up to 60 million hectares of agricultural land.
Neve's underpinning       research, modelling efforts and supporting data from subsequent fieldwork,       have increased our understanding of how herbicide resistance, and in       particular glyphosate resistance, evolve over time.
Agritech companies       have traditionally used field trials to research the development of       herbicide resistance, but the limited success and lack of practicality of       this has led to large global companies such as Monsanto using Neve's more       efficient modelling approach (evidenced by letter of supporta).
The ability to assess hundreds of different management scenarios using       these modelling frameworks has ultimately resulted in recommendations for       the proactive management of glyphosate resistance.
In particular, this       research has demonstrated that integrated weed management and the use of       herbicides with diverse modes of action can reduce the development of       glyphosate resistance.
The disadvantages of over-reliance on genetically       modified glyphosate resistant crops and the need to adopt proactive       measures to mitigate the evolution of herbicide resistance have been made       clear.
Modelling research has translated this knowledge and understanding       into practical `on the ground' management guidelines for farmers using       genetically-modified crops, including the adoption of more soil-residual       herbicides and the rotation of several modes of action (evidenced by       letter of supportb.
The results of this research have been widely and effectively       disseminated by Neve through interactions with US academics and the       agrichemical industry.
In February 2008, Neve presented results to the       National Soybean Breeders Association in St. Louis, USA and to the       International Weed Science Congress in Vancouver, Canada.
These       conferences, with over 500 delegates each, are attended by industry       representatives and academics.
Many US academics have a role in outreach       and hence presentation to these audiences provides a very effective means       of ensuring that results are communicated to growers and their advisers.
During visits to the USA, Neve has frequently been interviewed by       specialist press outlets as well as taking part in field days and webinars       arranged for the press (evidenced by press coveragec-f).
The       involvement of Professors Norsworthy and Smith from the University of       Arkansas has provided a way to communicate these results widely to farmers       in the areas worst affected by glyphosate-resistant weeds.
Outreach       events, including workshops, field days and meetings, have enabled       important messages on the management of herbicide use to be conveyed to       thousands of producers, growers and consultants.
The impact of this       extensive outreach work is substantial, with the current herbicide       recommendation for cotton, which is a "direct result" of Neve's       modelling work, being used on approximately 75% of cotton in the       mid-southern USA (evidenced by letter of supportf).
The results generated have been used internally and externally by Syngenta       to inform decisions related to marketing and product stewardship.
The       research was nominated for a Syngenta research award.
Syngenta and       Monsanto scientists and regulatory staff use modelling outputs to       demonstrate the value of resistance management to their marketing       departments.
These recommendations have been formulated into product       stewardship recommendations that are widely disseminated at meetings and       conferences to growers, consultants and academics.
Key personnel within       Syngenta and Monsanto are members of the Global Herbicide Resistance       Action Committee and results are also communicated through this platform       (evidenced by letter of supporta).
The evolution of resistance to herbicides is recognised as one of the       major threats to global food production, resulting in severe economic       hardship to farmers, loss of crop yield and a reduction in land values.
In       extreme circumstances, where populations of weeds such as Palmer amaranth       get out of control, farmers must resort to hand weeding at an additional       cost of $50 to $100 per acre.
More than 10 million acres of Roundup Ready       glyphosate-resistant cotton are planted in the USA each year.
Over 150       million acres of corn and soybean are produced and results are currently       being extended to these cropping systems.
Economic costs of evolved       glyphosate resistance are severe (evidenced by letter of supporth).
The herbicide models developed by Neve have provided new crop management       regimes to prevent evolution of resistance as well as providing evidence       recommending the benefit of more diverse, less environmentally harmful       integrated weed management.
As a result of development of these models and their application, Neve is       now recognised as a global expert on herbicide resistance management.
He       is a member of the UK Weed Resistance Action Group and Chair of the       European Weed Research Society's working group on herbicide resistance,       both of which bring together famers, industry and government bodies to       coordinate management recommendations.
Neve is regularly invited to speak       at a range of events, including industry meetings and multi-disciplinary       forums, such as the Global Herbicide Resistance Challenge International       Conference (Perth, February 2013).
