     Initial results were based on 2,688 patients, from ten randomised trials,       and updated to include 3,005 patients, from 11 trials, including the MRC       Clinical Trials Unit BA06 trial.
This represents 98% of the available       randomised evidence.
We showed that people with invasive bladder cancer       who had multi-drug, platinum-based chemotherapy before surgery and/or       radiotherapy lived longer than those who had just surgery and/or       radiotherapy.
After five years, 50 out of every 100 people who received       additional chemotherapy were still alive compared with 45 out of every 100       who just had surgery and/or radiotherapy.
They were also less likely to       have their cancer recur or spread to other parts of the body.
These       effects were independent of the whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy was added       to surgery or radiotherapy.
There was no evidence to support the use of       neoadjuvant chemotherapy based on a single platinum-based drug.
The research has been cited as evidence in 19 national and international       guidelines from 2008 to 2013.
In most cases, the guidelines citing this       review substantiate their clinical recommendations by directly quoting the       review:     European Association of Urology (2008/2009/2010/2011/2012/2013)       "Neoadjuvant cisplatin containing combination chemotherapy should be       considered in muscle invasive bladder cancer irrespective of definitive       treatment" [a].
European Society for Medical Oncology (2008/2009/2010/2011) "A       meta-analysis supports the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy before       cystectomy for T2 and T3 disease.
The demonstrated survival benefit       encourages the use of platinum based combination chemotherapy for patients       with invasive bladder cancer before radical cystectomy or definitive       radiotherapy" [b].
National Comprehensive Cancer Network (2010/2011) "In the most       recent meta-analysis, a statistically significant decrease in the death       rate was seen corresponding to an improvement in overall survival.
The       NCCN Bladder Cancer panel members recommend considering cisplatin-based       neoadjuvant combination chemotherapy" [c].
Japanese Urological Association (2010) "At present, a definite       improvement in survival rates has been shown only for preoperative       cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy" [d].
Associazione Urologi Italiani (2010) "High-quality clinical       evidence shows that neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy has       acceptable toxicity and increases the survival rate by 5-6.5%" [e].
Saudi Oncology Society (2011) "Neoadjuvant cisplatin-based       chemotherapy improved overall survival by 5-7% at 5 years and this option       should be offered to patients especially with locally advanced disease       (T3,T4)" [f].
Our systematic review and meta-analysis of IPD was also cited as evidence       in these guidelines:     British Columbia Cancer Agency (2008) [g].
Association of Comprehensive Cancer Centres (2009) [h].
Alberta Health Services (2011) [i].
Spanish Society of Medical Oncology (2011) [j].
In addition, the routine use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the       management of locally advanced bladder cancer has been discussed in a       number of recent articles.
Notably, it was the topic of a panel discussion       at the 11th Annual Meeting of the Society of Urologic Oncology,       where the international experts concluded that the current standard of       care for patients with muscle invasive bladder cancer is cisplatin-based       neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radical surgery [k].
Use of       neoadjuvant chemotherapy for patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer       has also increased.
For example, a study published in 2011, which reviewed       treatment patterns across the USA using data from the National Cancer       Database, showed that the percentage of American patients receiving       neoadjuvant chemotherapy had more than doubled during the period from       2003-2007.
The authors attributed this to the increase in data supporting       neoadjuvant treatment [l].
One of the recommendations of the IPD meta-analysis was that neoadjuvant       cisplatin-based chemotherapy should be used as the control arm in any       subsequent trials in this population.
Whilst no recently initiated       randomised controlled trials could be identified, neoadjuvant chemotherapy       continues to be the subject of a number of ongoing and recently reported       trials.
These studies have explored the use of novel therapeutic agents       (including bevacizumab, sunitinib and sorafenib) alongside standard       neoadjuvant, cisplatin-based chemotherapy; explored modifications to the       dose or duration of standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens or used       novel drug combinations in attempts to further reduce side effects and       improve outcomes for patients with muscle invasive disease [m].
