     The research of Freeman and colleagues has strongly influenced ongoing       and major developments in wetlands policy and peatland management and       restoration by international organisations, UK government, industry and       NGOs.
Impact on water Industry     Freeman's discovery that peatland degradation is the cause of increasing       DOC levels in water provided the explanation to water companies for rising       costs of water treatment.
It formed the evidence base for strategic       planning and management decisions to reduce water DOC levels, through       improved land management of peatland catchments, and restoration       activities such as ditch blocking.
Freeman's findings have made it       possible, for the first time, to address these water quality problems at       the source; the upland catchments themselves, rather than focusing on       costly end-of-pipe technological water treatment solutions.
This has       directly led to new jobs through the creation of specialised catchment       management teams and new water treatment measures by the water industry,       including water companies Welsh Water and United Utilities &#8212; improving       drinking water quality for at least 5 million households in England and       Wales [2].
According to Welsh Water's Operations Director: "through         implementation of management adjustments to rising trends in DOC, every         UK customer receiving water from upland catchments, has benefitted from         improved water quality through this research" [2].
The research       findings have been the justification for millions of pounds of funding       secured by the water companies, and central to further investments driven       by their increasing recognition of ecosystem services and the importance       of peat carbon storage [1].
Impact on international and national wetlands policy and restoration         measures     As a result of the impact of his 2001 and 2004 Nature papers, Freeman was       invited onto several international committees on wetland restoration and,       unusually, to act as an international advisor to the US National Science       Foundation on the allocation of $36M of funding in the field of climate       change and carbon cycling.
Freeman's recent work, including his 2013       Nature paper, has already had a significant impact on the international       debate about the net benefit of using palm oil as a biofuel for climate       change mitigation and the role of peatlands in post-2012 climate change       legislation in the Kyoto Protocol [10] and is referenced in the 2013       Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines.
Freeman's research was key in       underpinning future UK scenario forecasts on water quality and in making       the case for the importance of peatland restoration in combatting climate       change [e.g.
6-8].
Engagement with UK policy makers has continued to be       integral to Freeman's research.
E.g., with team member Dr Joanne Clark,       Freeman edited a special Issue of Climate Research ("Climate       Change and the British Uplands", Vol.
45, December 2010) targeted at       informing policy makers about safeguarding wetland ecosystem services       (water purification, C storage and mitigating climate change) [7].
The       Welsh Assembly Government has used the research repeatedly in identifying       further research needs and developing policy on natural resource planning       since 2008, such as the agri-environment scheme, Glastir, and the Welsh       Soils Action Plan [3].
Impact on peatland conservation and restoration measures     Freeman's research has provided a scientific evidence base for land       conservation managers, trusts and NGOs, often in close collaboration with       water companies, for their decisions to focus resources and efforts       towards peatland conservation and restoration [1,2].
In particular, the       resulting knowledge of the enzymic "latch" had a major global impact &#8212; the       role of phenol oxidase inhibition for C sequestration in peat has "helped         conservation bodies to demonstrate the need for early restoration work         to bring peatland sites into the best possible condition" [4].
It       has evidenced one of the most feasible means to reduce degradation and C       loss from C-rich wetlands through ditch blocking and floatable organic       structures that capture inorganic pollutants by making use of the enzymic       latch system (patent pending).
This has justified significant funding for       peatland restoration in intensively managed catchments [1,4,9] and by the       peat moss industry internationally [5].
For example, the Llyn Fens LIFE+       project awarded to the Countryside Council for Wales (2009-2014) that       restores 751 ha of important European wetland habitat, makes extensive use       of constructed wetland technology developed by Freeman to help intercept       and retain nutrient inputs to semi-natural wetland sites, and draws on       Freeman's expertise by incorporating practical recommendations on       restoration techniques from his research [4,9].
Freeman's research led       directly to acknowledgment of the important function of peatlands in water       purification, C storage and combatting climate change, leading directly to       improved conservation, with consequences for increased biodiversity value       and ecosystem services, of these globally important habitats [4].
As an       example of the international impact of this work: the Canadian Sphagnum       Peat Moss Association, dedicated to preservation and responsible       harvesting of Canadian peatlands, has in March 2013 commenced the world's       first large-scale field trials of the enzymic latch approach, investing a       total of $175,000 in the approach to improve peatland re-vegetation and       increase C-sequestration [5].
Impact on public awareness     The findings of Freeman's research have been disseminated widely in the       public arena.
He has a consistent record of high level engagement with       stakeholders and peer recognition for his research achievements since 1997       which has, cumulatively, led to the major impact of his research since       2008 on stakeholder and public awareness.
Freeman was awarded the Lindeman       Award of the American Society of Limnology and Oceanography (1997),       invited by Lord May, Past President of the Royal Society, to discuss       research with HRH Prince of Wales (2001), awarded the Royal Society Brian       Mercer Feasibility Award (2004), invited to the Queen's Reception for       Scientists (2005) and awarded the Royal Society Mullard Medal (2007) in       recognition of his significant contributions to knowledge on climate       change and the importance of peatlands and to the significance of this       work for national prosperity.
In 2013, Freeman was elected a Fellow of the       Society of Wetland Scientists, based in the USA: something that had only       happened 23 times since 1980 within an organisation of 3500 members.
His       research has been featured before and since 2008 in articles by the BBC       and Huffington Post and on television.
Continued viewings of his footage       on YouTube [10] (over 7000 views since 2008) reflect an ever-increasing       impact on public awareness of the importance of peatland conservation.
According to the principal Peatland Ecologist of the Countryside Council       for Wales (now Natural Resources Wales), the fact that "someone of         Freeman's reputation and status actually uses publically owned         conservation sites as research facilities helps make the case for the         retention of these very important but quite expensive to run assets"       [4].
Therefore, in addition to the research itself, the prestigious       reputation Freeman has gained, is in itself contributing to the       conservation of these important areas [4].
