     Hart was contacted by the BBC following the publication of Jackson and       Hart 2009 (above)       and subsequent publicity (http://dsc.discovery.com/news/2008/12/19/animals-feces-cleanliness.html).
Together with a BBC researcher, Hart developed a documentary       focussing on the social life of ants.
Research carried out by Hart,       particularly on sanitation       and foraging trails, was used to develop several unique demonstrations and       short pieces       for the documentary pitching process.
Hart's interest and expertise in leafcutting ants, together with his 12       years of research on       these ants, gave a focus to the developing programme1.
A       90-minute documentary,       framed around a very large captive colony of leafcutting ants, was       commissioned and       Hart's research into foraging trails and waste handling was used directly       to guide the       design of the complex studio nest that would be used for filming1.
As a consequence of       Hart winning the Society of Biology's Science Communicator of the Year       (2010), appearing       on BBC1's Wallace and Gromit's World of Inventions and The One Show, and       writing and       presenting programmes for BBC Radio 4 and World Service, he was asked to       co-present       the programme with established TV entomologist Dr George McGavin.
Planet Ant (and related activities) mostly achieved impact through       raising awareness and       improving public understanding8,9.
Planet Ant: Life Inside         the Colony first aired on March       12th 2013 on BBC4 in the UK (with several repeats), on April 28th       2013 on Discovery       Channel in the USA and worldwide through BBC World network on numerous       subsequent       dates.
The 90-minute BBC programme featured a captive leafcutting ant nest       (the largest       in Europe) in a studio.
The complex and unique set design was directly       based on this       research to ensure that waste management and trail laying behaviour could       be filmed (for       the first time)1.
A variety of breakout films documenting its       collection as well as other       features of ant social life was also included.
As well as being crucial to       the development       and commissioning of the programmes1, Hart's research featured       in both the studio and       breakout sections1.
Independent viewing figures indicate that 1.16 million people watched the       BBC4 broadcast       in the first week2.
This compares to an expected number of       viewers in the show's slot of       400,000.
The programme was "Pick of the Day" and "Pick of the Week" in       most major UK       newspapers and was reviewed positively by several national papers       following the       broadcast [e.g.
it was impossible not to be impressed (Metro);       Fascinating (The       Independent); Ingenious programme &#8212; quality natural history (The       Observer)]3.
It spent two       days as the 5th most downloaded programme on iPlayer       (exceptional for a BBC4       documentary) and to the submission date has recorded more than 600,000       views on       YouTube1,2,4.
It was also nominated in the Factual category for       the 2013 Broadcast Digital       Awards and for a Royal Television Society Craft Award5.
As well as the main programme, Planet Ant gave rise to a       30-minute BBC Learning       programme Living on Planet Ant that was written and presented by       Professor Hart.
This       aired on BBC2 and is permanently available to schools through the BBC's       website.
Aimed       at 11-13 year olds (KS2) this programme took concepts presented in Planet         Ant and re-presented them for a younger audience, producing a       programme that was "an excellent       resource"9.
The programmes are not just for biologists.
The Times Educational         Supplement described       the programme as "excellent" and heralded its role in demonstrating       aspects of       mathematics to students6.
The programme, and the research of       Hart's that features within       it, also underpins a talk developed by Hart that introduces children to       pheromones and       pheromone chemistry.
This presentation has featured as the Bristol       University ChemLabs       Christmas Lecture (three times), the Royal Society of Chemistry schools       lecture, a major       event at the Cheltenham Science Festival and as a centre-piece for the       National Science       Federation of Malta's annual schools science event7.
The programme generated considerable secondary impact.
This included a       four-page       article, written by Hart, in BBC Focus Magazine and an article in       the magazine of the       Royal Entomological Society's National Insect Week 2012, a nationwide       event co-organised by Hart.
The latter article documented the collection       of the nest from a field       location in Trinidad and was circulated to 3,000+ schools8.
Further impact came from the       studio colony that was housed in the Glasgow Science Centre and was on       full public view       over the summer of 20121.
Planet Ant was featured as BBC event at the 2013 Cheltenham       Science Festival, where       Hart and others involved in the programme debated with the audience on the       role of ants       and insects in the ecosystem.
Hart also co-hosted an event called Hidden       Worlds that       featured Planet Ant for the Big Bang festival in Glasgow with 650       children attending.
Arising from his involvement with Planet Ant, Hart has developed       two Citizen Science       projects with the Society of Biology &#8212; The Flying Ant Survey (that       has now run for two       years) and Spider in da House &#8212; a web and phone based app for       recording house spider       emergence in autumn.
These projects, which will result in peer-reviewed       publications,       have engaged nearly 20,000 members of the pubic in scientific research.
This secondary       impact would not have occurred without the primary impact of Planet         Ant and will result in       peer-reviewed publications that complement Hart's entomological work9.
