     Impacts on public policy and services     Early publications, mainly by Sheppard and dating from as early as the       1980s, showed the ecological scope and value of Chagos, namely its high       biodiversity and productivity, its ability to differentiate between local       impacts and those from marine climate change, its potential role in       serving the Indian Ocean's resource needs, and its fundamental role as a       research reference site.
It would also greatly assist the UK in meeting       its international obligations for marine protection.
As a result of this       research, over 100 scientists from many marine disciplines have applied to       use Chagos for their research, all of whom subsequently became       enthusiastic supporters of the idea of creating an important ecological       legacy in Chagos.
The involvement of most of the 100+ scientists was       arranged and coordinated by Sheppard at UoW.
Institutions from ten       countries that research coral reefs have also been involved.
When the       evidence was substantial for the need for long-term conservation,       Sheppard, together with the Pew Environment Foundation, formed the Chagos       Environmental Network in 2008, which comprises a loose amalgam of the Blue       Marine Foundation, Chagos Conservation Trust, Coral Cay Conservation,       Linnean Society of London, Marine Conservation Society, Pew Marine       Foundation, Royal Society, Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, Royal Society for       the Protection of Birds, Zoological Society of London, and Professor       Charles Sheppard as the only individual.
The aim of this Network was to       promote to the UK Government the plan to establish this area as an MPA.
It       achieved its goal in 2010.
In addition, the Pew Marine Foundation       subsequently provided funds for an office in London for two years from       2008 to 2010, to organise a campaign to persuade the UK Government to       declare the Chagos an MPA.
The main objectives of the underpinning research described above were not       only to research the productivity and biodiversity of this unimpacted       tropical marine area, but also to obtain the governmental protection that       the area required.
Thus, in 2010, the top 250 marine scientists in the       world, including Sheppard, published an open letter calling for       substantial protection of large areas of ocean habitats, noting that huge       areas of ocean and oceanic productivity had already been destroyed or       degraded, some permanently, resulting in substantial human mortality in       the poorest countries estimated in the millions of people.
As Science       Advisor to the Commissioner of the BIOT, Sheppard provided the scientific       basis for the UK Government to declare in 2010 the area a strictly no-take       MPA; at over 650,000 sqkm, the largest in the world.
The Chagos region is now the largest among six members of the Big Ocean       Network, a global initiative aimed at conserving the oceans.
In separate       statements of support of Sheppard's work, the Foreign Commonwealth Office       (BIOT)a, Linnean Society of Londonb and Pew       Environment Foundationc, acknowledged that, "scientific studies       organised and led by Professor Sheppard" were "fundamental to achieving       this MPA status" of Chagos, "as these studies demonstrated that Chagos has       the cleanest sea waters ever tested, the most climate change-resilient       coral reefs, the highest known fish biomass anywhere, and is a key part of       the Indian Ocean's genetic `highway', vital for many species".
BIOT       emphasised the role of Sheppard in providing policy advice, and the       Linnean Society highlighted the important impact of Sheppard's work, first       in "establishing the UK as being an important leader in marine       conservation" and, secondly, of impacting upon "the broader issues of       marine management and understanding in the Indian Ocean, including in       those many countries whose natural resources are in increasingly       impoverished condition".
The Pew Environment Foundation stated that, "in       short, Sheppard's work has led to increased science, the establishment of       a world-beating marine reserve, and work to restore the islands to their       original state".
This work and its importance has been published by       Sheppard for the Houses of Parliament, explaining the benefits of this       research and project for both Britain and the Indian ocean, including for       food security in the latterd.
Impacts on the environment     The protected Chagos archipelago is now the biggest reef conservation       area and MPA in the world (almost as big as France).
It is an area whose       richness and unaltered state serves as a reference site for the rest of       the world, enabling damaged-area managers in other countries to understand       what they should be aiming at to achieve enhancements in their own       degraded ecosystems, in terms of trying to modify local activities, and       prioritising their work &#8212; especially in resource-poor       countries.
The beneficial impact of this is to help enable marine habitats       to recover their diversity and productivity to levels not otherwise seen       for many decades.
Impacts on practitioners and services     As a result of his research on Chagos, Sheppard works for a range of       United Nations, governmental and aid agencies in tropical marine and       coastal development issues, advising governments on marine and coastal       management.
From UoW, Sheppard also coordinated the research of over 100 scientists       from developed countries, with a few (as many as possible) from developing       countries also, helping to provide developing countries with the know-how       to manage their own reef systems.
This has resulted in over 200 scientific       publications that are now used to assist countries with damaged marine       systems to establish ways of mitigating ecological impacts, such as       determining the relative impacts of overfishing and pollution.
In       particular, work by Sheppard2 showed directly how the UK could       effectively aid conservation measures, including increasing food security,       and aid countries to mitigate environmental damage.
Impacts on society, culture and creativity     The World Resources Institute, an independent non-governmental       organisation that carries out policy research and analysis on global       environmental and resource issues and development goals, focusing on the       intersection between the environment and socio-economic development, uses       Sheppard's research on their website.
`Chagos Archipelago: A Case Study in       Rapid Reef Recovery'e states that: "Today, the number of reefs       around the world without direct human impacts is extremely small, so       Chagos represents the rare case where scientists can examine effects of       global climate change in the absence of human influence.
The recovery of       corals in Chagos &#8212; in comparison to other sites in the region under       greater human pressures &#8212; therefore highlights the importance of local       management efforts to reduce these pressures".
Sheppard is a scientific advisor to the European Outdoor Conservation       Association (EOCA), a 'not-for profit' Association, stretching from Norway       to India and from the UK across to the Czech Republic, that aims to prove       that the European outdoor industry is committed to `putting something       back' into the environment, and that if everyone involved works together a       real difference can be made.
Sheppard provides advice to EOCA on which       projects they should fund and support for the conservation of wild places       and ecosystems for future generations.
Sheppard is a Trustee and Advisor to Blue Ventures, an award-winning       social enterprise that works with local communities to conserve threatened       marine and coastal environments, both protecting biodiversity and       alleviating poverty.
