     The reach of the research is wide and includes policy makers (national       and EU), public health commissioners, local government leisure and       exercise officers, leisure providers, primary care health professionals       (general practitioners, nurses), fitness instructors and patients/the       public.
The impact is summarized below:     a.
Impact on applied practice and policy/national recommendations     Practice has been influenced at local, regional, national and international     levels, and the influence extends to commissioners, health practitioners,     physical activity and art specialists, and patients/public themselves.
The     research has informed the development of policy in the form of toolkits and     recommendations, which has resulted in more bespoke and informed     commissioning and subsequent intervention design.
This impact is not just     the result of a linear and consecutive research-practice pathway/process;     rather, over the fifteen year period practice has also informed and driven     the research according to the needs of those commissioning the research and     ultimately patients.
This is evidenced by the following:     i.
Provided consultancy on effective physical activity promotion in the       EU in both Spain (Regional Government Department of Sport and Physical       activity in Castilla-La Mancha) (2012) (Corroborating source A)       and in the Czech Republic (2010).
ii.
Worked with the British Heart Foundation National Centre for Physical       Activity and Health in the development of the Exercise Referral Toolkit       (see - http://www.bhfactive.org.uk/sites/Exercise-Referral-Toolkit/index.html)       published in 2011 (Corroborating source B).
iii.
Member of a cross-sector working group of clinical, commercial and       third/sector-public organisations who developed the `Active Planning       Toolkit' (see - http://www.nice.org.uk/media/sharedlearning/326_nhsglos_nhs_uk.pdf)       to facilitate implementation of the Centre for Public Health Excellence       (NICE) "Promoting or Creating Built or Natural Environments that Encourage       and Support Physical Activity" (2008) guidelines.
The toolkit is       recognised by NICE as having a significant impact to the work in this area       going forward (Corroborating source C).
iv.
Presented at national conferences on physical activity pathways in       2010 (62 health professionals attended) (Corroborating source B)       and regional public health conferences for art on referral in 2012 (South       West) and 2013 (Milton Keynes) (Corroborating source D).
v. Part of a group to develop a `Commissioning Resource for Physical       Activity, Mental Health and Wellbeing and Food and Nutrition for the North       West of England' (see - http://www.nwcommissioning.org/planning-for-commissioning/commissioning-for-         wellness/),       for NHS North West, 2010-2011.     vi.
Adoption of the evaluation processes and documentation developed by       Crone in the Art Lift, Gloucestershire project by the Bristol Art Shine       referral programme (Corroborating source D).
vii.
Testimonies from public health and clinical professionals on the       impact of research on subsequent commissioning decisions in the area of       art and physical activity referral interventions (Corroborating sources D,       E, F, G).
b.
Impact on professional development       The research has influenced the professional development of exercise       instructors across the UK and health professionals (doctors, nurses,       public health practitioners) across the UK and EU.
This is evidenced by the following:     i.
Authored chapter and related course tutor slides and notes in the       British Association for Cardiac and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (BACPR)       exercise instructor manual; the resource for exercise instructors on the       national BACPR Phase IV exercise instructor course.
Nine regions use the       manual, including Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales, with approximately       250 instructors being trained per year (Corroborating sources B, H).
ii.
Content for the In2Health's UK wide professional development       programme for clinicians (1200 clinicians attended per annum) includes the       research (Corroborating source I).
iii.
Professor Crone was the lead for the EU Leonardo Funded Healthy       Europe through Learning and Practice (HELP) project (see - http://www.help-project.com/3/2/WHAT-IS-         HELP?lingua=en)       which has developed an online CPD resource for health professionals across       6 EU countries.
Initial impact from the needs analysis and piloting of the       resource identifies that over 300 EU based health professionals have been       involved in its development and piloting.
Longer term impact will be known       after the product is launched November 2013 (Corroborating source A,       I).
iv.
A central part of many of the commissioned evaluations has involved a       training element for staff involved in the delivery of these interventions       such as physical activity and health referral professionals.
v. Crone is co-author of text book; Physical Activity and Health       Promotion: Evidenced- based Approaches to Practice (2009).
c. Impact on patient benefit     The research has impacted on patients through improving practice and     striving for evidenced based practice in primary care.
This is evidenced by the following:     i.
The applied interventions that underpin this case study have involved       over 6000 patients, thereby having a direct impact on these individuals       and their families within the community.
ii.
Many of the commissioned evaluation research projects have included       the design of interventions enabling an evidenced based approach to       intervention design.
The aim is to improve the effectiveness of such       interventions and thus improve individual patient uptake, attendance and       completion, leading to improved health outcomes (Corroborating sources B,       D, H, G).
iii.
The BACPR course, taken by approximately 240 fitness instructors per       annum, each required to read the chapters contributed by Crone       (Corroborating source H).
These instructors teach approximately       2-3 classes a week with approximately 20-30 patients in each class.
Crone's chapter and tutor resource on psychological considerations for       cardiac patients will inform their practice daily.
The impact on patients       is therefore estimated at 6000-9000 per annum in the UK (Corroborating       source B).
iv.
Crone's input into the content of three toolkits (two national, one       regional - exercise referral, use of the built environment for physical       activity and a commissioning resource) will have an impact on patients via       the evidence based interventions informed by these documents       (Corroborating source C).
