     Contribution to improved social, cultural and environmental         sustainability     Historically, Govan Old Church served as the spiritual and social       cornerstone of the area, but, over time, the shrinking congregation has       diminished its strength.
In 2007, a parish reorganisation resulted in       making Govan Old Church redundant as an active place of worship.
During       the 1960s and 1970s, shipbuilding &#8212; the main employer in Govan &#8212; went into       a near terminal decline.
Today only one shipyard is still active, large       areas of central Govan are derelict, unemployment levels exceed 50% and       the population has declined significantly.
In 1912 Govan was until an       independent burgh with an estimated population of 100,000; it is now one       of the most deprived districts in the city of Glasgow with a population       estimated at 66,100 in 2008 (Scottish Neighbourhood Statistics).
As a result of his extensive research in the area, in 2005, Driscoll was       approached by Govan Workspace Ltd, a not-for-profit community-based       regeneration group, to contribute to its proposed Conservation Plan for       Govan.
This plan led directly to the formulation of the Govan Conservation       Area Proposal &#8212; that led, in 2008, to the area being given conservation       area status by Glasgow City Council.
The group assembled by Govan       Workspace was formalised into the Govan Heritage Advisory Group, which       includes Driscoll.
This group actively promotes urban regeneration       initiatives in the area, chiefly through the adaptive reuse of historic       buildings.
Enhancements to heritage preservation, conservation and presentation     The most significant contribution made by Driscoll concerns Govan Old       Church, which was made redundant by the Church of Scotland in 2007.
This       development caused considerable concern to those interested in the future       of Govan because it was the oldest and most distinguished element of the       historic fabric of the area.
The church itself is A-listed and, as a       consequence of the University of Glasgow excavations, the churchyard was       designated as a Scheduled Ancient Monument in 2003.
Driscoll subsequently       contributed to the Govan Workspace Options Appraisal (2008-10), which       sought to identify a sustainable future for the church and its collection       of medieval sculpture.
The proposal was to transform the church into a       museum/cultural resource centre capable of providing impetus to the       regeneration of Govan.
The first stage aimed at improved access and       interpretative resources to make the church site attractive to tourists;       the second stage included a major refurbishment to combine commercial       rental space (in the basement of the old church) with state-of-the-art       displays in the main body of the church.
Figure 1: Hogbacks display       	       Figure 2: The unique Govan sarcophagus            Funding for the first phase (&#163;120,000) was secured in 2011 from the       Heritage Lottery Fund, Historic Scotland, the Church of Scotland and other       sponsors.
Driscoll has applied his expertise to interpret the history and       meaning behind the sculptures and was a primary contributor to the new       display, known as the Govan Stones project (http://www.thegovanstones.org.uk), installed       and launched in 2012.
Prior to Driscoll's research and the collaboration       with Govan Workspace, there was little public awareness of the importance       of the stones and the church and the stones were poorly displayed, with       limited access.
This initial phase of work is addressing these issues.
As       well as managing the displays and information in the new museum, Driscoll       has contributed to a display in Glasgow's Riverside Museum which draws       particular attention to Govan Old Church, which sits just across the       river.
As part of the groundwork to establish the viability of Govan Old       Church as a tourist attraction, the Govan Heritage Advisory Group       successfully lobbied for the reinstatement of the Govan ferry to link       Govan with the newly reopened and heavily visited Riverside Museum.
The       Govan Stones project is now fully open to the public, with free admission       for the first three years.
It has a schools outreach programme and is a       venue for events as part of its income generation strategy &#8212; the Jimmy       Reid Foundation hosted Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond, in January       2013, in the first of series of public talks which will be held in the       Govan Old Church space.
Govan Workspace has reported early progress in the       drive to increase the number of visitors to Govan Old and the Govan       Stones, with an increase of 146% between 2010 and 2011, largely owing to       extended opening hours.
Visitor numbers between 2012 and 2013 more than       doubled, with 2,477 visitors in 2012 and 5,379 in between January and       September 2013.
The Managing Director of Govan Workspace stated:      Professor Driscoll has played a leading role as part of a local group       which has been drawing attention to Govan's special heritage and the       potential contribution it could make to local regeneration.
His       professional input &#8212; in particular his knowledge of the history of the       Govan Burgh and his archaeological expertise on the Govan Stones &#8212; helped       bring early credibility to the work and has been instrumental in the       success of various funding applications.
The activity associated with the regeneration of the church building       prompted Glasgow City Council Land and Environmental Services in 2012 to       initiate a &#163;200,000 conservation programme for the churchyard, the first       phase of which is the development of a conservation management plan, to       which Professor Driscoll is contributing.
The conservation and       regeneration work on Govan Old Church has contributed significantly to the       aims of the Govan regeneration initiative (Central Govan Action Plan) and       also forms part of Glasgow's ambitious Clyde Waterfront regeneration       programme.
Over the course of the Glasgow involvement in the Govan Old Church site,       significant effort has been devoted to publicising and interpreting the       discoveries at Govan.
Much of this has been accomplished through local       media, but there are two noteworthy TV events.
During the initial       archaeological dig, an entire episode of Channel 4's Time Team       programme was dedicated to Govan.
Although this occurred prior to the       eligibility timeframe for impact, it did encourage Glasgow City Council to       fund an additional season of excavation.
Most recently, in May 2012, Govan       featured prominently in the opening episode (`Britannia') of The Great       British Story series presented by Michael Woods for BBC 2, which aired to       an estimated 1.66million.
The site has also been written up in a 2011 book       by Nick Mayhew-Smith entitled Britain's Holiest Places, which was       featured on Radio 4's Excess Baggage programme and BBC Two's Countryfile       show.
