     1.
Use of Boundaries TTWA boundaries are widely used         by the UK government and others because they accurately map economic         geography: they are used to select areas for major funding support     Numerous series of Official Statistics are reported by TTWAs, some on a       monthly basis, and they are very widely used by labour market analysts and       planners: for example the ONS's Nomis database supports several thousand       TTWA-based downloads each year (IMP1).
This usage level reflects       the widespread recognition of TTWAs as the standard UK functional economic       geography, officially endorsed by ONS following research studies when they       "worked with Newcastle University to refine and then apply a complex       allocation process which guarantees that all the TTWAs meet precise       statistical criteria" (IMP2).
Government policy use of TTWAs includes guidance in the Treasury Green       Book on how to assess the case for government intervention: TTWAs are       cited in explaining how analyses should use areas that approximate local       labour markets, and worked examples are given for one application, the       assessment of proposed transport investments in Scotland (IMP3).
Major policies have for a decade now focused on cities, evidenced by the       previous government's State of the English Cities research which relied on       TTWAs.
Recent significant developments include the &#163;1.4bn Regional Growth       Fund whose guidance on assessing bids cites TTWAs, whilst the announcement       of City Deals based its choice of cities on TTWAs, even though the policy       is explicitly aimed at local authorities whose boundaries are very       different to TTWAs (IMP4).
These official uses of TTWAs are matched by third sector researchers       utilising them to critique government policy.
Examples include analyses by       NESTA of creative clusters, and regional pay policy research finding TTWAs       provide a "more precise way of looking at geographical differences" (IMP5).
Parallel private sector TTWA usage includes their adoption as default       definitions of labour market areas in modelling work, so that if TTWAs did       not exist such work would be "done less well and less efficiently, to the       detriment of both public policy-making and the public purse" (IMP6).
2.
Use of Concept TTWAs are cited as the `bench-mark'         functional economic area definitions, as in guidance for implementing UK         policies such as that on Local Economic Partnerships (LEPs)     The coalition government's new policy on `Local Growth' implemented part       of its predecessor's strategy by creating Local Enterprise Partnerships       (LEPs) which straddle administrative boundaries to cover functional       economic areas.
The policy documents repeatedly reference TTWAs as the       established template for assessing the functional reality of boundaries       for proposed LEPs (IMP7).
An explicit link between economic development and housing policies led to       a parallel need for housing market area (HMA) definitions which were also       functional areas that potentially cut across administrative boundaries.
Innovative research for the National Housing and Planning Advice Unit       extended the TTWA definitions to identify consistently-defined HMAs, and       despite the coalition government changing housing policy it stated that       "[t]hese areas will help local planning" (IMP8).
An academic paper       on the implications of the research for planning professionals won the       2013 RTPI Education Award: Excellence in Spatial Planning.
3.
Use of Methodology Countries in three continents         have adapted the TTWA method to define functional areas for their         official statistics     International organisations like OECD acknowledge that better spatial       policy decisions are made when appropriate areas are used, and for       economic development this means using functional economic areas.
A review       for Eurostat has shown that many countries define labour market areas, but       many rely on methods with severe limitations (e.g.
when faced with vast       sparse flow matrices &#8212; such as those on the c.30,000 French Communes &#8212;       they would yield sub-optimal results because of limiting the possible       solutions).
Eurostat is convening a Task Force to consider taking forward       the approach to multi-national LMA definitions developed in research in       which "the contribution of Prof Coombes and his colleagues in Newcastle       was substantively innovative and critical for the achievement of the       quality of the study" (IMP9).
The transferability of the method to other countries means it can reveal       the latent spatial structure within commuting datasets on countries with       radically contrasting economic geographies and levels of urbanisation       (e.g.
Italy and New Zealand).
The results have proved suitable for use       with official statistics, and the increasingly available small area       commuting data in 2010/2011 Censuses is seeing official TTWA-derived       analyses in several countries including South Korea and Canada (IMP10).
