     1.
Informing understanding of water quality     In terms of significance, elevated nutrient concentrations in freshwaters       are a major environmental concern and application of the model across the       UK has revealed widespread failure to achieve the required good ecological       status.
Further modelling by Juggins and Kelly, which related the algal       assemblages in the DARLEQ database to nutrient concentrations, provided       the basis for new phosphorus standards for UK rivers (IMP1).
Roger       Owen, Head of Ecology for SEPA, said "my view [is that] the impact of the       DARLEQ work on the policy environment...has been considerable" (IMP2).
The model and database together have led to a greater understanding of       what we mean by `healthy ecosystems' and, in the longer term, contributes       to the sustainable management of freshwaters in the UK and Ireland.
In the       shorter term the research has assessed the ecological condition of UK       rivers and improved the design and implementation of new statutory limits       for phosphorus in freshwaters (IMP1).
As nutrients such as       phosphorus were highlighted in a recent White Paper (Water For Life) as       one of the biggest challenges facing UK waters, this work is having       ongoing impacts on water industry practice and policy, and UK water       quality.
2.
Impact on practice     In terms of reach, the model and database deriving from the research,       disseminated through journal articles, an interpretative `evidence' manual       (IMP3), computer software (IMP4), and training workshops,       has now been formally adopted by the UK and Republic of Ireland       administrations.
It is used routinely by environmental regulators       (including the Environment Agency (EA), Scottish Environment Protection       Agency (SEPA), Northern Ireland-EA and Irish Environment Protection       Agency, utility companies and environmental consultancies) to comply with       the WFD and assess the current ecological state of rivers and lakes in the       UK and Ireland.
Impact on practice extends from survey planning and field       sampling (IMP3) through laboratory analysis and data       interpretation (IMP3, IMP4).
Together, the methodology allows       users to estimate the scale and cost of work required to restore waters to       a sustainable state.
This, in turn, has secondary reach as the outputs       from these ecological assessments are used to indicate the types of       remediation and restoration appropriate for particular water bodies, and       the cost to be borne by consumers via their utility bills (IMP2).
Wendy McKinley of the Northern Ireland Environment Agency noted in her       testimonial that the "help and support [of the DARLEQ team] enabled NIEA       to develop capabilities that are essential as we move into full       implementation of the Water Framework Directive" (IMP5).
The pathway for dissemination within the UK agencies was via the UK       Technical Advisory Group (UK TAG) for the WFD, a partnership of UK       environment and conservation agencies which reports to DEFRA and the       devolved administrations.
The work was initially appraised by the Rivers       and Lakes Task Teams (now combined as the Freshwater Task Team, FTT) and       then passed up to UK TAG and the administrations for ministerial sign-off.
A formal statement of methods is given on the UK TAG website (IMP6).
These fulfil the UK's responsibilities for public dissemination under       Article 14 of the WFD.
3.
Impact on UK water policy     In terms of significance, the research has enabled the UK and Irish       governments to demonstrate that they are meeting their statutory       requirements under EU legislation in complying with elements of the WFD (IMP2,         IMP5, IMP7).
Because the research had established a statistical       relationship between the diatom flora and nutrient concentrations in the       water, Juggins and Kelly were also contracted to revise UK environmental       standards for phosphorus, regarded as the key limiting nutrient in       freshwaters.
This enabled concentrations appropriate to support `good       status' being established for different types of water body (IMP1).
Dissemination included a public consultation stage before the new       standards were officially adopted in 2009.
These revised nutrient       standards, in turn, play a "significant role in determining capital       infrastructure spend for the water industry" (IMP2).
The work also has wider significance in Europe where it was evaluated       alongside methods developed by other Member States in order to evolve a       common view of ecological status.
This, in turn, led to adjustment of       quality boundaries to ensure a common level of ambition across member       states with regard to minimum acceptable water quality.
Results of this       intercalibration exercise were published in the Official Journal and are       now legally binding in the Member States (IMP8).
4.
Impact on sustainable water quality     The reach and significance of this work lies in its contribution to       improved management of natural freshwater resources in the UK and Ireland.
This is a long term process encompassing all aspects of aquatic biology       and ecosystem health.
Via public consultation exercises it has contributed       to scientific debate on the understanding of sustainable freshwater       ecosystems.
The ecological and chemical standards set as a result of this       work have been used to assess compliance and provide an overview of the       state of the UK's freshwaters.
The situation for the UK indicates that       over 40% of the total length of rivers is at risk from elevated phosphorus       concentrations (IMP9), allowing strategic planning on remediation       measures and some preliminary estimates of costs.
