     a) Changes in Insolvency Law in Africa:       Burdette's work on the insolvency systems in Malawi and Seychelles was       undertaken upon request       by the World Bank and specifically for the purpose of remedying any       shortcomings in the statutes       dealing with Malawian and Seychelles insolvency law at the time.
The work       was undertaken after       week-long field trips to Malawi and Seychelles where the author met with       various stakeholder       groups.
At these meetings interviewees were requested to express their       opinions on shortcomings       in the current legislation and what they thought could be done to improve       them.
The Malawi project       formed part of a larger Doing Business project involving the World       Bank's activities in Malawi.
The       Seychelles project was one of a suite of projects forming part of a World       Bank Non-Lending       Technical Assistance programme in support of a Development Policy Loan to       the Seychelles.
The subsequent reports dealt with the shortcomings in Malawi and       Seychelles insolvency       legislation and how these could be remedied.
On the basis of these reports       Burdette was       requested to draft new insolvency legislation for both Malawi and       Seychelles.
The nature and       extent of the impact is illustrated by the resulting Seychelles Insolvency       Bill having been passed       into law.
The Malawian Draft Insolvency Bill is currently in the       Parliamentary process.
The Malawi and Seychelles legal, accounting and banking professions are       the main beneficiaries       of the research.
The Department of Industry and Trade, as the implementing       authority of this       legislation in Malawi, and the Ministry of Finance, as the implementing       authority in Seychelles, are       the other major beneficiaries.
The new Seychelles insolvency law has       contributed to the       improvement of the general financial architecture of Seychelles, which is       regarded as essential for       encouraging external investment.
The Insolvency Bill has put the Malawi       government in the       position to achieve similar improvements.
Burdette's work for the World Bank in South Africa influenced debate       regarding the framework of       insolvency practice and policy in South Africa.
It led to recommendations       and although ultimately       the South African government developed its own reform proposals, they were       influenced by the       World Bank recommendations.
b) Reforms in Insolvency Law and Practice in the UK       The report of Walters (with Armour and Hsu) influenced government       evaluation of the Enterprise       Act 2002 and it informed the Office of Fair Trading's market study (5.5       below) which, in turn, led to       the Insolvency Service Consultation on Reforms to the Regulation of         Insolvency Practitioners       (February 2011).
The Office of Fair Trading carried out a similar       empirical study on costs and       realisations in insolvency proceedings covering a later time span than the       sample of corporate       insolvencies studied by Walters et al.
This study made similar findings       especially as regards the       weakness of collective proceedings as a mechanism for holding down       insolvency practitioner costs       in cases where the principal lenders are fully secured or oversecured.
More recently the findings       of the Walters report on this point were referred to in the Kempson review       of insolvency practitioner       fees, carried out for the Insolvency Service (5.6 below).
