     Newcastle's research on Roman material culture has had impact through       enhancing public understanding of the material culture of the Roman       empire, contributing to conservation policy and commercial practice, and       informing education outside the HEI and academy.
Enhancing public understanding of Roman material culture       The university's Great North Museum: Hancock (GNM) opened in May 2009,       supported by an investment of &#163;26m from funders including the Heritage       Lottery Fund (HLF).
In the bid for the project, Newcastle University and       its partners used the Roman collection from the Museum of Antiquities,       which had great success under the curatorship of Allason-Jones, to push       the concept of the GNM as a gateway to the region's natural and man-made       heritage.
This was echoed in a HLF press release about the GNM's opening       which stated that the visitor attraction would "serve as a gateway to         the environment and landscape of the North East of England.
The         Hadrian's Wall Gallery displays exhibits from the entire length of the         Wall in the single greatest collection of artefacts from the Hadrian's         Wall World Heritage Site".
This signals its importance as the       largest exhibit and its placement at the centre of the new museum.
Its       inclusion, along with the Shefton collection and Hatton Gallery, also gave       the GNM university research status and access to HEFCE funding totalling       &#163;920,148 since 2009.
Following her success at the Museum of Antiquities, Allason-Jones was a       consultant on curatorial decisions relating to the new Hadrian's Wall       gallery.
Her research on the collection's inscriptions and on storytelling       in museums fundamentally shaped the gallery, which links particular       inscriptions to individuals and uses real people's stories to allow       visitors to interpret different aspects of life along the Wall.
She also       used her expertise on Roman artefacts and small finds to create meaning       and context for the objects in the gallery.
Allason-Jones' research on       Roman material culture has therefore created considerable impact on       heritage presentation through the new gallery.
Visitor numbers to the GNM       have been exceptional with more than 2.1 million visitors since opening in       May 2009.
This represents a major increase in visitors compared to the       previous display in the former Museum of Antiquities.
In geographical       terms, 31% of visitors to Tyne and Wear Museums (TWAM) venues including       GNM came from outside Tyne and Wear in 2011, and 40% were from       socio-economic groups C2, D and E (IMP1).
As the principal museum       and `story centre' for the Hadrian's Wall UNESCO World Heritage Site       (WHS), the GNM is a major part of the creative economy of the North East.
In this respect Newcastle's research regularly contributes to the GNM's       mission by underpinning temporary exhibitions.
For example, in early 2013       the Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne bicentenary exhibition       was curated by Allason-Jones and drew extensively on her research; it       attracted 95,482 visitors over 10 weeks (IMP2).
Specific       consultancy has allowed Allason-Jones' work to create even broader impact,       for example through offering specialist advice to movie-makers (e.g.
K.       Macdonald's $25m 'The Eagle' (2011)).
Newcastle research has also impacted significantly at other museums on       the Hadrian's Wall WHS.
During Newcastle excavations at Maryport, there       was a considerable rise in visitor numbers to the Senhouse Roman Museum       (SRM) and excavation site &#8212; for example, there were more than three times       as many visitors in 2012 compared to 2010.
This impact was facilitated by       a media strategy that ensured coverage of the excavations was extensive       (including local, regional and online press coverage, with radio and       television interviews).
People from the UK and around the world (for       example, Canada, Australia, and Austria) participated in tours of the       excavation site and museum.
Community volunteers reported a number of       benefits of taking part in the excavations, including training, technical       skills and knowledge development, obtaining hands-on experience, and       expressed enjoyment of being part of an excavation team (IMP3, IMP4).
Crow's work at Housesteads Roman fort, which is visited by around 100,000       visitors each year, informed the display in the new site museum which       opened to the public in 2012.
The English Heritage curatorial team       consulted with Crow and used his work extensively, describing his       publications as "indispensable".
The team's Senior Historian said,       for example, "I spoke with and consulted Jim on several occasions         during the recent work on the museum at Housesteads.
The two-volume         monograph on the excavations [...] transformed our understanding of         Housesteads &#8212; it was useful throughout my research to understand the         site and translate that knowledge into exhibition and graphic panels for         the museum and site.
I also used the book and consulted Jim on several         points of detail in relation to reconstruction drawings I was         commissioning of Housesteads at different points in time, and of several         different buildings.
He was always forthcoming and his deep knowledge of         Housesteads and broad knowledge of things Roman influenced the         directions I took" (IMP5).
The general public has also been       informed via popular publications based on our research.
For example, Crow       has published several popular books on Housesteads including his English       Heritage guidebook, Housesteads Roman Fort (1999, 2012), which       provides a general history and guides visitors on their tour of the site.
Contribution to professional guidelines, conservation policy and         practice       As well as producing popular publications, Crow acted as a consultant to       English Heritage and co-produced two Conservation Plans for Housesteads       (1994, with Rushworth; and 2002, with Peter McGowan Associates and       Rushworth).
In the 2002 Conservation Plan, Crow drafted much of the text       for the landscape and the Wall and his previous work (including joint work       with Rushworth) was used to provide historical and archaeological material       for the Plan.
Research by Allason-Jones, Haynes and Crow underpinned key       contributions to the 2009 Hadrian's Wall Research Framework.
Funded by       English Heritage and facilitated in part by Durham County Council, this       framework identified agendas and strategies for future research on the       Wall, essential for its future management (IMP6).
As part of the       Hadrian's Wall WHS Management Committee their research also helped inform       priorities for the Hadrian's Wall Management Plan 2008-2014 (IMP7).
Research on Roman ceramics by John Dore and colleagues at Newcastle       contributed directly to the creation of the National Roman Fabric         Reference Collection (NRFRC) (Tomber and Dore 1998).
This has become       an industry-standard work for Roman pottery specialists and is widely used       in commercial and professional archaeology.
As noted in the Roman Pottery       Research Group's Research Strategy (2011: 40), the NRFRC "...is         acknowledged by the majority of SGRP members as being one of the most         important and influential publications on Roman pottery and the fabric         and coding descriptions are now widely used by Roman pottery specialists".
The project also helped to confirm the value and utility of national       fabric reference collections and provides a model for similar projects (IMP8).
Informing education beyond the HEI and Academy       The research of Allason-Jones and Haynes has impacted positively on the       education of children and young people, particularly through the museum       sector and the education programmes of the GNM and SRM.
The number of       school visits to the GNM is buoyant as a result of the sustained and       on-going commitment of the University and museum staff to provide       resources for teachers.
These include both self-led visits and activities       taught by museum staff.
Since it opened, more than 95,000 school-age       children have visited the museum on organised educational visits with       their schools (IMP1), and the GNM consistently records the third       highest number of participants in free educational events at any       university museum in the UK (2009/10: 31,210; 2010/11: 42,403).
The       Hadrian's Wall gallery is the museum's central feature and is visited       frequently by school groups.
Drawing on the research expertise of       Allason-Jones and the educational resources developed in the Museum of       Antiquities, TWAM museum staff have been able to develop innovative       educational experiences which connect cross-curricular topics in arts,       humanities and sciences with everyday life on the Roman frontier, as well       as developing visual and story-telling skills in school-age children.
Taught Roman workshops relate to topics covered in the National Curriculum       and learning outcomes include increasing children's knowledge about life       on the Roman frontier, and in the last year alone these have been attended       by hundreds of school-age children from across the region (IMP9).
The education programme at the SRM has also benefited from Haynes'       excavation work at Maryport.
School groups were invited to visit the       museum whilst the excavations were on-going to learn first-hand how       archaeologists work and how archaeological discoveries help us to learn       about life in ancient times.
Whilst the excavations were on-going, the       number of school visits rose considerably; only 47 children visited with       schools in 2010, rising to 715 in 2012 (IMP3).
In addition to attracting schools, the Roman display at the GNM is also       used for research and academic teaching beyond Newcastle University,       sometimes in its own right but often in conjunction with visits to the       Wall itself.
Staff from many British, European and American universities       have visited the display with student groups and have noted the benefits       of doing so.
For example, a group of staff and students from Department of       Latin at Geneva University visited the GNM display as part of a five day       visit to explore Hadrian's Wall.
Geneva's Professor of Latin reported: "Since         the main purpose of our study trip was to introduce our students to the         history and archaeology of Hadrian's Wall, we decided to begin with a         visit to the Hancock Museum.
Its large and rich exhibit devoted to the         Wall offered our students, none of whom had ever been to the north east         of England before, a superb overview of the region, including the course         taken by the Wall and its strategic importance, the organization of         military life along the Wall and the rich epigraphic remains...our         students said that the visit had provided them with a valuable survey of         the Wall in its geographical and historical contexts, without which         their visit to the actual site of the Wall itself would have made much         less sense" (IMP10).
This impact is complemented by the use       of online teaching resources, developed from underpinning epigraphic       research, such as Inscripta (http://cias.ncl.ac.uk/Inscripta/)       and Identifact (http://cias.ncl.ac.uk/Identifact/),       which are being used by universities all over the world.
