     Developing policies and tools for environmental planning and management       The research has contributed to impacts upon the practices and policies       employed by a wide variety of organisations responsible for sustainable       development and the environment.
First, Newcastle researchers have played a leading role in developing the       methodologies for new resources (HLCs and HSCs) which have informed and       enhanced professional practice in a variety of ways.
The HLC project for       Devon had a formative influence in shaping current professional practice,       in terms of contribution to the still-evolving methodology for HLC and       consequently as contributing authors of the English Heritage Template         Project Design for HLC projects, which is still used as standard       guidance for projects in England (IMP1).
Research for the Devon       HLC moved the methodology forward significantly in terms of a       stratigraphic approach to HLC analysis (as cited, for example, by reports       on HLCs in Wiltshire (IMP4), the Isle of Wight and Shropshire (IMP5)).
Newcastle's consultancy work has also demonstrated the value of HLC as a       tool for predicting the sensitivity of archaeological landscapes (e.g.
the       North Devon NMP project, 2007), and this has contributed directly to the       delivery of sensitive landscape management through agri- environment       schemes.
Turner has advised other English counties' HLC projects as       members of their Steering Groups (e.g.
Northumberland, Durham and       Darlington HLCs).
Researchers at Newcastle are now leading the Tyne and       Wear HLC at Newcastle in collaboration with Newcastle City Council and       English Heritage (2012-14); data created by this project has already been       provided to local authorities to inform the planning process in       Sunderland, Gateshead and South Tyneside.
From 2006-10, Turner was a       member of on the Project Board that guided development of English       Heritage's national method for Historic Seascape Characterisation       (alongside Fairclough).
Newcastle's Irish Sea HSC and North Sea HSC       projects have subsequently contributed to further revisions of the       national HSC method.
Second, the research has influenced changes in conservation policy and       practice at both the national and international levels.
As a result of       their expertise in HLC, Turner and Fairclough were invited to join the       industry working group that produced new guidance on historic landscape       for the Highways Agency (Turner was the only member based solely in an       HEI; Fairclough represented English Heritage, though he was also a       Visiting Fellow at Newcastle).
They contributed by advising on the       development of a historic character-based method for assessing, minimising       and mitigating the impact of development that reflects the ubiquity and       time-depth of historic character, requires detailed analysis of affected       areas, and considers the effects of mitigation (e.g.
new planting       schemes).
This guidance (IMP2) won a Commendation in the Landscape       Policy category at the Landscape Institute Awards in 2007, and became a       new section in the Highways Agency's Design Manual for Roads and         Bridges (DMRB) 11, Section 3.2, HA208/07 (IMP3).
The       guidance is employed when Environmental Statements are drawn up for all       planned major road schemes and modifications to existing schemes.
The       result is that the impact on historic landscape during road schemes has       begun to be assessed and mitigated for the first time alongside other       environmental impacts.
Examples of Environmental Statements following the       guidance include &#8212; among many &#8212; those for the A5-M1 Link (Dunstable       Northern Bypass) (2009), the A21 Tonbridge to Pembury scheme (2009), the       A453 widening M1 Junction 24 to A52 Nottingham scheme (2009), the M1       Junction 19 Improvement (2010), the A6 to Manchester Airport Relief Road       (2010), the A8 Belfast- Larne Dual carriageway scheme (2011), the A556       Environmental Improvement (2012) and the A556 Knutsford to Bowden in       Cheshire.
Two major historic seascape characterisation projects &#8212; the Irish Sea       (English Sector) HSC and the North Sea HSC &#8212; have been undertaken at       Newcastle in partnership with English Heritage.
These projects are       directly informing the work of heritage bodies, local authorities and       developers responsible for managing and planning land-use across much of       northern and east-coast England.
For example, the HSC programme has helped       to inform the definition and coverage of the `seascape' (to include       cultural as well as natural aspects) as designated in the Marine       Management Organisation's preparatory Marine Plans for the east coast and       seas, and the requirement for wind farm developers to assess seascape       impacts in the context of Environmental Impact Assessment (AIA)       Environmental Statements.
Natural England's guidance `Approach to Seascape       Character Assessment' now embeds HLC and HSC in its workflow.
This       guidance has been adopted by the Marine Management Organisation for the       preparation of future Marine Plans, which means that HSC data created by       Newcastle will therefore be integrated into Marine Plans and make a direct       contribution to marine planning.
The underpinning research has influenced landscape planning/management       practice in other parts of Europe too, including Spain (where Turner was       on the Steering Committee of the PaHisCat project, designed to develop       historic characterisation data to complement the Catalan Landscape       Observatory's `Landscape Catalogues of Catalonia'); Greece (where Turner       has advised the Med- INA Institute on developing new policy for the Greek       Ministry of Environment); and Ireland (through the `Making Christian       Landscapes' project, see references in the Heritage Council's Historic         Landscape Characterisation in Ireland: Best Practice Guidance (IMP6)).
Publications on research applications of HLC have stimulated discussion,       and a growing awareness of the potential of HLC research for sustainable       landscape management, among heritage professionals outside HEIs in the UK       and abroad (IMP7).
Newcastle work on the research value of HLC has       been cited in recent papers by many practitioners, from the Heritage       Council in Ireland to the Swedish National Road and Transport Research       Institute (IMP8), and from the Catalan Landscape Observatory to       the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Research (IMP9).
Increasing public understanding of heritage       The research has also impacted upon society by enhancing aspects of       public-facing heritage presentation.
Whilst HLCs and HSCs are primarily       employed by heritage practitioners and planners, public accessibility is       an important factor in encouraging communities to acknowledge and care for       local heritage assets.
In their 2011 review of online public access to       HLCs (HLCs on the Web), English Heritage singled out the Devon HLC       pages (authored by Turner in 2005-7) as an example of good practice (IMP10).
The results of the Irish Sea (English Sector) and North Sea HSC projects       are also freely available to practitioners and the public via the       Archaeology Data Service.
Fairclough and Turner drew on their HLC       expertise to develop new Europe-wide characterisation methods for the EC       Culture programme's `Eucaland' project (2007-10).
Its aim was to help       Europeans recognize their agricultural landscapes as a significant part of       their cultural heritage: the project resulted in a touring European       exhibition and popular publications.
