     In the field of contemporary development policy the importance of two       institutions, a universal       social security system and a universal identity registration system, has       been viewed principally as       a human rights issue and as non-essential so far as economic growth is       concerned.
Szreter's       historical research has critically raised awareness among development       policy practitioners that       these two institutions, preferably in harness together, can each make       powerful pro-growth       contributions and that they also signal the importance of crucially linked       governance issues of trust,       civic status and access to justice in order to promote well-diffused       economic development.
In       November 2009 Szreter became the first non-American awarded the Arthur P.       Viseltear Award by       the American Public Health Association in recognition of the distinguished       body of historical       scholarship published in Health and Wealth, World Development,         American Journal of Public         Health and The Lancet.
The initial publication of this thesis in Health and Wealth       (2005) elicited immediate interest from       development policy practitioners, with a text box summarizing Szreter's       argument in ch.6 of the       World Bank's 2006 World Development Report.
This was published at       a time when leading world       development organisations were turning their attention to the potential of       fledgling programmes       such as Brazil's Bolsa Familia for supporting development, with Szreter's       work providing important       historical evidence for the effectiveness of such approaches to sit       alongside contemporary       evaluations, which established a policy context for the reception and       impact of Szeter's work in the       survey period.
The publication of Szreter's 2007 journal article in World         Development resulted in a call by WHO in       Geneva for him to join an international writing team of public health       epidemiologists, where he was       the only historian on the team, which resulted in a special issue on 'The       Right of Registration'       published by The Lancet in November 2007, where he co-authored 3       of the 4 articles in the issue.
In 2008 he was asked to give lectures at the key development policy       institutes, ODI and IDS, and a       plenary lecture at a major international UNICEF-funded conference in       Entebbe, Uganda on 'Social       Protection for the Poorest Poor' in Africa, where, again, he was the only       historian present.
For the       first two days of the conference, researchers presented their work to       administrators of social       protection programmes, and on the third day leading policy makers were       brought in.
Szreter was       therefore able to argue in front of policy makers from several African       countries that social security       systems were not just the preserve of developed countries but had begun in       agrarian economies,       actually supporting their subsequent development.
Szreter's lecture was       chaired by George       Beekunda, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social       Development.
On       the day after the conference, the Ugandan government met with a delegation       from the conference,       and shortly afterwards announced a new pilot programme of social       protection for the poor, focusing       on the poorest households with children and older people, to be funded by       development partners       including DfID (5a).
In 2009 Szreter was again invited to give       presentations at the key       development policy institutes, ODI and IDS, and at a seminar for DfID       chaired by the Permanent       Secretary, Dr Nemat Shafik, who stated in her personal summary to DfID       staff present that `This is       a good opportunity to look back to our own history and see how a social       safety net was created in       England when the country had a low-income agrarian economy, not unlike the       countries [DFID]       works with today' and asked her civil servants to consider the       implications for policy.
Szreter's research has also been prominently cited in two major and       influential health and       development policy documents published in 2008.
Firstly, the report of the       WHO's 2008       Commission on Social Determinants of Health cited Szreter's research       extensively when arguing       for the importance of universal vital registration in developing countries       for both public health and       social equity reasons (5b).
This led to action when 48       Asian-Pacific governments came together in       Bangkok in December 2012 with the support of Unicef and Plan International       to agree measures       for strengthening their civil registration systems.
The most direct impact on policy of Szreter's work can be seen in its       influence on India's adoption       of a universal identification policy.
In June 2009 India's President       announced in parliament that a       Unique Identity Card scheme was to be implemented within 3 years to `serve       the purpose of       identification for development programmes and security' (5d).
Nandan Nilekani, who was       appointed by the President to head up this newly-created Unique Identity       Authority, specifically       cited Szreter 2007 as the key authority for his original proposal in 2008       for this policy of universal       identification: `Unique identification for each citizen also ensures a       basic right&#8212;the right to "an       acknowledged existence" in the country, without which much of a nation's       poor can be nameless       and ignored, and governments can draw a veil over large-scale poverty and       destitution' (Szreter       2007, Nilekani 2008, p.350) (5c).
In summary the beneficiaries of this research have been the diversity of       practitioners, officials and       experts working in the international field of development policy, who have       been able to develop       policies better tailored to supporting widely shared economic development       and the citizens of these       countries benefiting as a result both economically, socially and in terms       of recognition of their rights       to registration, with these policies more accurately informed by Szreter's       revisionist account of the       institutional drivers behind England's pioneering path of economic       development.
