     The experiment on environmental warming and nutrient loading was       initially disseminated via high-impact       scientific publications and presentations to international and national       conferences.
The       causes for concern that our findings demonstrated &#8212; the spread of exotic       invasive species and       reduced water quality &#8212; were then identified by the IPCC [5], and       supported by specific reference to       two UoL publications [3,4].
Throughout the REF reporting period, IPCC       (2007) has continued to be       the most authoritative and widely used source underpinning policy       statements on responses to       changes in the Earth's climate and the impacts of these, and will only be       superseded in 2014 by       the new IPCC report on impacts, adaptation and vulnerability.
In 2008       onwards, the threat of       increased spread of the invasive weed in a warmer climate has been picked       up by governmental       departments in the USA and Northern Ireland [7,8].
More specifically, and during the reporting period, the group's published       findings on risks of spread       of the exotic curly waterweed, Lagarosiphon major, from Africa [2]       have been incorporated into       online documents by National Museums Northern Ireland [7] and Wisconsin       Department of Natural       Resources [8], both governmental departments that have taken the       initiative to provide advice on       protection from invasive species for managers of natural resources and for       the general public.
Both       in Northern Ireland, where this plant has invaded, and Wisconsin, where it       has not yet arrived,       climates are far from African, but the UoL research work warns of the       threat of rapid spread even in       temperate latitudes under predicted climate warming.
Both specialists and       members of the general       public are therefore warned of its potential to spread in a warmer climate       and are provided with       information to help identify and rapidly control this invasive species,       benefitting the public and the       nature conservation value of water bodies in these regions.
The impact of       alerting the public and       managers of invasive spread is evidenced by the fact that it is listed on       global and several national       lists of invasive species of concern, and that the International Union for       the Conservation of       Nature's global invasive database says: "it can block the intakes of       hydro-electric systems.
Dense       growth ... can block light penetration into waterways, eliminating growth       of native water plants and       affecting associated populations of aquatic invertebrates.
Lagarosiphon         major can also restrict the       passage of boats and limit recreational activities like swimming and       angling.
Storms can tear weed       mats loose and deposit large masses of rotting vegetation on beaches,       spoiling their amenity       value."
(http://www.issg.org/database/species/search.asp?sts=sss&amp;st=sss&amp;fr=1&amp;x=18&amp;y=6&amp;sn=lagarosiphon+major&amp;rn=&amp;hci=-1&amp;ei=-1&amp;lang=EN)     The UoL work on how to improve environmental quality in freshwaters       subject to saltwater       seepage was performed specifically to help rectify a serious environmental       problem faced by the       Broads Authority, which is responsible for managing Britain's largest       protected wetland and third       largest inland waterway.
Over 7 million people a year visit the Broads for       boating, angling, and       nature tourism, spending upwards of &#163;400m in support of the local economy.
Many of these are       the beneficiaries of the ongoing environmental improvement instigated by       the research, as its       recommendations have been implemented in the management of the Upper       Thurne [6] which       occupies about a fifth of the 300 km2 catchment of the Broads,       and is particularly popular because       it contains some of the richest biodiversity, angling and boating       opportunities.
Prior to the UoL research, there had been deterioration of the ecosystems       and instability of the       water plant populations, risking sudden shifts to a system with poor water       quality, and much       reduced biodiversity including a heavily depleted plant community and       fewer fish and rare and       specialist wildlife.
The proposed salinity targets generated by the       group's research led to the       management activities which continue today (that is, 2008-present), as       Broads Authority managers       corroborate [9].
Specifically, the Authority responded to the       recommendations by instigating four       projects throughout the Upper Thurne to invest in and manage pumps,       realign dykes, assess water       management regimes in catchments, and install a water control and ochre       settling reedbed [9].
One of these, the Brograve drainage project, affects the whole of the       Upper Thurne, ~ 60 km2.
Clear benefits that have already been observed include greatly reduced       salinity levels in Brograve       and Eastfield Levels, Horsey Mere, and Hickling Broad (600 ha) [9].
Hickling Broad is the largest       expanse of open water in the Broads and has been formally designated for       its conservation       importance nationally (Site of Special Scientific Interest, National       Nature Reserve) and       internationally (Ramsar wetland site of international importance; European       Union Special Area of       Conservation and Special Protection Area).
Importantly, this new       management has alleviated the       previously serious sediment deposition problem in the nearly 1.5 mile long       Waxham Cut, and       removed the ochreous discolouration of Horsey Mere [9].
The work has       prompted further trials of       the ecological impact of UoL management recommendations and feature in the       strategy for the       Upper Thurne and the Broads [9].
In their implementation of UoL recommendations, the Broads Authority work       with local farmers and       landowners; five are on the steering committee of the Brograve drainage       project.
Other partners       are Natural England, the Environment Agency, Water Management Alliance,       Norfolk Wildlife Trust,       and parish councils.
These actions to reduce salinity, and hence improve water quality, and       the growth and stability of       the water plant community, help the managers to determine a cutting regime       that will reconcile the       demands of the boating community and nature conservation.
Beneficiaries       are therefore varied, as       clean diverse plant dominated communities favour fish populations for       anglers, benefit the       specialist "flagship" birds such as bitterns and cranes which attract       wildlife tourism, and enable       coexistence of boating and conservation interests.
The implementation of the UoL recommendations is attracting international       interest from drainage       authorities, such as that for the Po Delta in Italy, which is charged with       ameliorating similar       environmental problems in Italy [9].
