     Through consultancy and public engagement, Dr Munro's research has helped       to shape the ways in which early modern theatre history is understood.
While she has delivered a number of public lectures and taken part in       conferences open to the public, the real impact of her research can be       seen in its influence on major projects which aim to present theatre       history to the general public in performative and material forms.
The       reach and significance of the impact can be found in the areas of: performance,         training and education and architecture.
In terms of       performance, Dr Munro's research has informed the selection and       performance of plays in professional and non- professional contexts.
In       particular, it has helped to shape two long-running projects, one at the       Education Department of Shakespeare's Globe and one at King Edward VI       School, Stratford- Upon-Avon.
In terms of architecture, Dr Munro's work       with the Architecture Research Group of Shakespeare's Globe has had a       direct impact on the form of the new Sam Wanamaker Playhouse.
Performance, training and education     Globe Education       Dr Munro is a long-standing consultant for Globe Education's acclaimed       series of public staged readings, Read Not Dead.
These are one-off       professional performances with scripts in hand, which take place in       seasons of between three and five plays and are staged in studio spaces at       Shakespeare's Globe (capacity c. 150).
More than 200 plays have been       performed since 1995, and a number have gone on to receive full       productions by Shakespeare's Globe and the Royal Shakespeare Company,       among others.
Dr Munro's work for Read Not Dead has included selecting and curating       plays, providing scripts, writing programme notes, contributing blurbs for       season brochures, answering queries from directors, and giving public       seminars.
In particular, her work on Children of the Queen's Revels       informed her curation of a series of plays originally performed by       children's companies for the Globe Education season `The Young and       Shakespeare' in 2007-8.
This season promoted the activities of these       companies significantly beyond their usual scholarly contexts, and it       introduced her to the work of Edward's Boys, with whom she later       collaborated (see below).
Her research into Caroline theatre history       informed her choice of Richard Brome's play The Court Beggar for       the autumn 2012 season, `Playing Indoors', and it brought this neglected       play before audiences for the first time in nearly 400 years.
One of Read Not Dead's vital functions is to give career-young actors       experience in working with classical drama.
Dr Munro has had direct input       into the training of actors through her work for the Sam Wanamaker       Festival, an annual showcase of the work of final-year student actors       performed at Shakespeare's Globe to audiences of up to 1600 people, for       which she has led play-selection workshops for directors (2009, 2011-13).
Dr Munro's extensive knowledge of early modern plays, gained through her       work on theatre history, is significantly shaping this training activity:       her research is thus informing and transforming the experience of new       generations of theatre professionals.
King Edward VI School and Edward's Boys       Dr Munro's research on the early modern children's companies has also been       disseminated through her work with King Edward VI School,       Stratford-upon-Avon.
Since 2005 the Deputy Head, Perry Mills, has directed       performances of neglected children's company plays including John       Marston's Antonio's Revenge (2011), Thomas Middleton's A         Chaste Maid in Cheapside (2010) and Thomas Dekker and John Webster's       Westward Ho!
(2012).
Dr Munro has acted as a consultant for the       company since 2007, and the impact of her research &#8212; in particular her       work on the ages of boy actors and her refutation of the idea that they       performed only in heavily parodic styles &#8212; has impacted on the casting and       performance styles adopted by the company.
The company, known as Edward's       Boys (http://www.edwardsboys.org)       has performed in Stratford-on-Avon, Warwick, Oxford and London to       audiences of up to 150 people in each location.
Through its performances,       which are recorded and available to buy on DVD, and its online presence,       this company is reshaping public understanding of the children's       companies.
Architecture     Dr Munro's research into early modern theatre history has also informed       the construction of a new theatre: the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, which will       open in Spring 2014.
Since November 2009 she has been a member of       Shakespeare's Globe's Architecture Research Group (see              http://www.shakespearesglobe.com/education/library-research/architectural-research-group).
She was invited to join the group on the strength of her expert knowledge       of the Blackfriars playhouse and the plays performed there, gained through       her work on Children of the Queen's Revels.
Through her membership       of the Group she has played an important part in the discussions that       shaped the design of the new theatre.
Her research will thus have a       considerable material impact on audiences who experience and enjoy this       theatre in the years to come, and its opening season will include two       Queen's Revels plays: Francis Beaumont's The Knight of the Burning         Pestle and John Marston's The Malcontent.
