     The most visible manifestation of the public impact in India beyond the       academy was a `Summit'       organised by Kapila and convened at the Taj Mansingh Hotel, New Delhi on       10 September 2012,       on `India in the Global Age' (5e, 5f).
The Summit was given       extensive coverage by the Indian       Press and television (for example, 5a, 5f); it was broadcast in       full twice on Door Darshan, the       Indian equivalent of the BBC, reaching an audience estimated at 14 million       people, many of them       outside the major cities.
Prof Bayly was interviewed on the objectives of       the meeting by Door       Darshan, broadcast initially on the National Channel on 6 November 2012       and subsequently at       least five times in half-hour and hour-length versions, reaching an       estimated 50 million viewers       (5g).
The Delhi event brought together leading public figures, policy makers       and historians to discuss,       among other topics, ideas of Indian democracy (5e).
The first       session, attended by Mr Kapil Sibal,       Minister of Education, emphasised the importance of ideas of equality and       democracy for the       understanding of modern India, which at the official country level has       tended to highlight the pure       sciences, engineering and medicine.
The Speaker of the Indian Parliament,       Mrs. Meira Kumar,       also acknowledged the importance of discussions of the meaning of       democracy for the future of       education in India (5f).
The concluding panel on `Ideas of India's       democracy', particularly well       attended, re-articulated the link between the new histories of Indian       political ideas and the present       practice of its democracy; participants included (in addition to Kapila       and Bayly) Gopal Gandhi,       former Governor of West Bengal, the prominent journalist Swapan Dasgupta,       M J Akbar, editorial       director of India Today, Manish Tewari, Congress Member of       Parliament and Secretary of the All-India       Congress Committee and Dr Tristram Hunt MP, member of the British       Parliamentary       Committee on South Asia (5h).
Professor Bayly's book Recovering Liberties has also been widely       debated in India, in the world's       largest-selling English daily, The Times of India, and in several       broadcasts on Door Darshan       totalling an audience of 13 million listeners.
Professor Bayly also       discussed some of his       conclusions at the popular Jaipur Literary festival in January 2011 that       attracted more than 60,000       visitors including local school children and leading opinion makers from       India and the world.
He       has been invited for consultations with leading political figures       including the Speaker of the Indian       Parliament, Mrs Meira Kumar.
He addressed members of the Indian       Administrative Service on the       nature of India's democracy and ideas of liberalism in an Indian context       arising out of his book       during their training at the Judge Business School, October 2012.
Dr       Kapila has also discussed       her ideas about violence, independence and democracy in India in the UK on       Melvyn Bragg's `In       Our Time' (Feb. 2010) and separately on Radio 4 with Michael Portillo       (Nov. 2010) and on Radio 3       with Tristram Hunt (Mar.
2011) (5b, 5c, 5d).
On 26 June 2013, Lord       Parekh, sometime vice-       chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, hosted at the House of       Lords a launch and       discussion of the book edited by Kapila and Faisal Devji (Political         Thought in Action.
The         Bhagavad Gita and Modern India), which was attended by leaders of       the British Asian community       and by MPs and academics.
As an MP who attended both the New Delhi summit       and the House       of Lords launch attests, Kapila and Bayly's work on liberal and radical       political thought has played       an important role on two continents in shedding new light on the present       workings of India's       democracy (5h).
