     Sex before the Sexual Revolution was published simultaneously as a       hardback and paperback by       Cambridge University Press in October 2010 priced at &#163;19.99 paperback and       &#163;55 hardback.
It       subsequently attracted reviews in both the national broadsheet and tabloid       daily press.
It was       featured as `Book of the Week' in The Guardian (280,000       circulation in 2011), where it was       reviewed by Simon Callow (5a).
It was also reviewed as a 2-page       `spread' by Virginia Blackburn in       the Daily Express (640,000 circulation in 2011) (5b); and       in the Daily Mail (2.14 million circulation       in 2011) (5c), where the agony aunt Bel Mooney reviewed it also       across two pages in place of her       regular advice column.
It has also attracted media attention in Eire with       a review in the Irish         Independent (5f).
Before this book was published, the wider public tended to rely on the       polarised stereotypes that       viewed the earlier twentieth-century as subject to a hangover of       `Victorianism', religious inhibition       and ignorance, where sexuality was concerned.
The 1950s and 1960s youth       and sexual       revolutions were seen as ushering in a superior era of sexual liberation       and happiness.
As the       reviews by Blackburn, Callow and Mooney attest, this book has demonstrated       that the generation       who courted, married and reared their children between 1918 and 1963 may       have had a very       different set of sensual and sexual values, but they were not simply the       negative inverse of today's       norms.
They had their own positive attitudes, revolving around values of       privacy, natural       spontaneity and placing sex in the context of marital love.
Bel Mooney wrote in the Daily Mail that this book `provides the       first rounded, first-hand account of       sexuality in marriage in the years 1918-1963.
...This book made me reflect       just how much the       young generation patronise the older generation.
I suggest perhaps that       generation were far more       sensible about passion and partnerships than we give them credit for.
They       might not have had       sex education but that did not stop them learning how to love.'
In the       online Mail her article is       followed by 49 comments from members of the public, demonstrating a level       of engagement with       the issues raised.
Simon Callow wrote in the Guardian, `I can       scarcely recall reading a book which       gives a richer, more comprehensive - and, ultimately, more deeply moving -       account of the human       experience, or at least those parts of it that are central for so many of       us.
It is also, in its way,       radical, and subversive of a great deal of received thinking about sexual       experience.'
The       newspaper articles and other reviews were reposted on a number of blogs       (e.g.
`Family Edge',       `The Grand Narrative', `The Thinking Housewife', `The Second Pass', `Sex       Is Social').
The authors were also invited in Oct 2010 for interview with Jenni Murray       on BBC Radio 4's       `Woman's Hour' Programme (3 million listeners in early 2011) (5d)       and were also interviewed on       16 Feb. 2011 by Laurie Taylor on Radio 4's `Thinking Allowed' Programme (5e).
Simon Szreter       was consequently invited again for interview by Jane Garvey on `Woman's       Hour' on 26 Mar.
2012       to discuss the history of marriage, demonstrating the book's establishment       of a public profile for its       authors (5i).
In 2011 the book became the first ever published by Cambridge University       Press to be long-listed       for the BBC Samuel Johnson Prize, the nation's major non-fiction prize;       and the paperback was       reprinted.
Given the mass media exposure the main impact beneficiaries are the large       numbers of the       general public reached through these mainstream mass media print and radio       reviews.
For the       first time the public has been able to replace stereotypes with a rich and       diverse body of       comparative first-hand testimony about sex, love and marriage among this       previous generation.
Sex before the Sexual Revolution has also achieved international       public policy impact.
It has been       the subject of a lengthy review in the premier development policy journal,       Population and         Development Review, by the world's leading family planning       practitioner, Professor Malcolm H.       Potts, Fred H. Bixby Chair in Population and Family Planning in the School       of Public Health,       Berkeley University, and first Medical Director of the International       Planned Parenthood Federation.
Potts' review included these policy conclusions: `one clear message of       this oral history is that       withdrawal is a valid and often effective method of family planning that       should not       be denigrated in textbooks or during training of health professionals...it       would be extremely       valuable to have similar studies from North America, China, India' because       `Oral history captures       variables that surveys with formal questions usually miss' (5g, 5h).
