     Research on empowering children as researchers, led to the creation of       CREET's Children's       Research Centre (CRC).
Kellett and Kerawalla have created a practical       process to support children       as young as nine in undertaking and disseminating their own research.
There are more than 150       original research studies by children and young people published on the       CRC website, and more       have been supported through partnership with non-governmental       organisations (NGOs).
The CRC       was runner-up in the 2013 Guardian University Awards for `Outstanding       Research Impact'.
It is       now entered in that newspaper's online ideas bank as an example of best       practice.
The CRC has empowered children to generate knowledge from their insider       perspectives that has       impacted on policy and practice.
Topics include: cultural and race       identity issues; bereavement and       children's views about the police.
During 2009-11 the CRC collaborated       with the Diana Award       NGO to support over 1500 young people in researching cyberbullying, the       biggest project of its       kind in England.
The published report featured in 71 media outlets       spearheading national anti-bullying       week (2011).
As a result, the UK Government and several internet       companies, e.g.
Google, Virgin, Carphone Warehouse, and 3 Mobile, consulted directly with       the young researchers       about implementation of their safeguarding recommendations.
Individual       projects have also       generated findings which have impacted on children's lives.
For example,       research by 10-year-old       Shannon Davidson on social isolation factors for children with Graves'       disease changed practice at       Great Ormond Street Hospital.
It led to better support through inclusion       of a children's page in the       hospital newsletter and a child editor (the first being Shannon herself).
The CRC has pursued its commitment to social inclusion by working with       partners, for example       work with Mencap to support young people with learning difficulties.
Research by the young people       into meaningful participation in youth councils identified problems and       suggested solutions.
Their       WeCan2 toolkit was developed to change how youth democracy forums are run.
This was adopted       in two local authorities, Devon and Lancashire.
The CRC model informed the       development of The         Centre, a collaboration between the University of Central Lancashire       and local youth organisations       which now has a young researcher component.
The reach of the CRC model has been expanded by using new technologies,       enabling children to       be supported through virtual environments.
Kerawalla's community project       with the 4th Newport       Pagnell Guides group (2011-12) focused on key issues for Guide members,       such as researching       the provision of parks and shops in their area and understanding the       police.
Guides attended a       video production workshop at the OU on how to use video to convey their       experiences as       researchers and presented their findings to the local mayor.
The success       of this local partnership       led to design workshops with the national Girl Guides and to the new       community research badge,       Streets Ahead!
This has now been awarded to 6500 Guides (10-       to14-year-olds) nationally.
The       Newport Pagnell group leader commented `The widespread uptake of the new Streets         Ahead!
badge illustrates the success of our collaboration with the OU.
By working       together we have had       (and continue to have) a positive impact'.
The impact of the technology       they used is addressed in       our `Enabling publics to participate in science learning through       technology' case study.
Participation in the CRC has impacted on children and young people       positively.
An investigation       into these impacts revealed: raised self-esteem and a sense of worth;       increased self-confidence;       the development of transferable study skills; sharpened critical thinking       skills; more effective       communication skills; increased creativity and the emergence of       independent learning.
As one       participant reported `I went to an ICT show recently and was able to       interview some of the reps,       using my interview skills with questions I had prepared.
If I hadn't done       the CRC project I wouldn't       have had the knowledge or confidence to do such a thing' (child       researcher, presentation to Royal       College of GPs, 2013).
The child researchers have been investigating these       effects and co-publishing       the outcomes (Mann, Liley and Kellett, 2013).
The CRC model of child-led research has had international impact.
Kellett       was appointed       international expert to a United Nations Development Programme project to       develop young       researchers in Cyprus, resulting in a resource book.
Working in 2008 with       teachers in Qatar, Kellett       adapted CRC materials to produce a culturally appropriate training       resource for schools.
This       became embedded in Qatari educational policy, and since 2009 an annual       National Student       Research Fair has taken place.
Kellett's CRC model has been adopted by       NGOs and children's       organisations in the UK and internationally, e.g.
Arastirmaci Cocuk       Merkezi, a centre in Turkey       based on the CRC (http://en.acmtr.org/)       works in collaboration with the Darussafaka Foundation to       empower orphaned children as researchers.
In partnership with UnitingCare Burnside, Kellett was instrumental in       steering the first child-led       research programme in Australia (www.becausechildrenmatter.org.au).
The `Today and Tomorrow       Research' project, targeted at children living in disadvantaged       communities, was positively       evaluated by the New South Wales Commission for Children, who noted the       inspiration for the       work lay in Kellett's research and use of the CRC model (p.11).
It has       influenced the way       government and NGOs share knowledge generation and decision-making with       children.
The NSW       Commission have approached UnitingCare Burnside to fund further child-led       research.
Kellett's       mentoring of CRC-inspired projects is extending the impact.
For example,       the Children and Youth       Community Laboratory initiative in Norway and the Kids in the City project       in New Zealand       (SHORE and Whariki Research Centre).
Kellett's key contribution to       Childwatch's international       thematic group on ethical practice further underlines the CRC's       international influence.
