     Prof Rublack's research for Dressing Up led to her pioneering       collaboration with the Olivier Award       winning historical dressmaker Jennifer Tiramani to re-create the dress       worn by Schwarz at the       Augsburg Imperial Diet in 1530.
Tiramani was director of theatre design at       the Globe 1997-2005       and has most recently created the clothes for productions of Anna         Bolena (Metropolitan Opera, NY       2011) as well as Globe, Apollo Theatre and Broadway productions of Richard         III and Twelfth Night,       (2012-3).
The re-created dress was completed in September 2012.
Tiramani writes: "[Rublack's] chapter `Looking at the Self' had a major       impact on my understanding       of Schwarz's approach to clothing and the importance attributed to his       style of dress.
Although I       had seen black and white versions of the watercolours, I had no idea of       the vivid colours he wore       and I had never been able to read about him in English before."
Tiramani       sourced alum-tawed       deerskin for the Schwarz hose, as Rublack's research showed that he wore       leather.
Once she had       started to work with the unique properties of the skin she decided to use       it on three outfits in the       Globe/Apollo and Broadway productions of Twelfth Night       (Winter/Spring season 2013).
Rublack       and Tiramani met a total of twelve times in London.
Rublack's research       enabled Tiramani to       develop a methodology for reconstructing and understanding the material       nature of periods of       dress where very few actual garments survive.
On 19 October 2012, Tiramani       launched the School       of Historical Dress at the Society of Antiquaries in London, in the       presence of the School's patrons       Vivienne Westwood, Roy Strong and Mark Rylance.
Tiramani introduced the       Schwarz project to       the audience as it exemplified the School's aims to "encourage new       research into historical dress       and introduce students to the tools needed for this, such as how to study       an object, to identify its       materials, cut, construction and historical context."
As a direct result       of the knowledge gained by       Tiramani through Rublack's book and during the course of the Schwarz       project, the School of       Historical Dress now runs courses on sixteenth-century men's European       dress and can teach the       techniques explored during the making of the outfit (ref 10).
This       research has prompted several       makers (shoemaker Sarah Juniper, capper Rachel Frost, leatherworker Carl       Robinson, shirt-maker       Alice Gordon) who re-create garments for the theatre, cinema and       historical re-enactments to       innovate new models.
The outfit was filmed on a model by the BBC and for a       YouTube video (ref         1, 2).
Through its dissemination and impact on costume design, the       project helps to re-create a       different and more richly imaginative as well as accurate engagement with       the look of the past and       meaning of dress in history.
Rublack's research has, moreover, inspired fashion designer Isabella       Newell and artist Maisie       Broadhead to create a series of outfits and photographs re-staging       Schwarz's life which closely       draws on Rublack's research in Dressing Up.
Newell and Broadhead       would not otherwise been       able to read about Schwarz, and their work highlights the signal capacity       of male dress to express       feeling rather than function as a mere tool of power-dressing and       professional achievement.
Broadhead is an object and image-maker, who explores where these elements       meet.
Often her       images recreate historical paintings with contemporary filters, which       allow for new narratives and       create a new context for the three dimensional pieces.
Broadhead completed       her MA at the Royal       College of Art in 2009, has been selected for this year's Jerwood Makers       Open show of emerging       applied artists and was included in the National Gallery of London's first       photography show       Seduced By Art: Photography Past and Present and the Design       Museum's first major Jewellery       exhibition Unexpected Pleasures, both in 2012.
Newell received       first class honours in Fashion       Design at Central Saint Martins (BA), interned for year at the prestigious       fashion house Balenciaga       in Paris, and is currently working for Burberry, London.
Rublack had a total of ten meetings with Broadhead and Newell.
The       collaboration explored what it       meant for a Renaissance man to express his emotions, values and ambitions       through the way he       looked, and what this fascination with looking the part imply for young       men in our contemporary       world.
The outcome is a series of five outfits with five corresponding       images.
The images explore       the progression and evolution of the way a man clothes himself.
Image       details are drawn from       Broadhead and Newell's personal observations and reflections on London       culture.
The       collaboration has been documented on a tumblr blog since May 2013 (ref         5).
