     Stretch's research &#8212; through the content, form and dissemination of the       outputs &#8212; has had significant impact on the cultural sector, including on       other creative professionals; as well as on public audiences/participants       across the country.
These impacts have been 1) to contribute to the       economic wellbeing of the creative industries through the commercial value       of the research `products'; 2) to introduce to the creative sector new       ways of creating and disseminating ideas, bringing together new media and       `old industry' directly and through influencing other creative       professionals; and finally, 3) the impact has enriched lives through       challenging existing perspectives, opening up different understandings,       imaginations and sensibilities among a variety of audiences.
1) Impacts on the economic wellbeing of the Creative Industries     Most immediately, the very medium of Stretch's research pieces mean that       they are available to the creative industries as commercial `products',       contributing to the economic vibrancy of the publishing and film       industries.
The novels Wildlife (&#163;8.99) and The Adult (&#163;12.99,       Hardback) have had sales of 750 and 896 copies respectively, as of July       2013.
Publisher Vintage (Random House) have stated that they have been       `very satisfied' with the progress of these sales [source 1] and The         Adult is being marketed in the publisher's latest sales catalogue.
Although film Wizard's Way was created on a minimal budget       (&#163;400), it has been screened to sell-out out audiences in Belfast and       London.
The success of this type of screening is essential to the economic       viability of the arts venues in which they are shown, a success that was       in part due to the sympathetic audience research that underpinned the       conceptualisation of the film by Stretch and his two co-creators.
220 came       to the Belfast Screening at the Queen's Film Theatre on 14th       April 2012 (&#163;6 per ticket) and 125 to the screening (&#163;12 per ticket) at       the British Film Institute in London on 25th January 2013 as       part of the London LOCO Comedy Film Festival [source 2].
2) Impacts on the vibrancy and innovative capacity of the Creative         Industries (including the influencing of other professionals)     In addition to adding economic value to the creative sector, the work of       Stretch has also made a creative contribution to the literary arena.
He       has collaborated with other artists and creative professionals, both to       create other innovative and successful cultural products, but also to       inspire the work of others.
Stretch's `no-budget' film, Wizard's Way,       was edited (for free) by Oscar-winning editor Chris Dickens (Slumdog         Millionaire &#8212; Best Editor) after he viewed the rushes on Vimeo.
The       film was subsequently acquired by Hollywood agency William Morris Endeavor       who negotiated a deal for the US actor, writer, singer and producer Jack       Black to become Executive Producer, and act as a sales consultant on the       film (the film is due to have its North American sales premiere in early       2014).
Jack Black's ELECTRIC DYNAMITE production company also purchased       the remake rights to the film, a production in which Jack Black is already       attached to star.
Stretch has been commissioned by Film 4 (Anna Higgs &#8212;       Commissioning Executive Film 4.0) to make his next film.
The `Wizard's Way project' creates and tests a new way of making film.
It       is thus generating valuable lessons for other film-makers on how to access       and innovate within the established film world, both in Britain and the       United States.
The film's impact in Hollywood strengthens the British Film       industry in the international arena.
Extending research into the narratives of contemporary youth undertaken       for Wildlife and The Adult, Stretch wrote a `choose your       own adventure' audio-novel Don't Let Go, which was bought by SONY       and recorded by the actress Anna Friel.
It was released in 2010 in an       entirely new fashion: each chapter was separately uploaded onto Spotify       and listeners navigated their way round the story on-line.
The audio-novel       Don't Let Go was `read' by 150,000 people.
It has had extended       commercial impact: having been purchased by SONY Music, it was used to       promote the debut album of British pop act Hurts directly leading to over       18,000 sales in 2010/11 [source 3].
It also received a Cannes Lion Award       for Creative Innovation at The Cannes Lions International Festival of       Creativity, which is considered the world's largest gathering of       advertising creatives, designers, digital innovators and marketers.
It was       also cited as good practice in a speech on Creative Innovation by one of       the world's leading new media entrepreneurs, Daniel Ek (named by Forbes in       2012 as `the most important man in music' [source 4]).
Stretch further explores the narratives of youth and sexuality in a       post-modern/post-industrial context through his lyrics.
As the Guardian       wrote in 2012, Stretch's `lyrics merge the Bowie-esque with the       Ballardian' [source 5].
Many songs borrow lines directly from Stretch's       novels; others build on themes found in Wildlife and The Adult:       the anomic features of social networking, the performance of sexual       identity, and the experience of post-industrial Manchester.
The impact of       Stretch's lyric writing is consolidated through a variety of media and       dissemination channels.
Stretch's use of MySpace and YouTube as a way of       distributing the music of his band, (We are) Performance, led to       independent sales of 4000 copies of his albums (We are) Performance       and Red Brick Heart.
The songs have 150,000 views on YouTube.
Two       of Stretch's compositions were used in Alexis Dos Santos' film Unmade         Beds, which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, where it was       nominated for the Grand Jury Prize.
In 2010, NME placed (We are)       Performance at number 2 in their prestigious `Top 100 Albums You've Never       Heard'.
In the supporting article, Adam Anderson from Hurts stated, `Their       music made you want to go out to the places they went.
Do the things they       sang about.
Manchester felt exciting.
I suppose more importantly than       anything else they made me want to make music.
So, inspired by them, I       did.'
Hurts' debut album sold over a million copies worldwide in 2011.
Stretch performed his songs across Europe in 2010, playing to a combined       audience of 15,000.
He also performed his composition `The Living' on the       German television programme Gute Zeiten Schlechte Zeiten, which       has an average audience of 8 million.
3) Enriching life/lives and developing insights     On the basis of his writing, Stretch was invited to talk at prominent UK       arts festival, Camp Bestival, in July 2012 (audience of around 70) and The       Edinburgh International Book Festival in August 2012 where he read from       and discussed his work (audience of around 100).
Wizard's Way was       screened to public audiences at the Belfast Film Festival in 2012 and to a       full audience (venue sold out) at London's British Film Institute in       January 2013.
Stretch's Wildlife chimed most with the younger       generation and this led directly to invitations for Stretch to talk in       schools.
For instance, Stretch visits a school in South London annually to       look over essays and run creative writing workshops.
The Learning Resource       Centre Manager at another school, The Fallibroome Academy in Macclesfield       wrote, `[Stretch] made a terrific impact on both staff and sixth formers       with everyone talking about how engaging and inspiring he was during the       following days.
Several of the tutors actively sought me out to let me       know the reaction from their forms and many individual students have       subsequently admitted to me how much they enjoyed his talk.
In terms of       reading we have actually had students seeking out and borrowing books on       the strength of his recommendation, as well as requesting others and we       now have a waiting list for his book pending the arrival of extra copies.
I even have new book group recruits!
Can it get any better?'
[source 6].
