     Animal health and welfare: In 2004, the mean flock prevalence of       lameness in England was 10.4% (9.2-11.0% - 95% standard error intervals)       and 10% of farmers were always using PAT (prompt antibiotic treatment) to       treat sheep lame with FR (including ID), according to 809 farmers randomly       sampled from the EBLEX database2.
By 2011, the median flock       prevalence of lameness in England was 5% (interquartile range 2-10%) and       25% of farmers were using PAT, according to 445 farmers randomly sampled       from EBLEX8.
Most recently, results from 1,200 farmers randomly       selected from all English sheep farmers gave a median estimated lameness       in 2012 of 3% (unpublished data, Green et al., available upon       request).
Adoption of practice in the GB sheep industry: In 2010, Professor       Green was asked to present evidence on managing lameness in sheep to the       UK Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC).
Their "Opinion on Lameness in       Sheep" was published in 2011 with the recommendation that the prevalence       of lameness should be reduced from the current 10% to 5% by 2016 and to 2%       by 2021 using existing knowledge from our research (source A).
The Opinion       is accessed at a rate of about 300 downloads per month (information can be       corroborated by email).
Several retailers and quality assurance schemes       that are strongly influenced by the FAWC are now monitoring lameness and       provide advice to farmers on the appropriate treatment of lame sheep based       on the evidence from our research1-8.
Veterinary practitioners and consultants - Nationally and         Internationally: The results from this research have been presented       at Sheep Veterinary Society (SVS) meetings and published in SVS       proceedings.
They have also been published in veterinary professional       journals such as UK Vet (Source B), where leading practitioners discuss       novel approaches to management, treatment and engaging with farmers and       also presented at other professional conferences, raising vets' awareness       of our findings.
The Warwick research has created a sea change in understanding how to       control FR both in the UK and internationally (sources A-H).
At a Sheep       Veterinary Society meeting (September 2011) we presented our evidence that       ID and FR are the same disease, a concept that was not accepted by many in       the UK's veterinary and farming community.
As a result of this, the Sheep       Veterinary Society drafted new national recommendations on the treatment       and control of FR in sheep that are due to be published (source C).
Multiple hundreds of specialist sheep vets have been using PAT since 2006       and have seen the benefits for their clients (sources D and E).
At an       international level, the major impact has been an increasing acceptance       and understanding that management of FR has to vary by country and is       dependent on prevalence of the disease and local climate.
In the past,       adoption of Australian managements in GB has been a major stumbling block       and disenfranchised farmers who became frustrated that the managements       they used were ineffective.
Warwick's research has been taken up in       Germany, where it has been used extensively by their national sheep       veterinary society in their national flock health improvement programme       and published in a book specifically written about footrot in sheep       (source F).
National recognition is evidenced: Professor Green was awarded       the Royal Agricultural Society for England Research Medal in 2012 for       "outstanding scientific work in reducing the impact of footrot in sheep".
Farmers: Professor Green has explained PAT, with supporting       evidence, at over 50 farmer meetings since 2005 with audiences of 20 to       200 sheep farmers.
She has many individual emails from farmers reporting       in their success.
An example of farmer success is a letter from a Welsh       sheep farmer and member of FAWC (source G).
In 2006, Professor Green and       her team worked with EBLEX to produce a Better Returns manual on       "Minimising Lameness" (distributed to 50,000 producers) and CD (5,000       copies including a library of condition images to help with lesion       identification and further details; video footage from this has been on       YouTube since January 2012 at http://tinyurl.com/ncymc3r)       (source H).
Updates and further information were sent to 30,000 producers       as a paper bulletin.
In a survey of participants carried out for EBLEX by       independent survey specialists Noesis in 2010, 57% of sheep farmers       surveyed claimed to have adopted at least one of the methods from the       research on sheep health (source I).
Similar information has been produced       by farmers in Wales by HCC and Farming Connect, both by Green and Welsh       Vets.
Green has spoken at and attended agricultural shows such as The       Royal Show, Sheep 2006, Sheep 2008 and Sheep 2010 to promote the new       approach to managing footrot to farmers.
As a result of the 2009 BBSRC       Industrial Partnership, Green initiated "train the trainer" events with       EBLEX in 2010, these are professional development days geared towards vets       that educate them on lameness and other important issues that sheep       farmers want their vet to understand e.g.
nutrition and genetics with the       aim of reaching out to their clients.
Other approaches to impact     In addition to the dissemination activities mentioned above, the Warwick       team has developed and maintains a website on footrot for farmers and vets       with a very high hit rate, over 2000 individual visitors per 6 months (http://www.footrotinsheep.org)       (source J).
Articles were published in veterinary and industry journals       (UK Vet, RCVS website, Journal of RASE, 2012).
The findings have also been       publicised through articles in national and local papers - The Daily       Telegraph (16 October 2008), Western Daily Press (25 October 2008) and       Western Morning News (22 October 2008) - and in the farming press -       Farmers Guardian (14 November 2008), Farmers Weekly (2011) and The Sheep       Farmer (2008).
Professor Green participated in a webinar hosted by       Farmer's Weekly in 2012.
The Warwick work has been widely reported       internationally (Canada 2011, USA 2011, Ireland 2012).
