     Industry has adopted a new technology or process, cost of           production has decreased:     In Nov 2008 a technology licensing agreement was signed between the     University's technology transfer office and PeproTech Inc., one of     the main international producers of growth factors.
The license comprises     both the expression plasmids and the detailed protocol for activin A     production using Hyv&#246;nen's method, and enables the company to produce     activin A more efficiently than alternative, eukaryotic methods.
Consequently they are able to sell this protein significantly cheaper than     eukaryotically expressed activin A (initially the price was half, since then     the price for the eukaryotically expressed protein has been reduced as a     consequence of the new competition; as of June 2013 the eukaryotic protein     is sold for &#163;4250/mg, that of bacterial origin for &#163;3150/mg).
Their Director     testifies: "..there is no doubt that having access to the E.Coli     derived material has enhanced our existing     Activin business.
Activin A is a protein component in several popular       embryonic stem cell media formulations, and has consequently become one of       our better selling recombinant protein products.
[...] our group of stem       cell products, of which Activin A is a core component, has allowed us to       develop and enhance our approach towards the Stem Cell Market, and its       related targets.
[...] The increased availability and decreased price of E.Coli       derived material has aided stem cell research, and these substantial sales       have indirectly helped PeproTech's business, and created, or saved, jobs."
(Ref.
1, Section 5)     Hyv&#246;nen has acted as a consultant to AnshLabs (a US-based       developer and manufacturer of immunoassay reagent test kits), advising on       the development of diagnostic kits against activins and related proteins.
Their CEO testifies: "Dr. Hyv&#246;nen's consultation has helped us with new a       concept design of immunogens, screening protocols and purification of       biomolecules.
[..] His new strategies [..] have been instrumental in       achieving enhanced immunogenicity, which translated to [..] improved       antibodies.
Dr. Hyv&#246;nen's consultation and expertise [..] has been       valuable to our sales and marketing efforts for the preparation and       presentation of scientifically accurate product information related to our       TGF-beta superfamily hormone assays.
Marko helped increase the       quality/yield of protein purification [..].
He also spent time optimizing       our techniques so that we can purify more antibody in a shorter period of       time, and trained Ansh Labs' scientists to novel techniques which have       significantly improved the production process and quality of our products.
In addition thereto, his consultancy is highly valued in our development       of world class immunodiagnostic kits that are being evaluated for       important clinical applications as well as several products currently       under commercial development.
His methods have definitely helped us reduce       production costs and increase productivity."
(Ref.
2, Section 5)     The strategy of a business has changed; business performance has           improved; employment has been generated:     Cell Guidance Systems Ltd, (CellGS, Cambridge, UK; Ref.
3, Section       5), a research reagents company established in 2010 and focusing on stem       cell science, validated the efficacy of activin A from Hyv&#246;nen's lab in       2011.
In 2012 they took a licence for the production of engineered activin       A and BMP-4 and have established an in-house protein production facility.
CellGS plans to use Hyv&#246;nen's activin A in their novel multivalent "STAR"       (Serial Tethered ARray) growth factors and as a component of their stem       cell culture media.
The company represents a first of its kind for UK plc       (research reagent companies tend to be head-quartered in the US), in an       area in which the UK has aspirations to be a world leader, and CellGS's       success will at least in part depend on activin A and BMP-4 produced using       Hyv&#246;nen's method.
Their CEO testifies: "Our interaction with Marko has       been very beneficial for the business.
Marko has provided valuable       guidance which helped us with our strategy for the development of STAR       [..].
The license for Activin [..] has helped us generate significant       revenues.
This was the first growth factor we made, so I would agree that       Marko's input has been influential in the direction the business has       taken.
He has also been very helpful providing stock whilst we got our own       production up and running which allowed us to go to market earlier than       would have been possible otherwise.
[..] One job has been created."
Commercial income, employment, savings and a spin-out company in           the University through services provided:      Income through protein sales     The Hyv&#246;nen lab operates a small Research Facility, which produces and     distributes growth factors such as activins A and B, BMP-2 and BMP-4 (see     Ref.
4, Section 5 for full list).
Companies who have been provided with     growth factors include CellGS/UK, Stemgent/US, AbCys/France, enabling them     to evaluate the market before considering taking out a technology licence.
Since its establishment in 2008 over &#163;120k of income has been generated     through the sale of the above proteins by this facility to academic     partners, and &#163;34k through material supply to companies (Ref.
5, Section 5).
These proteins would otherwise have been sourced from the US, the main     supplier of such reagents, and the revenue would have been lost to UK plc.
Income through licences     Since 2008, the University has received royalty income of &#163;116k from       licences to PeproTech and CellGS for activin A and BMP-4 expression       plasmids and know-how (Ref.
5, Section 3).
In addition, Hyv&#246;nen has       supplied Xenopus activin B to Oxford Brookes University (Prof       Nigel Groome) in 2006, to use as an antigen for the development of activin       B specific antibodies (Ref.
2, Section 3).
This was done successfully, and       as a result a more sensitive ELISA assay for inhibin B was developed by       the Groome group in 2006-08.
The new ELISA assay has been licenced by       Oxford Brookes to BeckmanCoulter, who in 2009 launched this product       commercially.
Xenopus activin B was crucial to the success of this       development, and as a result the University of Cambridge receives its       share (0.25%) of the royalty income from BeckmanCoulter; within the       eligible period this has amounted to &#163;10k (Ref.
5, Section 5).
Income through consultancy     Hyv&#246;nen has acted as a consultant to CellGS/UK and Ansh Labs/US.
In the       eligible period these services have overall resulted in &#163;30k income (Ref.
5, Section 5).
Savings and employment     The proteins are provided by the Research Facility at cost to members of       the University or of the Cambridge Stem Cell Institute.
Since 2009 this       has resulted in savings of tens of thousands of pounds on R&amp;D budgets       when compared with the cost of purchasing from commercial sources.
As at       June 2013, the cost of material produced using Hyv&#246;nen's method is between       1/5th and 1/10th of the bulk purchase commercial       price depending on the protein.
Prior to Hyv&#246;nen's work, the cost of       activin A was often a limiting step in such R&amp;D work.
Since 2009       protein sales have fully funded a 0.5FTE technician in Hyv&#246;nen's lab.
Spin-out company     The lab of Dr Ludivic Vallier, who has collaborated with Hyv&#246;nen to show       the bacterially expressed activin A to be indistinguishable from protein       made in animal cells, has formed a spin-out company in 2011 (DefiniGen       Ltd, Company No.
07595566).
Their CEO writes (Ref.
6, Section 5): "The       company provides human liver cells for preclinical drug development and       disease modelling applications, using human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell       hIPSC technology.
Provision of material by Marko Hyv&#246;nen's lab made more       proof-of-concept research feasible in the Vallier lab [...], which then       enabled the company to be formed.
The knowledge that highly active       bacterially expressed activin A for the stem cell growth media (without       potential contaminants of animal-derived protein or pathogens) is       available at lower cost compared to mammalian derived activin A via the       methodology developed in the Hyv&#246;nen lab has been helpful in building the       business case for the formation of the company.
From the list of impact       categories [...], the following apply:            Industry has invested in research and development.
The performance of an existing business has been improved.
A business or sector has adopted a new technology or process.
A new product or service is in production or has been           commercialised.
The strategy, operations or management practices of a business have           changed.
Jobs have been created or protected.
Production, yields or quality have increased or level of waste has           been reduced.
Costs of production have been reduced."
