     CREET's research on OER enables us to make five claims for impact:     1.
Foundational research within OpenLearn was influential in         establishing the legitimacy of         new forms of open education.
Openness is now recognised as an       important element in the       education sector.
Sometimes termed Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), an       open and       online approach to providing free education is gaining worldwide       attention.
Our research has       underpinned the OU's own move to form a spin-out company (FutureLearn) for       open courses       with the British Council, the British Library, the British Museum and 22       other leading universities       from the UK, Australia and Ireland.
The OU has established a combination of openly published findings and       active collaboration in       practice initiatives in many parts of the world.
International investment       in open education is       apparent from venture capital, university investment and publishers,       building on our evidence       base of successful innovation.
2.
Collaborative OER have impacted positively on less developed         countries and         disadvantaged learners.
TESSA produced OER in collaboration with       more than 100 African       academics and 1000 African teachers.
An independent evaluation report in       October 2012 noted       that almost 300,000 teachers were enrolled in programmes using TESSA OERs,       while by July       2013 it was estimated that 500,000 teachers were using them.
The       evaluation report praised       TESSA for its `significant impact on the identity and practices of teacher       educators, and a       profound impact on those of teacher-learners'.
They note the resources       make `child-centred,       activity-based and reflective practice real and achievable'.
The       evaluators cited the sincerity and       passion they encountered in the first-hand accounts of TESSA users.
TESSA has been awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize for higher education       (2009), the       Leadership Award at the eLearning Africa conference in Dakar and a WISE       award at the World       Innovation Summit for Education in Doha, Qatar (2011).
The success of       TESSA led to a &#163;4m       grant from UNICEF for the OU Health Education and Training programme, to       apply the open       education approach to reach 250,000 health workers in sub-Saharan Africa;       transfer the model       to some of the most deprived regions of India (TESS-India), and fund free       access in Africa to       OER on agriculture (FARM-ED).
The same principle of open collaboration has       seen adoption of       the Bridge to Success open content by charities working in deprived areas       in Maryland, USA.
3.
OER research has influenced the education industry as a whole.
A 2011 European       Learning Industry Group (ELIG) study raises the challenge of open       education for the       commercial industry and cites the OpenLearn report extensively.
The Online       Learning Task       Force report to HEFCE in 2011 cites OU research on learning environments,       OpenLearn and       iTunes and concludes, `We suggest that the JISC, the HEA and the Open       University continue to       promote the use and reuse of open educational resources across the       sector'.
The 2011 `Learner       Use of Online Educational Resources' report for JISC cites OpenLearn as       one of the few large       scale projects doing sufficient research on impacts.
A 2009 report by the US-based Committee for Economic Development advising       on policy issues       states, `We are fortunate to have ... a laboratory to further develop       principles and best practices       for co-creation and the growth of communities of practice.
LabSpace at the       Open University is       engaged in such studies ...' (p. 30).
4.
Fellowship work has identifiable international impact through         shared research actions         and informing policy.
In Russia, OLnet Fellow Svetlana Knyazeva from       UNESCO established       a research programme covering OER policy in 30 non-English speaking       countries.
She said,       `the information I received during the [OLnet] fellowship at the OU       improved my knowledge       about OER, the relationships established with the members of the network       support my       professional activities'.
The influential Creative Commons (CC)       organisation has former OLnet       Fellow Cathy Casserly as CEO.
The OU is now affiliated with CCUK.
Over 60       SCORE and       OLnet fellows have established their own action research in partnership       with employers,       charities and professional groups such as nurses and the media, leading to       new OER practice.
Working closely with our funder, the Hewlett Foundation, the OU provides       the research element       in a programme that sees OER as a route to deeper learning.
Their       targeting of US policy has       successfully led to the mandating of open licences as a component of the       Department of       Labor's $2b Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career       Training (TAACCCT)       programme.
5.
The success of OU research and projects has shaped open education         policy in the UK.
For example, it informed the JISC/HEA UKOER programme funded by HEFCE,       leading to       integrated activities support provided by UKOER and our SCORE programme,       and the JISC       Jorum national repository for OER was influenced by the OpenLearn project       in adopting open       licences.
The OU's institutional policy continues to support the UK       strategic response to online       learning.
Minister for Universities and Science David Willetts said       `FutureLearn has the potential       to put the UK at the heart of the technology for learning agenda by       revolutionising conventional       models of formal education.'
