     The survey encompasses final year students in England, Wales and Northern       Ireland funded by HEFCE, the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales       and the Department for Employment and Learning in Northern Ireland.
Most       Scottish universities have opted to join the NSS, as has the private       University of Buckingham.
In total 287,000 students responded to the 2012       survey, an increase of 20,000 on the previous year.
This has produced key       indicators of the quality of teaching, learning and student experience       within the four major league tables of UK institutions, published annually       by The Times, Sunday Times, Guardian and the       online Complete University Guide.
Positive NSS ratings are often       highlighted on institutions' websites.
HEFCE     The central role of our research in underpinning the development of the       NSS has been confirmed by Heather Fry (Director of Education,       Participation and Students, HEFCE).
She indicates that `The Open       University, most notably John Richardson, John Brennan and John Slater,       was heavily involved in developing the NSS.
In particular the OU team       listed made a significant contribution to the development of the NSS       including timing and evaluation of the survey instrument ...' In her view,       it remains `a robust tool for enabling comparisons between courses in the       same subject and has remained largely unchanged to date', although it is       now entering a review period.
In her view, the introduction of the NSS       `has had an impact in two main areas; student choice and institutional       behaviour'.
A report for HEFCE by Ramsden et al.
(2010) indicates: `The NSS forms       part of the national Quality Assurance Framework (QAF) for higher       education ...
Although the NSS was originally conceived primarily as a way       of helping potential students make informed choices, the significance of       the data it collects means that it has become an important element in       quality assurance (QA) processes and in institutional quality enhancement       (QE) activities related to the student learning experience ... We found       striking the emphasis that institutional managers placed on the way the       NSS findings allowed them to identify potential problems in the student       experience, and to act on them quickly' (p. 3).
The authors noted that the similarity between the NSS and the Australian       Course Experience Questionnaire (CEQ) was due to the influence of the       original report by Brennan et al.
Collecting and using student         feedback on quality and standards of learning and teaching in HE (p.       26).
The 2010 study included interviews with a variety of stakeholders,       and the authors listed a variety of ways in which respondents had used NSS       results for quality enhancement purposes (p. 41).
The National Union of Students reports that the NSS has encouraged       institutions to take student opinion more seriously and has campaigned to       encourage institutions to improve their ratings in the area of assessment       and feedback       (http://www.nus.org.uk/en/campaigns/higher-education/national-student-survey/).
The Union provided the inquiry by Ramsden et al.
(2010, pp.
84-88) with       case studies from 11 institutions to illustrate how student unions had       used NSS results to campaign for improvements in areas such as feedback on       assessment, personal tutoring, library facilities and student       representation.
Use of NSS results by the Higher Education Academy (HEA)     The HEA supports institutions in using NSS results to enhance the quality       of the student experience (http://www.heacademy.ac.uk/resources/detail/ipp/Issue5-NSS).
The HEA has sponsored investigations of issues arising from NSS results in       particular subject areas, such as art and design (Vaughan and Yorke, 2009)       and social work and social policy (Crawford et al., 2010).
A recent report       for the HEA by Buckley (2012) described the pivotal role of NSS data in       institutional quality enhancement and its impact on staff and students.
New HEA-funded research (2013) by Pegg at the OU is examining cases of       cross-institutional curriculum change and has identified NSS results as       one of the key drivers for change.
Institutional case studies     NSS results have prompted institutions to implement initiatives aimed at       enhancing the student experience, especially with regard to assessment and       feedback.
Published accounts include Sheffield Hallam University (Flint et       al., 2009), Oxford Brookes University (Handley and Williams, 2011), Leeds       Metropolitan University (Brown, 2011) and the University of Reading (Crook       et al., 2012).
Most of these initiatives provided evidence of changes in       teachers' behaviour or changes in students' expectations and behaviour.
Others provide evidence of changes in institutional policies or strategy,       for example the University of Exeter has linked its strategic plan to       future NSS results (http://www.exeter.ac.uk/about/vision/strategicplan/delivering/).
The future     Ramsden et al.
(2010, p. 57) recommended that a version of the NSS should       be introduced for postgraduate taught programmes.
In fact, the HEA has       been running a Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey, modelled on the NSS,       since 2009.
Data derived from the NSS have become one of the key sources       of information in the course comparison website, Unistats, which was       developed by HEFCE to provide information to prospective students and       parents.
In becoming such a key indicator of the student experience and in       achieving such significant visibility, the NSS has changed the behaviour       of institutions, their teachers and their students.
