     Partnerships with external companies have translated research insights       into the development of new mobile learning tools.
A partnership with       Giunti Labs (now called eXact Learning) used research on context-based       services: as Fabrizion Giorgini explains `part of the MOBIlearn technology       had a concrete impact on the first version of our Mobile product.
In fact       we re-used part of the player for Win Mobile devices and part of the       location-based services that used the RFID technology.'
It laid the       foundations for further versions of the platform and the company's       subsequent mobile products.
Another partner, Riitta Vanska, acknowledges       the role of MOBIlearn in convincing Nokia to develop mobile learning:       `MOBIlearn gave me trust to push mobile learning in Nokia and after that       the piloting and concepting work for mobile learning got more attention.
I       would almost say that all the projects (even MoMaths) have some elements       coming from the learning from that project' (Riitta Vanska, originally       Nokia, subsequently Pearson).
The Nokia Education Delivery platform on       mobile phones, influenced by MOBIlearn, was used in its MoMaths project,       and a partnership with the Pearson Foundation and UNESCO to benefit       developing countries.
Sharples has provided continuing consultancy to       Nokia on mobile learning.
In 2012 Nokia, UNESCO and the Pearson Foundation initiated an       international Education for All challenge to find innovative applications       of mobile phones for learning, with Sharples on the Jury.
Kukulska-Hulme       and Sharples are widely referenced in the UNESCO/ Nokia paper `Mobile       Learning and Policies' (Vosloo, 2012), identifying lessons learned.
Kukulska-Hulme produced a UNESCO-commissioned Policy Brief on `Mobile       Learning for Quality Education and Social Inclusion', and chaired an       industry-sponsored global Policy Makers Forum (2013).
As a result of the       MOTILL project, 24 formal declarations were signed by institutional and       national policymakers, committing to the development of mobile learning       across Europe.
Sharples and Kukulska-Hulme are past presidents of the       International Association for Mobile Learning which brings together       researchers and industry professionals to take forward practice.
The significant international reach of this research impact is       demonstrated through English in Action (EIA) funded through the UK's       Department for International Development DFID (2009-14).
The goal is to       contribute to the economic development of Bangladesh through enhancing the       English language competence of teachers, pupils and adult learners.
EIA       has already impacted on 4690 teachers through mobile learning, changing       their educational practice, and aims to impact on 10.5 million children by       2017.
It is a partnership with the Government of Bangladesh, Mott       McDonald, BBC Media Action, two local NGOs (Underprivileged Children's       Educational Programme and Friends in Village Development Bangladesh), and       the University of Dhaka.
The success in Bangladesh has led to a national       programme, directly modelled on EIA, being established in Nigeria.
EIA has delivered school-based teacher development enabled by mobile       technologies.
The project initially used an iPod and then, drawing on       insights from our research, shifted to a low-cost mobile phone kit,       without internet connectivity.
Mobiles are preloaded with learning       resources, including over 400 audio and video clips, which are aligned       with local educational practices, and a video narrator provides guidance       and prompts for application to classroom practice.
The contribution of the       research arm to achieving this impact has been noted in the DFID 2013       annual review: `sound evidence from research and from activities on the       ground are produced and continually fed back to inform practice and adjust       directions' (p. 25).
The project pilot reached 690 English teachers and 132,700 students.
EIA       is currently working with 4000 teachers, with a new cohort of 8500 already       recruited.
Following a positive annual review in May 2013, DFID is       constructing the case for &#163;19 million additional funding to mainstream the       programme within national teacher development, estimated to reach at least       76,500 teachers and 10.5 million primary and secondary school children by       2017.
Already the Diploma in Primary Education in Bangladesh has been       redesigned to incorporate the EIA materials with changes being rolled out       to training colleges from 2013.
Independent evaluations (quantitative and qualitative) undertaken by       Trinity College (London), University of Dhaka and the Education Inspectors       of the Government of Bangladesh, provide strong evidence of project impact       in terms of change in teacher and student attitudes, practice, and English       Language competence.
The external assessment of teachers and students       using Trinity College English Language scales has shown significant       improvement on baseline studies.
Almost all primary teachers achieved the       English language competence to teach Class 3, while secondary teachers       achieved competency to teach Class 6.
Performance of pupils achieving       initial Trinity grades increased to 50% (primary) and 67% (secondary).
Talk in English increased significantly.
Within primary classes it reached       72% for teachers and 81% for pupils and within secondary it reached 79%       for teachers and 85% for pupils.
The use of mobile devices has been `shown       to facilitate access to learning, as well as improving the quality of       teacher education and training' (Shohel and Power, 2010, p. 213) which in       turn is resulting in changes to classroom practices.
