     The major impacts of the UoL bracken research throughout the period       2008-2013 have been (a) the provision of clear results that were       translated into policy guidance and informed regulation, and (b) Knowledge       Exchange via demonstrations days, where training in good practice bracken       management is delivered.
All the reported impacts derived from UoL work       and took place in the period 2008-2013.
Scottish Natural Heritage states that "Professor Marrs is now firmly       established in the minds of government environmental policy advisers as       one of the most effective researchers in carrying out clear,       experiment-based work, which is then readily and highly effectively       translated into on-the- ground good practice" [14].
Provision of policy guidance and statutory regulation- aerial spraying       The buffer zone approach to spray drift has been taken up as policy       guidance, most notably by the Environment Agency in its 2010 aerial       spraying guidelines.
More specifically, and directly related to the UoL       research, their current (2010) guidelines state that for aerial spraying       for bracken control: "We and pesticide manufacturers have agreed on       minimum `no-spray' buffer zones around water sources to protect water".
The Aerial spraying distances are 160 metres (conventional nozzles) and 50       m (raindrop nozzles) [7].
Generally, aerial application of pesticides must       be carried out to prevent the contamination of water and agreement from       the EA is required to spray from the air within 250 m of waterways.
In the       uplands it is assumed that everywhere is near water.
Compliance with the       Health &amp; Safety Executive's regulatory system, which also directly       incorporates the research, is essential [8].
The 160m distance was derived directly from [1], where raindrop and T-jet       nozzles were used.
The 50m distance came from later research done by the       herbicide manufacturers using the Liverpool bioassay technique, and is       hence a derived impact [9].
These regulations must be applied for all aspects of asulam use in the       UK, and the extent of the impact is thus highly significant.
Usage from       the air in the UK has been recorded at 5,990, 10,303 and 11,222 ha in       2008, 2009 and 2010 respectively [10].
Further, in England, asulam has been recently been applied to 6,680 ha of       SSSI (Sites of Special Scientific Interest) and 7,000 ha of land under       Higher Level Stewardship Agreements.
Natural England noted that "this       [asulam use] was a major contributor to an improvement in SSSI condition".
In Scotland, bracken management has recently been approved under three       schemes: 'Bracken Management Programme for Habitat Enhancement' (49,191       ha), `Natura 2000 sites' (35,497 ha) and `SSSI/Natura 2000 sites combined'       (58,023ha) [11].
Hence the impact overall is direct, obligatory (covered by legislation)       and widespread.
Beneficiaries include the environment, regulators and       policymakers as well as asulam users and land managers.
Provision of policy guidance and development of good practice &#8212;         bracken control and restoration of vegetation       The UoL team was asked to distil their ongoing research on bracken control       and subsequent vegetation management into a set of guidelines that could       be used to inform policy and give advice to farmers and estate managers.
They worked closely with what was then the Rural Development Service       (RDS), an agency closely allied to DEFRA.
The initial draft was based on       ongoing research covering both lowlands and uplands (1979-2005) but was       "road-tested" by RDS with user-groups.
The resultant Technical Advice       Note, making explicit reference to the Liverpool team and their work, was       published in 2005 and re-issued by Natural England in 2008 [12], and this       also forms the basis of the advisory leaflet produced by Scottish Natural       Heritage in 2008 [13].
The advice in these notes provides the methodology       for land-owners or contractors to control bracken and restore native plant       communities; its use would be an inevitable part of cross-compliance in       agri-environment scheme funding [14].
Natural England indicate that UoL       advice will be used on 6,850 ha of live Higher Level Stewardship and       `classic scheme' agreements in 2012 [15].
Advice to the Bracken Control Group &#8212; emergency authorisation of         asulam       The UoL team used its research results to provide advice to the Bracken       Control Group for the formulation of emergency authorisation to use       asulam, following an EU ban on the use of this product effective 1st       January 2013.
As asulam is central to bracken control, and there is no       other available product, an emergency derogation was sought, and approved,       for use in 2013.
A subsequent application has been submitted for 2014.
This has maintained the use of asulam in the UK for bracken control.
The       Director of the Bracken Control Group has expressed his gratitude "for       first class advice [that] contributed to the successful application" [16].
Knowledge Exchange via demonstrations       The UoL team has either run or participated in good-practice       demonstrations days for practitioners in England, Scotland and Wales and       in the Azores (where there is a particularly bad bracken infestation       problem resulting in cattle disease).
To ensure maximum impact,       partnerships were established with the International Bracken Group (IBG),       the Heather Trust (HT) and the "Organic Farming in Wales" initiative.
These days have involved lectures covering bracken biology and control       methods and, when on site, demonstrations of good management practice were       presented.
At the demonstration days of our own experiments, the attendees       could see the results of our ongoing experimental treatments.
There have       been four such days since 2008 at Builth Wells (2008), Dyffryn Ceiriog       near Llangollen (2009), Glenshee, and Candacraig, both (2010), reaching       190 participants [16] including policy-makers, farmers, estate managers       and conservation agency staff.
