     On the basis of her research expertise on asylum law and policy, Craig       was invited by the UNHCR       to lead the UK arm of an investigation into the implementation of the       Asylum Procedures Directive       in 12 EU Member States.
The resultant UNHCR Report, in which the findings       of Craig's UK-based       research are cited more than 250 times, led to profound and lasting       changes to European asylum       law and policy.
CEAS measures-notably the Asylum Procedures Directive (APD), which       assumes that all EU       Member States guarantee certain minimum standards of decision-making to       asylum applicants &#8212;       and the Dublin regime, whose aim is to ensure that claims for protection       are made once only in the       EU-have supported the presumption that equivalent standards of asylum       decision-making apply       throughout the EU; these measures have been criticised for deflecting       asylum seekers away from       Northern Member States such as the UK, and for putting pressure on the       asylum systems of EU       "entry points" in Southern and Eastern Member States, including Greece.
In       the past, those who       managed to travel onward from Greece and then applied for asylum would be       sent back to Greece       to make their application.
Craig led the UK component of a UNHCR Report which exposed numerous       differences in the ways       that asylum applications were assessed across 12 EU member states       (contravening the APD) and       some practices in these countries that breached international refugee law.
The UNHCR report       represented the first and most comprehensive publicly-available       comparative analysis of asylum       law and practice undertaken since the APD's adoption.
Craig's UK-based       contribution was       fundamental to the Report given the UK's extensive reliance on mechanisms,       such as the Dublin       Regime and the APD, for returning asylum claimants to other EU Member       States to have their       claims considered.The research revealed that Greece had virtually no       procedures in place at all for       the proper consideration of asylum claims, meaning that presumptions,       shown to have been made       by the UK and other Member States, that asylum claimants could be returned       to Greece to have       their claims considered safely, were wrong.
Since almost 300,000 people       apply for asylum       annually across the European Union and 85% of them enter the EU via       Greece, the findings of the       research had important implications for a significant number of vulnerable       people.
In 2011, the UNHCR relied on the findings in its submission to the Grand       Chamber of the ECHR in       the case MSS v Belgium and Greece (53 EHRR 2) that Greece was not       implementing EU       minimum standards for processing asylum claims.
In January 2011, the ECHR       decided, based on       evidence which included the UNHCR research findings, that the transfer of       MSS by Belgium to       Greece would violate his right to an effective remedy.
Specifically, the       judgment stated that "by         sending him back to Greece, the Belgian authorities exposed the         applicant to risks linked to the         deficiencies in the asylum procedure in that State."
The decision in MSS v Belgium and Greece has been described as a       catalyst in the rethinking of       the mechanisms that return people to EU "entry points" to have their       asylum claims considered       because the Court accepted that the assumption of equivalent standards       across EU Member       States (which underpins such mechanisms) was unreliable.
As a direct result of the legal finding, based on evidence of practices       in Greece including the       UNHCR research and placing the burden of proof in cases concerning Greece       on the sending       country, other EU countries have stopped sending asylum applicants back to       Greece.
This has       resulted in improved access to justice for this vulnerable group.
Following the ECHR's ruling, the       Federal Administrative Court in Switzerland issued a ruling indicating       that transfers to Greece       would have to be examined on a case-by-case basis.
German courts also       halted a number of       transfers, to Malta and Italy, on grounds of alleged deficiencies in the       asylum system.
Additionally,       on 31 October 2011 the Austrian Asylum Court quashed a decision to       transfer asylum-seekers to       Hungary to have their claims processed.
The decision referred to the UNHCR       research findings of       contravention of the APD.
The UNHCR subsequently issued detailed recommendations for the       improvement of procedures in       all countries involved in the research study, including the UK.
These       recommendations contributed       to the scope of the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) to coordinate       support actions with       Member States facing pressures on their asylum support systems.
EASO,       established by       Regulation 439/20101 of the European Parliament and the Council in May       2010, strengthens EU       Member States' practical cooperation on asylum, enhances the       implementation of the CEAS and       supports Member States whose asylum and reception systems are under       particular pressure.
Under Article 10 of the Regulation establishing EASO, it states that EASO       will draw upon findings       and documentation from UNHCR research in the course of its operations.
From the very start of its       activities, and following the ruling in MSS v. Belgium and Greece, support       for Greece has been one       of EASOs main objectives.
On 1 April 2011, just 2 months after becoming       operational as an EU       Agency, EASO and the Greek government signed an agreement on the       deployment of Asylum       Support Teams (ASTs) to Greece.
EASO prioritised Emergency Support to       Greece through the       deployment of additional ASTs throughout 2012.
As a result of these cases, the UNHCR Report, to which Craig's research       made a significant       contribution, has had a profound impact on asylum law and policy.
The       original court case and       others following it have been widely covered in the press, contributing to       public debate on asylum       procedures and the assumptions surrounding their fairness.
