     The assessment of cost-effectiveness, primarily undertaken by Buxton and       colleagues, was a major part of the evidence provided by the MASS trial.
This underpinned policies and guidelines that introduced and promoted AAA       screening in the UK and internationally.
AAAs affect more than 4% of       British men aged 65-74 and are responsible for over 6,800 deaths annually.
The MASS trial showed that screening could reduce AAA-related mortality by       42%.
Implementation of the NHS AAA screening programme in started in 2009.
It was fully implemented in England by Spring 2013, offering `screening to       around 300,000 men every year during the year they turn 65' (1).
Uptake in       the 2011-12 cohort of men invited for screening was 75%, according to the       latest report (1).
In 2008 the Department of Health's (DH's) Impact       Assessment considered policy options for AAA screening and estimated that       each would provide a gain of at least 130,000 quality adjusted life years       (QALYS) over a 20 year period, and that the net value of the option       adopted was &#163;3,884million over 20 years, valuing the health benefit at a       social value of &#163;40,000 per QALY gained (p.3) (2).
The ministerial commitment to introduce a national AAA screening policy       was announced in 2008 as part of a statement by the UK Prime Minister on       the changes that would be made in what was the sixtieth year of the NHS       (3).
The timescales throughout the UK varied slightly.
The decision to       introduce a national screening programme in England had to be subject to       an Impact Assessment produced by the DH, and signed off by the relevant       minister (2).
Published in July 2008 it explored the options and explained       why the preferred option was a screening policy for all men aged 65.
Major       evidence references used in the Impact Assessment were the four RCTs       included in the Cochrane review, but especially the findings from the MASS       trial.
The DH's Impact Assessment's analysis of costs relied heavily on       work primarily led by HERG in the MASS study: Buxton et al (2002), Kim et       al (2007).
Highlighting the importance of MASS, the Impact Assessment       stated:     `The main elements of the cost analysis are therefore based on the       outputs and subsequent analysis from MASS....The unit costs for screening       and elective and emergency surgery operations are based on MASS       trials....An alternative cost base ... was also considered.
However, the       MASS unit costs are more comprehensive and reliable, and are based on a       detailed bottom-up costing, taking into account patient-specific costs.'
(paras 44, 48) (3).
Further evidence to support the importance of the MASS study, and HERG's       contribution, in the policy decisions to set up a national screening       programme comes from the DH and MRC.
The DH sent a letter on 15 June 2011       congratulating HERG on the work for Policy Research Programme: `This has       made a significant contribution to strengthening the evidence-base for       policymaking through a range of applied economic research.
This has       included important contributions to the consideration of abdominal aortic       aneurysm (AAA) screening;' (DH, Head of Policy Research Programme) (4).
In       2010 the MRC reported on findings from its first collection of data on       research impacts.
The impact of the MASS stream of work on the       introduction of the national AAA screening programme was one of just eight       examples of policy impact that the MRC highlighted (5).
To get to the position in 2008 where ministers announced the decision to       introduce the screening policy, Buxton and other MASS team members had       undertaken extensive dissemination of the findings, both to the National       Screening Committee, which analysed the data and options in detail, and       also to relevant clinicians.
Following the contribution made by Buxton to       the AAA screening decision, he was invited to become a member of the UK       National Screening Committee from 2009.
On 31 March 2004 Buxton and others       addressed many stakeholders at a meeting, `Aneurysm Screening: The Facts       and the Future' called by the Vascular Surgical Society of Great Britain       and Ireland.
It was widely covered by UK TV and print media, and the       proceedings were published (6).
In addition to documented evidence of influence on health policy, and       cost-effective, improved health services and clinical outcomes in the UK,       the MASS trial also had extensive international impact on advisory       committees, guidelines, and policies and helped generate improvements in       both publicly and privately funded healthcare services.
This includes in       the USA and Europe.
A 2009 practice guideline from the US Society for Vascular Surgery drew       on the same four studies as the Cochrane review, and so again the MASS       study, contributing 67,800 of the 127,891 men included, had the most       influence.
The guideline stated: `We recommend one-time ultrasound       screening for AAA for all men at or older than age 65' (p.11S).
It       described the level of recommendation as `Strong' and the quality of       evidence as `High' (7).
AAA screening is now widely available in the USA.
Many of the policies and practices in the period from 2008 drew on a key       2005 evidence synthesis and Recommendation Statement from the US       Preventive Services Task Force in its public advisory role.
The MASS       study's importance was highlighted in both the recommendation and the       synthesis, which have remained in place throughout 2008-13.
The latter       stated: `the detailed micro-costing approach used in the MASS CEA...       justified a "good" quality rating.'
(p.3) (8).
That review formed the       basis both for the legislation under which Medicare has offered AAA       screening throughout the 2008-13 period, and for clinical policy       statements issued by the healthcare companies, such as Aetna which for its       22 million members says: `Aetna considers one-time ultrasound screening       for abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) medically necessary for men 65 years       of age or older.'
(8).
Originally published in 2005 the policy was       reviewed annually and republished, the last time being in December 2012,       and continues to inform healthcare practice.
In Sweden, health policy is decided by counties.
An assessment by the       Swedish Council on Health Technology Assessment (SBU) in 2008 came after       some counties had introduced screening.
But it strongly recommended       screening and drew heavily on `The largest study, the MASS study' (p.2),       showing over 50% of the men in the review came from the MASS study (9).
Screening was later adopted by most counties.
The 2011 European Society       for Vascular Surgery guidelines also drew on the four studies in the       Cochrane study, with the MASS study the largest.
It supported population       screening of older men to reduce `aneurysm-related mortality by almost       half'.
(p.S5) (10).
