     MCADD     Our demonstration of an automatable method for MCADD screening and the       resulting benefits to patients contributed to a decision to undertake a       pilot study of MCADD screening (UKCSNS-MCADD) which was co-ordinated by       the MRC Centre of Epidemiology for Child Health at the UCL Institute of       Child Health, London [a].
This pilot study showed good results,       and so MCADD screening was adopted in England in 2009 and Wales in 2012       using our methods [b].
Since screening began, we can estimate       (based on epidemiology in ref 2 above) that around 60 lives have been       saved and around 60 cases of long-term disability prevented.
One such       example was recently highlighted on the Great Ormond Street Hospital       website &#8212; the parents of a child identified by screening could be given       specialist dietary advice and training on what to do in an emergency [c].
Fabry disease     Our CTH method has been adapted for screening programmes.
For example,       screening of 172,000 newborns in Taiwan identified 89 infants with low       activity of the Fabry enzyme; these infants were further assessed using       our urine CTH method [d].
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) has       been approved by for the treatment of Fabry disease, and early treatment       can help to avoid complications.
As well as contributing to early       diagnosis, our tests provide early evidence of the success of ERT by       falling levels of CTH in the urine.
We are commissioned to test urine       samples from patients receiving enzyme replacement therapy by one of the       companies producing the enzyme (Genzyme).
Between 2008 and 2013 we       analysed 760 samples per year.
Income from the CTH tests (&#163;37,000 p.a.)
and other tests undertaken in our laboratories (&#163;41,000 p.a.)
contributes       to maintenance of equipment and funds further method development [e].
Movement disorders     Our diagnostic tests and new treatments for movement disorders are now in       use in clinical practice.
The treatment we devised for genetically       determined manganese build-up dramatically alleviated symptoms of       parkinsonism or dystonia in four sufferers during the period 2008-13 [f].
This work was featured on the website of the European Parkinson's Disease       Association [g].
As a result of our work on Aromatic Amino Acid Decarboxylase Deficiency       (AADC), diagnostic tests are now available [h].
Without our       research all the families on this website would have no diagnosis for       their child's extremely debilitating disorder.
Now those that have not       responded to drugs are likely to be able to have gene therapy in a joint       UK/US venture.
Our work on diagnosis of AADC is featured on the AADC       Research Trust website [i].
Epilepsy     Our research on epilepsy has resulted in new diagnostic tests and better       treatment for infants and children now in use.
We perform diagnostic tests       on 230 urine samples and 46 DNA samples per year, sent to us from       paediatricians looking after infants and children with severe epilepsy       around the country.
Between 2008 and 2013, we identified the genetic       biochemical defect in 35 children (14 with pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase       (PNPO) deficiency; 21 with antiquitin deficiency).
These are potentially       fatal disorders.
They respond poorly to antiepileptic drugs but respond       very well to high doses of vitamin B6 as pyridoxine or pyridoxal       phosphate.
Our diagnostic test thus enables more successful treatment to       be given.
[e]     Our research was quoted in a recent guideline on treatment of neonatal       seizures [j].
Referencing [5] above, along with another       publication from our group, the guidelines recommend: "Most cases of         pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy are due to alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde         dehydrogenase (also known as antiquitin, or ATQ) deficiency, an         autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism caused by defects in the         ALDH7A1 gene that lead to accumulation of alpha-AASA.
Mutation analysis         of the ALDH7A1 gene is recommended in patients with abnormal biochemical         screening and/or clear evidence of pyridoxine or folinic acid         responsiveness."
Progressive liver disease     Our research on progressive liver disease means that children can now be       given bile acid replacement therapy for an increasing number of bile acid       synthesis disorders, preventing death from liver disease or the need for a       liver transplant [k].
We analyse samples from patients presenting       with cholestatic liver disease in the UK and overseas (280 samples, 4       treatable positives per year).
For the period 2008-13, this equates to 24       lives saved / transplants avoided.
In 2011, a bile acid preparation,       Orphacol, was licensed by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment       of inborn errors in primary bile acid synthesis.
In the submission, they       state that: "The literature provided by the applicant showed that, where       available to investigators, the clinical use of cholic acid has been       documented since at least the mid-1990s through the work primarily       conducted by the Jacquemin, Clayton and Setchell groups".
The document       references 10 of our papers [l].
