     Regionally: impacts on the Public Inquiry into the Mid Staffordshire         NHS Foundation Trust     Paton's research expertise led to his appointment as Chair of a large NHS       hospital trust from 2000       to 2006.
Through this role, Paton was invited as an expert witness to the       Public Inquiry into Mid       Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust ('The Francis Inquiry'), reporting in       January 2013 [source 1].
In       his main evidence Paton drew on his expertise on health care systems       (publications 3 and 4) to       outline how an over-loaded policy-agenda and a culture of punitive central       control had allowed the       Mid Staffs problems to be tolerated [source 2].
The Inquiry's       recommendations (Feb. 6, 2013)       pointed squarely to these problems in the type of language used by Paton,       who was a unique       witness in that he had been active in the relevant health economy as well       as an academic       specialist in health policy [source 3].
This analysis led the Inquiry to invite recommendations not only about       the future governance and       regulation of the NHS at national and local levels but also about how and       whether government       policy was likely to aid or retard these in the pursuit of good quality of       care for patients.
Paton's       ongoing research outputs concerning `policy overload' and incompatible       policies and incoherent       local and regional implementation/management regimes have led to       continuing impact locally upon       debates and decisions.
This has been quoted at Trust level and nationally       to justify reinvestment in       hospital bed capacity and a re-thinking and re-planning of community       services (`intermediate       care').
Nationally: Impacts on English NHS policy decision-making,         particularly in debate of the         2011 Health Bill     Paton's research has had impact on the making of health policy in England       2008-2013.
Paton was       able to contribute to a government-initiated pause from March to June 2011       in order to review       policy, and consider the Health Bill in Parliament and its subsequent       amendment.
Specifically, Paton was an expert witness to the House of Commons Select       Committee on Health       in 2011 (Oral evidence, Tuesday, March 1; written evidence also provided),       which was significant       in the process of amendment of the then Health Bill.
Paton provided       evidence about the       consequences of similar reforms (or reforms which were more limited       prototypes of those proposed       in the Health Bill), based on his research reported in Paton, 1998; 2006;       2010.
This was part of the       evidence which suggested that local commissioning of health-care in the       context of `marketised'       provision had unforseen effects often opposite to that intended by       policy-makers.
The report from       the Select Committee reflected some evidence of this nature and the       amended Health and Social       Care Act took on board such criticisms [Source 4].
Paton has been an occasional adviser to the Labour Party and to       Ministers/Shadow Ministers over       a number of years (1994-5; 2005; 2012-date).
Specifically, Paton's impact       on more recent policy       debate was in terms of the warnings as to inadequately-thought-out or       poorly-implemented health       service reform [Source 5].
More broadly, Paton has also contributed to a change in the national       longer-term scope of debate       about NHS reform.
His academic research has been disseminated to a broader       professional and       policy-focused public through commissioned articles in the British Medical       Journal (which also       contributed to the evidence of the failure of commissioning in the English       NHS to be cost-effective       or even effective, and to the review of policy by the Coalition       government), Public Servant, the       British Journal of General Practice and the Health Service Journal       [sources 6 and 7].
Between       2010 and 2012 he has written regular articles for Public Servant, a       journal read by senior       politicians (including ministers), civil servants and policy makers       [source 8].
Internationally: the EU; WHO; Shanghai Pudong Health Bureau     Paton's scholarship on international health service reform and       marketisation has contributed to       policy debates and practice about the consequences of reform in different       national contexts.
Two       EU-funded research projects which Paton directed have had their main       impact from 2009 in       informing debate about the direction of the EU Health Directive.
The       findings from these projects       have pointed to the difficulty of introducing a Single European Market for       health services and these       difficulties have broadly been accepted within EU, thus health has been       further exempted from       general pro-competitive policy under the Single European Market.
The then       Health policy director       at the European Commission and members of the EU High Level Committee on       Health welcomed       the findings [sources 9 and 10].
Paton's primary impact here is through       working collaboratively with       health policy researchers across Europe to engage policy makers with the       need to take into       account the intricacies and consequences of policy reform.
Additionally, work on the particular `market reforms' within member       states has led to influence upon       EU policy-making &#8212; primarily, in giving pause to the previously-strong       idea that member-states'       market reforms and EU `market reform' were in harmony and were the source       of positive lessons       for each other.
The EU has become more cautious both about encouraging       market reform in       member states and about using the SEM indiscriminately or inadvertently in       health.
Paton's expertise on market reform, as established through his       collaborative EU work, has led to       recent advisory roles for World Health Organisation (2009-2013) and the       Health Bureaux in       Shanghai and Pudong to raise awareness among policy makers and       practitioners on the problems       caused by `marketisation' in public health systems [sources 11 and 12].
