     Through his chairmanship (2009-11) and on-going membership of the       Scientific Advisory panel for       the Single European Sky ATM Research Programme (SESAR), Professor Johnson       has helped to       address the technological and operational dimension of the Single European       Sky initiative.
SESAR       directs the research of industrial aerospace participants (e.g.
Boeing,       European Aeronautic       Defence &amp; Space) to ensure that air traffic management (ATM) for       Europe is modernised to meet       present and future needs.
In 2013, SESAR received an additional &#8364;2 billion       to continue its work       into the Horizons 2020 programme with the Scientific Advisory panel       directing the &#8364;100 million       basic research programme.
The European ATM system currently handles around 26,000 flights daily       with forecasts indicating       that air traffic levels are likely to double by 2020.
The EU's approach to       management of this growth       and addressing related safety concerns was to organise airspace into       functional blocks defined by       traffic flow rather than national borders.
Such a project was not possible       without common rules and       procedures at European level.
The Single European Sky initiative was       launched by the European       Commission in 1999 to introduce common rules and procedures that would       facilitate such an       approach.
The Eurocontrol agency manages the European ATM network and       effectively looks after       the operational side of the Single European Sky, while SESAR supports       developments in       technology and procedure.
Formulating consistent infrastructures standards across Europe       Between 2008-13, SESAR involvement took Professor Johnson to over 18       member states to assist       their ATM engineering teams.
The focus of the work has been to transfer       best practice and       contribute to consistency across Europe; in particular, Professor Johnson       has supported the use of       rapid risk assessment techniques in everyday configuration tasks for ATM       software.
The technical       focus of this work has been to use accident and incident investigation       methodologies to identify       patterns of failure across Communication Navigation Surveillance       technologies.
The consequences       of these failures are an increasing cause for concern, considering the key       role that computational       systems play in maintaining separation in congested airspace around hub       airports, such as       Heathrow.
Contributing to the development of European policy and legislation       As the only academic member of the European Committee on Contingency       Planning in Air Traffic       Management, Professor Johnson used his research expertise to develop       guidelines for the       mitigation and recovery from major incidents in ATM; meeting requirements       for Commission       Regulation (EU) No 1035/2011.
Professor Johnson also authored guidelines       to support the       European Regulatory Requirement on Software Engineering in Air Traffic       Management (ESARR6),       which provide ATM safety regulatory bodies and service providers with a       uniform and harmonised       set of requirements to ensure that the risks associated with the use of       software in safety related       ground-based ATM systems are reduced to a tolerable level.
These       guidelines were incorporated       into European law under Regulation (EC) N&#176; 482/2008 on 30 May 2008 and       enacted following       software related fatal accidents involving ATM infrastructures at Linate       and Charles de Gaulle       (both stemming from problems with Digital Surface Movement Radar System)       and Uberlingen       (involving software re-sectorisation in Area Control Centre Zurich).
Professor Johnson's research       into the use of formal and semi-formal techniques for incident       investigation prior to 2008 played a       key role in identifying the technical causes of these accidents.
In       particular, the Uberlingen ECF       diagrams presented in his 2003 Handbook on Accident and Incident       Investigation were used by       EUROCONTROL (the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation)       to review the       success of the European Strategic Safety Action Plan (2002-06 but       influencing all subsequent       legislation).
Europe has not suffered any fatal accidents stemming from       ATM software failures       since 2008, although the frequency of lower consequence incidents is       increasing with the       complexity of the underlying software infrastructures.
In 2013, Professor Johnson was the only academic to be invited to the UK       working group on risk       assessment for cyber security in ATM, reporting to the Cabinet Office.
Also in 2013, he was asked       to direct the European research programme on cyber security within ATM as       part of the &#8364;100       million portfolio of SESAR research, responsible for directing the       scientific assessment of projects       within the programme.
