     Carman's 2006 research provided the first comprehensive, independent       study of the Scottish Parliament's petitioning system.
It influenced the       development and practice of the petitions system by, among other things,       underpinning a year-long inquiry into the public petitions process       undertaken by the PPC between June 2008 and September 2009.
It has also       informed the policy debates on the petitions system in Westminster.
Influence on Scottish Parliament Petitions process       Carman submitted his final report on Assessment of the Scottish         Parliament's Public Petitions System 1999-2006 (`the Report') to the       PPC in October 2006.
The report was launched by the PPC at its meeting of       30 October 2006 [1] during which PPC members commented on the       helpful and stimulating nature of the report.
The PPC also acknowledged       the equality issues identified by Carman in the report relating to the       sectors of society who were most likely to lodge petitions.
Noting this in       the discussions, members of the PPC commented that it raised important       issues about improving the public petitions process; members suggested       that the report would provide an evidence base for the PCC's successors       following the 2007 General Election.
In June 2008, following the previous year's General Election, the new       members of the PPC launched an inquiry into the public petitions process.
Both the minutes of the PPC's meeting of 24 June 2008 [2] and the       final report of the inquiry, published on 16 June 2009 [3],       demonstrate that the PCC was motivated to undertake the year-long inquiry       in order to engage with the findings and recommendations made in Carman's       2006 University of Glasgow-based research.
The PPC launched the inquiry on 24 June 2008 with the aim of       investigating how to improve awareness of the existence of the public       petitions process, particularly amongst hard to reach groups;       participation in the process itself; and the scrutiny role fulfilled by       the PCC, issues which had been highlighted in the 2006 research.
By       adopting this remit, the PPC sought to identify and implement improvements       to the public petitions process that would be of benefit to all its key       stakeholders: potential and actual petitioners, the PCC, the wider       Parliament including other committees, and public bodies in Scotland       including the Scottish Government.
As part of the year-long inquiry, the PCC analysed written responses from       43 NGOs, public bodies, individuals, and charities.
Additionally, it held       public meetings in Duns, Easterhouse, Fraserburgh, and Edinburgh between       December 2008 and April 2009.
In his written response for the inquiry, Carman examined the key issues       raised by the PPC in light of the data and findings from his 2006       research.
Carman recommended, among other things, that the PCC should       commission further research into the extent of public awareness of the       petitions system prior to developing an awareness campaign; the PPC       subsequently commissioned research on public awareness of, and engagement       with, the petitions process as part of the inquiry.
The PCC published its report on the inquiry into the public petitions       process on 16 June 2009.
Among its key findings the report revealed a       widespread ignorance of the remit of the Scottish Parliament and a       perception that it held little power.
The report also found that, as a       direct result of this, the public was not well informed about the Scottish       Parliament's public petitions process.
The PPC therefore made several       recommendations for improvements in the report in relation to public       awareness and understandings of the public petitions process that had been       highlighted in Carman's 2006 research.
It acknowledged that the       promotional material of the PPC should be redesigned to make it more       accessible and attractive to disengaged audiences; that a wider range of       communication methods should be used to publicise the petitions process;       that web-based tools linked to awareness and use of the petitions process       should be improved and extended; and that there should be greater       engagement with local government enabling members of local councils etc.
to signpost constituents to the petitions process, where appropriate.
The Scottish Government and The Scottish Parliament Corporate Body       responded to the report in July 2009 [4]; it was subsequently debated in       the Scottish Parliament in September 2009, following which several of the       PPC's final recommendations were implemented, including: a complete       revision of public engagement flyers and documentation to reduce the       amount of information included in the leaflets and make them available in       more languages; and the adoption of online and social media, including       Wikipedia, YouTube and Twitter (@SP_Petitions) as a means of reaching       groups that may be unaware of the petitions process and who use social       media on a daily basis.
The PPC also redesigned the layout of its web       pages to make them more accessible for people of all ages and abilities.
In addition, the PPC produced a new film providing information about the       petitions process and an animated guide on how to complete a petition [5].
These outcomes confirmed the findings in Carman's 2006 research which had       prompted the Public Petitions Committee's inquiry.
HM Government's Petitions System 	  Beyond Scotland, Carman's       research has been widely referenced in the ongoing discussions on reform       of the HM Government's petitions system.
Those discussions have been held       with the aim of producing recommendations to make the procedures for       petitions more accessible and transparent and better able to meet the       reasonable expectations of those members of the public who engage with the       process.
Carman's 2006 report was widely cited by the House of Commons Library,       which provides research and analysis for Members of Parliament, in its       2010 briefings on Proposals for a Public Petitions Committee and Proposals         for an e-petitions process for the House of Commons (published in       March and February 2010) [6].
The Library drew from Carman's       findings on the Scottish public petitions process in both briefings to       inform the House of Commons about processes in other legislatures when       considering how similar systems might be introduced at Westminster.
On the basis of his in-depth research into the Scottish petitions system       in 2006, Carman was invited to participate in a seminar in Whitehall       facilitated by the House of Commons Backbench Business Committee (BBC) on       6 March 2012.
The BBC is a cross-party committee which schedules subjects       for debate suggested by backbench MPs, and the Hansard Society (HS), the       UK's leading independent, non-partisan political research and education       charity.
Carman explained his 2006 research findings to the BBC and assisted the       deliberations on revisions to HM Government's petitions system following       the launch of an e-petitions system in August 2011.
As a result of this       consultation, HS identified a number of problems that threatened to       undermine the e-petition system's effectiveness and which, if not       addressed, risked reputational damage to the House of Commons in       particular, and an exacerbation of public disillusionment with the       political system in the long-term.
HS further recognised that most other legislatures, including Scotland,       have a unified petitions system that allows for different routes of       submission for petitioners, i.e.
either in paper form or electronically.
HS believed that by introducing a separate system of e-petitions for the       UK Parliament, those without internet access may be disadvantaged.
On this       basis, it was concerned that this might affect perceived fairness of the       e-petitions system among the public and those submitting petitions.
Carman       had raised the problem with the perceived fairness of the Scottish       Parliament's petitions process, and public engagement with it, in his 2006       Report.
The Hansard Society relied on Carman's research findings from both       his 2006 Report and the evidence he provided at the seminar on 6 March       2012 in its final report about the e-petitions system, where it directly       quoted his contributions:     `...research on procedural justice and public perceptions of political         processes, `provides unmitigated evidence that individual-level         evaluations of how `fair' (or `unfair') a political process is have a         very strong influence on the willingness to accept the outcomes of these         processes' and thus `individuals are often willing to accept outcomes         they do not prefer if they believe the outcomes were derived through a         fair process' [7].
HS was keen to discuss the establishment of a Public Petitions Committee       similar to Scotland's and which Carman examined in his 2006 report.
On the       basis of Carman's and others' evidence, HS recommended the establishment       of a Petitions Committee, supported by staff in a Petitions Office.
The       Procedures Committee for the House of Commons, which considers the       practice and procedure of the House in the conduct of public business,       rejected the proposal to introduce a Petitions Committee but discussions       around this are ongoing within the House of Commons.
Carman's University of Glasgow research thus continues to impact upon       continuing developments to the UK Parliament's Public Petitions Process.
