     Findings from the Evaluation of JM in ETs (2010) have been       debated widely amongst practitioners       and policymakers, not least because the Employment Tribunal Service (ETS)       ignored the findings       of the study and rolled out JM nationally.
The debate this generated goes       to the heart of the       relationship between academia and government, showing how independent       evidence produced by       academics has impact by forcing government to account for it's actions in       the arena of public       opinion.
In the practitioner publication Equal Opportunities Review No.
200 (01/05/2010) the results of the       evaluation were reported and the assumption was that JM would not be       rolled out.
However, this       was not the case and subsequent to publication the editor (Sue Johnstone)       contacted Prof. Peter       Urwin (who had led the research) to clarify the situation.
There then       ensued a detailed       correspondence between the MoJ, EOR and staff at the University of       Westminster.
During this time       there was extensive discussion across practitioner journals and other       forums, for instance in Equal         Opportunities Review; in Tribunal a publication of the Judicial         Studies Board (overseen by the Lord       Chief Justice), by policy-makers within the Ministry of Justice and other       practitioner publications       such as The Law Society Gazette &#8212; with some commentators       supporting the roll-out of JM and       some alluding to the apparent contradiction with the research findings.
For instance, a subsequent Equal Opportunities Review article       (01/10/2010) reported the response       of Ministry of Justice policymakers who defended the roll-out by       suggesting that, after "thorough       consideration of the interesting and important findings of the University       of Westminster evaluation       report....the Tribunals Service decided that judicial mediation is       sufficiently different from other       alternative dispute resolution to warrant inclusion in the toolbox for       employment dispute resolution".
This contrasted with the reported comment from Prof. Urwin that, whilst,       "he agreed that there is       evidence that various forms of alternative dispute resolution provide       benefits to both claimants and       employers...this does not constitute evidence of value for money ....and       the evidence is that       judicial mediation does not deliver value for money".
Soon after, the       research was a central focus       of a special issue of the Winter 2010 issue of Tribunal, with Sir       Henry Brooke discussing the study       in his Introduction and David Latham (President of Employment Tribunals,       England and Wales)       publishing a separate article defending roll-out of JM on the grounds that       users were `enthusiastic'.
There have been various debates about the pros and cons of JM in other       media, with the general       tone of debate being positive.
The findings from the Evaluation of JM have       given support to those       in the public domain who adopt a more critical and analytical perspective;       for instance those writing       in the April 2010 issue of The Law Society Gazette and the Human         Law Mediation website (2010).
Policymakers have increasingly turned to ADR as one of the tools to be       deployed in coping with       problems faced by adversarial systems of justice (for instance, White         Paper, Department for       Constitutional Affairs, 2004; Gibbons, 2007).
The (mainly qualitative)       evidence that continues to       inform much of the discussion on various forms of ADR suggests that it is       popular and provides       benefits to both claimants and employers, but this does not constitute       evidence of `value added'.
Some commentators have rightly argued that many of the benefits of ADR are       intangible and       therefore hard to quantify, but the findings from evaluation of judicial       mediation suggest       policymakers should be more cautious in their approach and that one must       have evidence of       significant impact before even intangible benefits can be attributed to an       intervention such as JM.
Ultimately, this project has impacted upon the activities, attitudes,       awareness and practice of those       involved in ADR within the UK.
It has contributed to the process of       accountability with respect to       the allocation of public funds, and also (through subsequent       dissemination) the wider debates on       what constitutes evidence for UK policy-making.
