     National Impacts: policy and the landscape of housing and care         provision for older people       Described as `pioneering' by key stakeholders, research by Bernard et         al.
on Berryhill was       instrumental in highlighting the significance of suitable housing and care       to the wellbeing of older       people and to the shift in understanding and approach to provision by       policy-makers and       stakeholders alike, evident in the last decade.
As one of only two       projects at the time focussing on       new retirement communities (the other was research by Karen Croucher at       York University), the       research by Bernard et al.
was essential to the impetus for, and       development of, the 2008       government strategy Lifetime Homes, Lifetime Neighbourhoods       [source 1]; facilitated through       Bernard's invited participation at the Department for Communities and       Local Government's expert       seminar exploring the `Impact of Changing Demography on Housing' (12th       June 2007) and through       links with senior civil servants in the Department for Communities and       Local Government.
The       impact of this first government strategy on housing for older people has       been sector-changing,       making clear the significance of appropriate housing for the continued       health, social inclusion, and       well-being of people as they grow older, and setting in motion       requirements for all new housing to       be built to `lifetime homes standards' by 2013 [source 2].
Further impacts can be seen in other housing strategies and in increased       support for retirement       villages as an option for older people.
HousingCare.org, the       flagship website of the Elderly       Accommodation Council, recommends the research by Bernard et al.
as essential reading, while       the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report Making the Case for Retirement         Villages, which cites       Bernard et al., is a key document used to provide information       about retirement villages [source 3].
The research was also cited in policy and planning documents hosted by       South Oxford Council       [source 4] and Hampshire County Council [source 5].
Their influence       extends to a major Australian       report on housing which cites their research in detail [source 6].
The expertise of Bernard et al.
has been utilised in other       research, policy and practice forums on       Extra Care housing over the last decade.
Examples include Bernard's       participation in four Joseph       Rowntree Foundation Advisory Groups: supporting three Croucher et al.
studies and one Personal       Social Services Research Unit/Kent University study.
Bernard was also a       member of the Steering       Group for PSSRU's evaluation (2006-10) of the Department of Health's Extra       Care Housing       Initiative.
This evaluation employed a scale to measure       cohesion/attachment to place, adapted       from the LARC project [source 7].
The Keele researchers have actively disseminated their research beyond       academia, and have had       impact on the sector through this broader influence too.
In 2005, they       were founder members of,       and have been regular contributors to, the Housing and Care for Older       People Research Network:       recently relaunched (in 2013) under the auspices of the Housing Learning       and Improvement       Network.
The network provides a means of communicating research findings       to commissioners,       policy makers and end users.
Organisational Impacts: Berryhill Retirement Village and the expansion         and growth of         ExtraCare's Villages     Since opening Berryhill, ExtraCare has built a further 13 villages       accommodating approximately       3000 residents, with more villages planned.
The research by Bernard et         al.
led to a series of       practice recommendations and organisational changes at Berryhill itself       [source 8], as well as       identifying specific issues that ExtraCare addressed in the building of       subsequent villages.
At Berryhill, street meetings were reorganised to better facilitate       democratic decision making;       issues around death and bereavement were addressed by having an       anniversary book to       commemorate those who had died, together with regular staff training from       an experienced       bereavement counsellor; and ExtraCare now have wellbeing advisors in each       village and hope to       have Cruse bereavement counsellors too.
The identified need to support       residents' mental health,       and especially to support those with dementia, led to ExtraCare funding       further research and,       subsequently, to providing a member of staff at each village to undertake       and support individual       care plans.
This has significantly reduced the move on rate of such       individuals.
The research also       demonstrated the importance of feelings of belonging to and settling in,       and villages now run a       `friends' scheme 13 months prior to opening to enable future residents to       be part of the decision-making       about the development of the village.
They also offer a `friends       membership' once a village       is opened to those considering moving; enabling them to participate in       activities and develop social       connections with those already there.
The design of new villages has       included improved       accessibility by installing automatic doors at the main entrance and       between the village and       accommodation areas, and making each residential apartment slightly       bigger.
The rigorous academic quality of the research led the sector, including       ExtraCare, to realise that       research in itself was important to future investment planning.
ExtraCare       are funding a Keele PhD       studentship (2012-15), exploring to what extent Berryhill can now be       considered `age-friendly'.
To       our knowledge, this is the first follow-up study of its kind in the UK.
More broadly, ExtraCare       continue to draw on the research, citing it in their magazine for       residents [source 9]; hosting it on       their website; citing it as a key source in other publications on the       website [for example, source 10]       and using it in their marketing of Berryhill [source 11].
