     Nature of the Impact     The case has impacted on VET policy-making, including influencing EQF       adjustments and social       partners' approach to its implementation at sectoral level, and       terminology, with its especially       innovative interpretations and definitions of key terms.
As expressed by       Hermann Nehls, member       of CEDEFOP's Governing Board and executive member of the German DGB: "The         Impact has         been to the modification of policy on EQF, both in Germany and the         European Union.
The         seriousness with which the work has been taken by the German Government         in this respect was         evident in their invitation to present the findings."
The particular       contribution of UoW to this has       been its extensive labour market research experience and expertise- above       all of the construction       sector &#8212; and of Kings especially in relation to education policy.
Significance of the Impact     Since the 2000 Lisbon Conference there have been a stream of EU VET       initiatives, notably the       official adoption of the EQF by the European Parliament in 2008, to       provide a common basis for       comparison of qualifications across Europe, with member countries       encouraged to reference their       national qualification frameworks (NQFs) to it by 2012.
The EQF is based       on learning outcomes       and stipulates eight qualification levels, each describing `knowledge',       `skill' and `competence'       components.
Our work has been highly significant in: its timing &#8212; feeding       into different stages of       modification and implementation; serving to clarify and contextualise VET       terminology; highlighting       the problems and difficulties with EQF implementation at occupational       level; providing practical       guidance for further action, in particular through the proposals alignment       of EQF with SQFs and       the establishment of ZMTs, and helping stakeholders understand what is       possible with the EQF       and differences in standards applied.
In representing a rare comparative       transnational study of       occupational qualifications within the EU, the case has also had an impact       on comparative VET       research, including in its distinctive methodology, paying close attention       to conceptual variations.
As a result, the Bricklayer project has been used as a template       for further work on sectoral and       occupational qualifications, for instance the Bolster UP 11 and Foster         VET Mobility.
Projects.
Reach of the Impact     These impacts have reached within and beyond the UK and Europe, including       in Australia, India       and North America, and been confirmed in frequent references to the work,       in invitations to present       to diverse audiences, in critical feedback from key experts, and in the       written testimonies provided.
The Bricklaying project was a key sectoral study selected for       presentation to the first joint       EQF/EQAVET and ECVET meeting and to the 2011 CEDEFOP conference in the       European       Parliament.
It has been rated by the EC as one of its five most valuable       EQF projects, its       conclusions endorsed by the head of the Brussels office of CEDEFOP, and       the project       commended to the EQF advisory board.
The European Directorate General (DG)       for Education       and Training identified it among the 10 most valuable learning and       development projects over the       last five years as it links approaches to understanding competence across       Europe and provides       detailed recommendations on EQF implementation within the labour market.
The impact has been       especially evident in Germany, including in invitations to present to the       annual BIBB (The German       Federal Institute for Vocational Education) conference and to the German       Education and Research       Ministry.
The influence the case has had on policy-making is evident also       in relation to social       partners.
The outputs of the Bricklaying project have been       distributed to their national affiliates by       the European construction social partners and extensive consideration       given to the proposals by       the ETUC (e.g.
its Lifelong Learning Group) and the European Social       Dialogue (involving social       partners from each EU country) for the construction sector (e.g.
Vocational Training meetings,       2010-2).
This has made for a sustainable impact in particular on the       construction industry at       national and European levels and influenced debate on: improving VET       activities; SQF       development; and creating ZMTs.
The Bulgarian construction social partners       have disseminated       the results to their national discussion forum and the EFBWW to the       European Construction Forum       and the Liaison Forum.
The Bricklayer project engaged users at all       stages, including social       partners, colleges, firms and policymakers, and been widely disseminated       through a range of       written documentation and a special issue of the European Institute for       Construction Labour       Research (CLR) Newsletter (CLR News 1/2010) distributed through its       500+strong network.
The       impact has been evident in all the participating countries (UK, Belgium,       France, Denmark,       Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Poland) as well as elsewhere.
