     Impacts on public policy and services     The research outlined above has had a significant influence on the policy       debate surrounding the future of farming and associated conservation       measures in the UK, the EU, and globally.
The CSG was one of the initial       advocates for land sparing to be considered alongside land sharing by both       academics and policy makers, which in itself has considerably broadened       the scope of the policy debate.
The political relevance of this work was       illustrated by the formal commissioning of the CSG in 2010 by the UK       Government Office for Science to provide part of the evidence base for the       Government's Foresight project into `The Future of Food and Farming'.
The       resulting publication4 (which acknowledges the commission),       along with other published work of the group1, was distilled       into the final Foresight report6 (2011), with Green and Phalan       invited to a `Stakeholders meeting' in July 2010 to provide formal inputs13.
The Foresight report identified five challenges for ensuring       sustainability in the global food system, each of which were supported by       synthesis reports which provided detailed scientific evidence and       analysis.
One of the five identified challenges was `maintaining       biodiversity', the synthesis report for which7 was underpinned       by the work of Balmford and colleagues (specifically citing a       number of publications by the group, including refs 1 and 3, section 3).
The One Year Review of the Foresight project8 (2012) cited a       number of national and international impacts that are directly       attributable to the `maintaining biodiversity' strand of the 2011 report,       namely:            The Department for the Environment, Fisheries and Rural Affairs           (DEFRA) used the evidence to `support [international] action ...         to protect the world's resources and biodiversity', including         `identifying those species for which targeted conservation action will         deliver a broad range of consequential benefits, including for ecosystem         services'.
In addition, following publication of the Foresight Report         and a Natural Environment White Paper (June 2011), `Defra has played a         significant role in establishing a global indicator framework for         biodiversity'       The Department for International Development (DfID) `has         commissioned a number of systematic reviews in key areas to strengthen         the evidence base for its policy and practice to link climate change,         hunger, poverty, biodiversity and energy'        Natural England `has commissioned research into the ecosystem         services provided by agri-environment schemes'       At the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, `The         arguments on sustainable intensification and food security ...         particularly with regard to Challenge E [maintaining biodiversity] ...         contributed partly to the impetus for establishing at FAO a new         initiative: the World Agricultural Watch Initiative (WAW) focused on         monitoring the social, economic and agricultural impacts of the global         phenomenon of agricultural transformations'.
Details of the media impact of the report itself can be found on the       Foresight website9.
Specialist Advisory Roles     Other inputs into national policy debate have arisen from Balmford's       invitation to discussions with various organisations such as Leaf (Linking       Environment And Farming, UK; Dec 2011)14 and the Royal       Agricultural Society of England (Oct 2011)15, and in late 2012,       with Lord Cameron of Dillington, chair of the Strategy Advisory Board for       the UK's Global Food Security Programme, an initiative of the UK's main       funders of food-related research (primarily Government and the Research       Councils).
In 2012, the CSG's work was also the basis for a Parliamentary       POSTNote16, with Phalan providing substantial input into the       finished document10.
The CSG has also been asked to advise on       studies from the British Trust for Ornithology (Uganda)11 and       RSPB (Kazakhstan) (currently under review).
Impacts on international development     In addition to the direct impact the `maintaining biodiversity' strand of       the Foresight report had on the UN FAO as stated above, CSG members have       been invited to present the nature of the trade-off between land sharing       and land sparing at various meetings of policy makers, national       governments and national and international organisations outside of the       UK, including:            on the Common Agricultural Policy and biodiversity at `Biodiversit&#233; et         agricultures', Montpellier, 4-5 Nov 2008, a conference organised by the         French Ministries of Higher Education and Research, and Agriculture and         Fishing       on the results of the 2011 work4,5 from a policy         perspective at the CIFOR (Centre for International Forest Research)         Learning Event at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable         Development (Rio+20) in Rio de Janeiro (June 2012).
Two of the Group's academic publications (including ref 2 section 3) are       cited in the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) seven point plan       to reduce the risk of hunger and of rising food insecurity, published in       200912.
The report was commissioned to support the then UN       Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's task force on the world food crisis, and       one of the seven options it proposed was to `support farmers in developing       diversified and resilient eco-agriculture systems that provide critical       ecosystem services (water supply and regulation, habitat for wild plants       and animals, genetic diversity, pollination, pest control, climate       regulation), as well as adequate food to meet local and consumer needs'.
Impacts on the environment     The above impacts on national and international policy debate and policy       decisions on the environment, will have had an effect, and continue to       have an effect on the environment worldwide.
