     Whilst our research trials have focussed on depressive relapse as a       primary outcome [3.1-3.4], we strategically address the wider transfer of       the MBCT evidence base into practice settings regionally, nationally and       internationally.
The beneficiaries of MBCT delivery include patients;       members of the general public; education and health professionals; and       policy-makers [5.1-5.8].
Impact on the general public       An on-going programme of delivery of 8-week MBCT courses reaches the       general public in Bangor and London, and within the local NHS hospital       cancer service for cancer patients and their carers.
Between August 2008       and July 2013, 1173 general public participants participated in our       courses, 514 of whom received financial support due to socioeconomic       disadvantage.
A further 228 service users participated in our conferences,       which include experiential training.
300 cancer patients and their carers       have participated in the charity-funded MBCT for Cancer programme, with       evidence of benefits to wellbeing and adjustment.
To extend occupational and organisational impact, we also take MBCT into       the workplace context.
The Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice       has been contracted to offer eight `Mindfulness and Wellbeing Classes' to       Gwynedd County Council staff during 2013 and 2014 - evaluations of the       benefits of this programme are underway.
To support this, the Centre       published a self-help guide for participants (Silverton, 2012), sales of       which have exceeded 28,000 copies.
Course materials have also recently       been developed for Welsh speakers.
Impact on training others in MBCT delivery       The Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice is the largest and       leading UK training organisation in this field.
Developmental training for       professionals who want to up-skill and gain understanding in delivering       mindfulness-based interventions is offered at foundational through to       advanced teacher training level over a range of residential formats (4-7       days) or through Master classes and training days.
These have been taken       up by approximately 1310 professionals (~10% international) since 2008.
Since 2009, the clinical doctorate programme at Bangor has also worked       with the Centre to provide trainees with teaching in the principles of       MBCT [5.3-5.5].
To support implementation of mindfulness by professional and practitioner       audiences, several books have been authored by Centre staff, on topics       such as Mindfulness principles and practice (Crane, 2009, 2012, sales:       11000+); MBCT adapted specifically for those affected by cancer (Bartley,       2012, sales: more than 1200); and applying Mindfulness training in work       place contexts (Chaskalson, 2011, sales: more than 2000).
Implementation of MBCT in the UK National Health Service [5.3-5.7]       In line with MRC guidance on the development, evaluation and       implementation of complex interventions to improve health, implementation       remains a key challenge in developing MBCT.
Crane has led this on a UK       wide level, in collaborations with Kuyken (Exeter) and Williams (Oxford).
A survey of MBCT stakeholders (e.g.
health, education and social work       practitioners) found that MBCT implementation is rarely strategic and that       large inequities exist across the UK.
In response, we developed a freely       available online toolkit for stakeholders involved in MBCT implementation.
Over 200 individuals in 73 NHS geographical areas working within the UK       services have been supported in their MBCT implementation through       training, supervision, consultation and mentoring provided by Centre       staff.
A National Institute for Health Research study led by Bangor (2013)       will scope existing provision of MBCT across UK, examine the       benefits/costs of embedding MBCT in mental health services, investigate       facilitators and barriers to delivering MBCT, and identify the critical       success factors for the routine use of MBCT as recommended by NICE.
Creating a professional context for mindfulness-based teachers across         the UK       Senior staff from the Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice led the       development of the UK Network for Mindfulness-Based Teaching       Organisations.
The Network has representation from all the main training       organisations in the UK, and has developed consensus on good practice       standards for mindfulness-based teachers and trainers.
These have had a       considerable impact on service delivery in the UK by providing structure       and guidance to NHS managers, commissioners and clinicians as they set up       MBCT services [5.3-5.5].
Benefits to the economy       MBCT is a cost effective intervention for the NHS.
When delivered in a       group context, the `per participant' rate is reduced in comparison to       individual therapies or treatments.
For every episode of depression       prevented there is a saving of &#163;30 per depression free day for total costs       and &#163;14 per day for health service costs.
More locally, the Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice has grown       from employing 0.5FTE staff in 2001 to now employing 7+ staff on contracts       within the University.
A further 26 teachers/trainers work freelance for       the Centre and are based across the UK.
Several graduates from Centre       training programmes have gone on to set up successful social enterprises       delivering Mindfulness-based teaching and training.
These include       LivingMindfully, who work with Jobcentreplus among others, and       Mindfulness-Works, who work in organisational settings including with       KPMG, the Home Office, the Cabinet Office, and the Prudential.
