     Influenza epidemics affect about 10% of the world's population each year       (about 600 million       people), resulting in ~500,000 deaths.
However, the primary vaccine       component (the viral surface       glycoprotein hemagglutinin (HA)) has a seemingly endless capacity to       evolve.
Consequently, the       vaccine needs to be updated, sometimes annually, to remain effective.
Smith's `antigenic       cartography' method is now a key component in this updating process.
As a       result, the work is       having an international impact on disease prevention and public health, as       well as informing       decisions taken by the WHO.
Impacts on health and welfare: public health has improved; disease         prevention has been         enhanced     As a mark of the relevance of its work to the international public health       arena, in 2012 the Smith       laboratory became a "WHO Collaborating Centre for Modelling, Evolution,       and Control of Emerging       Infectious Diseases"7,8 at the WHO's request.
Collaborating       Centres (CCs) are only invited to be       designated as such after successfully collaborating with the WHO in       jointly planned activities over       several years.
The title of, and the terms of reference for9,       the CC deliberately state `infectious       diseases' rather than `influenza' because of the recognised applicability       of the method to a wide       range of viral and bacterial pathogens.
The official WHO designation       states `This Centre is       recruited to support WHO programs in Epidemic and Pandemic Alert and       Response by providing a       suite of computational tools for analysing the evolution of re-emerging       and emerging pathogens.
Such tools are applicable to all pathogens and are of high value for       surveillance, vaccine strain       selection, and support of decision making....
The tools provided by the       Centre are state-of-the-art,       at the forefront of research, and they have proven to be of high value to       WHO and laboratories       identified by WHO world-wide.
'10     The Smith group reports to, and attendance at, WHO strain selection       meetings (see below) have       an obvious direct impact on the efficacy of updated vaccines, and a       related significant impact on       public health and disease prevention.
As a further example, the virus       characterized in the Smith       group's 2009 publication is still representative of the strains       circulating today, and remains the       basis for the H1 component of the current vaccine11.
Impacts on international development: international agencies have been         influenced by         research     Since 2011, the WHO has orchestrated the Global Influenza Surveillance       and Response System       (GISRS) to track influenza virus evolution.
Teams in over 100 countries       worldwide collect and       analyse influenza samples, which are funnelled into one of five WHO       Collaborating Centres (CCs)       for analyses.
The data are then passed to Smith's group, which uses       antigenic cartography to       produce a report on the current worldwide state of the evolution of the       virus, and the likely impact       of this on vaccine strain selection.
Reports (20-100 pages)12       are compiled by the group for each six       monthly meeting of the WHO influenza vaccine strain selection committee       (the latest in Feb 2013),       and are used alongside related reports from WHO CCs to determine which       strains should be       included in the next vaccine.
Smith and Russell attend each strain       selection meeting, composed of       about 10 `Temporary Advisors' (including the directors of the five primary       WHO CCs and Smith),       and 15 `Observers' (including Russell).
The Smith group also uses the       results to update a WHO       internal website showing the latest evolution of the viruses; more than       500 incremental updates are       provided 365 days a year on a 24-hour turn around13.
The       website tracks seasonal flu virus       evolution and epidemiology in almost real time, and to date Smith's group       has analysed more than       100,000 virus samples from over 100 countries.
Publically available WHO documents corroborate the use and utility of       antigenic cartography in       vaccine strain selection.
For example, the Report of the First Global       Consultation: WHO Public       Health Research Agenda for Influenza (2009), states (p24) that "antigenic         cartography is useful for         vaccine strain selection and evolution studies"13.
The       WHO report `Recommended viruses for       influenza vaccines for use in the 2010-2011 northern hemisphere influenza       season' states (p2)       "antigenic cartography is used as an additional analytical tool to         visualize and integrate antigenic         data".14     Impacts on practitioners and services: practitioners/professionals         have used research         findings in conducting their work     The work group's work has had an impact on public health and surveillance       professionals in a       number of ways.
Following publication of the 2008 paper (section 3, ref 2)       showing that epidemics       of influenza A(H3N2) viruses are seeded annually from east and southeast       Asia, Keiji Fukuda,       Assistant General of the WHO stated in `Science' that `it (the paper)       shows strengthening       surveillance in Asia is crucial.
'15 H3N2 is the most important       seasonal flu virus in humans, causing       more morbidity and mortality than other human flu viruses; the WHO now       focuses surveillance and       strain selection for H3 on the region identified in the publication.
