     The `phylodynamic' techniques created and developed by the Oxford Virus       Evolution Group provided a completely new source of information about the       transmission parameters of diseases, independent of traditional       epidemiological methods of information-gathering through personal       interviews, clinical diagnosis and mathematical analysis.
The technique       has had a significant impact on the way that current pandemics are       assessed and dealt with, particularly in relation to influenza and HIV.
In       addition the BEAST software that originated at Oxford University       has become a standard tool worldwide for the study of virus evolution and       is increasingly applied to understand viral (and now also bacterial)       disease in humans and animals.
In 2009, on the basis of the reputation established through the research       described above, Christophe Fraser (the lead author of WHO's Rapid       Pandemic Assessment report) invited Oliver Pybus (Oxford) and Andrew       Rambaut (Edinburgh; formerly part of the Oxford Virus group) to lead the       evolutionary phylogenetic component of WHO's urgent investigation into the       arrival of influenza A (H1N1) &#8212; `Swine Flu'.
The new technique of       determining transmission rates using genome data was used in parallel with       established epidemiological methods, and the transmissibility parameter R0       was estimated by both methods; notably the confidence limits for the       results obtained by the two methods overlapped.
The team was able to show       within a week that the virus had been circulating in humans for months,       and within 30 days had produced a comprehensive report about the potential       effects of the pandemic6.
A further analysis used BEAST       to investigate the origins of the new strain of influenza in more detail       (in terms of both geography and timescales)7. WHO used these       reports to help inform its ongoing recommendations for international       precautions and preparations.
This was the first time that phylogenetic       estimates of R0 had been derived concurrently       with traditional methods, and the fact that WHO used the new approach as a       key part of their official response to Swine Flu is a clear indication       that they considered it to be as valuable and informative as conventional       epidemiology.
Subsequent take-up of the phylodynamic approach to understanding the       epidemiology of human and animal viral disease has been wide-reaching8-12.
The approach was used by the (former) UK Health Protection Agency (UKHPA)       as part of their evaluation of the spread of Swine Flu both to, and       within, the UK in 20098.
Pybus and others were able to map the       spread and persistence of the H1N1 virus in the UK and show that multiple       independent invasions had taken place; some of these had occurred before       the invasion date inferred by traditional epidemiological methods.
Since       phylogenetics has the ability to distinguish the ancestry of viruses, the       study was also able to show that geographically-linked outbreaks did not       necessarily share the same origin.
Subsequently, UKHPA's successor, Public       Health England, has used phylodynamics approaches in a real time       assessment of the origins, spread and transmission potential of MERS       coronavirus8.
BEAST software, and the phylodynamic approach is also used by many       non-UK based government agencies investigating the spread of disease in       humans.
For example:     (i) The Chinese government's Centre for Disease Control and Prevention       has used it to assess and aid in the control of the current HIV epidemic       in China.
Studies using this approach have enabled a clearer delineation       of the origins, timescales, spatial spread and risk population structure       of HIV in China, and revealed that the origins of the HIV epidemic are       much more complex than previously thought.
These studies have thereby       informed public health decisions about how the virus can be tackled9.
(ii) The Japanese National Institute of Infectious Disease has used the       phylodynamic approach to track the transmission and spread of HIV and       influenza in Japan and neighbouring Asian countries10.
(iii) The Brazilian Ministry of Health, attracted by the improved       resolution the methods offer for immunological surveillance, has used BEAST       and related analytical approaches to study the spread of a range of viral       diseases including dengue fever, oropouche fever and rabies11.
Finally, the analytical methods developed at Oxford and the BEAST       software have been applied by the UK's Animal Health and Veterinary       Laboratories Agency (AHVLA) to study the epidemiology, at a European-wide       scale, of a number of viral diseases of economic importance in animals.
These include avian and swine influenza, and most recently, the       Schmallenberg virus which is an emerging vector-born virus infecting a       range of livestock species12.
