     The research described above has impacted firstly on the development of       Holocaust education in       Scotland and secondly on the nature of Holocaust education in a wider       international context (5.5).
The former is shown by invitations to give additional presentations or to       lead CPD programmes on       Holocaust education for teachers (South Ayrshire, 2011; Dundee, 2011); or       to speak at schools'       events for Holocaust Memorial Day (HMD) (Glasgow City Council, 2009;       Renfrewshire Council,       2010).
Further, Cowan was invited on the Holocaust Memorial Day (Scotland)       Planning Group and       has worked with Interfaith Scotland (testimonial 1), the Scottish       Government and Education       Scotland on this Committee (since 2011) to organise the national HMD event       and commemorative       events for schools and the wider community.
In addition, Cowan was invited       to be the education       advisor on a feasibility study for a Scottish Holocaust Study Centre in       Glasgow (2013), funded by       the Scottish Government, and has given key addresses at consultation       meetings, attended by       senior education managers, teachers and members of the Jewish community.
The latter is shown by Cowan's keynote address at a UNESCO conference       (Paris, 2011) on       `Teaching difficult issues in primary schools: the example of the       Holocaust' where she addressed       education managers, policy makers, teachers and academics from across       Europe (5.1, 5.2, 5.4)       and also by Cowan's appointment (in 2009) on the International Holocaust       Remembrance Alliance       (testimonial 2).
As a delegate to the United Kingdom, this requires Cowan       to attend two annual       international meetings and sit on the Academic Working Group, which       comprises historians,       educationalists and academics from 32 countries.
Cowan advises the UK       Special Envoy for Post-Holocaust       issues, in ensuring that the UK continues to play a prominent role in       international       discussions in all Holocaust-related matters, especially those relating to       education and the opening       of archives, with acknowledgement of Maitles and Cowan's research in the       UK annual country       report (5.8).
Following numerous presentations at national and international academic       conferences and       research highlighting links between Holocaust education and citizenship,       Professor Maitles has       been elected President-elect of Children's Identity and Citizenship in       Europe (CiCe, an EU       ERASMUS network).
The CiCe international coordinator has confirmed that       this was in large part       because of Maitles' research linking Holocaust and citizenship       (testimonial 3).
Maitles has been       invited to deliver keynote addresses on Holocaust and citizenship in both       Florence, Italy (2006)       and at the International Educational Association of South Africa annual       conference (2013).
At the       latter conference, the Chief with specific responsibility for the United       Nations Academic Impact       initiative commented that Maitles' research in Scotland impacted on the UN       work around the       `Unlearning Intolerance' seminar suggestions for all UN countries       (testimonial 4).
Maitles was also       invited to speak at the Scottish Parliament meeting commemorating the UN       International Day of       Peace (2013) to MSPs, policy makers and teachers (testimonial 5).
To       further develop the links       between the Holocaust and Citizenship learning, Cowan and Maitles edited a       book for teachers       and student teachers, `Teaching Controversial Issues in the Classroom'       (2012) which Prof. Stuart       Foster (Executive Director of the Centre for Holocaust Education at the       Institute of Education) has       commented "is a must read for educators concerned both with developing         the values of an open         democratic society and supporting young people to become thoughtful,         empathetic, articulate,         reasoned and critical individuals."
The research conducted on the Lessons From Auschwitz Project in Scotland       was the first       systematic evaluation of the Project (5.6), and conducted when the future       of Scotland's       participation in this Project was uncertain as the Scottish Government had       not agreed to continue       with its funding.
This research therefore provided MSPs with evidence       regarding the value of this       Project on young people, teachers, their schools and their communities       (5.3, 5.9).
The Holocaust       Educational Trust referred to this research during its discussions with       representatives of the       Scottish Government and research findings assisted the Holocaust       Educational Trust in their       understanding of the distinctive features of the Scottish curriculum and       in their development of       teacher-only visits to Auschwitz (testimonial 6).
The Scottish Government       has since renewed and       increased its funding of this Project.
