     Research by Leadlay and Staunton from 1993 led them in 1996 to found       Biotica Technology Ltd as a means to commercialise and clinically develop       novel polyketides as therapeutics.
The underpinning research, in       particular through the formation of Biotica, has had impact during the       eligible period in a number of ways:     Impact on Health       Between 2009 and 2012 Biotica, using the methodologies developed in the       Leadlay and Staunton labs, developed in-house a compound (BC556) highly       active against hepatitis C virus which reached advanced pre-clinical       development.
Since March 2013 BC556 (renamed NVP018) is owned by the       Swedish company Neurovive, who are continuing its development in a number       of high value indications (Ref.
1, Section 5).
The CEO of Biotica's       follow-on company Isomerase Therapeutics Ltd testifies (Ref.
2.
Section       5): "Prof. Leadlay's work has materially advanced the prospects of access       to novel natural products-based medicines by sustainable routes".
Impact on Commerce       Industry has invested in R&amp;D (Ref.
2, Section 5)       R&amp;D at Biotica itself was financed in part by Venture Capital and for       the rest by research contracts, grants and equity investment (total       financing raised 2008-13 &#163;4.43M).
Since its formation, Biotica retained       scientific links with the Leadlay group.
In the period under review,       Biotica provided industrial funding to Cambridge in a BBSRC Industrial       Partnership Award (2011-14) to study polyketides that selectively kill       cancer stem cells; and was a co-applicant with Cambridge and others in a       strategic LoLa (total value of award &#163;4.44M; 2013-18) to uncover novel       natural product-based agrochemicals.
Seven US patents on which Leadlay is       a named inventor were granted to Biotica in the period 2008-13 (Ref.
3,       Section 5).
In 2009, Biotica signed a three year collaboration and licence agreement       with GSK to discover, develop and commercialise novel erythromycin-based       macrolides in inflammatory diseases (Ref.
4, Section 5).
The deal included       an initial cash payment and an equity investment.
Under the terms of the       deal, Biotica successfully used its technology to produce compounds that       are not readily accessible via conventional medicinal chemistry       approaches.
A significant research programme was in partnership (2006-11) with Wyeth       Laboratories (USA) (later Pfizer Inc. (USA) (total value ~&#163;7.5M) on       creation of &gt;100 rapamycin analogues (rapalogs) for pre-clinical       testing to combat cancer and multiple sclerosis (Ref.
5, Section 5).
In February 2011, Biotica licensed its technology non-exclusively to the       billion-dollar company Amyris Inc. (California) for non-pharmaceutical       purposes (Ref.
6, Section 5).
Some of the underlying technology was licensed in March 2013       non-exclusively to Warp Drive Bio Inc., a Boston-based company conducting       combinatorial biosynthesis.
(Ref.
2, Section 5)     A new company has been created       At the beginning of 2013, Biotica's VC funders (BVF) declined further       investment and the company was broken up.
Three key ex-Biotica staff       co-founded a successor company, Isomerase Therapeutics Ltd (www.isomerase.co.uk),       with Leadlay as chair of the scientific advisory board, that has acquired       compounds, strains and intellectual property from Biotica.
It is       developing Biotica's rapalogs as anti-infectives, and also offers services       to collaborators for microbial natural product-based drug discovery       programs, by applying a combination of biosynthetic engineering and       semi-synthetic chemistry, based on the methodologies discovered in the       Leadlay and Staunton labs (Ref.
2, Section 5).
Employment has been created       Between 2008 and 2013 Biotica continued to conduct research near Cambridge       employing on average 15-20 highly-skilled scientists.
Its follow-on       company Isomerase Therapeutics Ltd, founded in 2013 by ex-Biotica       scientists, with Leadlay as chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board, now       employs 3 staff (Ref.
2, Section 5).
Strategy of business has been influenced       The CEO of Isomerase Therapeutics testifies: "Prof. Leadlay`s guidance and       support have been essential in setting the strategic direction for       Isomerase Therapeutics Ltd." (Ref.
2, Section 5) The domain swapping       technology for production of novel polyketides was also adopted by others,       particularly by the California-based venture-backed start-up KOSAN.
In       2007, KOSAN sought a European patent for broad technology to make novel       polyketides but were defeated by Biotica in an interference hearing at the       European Patent Office (Ref.
7, Section 5).
KOSAN successfully turned to       in-licensing and development, and were later sold (2008) to Bristol Myers       Squibb for $190M.
Specialist advisory roles       Leadlay has served (2011-present) on the Seeding Drug Discovery Committee       of the Wellcome Trust (Ref.
8, Section 5), helping to identify promising       translational projects for unmet medical needs in which the Trust might       invest.
