     Bivins' research on the impact of ethnicity on healthcare research and       delivery strategies has fed directly into policy discussions and       professional debates about patient-centred healthcare, ethnic health       outcomes and race equality.
The IDEA (Improving the Delivery of Ethnically       Appropriate Research, Services and Policy) network, convened by Bivins,       operates as a platform for knowledge exchange and evidence sharing between       academics, clinical researchers and research-users in the third sector,       the media, and health service provision.
Through invited keynote speeches       and her role as an advisor to the Afiya Trust, Bivins' has provided       policymakers, politicians, charitable organisations, health campaigners       and practitioners with crucial historical evidence to strengthen their       calls for an inclusive healthcare system that meets the service needs of       people from ethnic minorities.
Established in 2011, IDEA is a trans-disciplinary, cross-sector       collaboration dedicated to improving and promoting high quality research       on ethnicity and health, and making it widely accessible to research       users.
Operating as a platform for knowledge exchange, IDEA hosted a       series of three workshops for researchers and practitioners (2011) and a       one-day symposium (10.05.13), which brought together key clinically-based       and academic researchers, medical practitioners, charitable organisations       (e.g.
Diabetes UK Cymru and the British Heart Foundation) and NHS Trust       representatives.
These events generated new and alternative models of best       practice for ensuring the inclusivity of medical research, for instance by       inserting a requirement that researchers demonstrate due attention to       questions of minority inclusion at key pinch-points in the research cycle       (e.g.
funding application, practice audit, publication and community       feedback).
Delegates at the one-day symposium commented that IDEA offered       access to a `whole new world which has ... enormous potential for       translational research', and reported plans to incorporate IDEA findings       into reviews of the Royal College of General Practitioners' licensing       examination and clinical trials design and recruitment.
Importantly, these       events enabled knowledge exchange and the brokerage of new relationships       between researchers and research users, providing a `safe' space to       discuss ethnicity and health without politicising their complex       relationship-an opportunity especially valued by members of public bodies,       including the General Medical Council.
Participants, especially those       working in a clinical or medical setting, emphasised the benefit of having       a space that `allows ideas to be raised in a non-judgmental way'.
In       post-symposium feedback, the manager of Christie NHS Trust Trials       Co-Ordination Unit described the IDEA Network and Bivins' research as       influential in `confirming race as an issue which cannot be ignored and       stressing that equity of access should be driving policy'.
Participants       agreed on the need to align research and healthcare system priorities with       commissioners and policymakers to increase the likelihood of seeing       research in practice, alongside increased BME patient involvement in       research design and clinical trials.
More specifically, a research       scientist based at the Kaiser Permanente Division of Research acknowledged       and stressed the importance of `researchers and healthcare systems working       together to design and conduct research that has the ability to improve       care and ameliorate disparities'.
Workshop and symposium discussions are       freely available as webinars on the network's website, extending access to       IDEA's collective resources to medical practitioners, health       professionals, Third Sector organisations and the wider public.
Online       engagement has increased the scope of the audiences who are aware of and       are informed by the work of IDEA, with the website receiving 27,880 total       page views from the UK and overseas, since it was launched in March 2011,       including 14,223 views of the Symposium presentation videos (available       since July 2013).
Bivins' research findings have further informed policy discussions about       healthcare strategy in government departments and Third Sector       organisations.
She addressed MPs, peers, private health providers,       research funding bodies and representatives from NHS Trusts, health       charities and local councils at two Industry and Parliament Trust round       table discussions (07.12.11; 05.03.12).
Detailing lessons learned (and       unlearned) from previous government health interventions with BME       communities, she illustrated the complexity of ensuring equal access to       health care across the UK's ethnically diverse population even on the       apparently level playing field of the NHS.
The first of these events was       held to inform discussions during the 2011 Health and Social Care Bill's       committee stages, while the second addressed the challenges of       implementation after its enactment in 2012.
Bivins' historical research       supplied evidence for understanding healthcare outcomes in BME communities       over a sustained period, highlighting the importance-and challenges-of       engaging patients and communities directly affected by health       inequalities.
In particular, by demonstrating the negligible or negative       impacts of some past health interventions, she demonstrated the importance       of moving beyond the externally perceived needs of under-served groups to       address their internally felt needs.
The saliency of such historical       analyses was recognised in the development of the Bill, specifically       discussion of Amendment 306 which sought to make HealthWatch England an       independent body (15.12.11).
In the debate, a member of the House of Lords       called for the Minister to ensure `that we learn the lessons of history       and do not repeat the mistakes of the past when it comes to patient       involvement.
As we know, there is a huge evidence base about the benefits       of patient involvement in health outcomes ...
While successive Governments       have been committed to patient and public involvement, the history of it       has not been a happy one ... but let us look at why the previous attempts       to do so have not been successful ...
I remind the Committee that those       who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it.'
In addition to her work with IDEA, Bivins is an advisor to the Afiya       Trust, a charitable organisation supporting national and local networks       promoting BME health and social care issues.
In June 2011, she was invited       to participate in the Trust's policy `Round Table on Public Health and       Race Equality'.
Drawing directly on archival evidence relating to DHSS       policy in the 1970s and 1980s, Bivins provided Afiya with increased       understanding and new perspectives on conceptualising `race' and racism,       as well as health inequalities and communities' access to healthcare.
This       fed in to the development of Afiya's response strategy to the government's       public health white paper, Healthy Lives, Healthy People       (30.11.10) and the start of a process of collaborative working across       sectors.
Afiya's former Chief Executive described Bivins' input as `very       helpful in the development of a vision and approach to working with       academics and policy makers to shape a race equality perspective in       tackling health inequalities'.
Together with Afiya's new Director, Bivins       is currently developing the `Heritages of Health' initiative, a       community-led intergenerational project exploring the contributions of       Britain's BME communities to the NHS and biomedical research as a way of       engaging young people with science and medicine.
The currency of Bivins' research and recognition of her expertise is also       evidenced by media interest in her work.
Based on research on the impact       of `Asian rickets' on British medicine and government policy, Bivins       discussed the re-emergence of rickets in British children on `Woman's       Hour' (BBC Radio 4, 24.11.10, average weekly audience 3.3 million).
She       was a historical advisor for the second series of the Rondo Media/BBC       Wales series `The Indian Doctor', set at the time of the smallpox outbreak       in 1962 (BBC 1, March 2012, average audience 1.87 million).
Bivins was an       academic consultant for the BBC 2 documentary `Smallpox in Wales: The       Forgotten Killer', which referenced her work on the outbreak and debates       over the Commonwealth Immigrants Act of 1961-62.
Bivins' media       contributions have extended the reach of the impact to wider public       audiences at a national level and increased public understanding of the       role of ethnicity and immigration in health outcomes.
