     The Centre's research on the psycho-social well-being of individuals and       the family in modern       Britain has informed Department for Education policy discussions about       early year's intervention,       child rights and support for families at a time when child and family       well-being has become a major       domestic issue linked to the `Big Society' agenda and the Children and       Families Bill.
Through       stakeholder workshops, the CHM's research on parenting in the twentieth       century has informed the       ideas and practices of social care professionals and third sector       organisations in child services,       adoption, foster care and family support.
Public events and the media have       been used to stimulate       public discourse on the changing role of parents and the impact of modern       society on childhood       development.
Informing policy and professional practice       The significance of Thomson's research is evidenced by an invitation to       participate in two       Department for Education policy seminars on children, young people and       families (November       2011).
Both meetings were attended by 50+ delegates, many of whom were DfE       civil servants but       also policymakers and representatives from UNESCO and Save the Children.
Thomson's       reappraisal of child rights and well-being in post-war Britain offered       policymakers and stakeholders       an important historical context to better understand the background to       current policies and policy       questions.
Civil servants acknowledged the value of Thomson's       `thought-provoking observations'       which raised `interesting notions to think about in making policy' and       made them `questions things       we had taken for granted'.
The seminar briefings were recorded for wider       dissemination by the DfE       to inform professional practice in children, young people and family       services, and published on the       History &amp; Policy website.
King and Davis' research brought new       historical perspectives to       policymakers debating contemporary issues of paternity leave, child       custody, maternity care and       the restoration of family values.
King's research on `active fatherhood'       in Britain, published with       History &amp; Policy (13.06.12; 900 views), informed policymakers       and public audiences of the dangers       of allowing outdated stereotypes of parental roles to influence policy       making.
Davis' article on       maternity care since 1948 (History &amp; Policy, 23.05.13; 295       views) encouraged policymakers to       ensure good interpersonal relationships between women and       maternity/medical staff.
Her piece on       `The Part of the Family' (OpenDemocracy, 19.10.12) generated public       discussion via online       comments about the coalition government's approach to family policy.
The researchers informed the professional ideas of stakeholders and       third-sector organisations in       child care and parenting at two workshops (family support workers, medical       practitioners, national       children's charities, and local authority service-providers).
In June 2010       Thomson organised a       workshop with the Child Care History Network-`Child Care Archives: Raising       the Questions'-attended by Action for Children, Barnardos, the Care Leavers Association,       the Association of Child       Abuse Lawyers, and local authority and private service providers.
This       provided a forum for       knowledge exchange and dialogue on improving practices in record-keeping       and archiving child       care documents, such as the creation of a national database of child care       archives and exit       interviews for children leaving care.
Davis and King's `Understanding       Parenting' workshop       (07.09.12) brought researchers together with professionals from the       Disabled Parent's Network,       the Planned Environment Therapy Trust, Kenilworth Children's Centre and       Warwick Children's       Centre (Sure Start).
Feedback showed that the resulting knowledge exchange       broadened       awareness of issues such as IVF, surrogacy and disabled parenting in       relation to professionals'       own work practices.
Family support workers based at Warwick Children's       Centre e.g.
realised the       need `when working with parents to consider the wider family and the       impact upon them' and `to be       more supportive to IVF parents'.
Public engagement with impact       King and Thomson's research underpinned a theatre production and public       exhibition, bringing       their work to broader audiences.
King was the historical consultant for       Babakas Theatre's       production `Our Fathers' at the Warwick Arts Centre 12-13.06.12.
The       artistic director confirmed       that King's research enriched the creative process and enabled Babakas to       produce a more       `thought-provoking, insightful and thematically ambitious piece' that       situated the artists' own stories       within a wider historical and social context.
The two performances,       followed by panel discussions,       involving academics, actors, journalists and representatives from fathers'       groups, attracted a       combined public audience of 200 and encouraged the public to reflect on       their own attitudes and       experiences, and think more deeply about fatherhood and family life: `it       made me consider further       the role my father played in my upbringing'... `it has highlighted the       lasting effect my actions have       on my children'.
The significance of King's role is further shown by the       integration of ideas from the       panel discussions and audience feedback into the play's ongoing       development for a national tour       in 2013, for example by consideration of how parenting is shaped by       biology versus history/culture       and the differences between motherhood and fatherhood.
Thomson's research       on the changing       landscape of the child informed the exhibition `Modern British Childhood'       at the V&amp;A Museum of       Childhood.
As historical consultant, Thomson advised the curator on the       selection and       interpretation of objects, suggested key themes and the periodisation of       the exhibition.
His       expertise shaped the curator's `thoughts on the major changes to childhood       in the last 60 years'       and provided `real depth and context to our ideas and narrative for the       exhibition', while his `ideas       for some of the objects were inspired'.
The exhibition ran from October       2012-April 2013 and was       seen by some 256,993 visitors.
Visitor feedback (505 interviews) showed       that the exhibition raised       public awareness of the meaning of childhood and how attitudes towards       health, education and       children's role in society have changed over time.
With 51% of visitors       being part of a family group       visit, the exhibition encouraged intergenerational discussions about the       changing experiences and       memories of childhood.
This was borne out in visitors' comments, with the       historical perspective       and displays praised for `provoking memories', and offering a `good       explanation of changes in       parenting, family structure and welfare provisions'.
A representative       sample of 1,241 visitors,       observed over 16 days, revealed that families (54% of the total sample)       were most inclined to       engage meaningfully with the exhibition, spending up to 15 minutes       exploring the objects and       interactive installations.
Family groups were observed to make distinct       connections with objects,       linked to personal experience, and leave with a firm understanding of the       exhibition's key themes.
Media       The researchers have engaged with diverse public audiences via public       lectures, and print and       broadcast media.
King contributed to a public debate on the future of the       family at the Sheffield       Salon (15.03.12) attended by c.70 people, while Marland participated in a       panel and public       audience discussion (about 60 people), as part of the Festival of Ideas       (University of Cambridge,       01.11.12), on the hospitalisation of childbirth in the twentieth century.
The significance of the       impact is demonstrated by CHM research being extensively referenced in       print and broadcast       media.
In March 2012, Davis' book, Modern Motherhood, generated       substantial coverage in       national newspapers, including the Guardian, The Times,       and the Daily Mail.
Davis and Marland       have both discussed their research on BBC Radio 4's `Women's Hour'       (23.03.12; 23.01.08), and       Thomson discussed post-war ideas about the psychological importance of       attachment between       mother and child on BBC Radio 4's `Freudian Slippage' (20.12.10).
Collectively, CHM research has provided important historical perspectives       on the way people       understand health, well-being and the family.
It has enriched cultural       life by provoking memories of       past childhoods and it offers context and meaning to numerous current       debates and policy       initiatives on parenting and childhood development.
