     Since its establishment in 2006 the GHCC has developed close partnerships       with museum and heritage organisations around the world, informing and       influencing curatorial practices.
Collaboration with curatorial staff has       provided opportunities to enrich and broaden their knowledge of and       engagement with global narratives in the interpretation, and approaches to       curation and display of material objects.
More specifically, the GHCC's       research introduced the concepts of global exchange, commodities and       divergence between Asia and Europe into the interpretation and display of       objects, offering new methodologies and knowledge that shaped the design       and content of refurbished galleries at the Victoria and Albert Museum and       Ashmolean Museum and an exhibition at Bath's Museum of Asian Art.
Collaboration with art world professionals has similarly extended their       knowledge base and interpretative skills, and had a direct economic impact       in building the value of material objects.
Following the success of the AHRC funded research network `Global Arts'       (2007-9), Riello and Gerritsen established the `Global Commodities       Network' in 2010.
These networks facilitated a series of international       workshops and sustained dialogue with leading national and international       museums, including the V&amp;A and Ashmolean.
Our research influenced the       methodologies and approaches employed in the refurbishment and creation of       new galleries displaying global material cultures.
In particular, the       research fed into the Ashmolean's development of the `East meets West'       galleries and a change in the museum's approach to interpretation.
The       museum's textile curator has emphasised that the input of GHCC scholars       extended the ideas of the gallery team about global material cultures,       specifically the role of material objects in establishing and developing       global connections, which `became historically grounded from the work of       Maxine Berg and other Warwick colleagues'.
Riello's scholarship on cotton       and Berg's interpretation of Asian products enabled `the material, the       objects and the material culture to be represented and analysed with a       historical perspective'.
`Articulating and hearing others [global       scholars] articulate' the role of material objects in new narratives of       global history helped the gallery team `become more precise' in       contextualising the `objects in such a way that makes historical sense' to       the public.
In 2009 Riello contributed to the refurbishment of the new European       galleries at the V&amp;A.
The museum's senior textile curator acknowledged       that Riello's research `played a crucial role in the initial concept and       proposal presented to the museum's senior management [FuturePlan II       Steering Group] and informed the curatorial approach to       (re)interpretation'.
As a result the new galleries adopted a chronological       approach that opens `up the history of making and using objects in a way       that reflects ... Gerritsen's work on the "global" and the "local" and       `Berg's scholarship on the pursuit of luxury and pleasure'.
The       collaboration encouraged the V&amp;A to emphasise global connections in       the selection and interpretation of objects; this has led to the inclusion       of a small display on Spain and South America and revisions to the       Catholic Church display, which now exhibits objects from Asia and South       America alongside those of Europe.
Work with GHCC scholars demonstrated to       the V&amp;A `the value of building understanding and trust between       academic researchers and museum curators' and the benefit of academic       research in `providing intellectual support for major gallery projects'.
The Head of Research at the V&amp;A described the collaboration as `an       ideal match between a global museum and Warwick, moving into the field of       global history in a very innovative way that is particularly anchored in       material culture'.
Referring to the opening of the ceramics gallery in       2009, he said its `whole premise ... is that ceramics is a medium of       global exchange.
Without the conversations we have had with Warwick       partners and reading the work of Gerritsen, Berg and Riello it would have       been impossible to have done that gallery in that way ... the methodology       as well as the specific knowledge that has been developed at Warwick was a       blueprint for the ceramics galleries'.
Gerritsen used her research on the production and trade of porcelain from       Jingdezhen to inform interpretation and display in `Chinese Ceramics and       the Early Modern World' at the Museum of East Asian Art, Bath       (September-December 2010).
Her scholarship offered the museum's curator `a       broader perspective on the influence of Chinese ceramics around the       world', leading to a change in display practices.
By introducing a global       historical perspective into the interpretation of the ceramics collection,       the curator was able to `move away from the art historical and       anthropological approach ... allowing me to really highlight the       historical context in which ceramics were produced and consumed'.
The       exhibition, seen by some 3,000 visitors, presented new narratives of       material culture intended to challenge viewers' ideas about the history of       globalisation.
Visitors were struck by `the extent of the communication of       ideas across vast distances and over hundreds of years, the strength of       the networks between producers and consumers, and the extent of early       modern global trade'.
Finn's research on the East India Company and the material culture of       British country houses underpinned a training workshop for 18 staff and       volunteers at Compton Verney, which took place in April 2013.
Participants       learnt to situate the objects and documents in their collections in a       global context and demonstrate to the public the global genealogies of       country house interiors.
The Head of Programming affirmed that `the       workshop has helped me to think more broadly about the context and history       of objects and how this might inform our plans'.
Feedback from gallery       assistants revealed an increased understanding of the types of questions       that should guide object analysis and one noted that this `offers a       broader understanding of objects and paintings that goes beyond the       generally narrow focus of traditional art history teaching'.
The       innovative methodologies used in Finn's research project, specifically the       integration of findings generated by amateur local and family historians,       have found a wider application in influencing the development of an       exhibition on the concept of `The Future' to be held in 2017 at the       V&amp;A.
The Head of Research confirmed that Finn's `sophisticated       methodology' of crowd sourcing has encouraged himself and other curatorial       staff to think about `the way technology erodes traditional modes of       curatorial expertise'.
As a result, he plans to `minimise and possibly do       without standard curatorial interpretation and have the interpretation       entirely provided by a whole catchment of interested parties and       visitors'.
GHCC research has a direct economic impact on the value of the material       objects it embeds in these global narratives.
As a leading New York art       dealer notes, his business model depends on an `ability to build value       into objects because of the questions and issues I raise around them'.
Engagement with GHCC research changed his understanding and approach to       material culture, resulting in greater awareness of the intersection of       personal biography and the relationships between people, represented in       objects, and Berg's ideas about `agents of knowledge' and `material       divergence'.
In his words, he now sees `not just what is in front of you       but the implications of what it says with respect to the consumer and the       maker'.
GHCC research thus `represents an advantage to me but also       represents a way in which further impact could engage the commercial       community'.
Through this series of collaborations, Warwick research has played a       vital part in shaping the ongoing transformation of interpretative       practices and display in museums of worldwide significance, and in       producing new visions of global meanings and stories connected to objects.
