     WNPR has highlighted the significance of parish records and, by drawing       attention to new intellectual and methodological tools, has encouraged       local historians to uncover, interpret and communicate the heritage of       their local community or parish.
It has prompted members of the general       public to connect with their past and to use local history as a means of       interrogating social and cultural issues which have relevance today.
Since 2003 the annual Warwick Symposium on Parish Research has provided a       forum for knowledge exchange between academics and independent       researchers.
Supported by a University Impact Award in November 2011 and       held in collaboration with the British Association for Local History,       attendance figures have tripled in recent years, culminating in the 2012       weekend showcase event, which attracted over 120 delegates (representing       archivists, community groups, local history societies, conservation       bodies, church groups and academics).
The Symposium gives non-academics an       opportunity to present their work to large audiences and to discuss local       history projects and new developments in parish research.
The new       relationships forged through these events have facilitated the exchange of       knowledge and skills between `amateur' and `professional' historians.
The       opportunity to interact with others engaged in parish research was       highlighted as particularly important by independent researchers: it       brought the benefits of `fresh approaches for my own work' and `much more       awareness of the broad range of parish research, useful contacts made or       renewed, and useful feedback on my talk'.
In post-event feedback after the       Tenth Anniversary Symposium (25-27.05.12), 54% of non-academic respondents       stated that their study of the parish had been enhanced by dialogue with       fellow researchers.
Responding to a request made in the concluding panel       discussion at the 2012 Symposium, the Network collaborated with two local       history societies to host the 2013 Parish Symposium in Berkswell,       Warwickshire (25.05.13).
It attracted a capacity audience of 87       (predominantly non-academic) and further extended the WNPR's reach, with       69% of participants attending the Symposium for the first time.
My-Parish.org (launched November 2012) is a public and community resource       linking WNPR scholars with local historians, history societies and       community groups.
It showcases research, forges collaborations, and       highlights the range of rich source materials available for parish and       community history, art, heritage and culture.
Since its launch the website       has been visited by 3,928 users across the world, with the highest numbers       from the UK, US, Germany, and China.
Total page views to July 31st are       14,444.
Resources made available include an extensive bibliography of       printed primary and secondary works in several languages, research guides,       audio and visual materials and digitised archival sources.
These provide       independent researchers with a broad range of new tools for conducting and       extending the scope of their work.
In 1,907 views of the `Parish Research'       page (since November 2012) the most used sections were the bibliographies       and digital parish sources, sections which provide basic tools for new       researchers.
Bibliographic tools have developed amateur historians'       background knowledge, access to information and understanding of local       histories.
My-Parish users praised the `excellent bibliography' as `the       most useful part of the website'.
The My-Parish forum has fostered closer       connections between individuals and groups engaged in research.
Its users       acknowledge the benefits of communication and increased awareness of       others' research: `It is useful to know what is going on elsewhere ... As       someone living in Warwickshire but on the edge of Leicestershire I do feel       that local history can get compartmentalised into counties and so I miss       interesting links and connections.'
Through our research into parish life, we have stimulated wider public       interest in the heritage of local communities and increased public       knowledge of local history.
Capps' Past &amp; Present article       (2004) prompted the Sileby Local History Group to pursue its own local       research into ecclesiastical court records.
The Chair of the group       commented that the article formed `the backbone of research for early       seventeenth-century Sileby'.
Via public talks the researchers have engaged       diverse audiences, including local history societies, community groups and       schools throughout the UK and Europe, particularly in Northamptonshire,       Warwickshire and Worcestershire.
In September 2008, Marshall addressed       National Trust volunteers and the general public at Coughton Court on the       Throckmorton family's influence on the local Reformation.
K&#252;min delivered       a talk in October 2010 to the Kineton Local History Group on its parish       history, described by the audience as `accessible' and `extremely       interesting', leaving them `hungry for more'.
Network members have also       worked actively with local history groups to produce genuinely       collaborative works of public history: K&#252;min was invited to direct the       steering committee for a history of the Parish of St Mary Immaculate       (Warwick).
Published in 2009, the book Catholic Warwick was       launched with a public panel debate involving K&#252;min and Marshall, and       attended by 50 parishioners.
Available in local bookstores and the parish       church, several hundred copies have gone in to circulation.
K&#252;min's       research on communal self-reflection in Gersau, Switzerland, prompted       district authorities to approve his proposal for bicentenary events       celebrating the restoration of a parish republic in 1814 and to invite him       onto the planning committee.
As historical consultant, he helped design       events that will give local residents the opportunity to commemorate their       unique past and to reflect on its relevance for contemporary issues, such       as centralisation and globalisation.
The WNPR's research has reached large audiences through broadcast and       print media.
Capp acted as a specialist expert for the popular BBC 1       series Who Do You Think You Are, appearing in episode 5, series 6       (02.03.09; audience 6 million), and also contributed to BBC 4's Roundhead         or Cavalier (15.05.12).
Marshall appeared in two episodes of       Channels 4's Gods and Monsters, attracting a viewing audience of       880,000 (03.12.11).
The significance of Marshall's research is evidenced       by invited contributions to BBC Radio 3 programmes: `The Enduring Appeal       of Angels', Nightwaves (18.03.10) and `William Byrd and       Catholicism', Twenty Minutes (05.12.12).
Marshall presented an       edition of the BBC Radio 4 series The Essay, which examined Henry       VIII's relationship with God (06.04.10).
Marshall wrote articles for the       popular magazines History Today (readership c. 50,000): `Sex,       Scandal and the Supernatural' (vol.
52, issue 2, 2007) and BBC History         Magazine (readership c. 70,000) `The Ghost that Convicted the       Bishop' (vol.
8, issue 2, 2007).
Through connecting independent researchers and local history societies       with academic scholarship, the WNPR has stimulated the use of new       archival, bibliographical and research materials, has broadened knowledge       of methodological approaches and historical perspectives to local history,       and suggested new visions of a community past.
