     Warwick's input and appreciation of the importance of the trade cards to       Waddesdon and wider publics produced a new model for preserving and       presenting this important historical material, changed cataloguing       practices at Waddesdon and made online cataloguing a future priority.
The       digitisation programme created a new online database that, in an area with       very few accessible sources, offers wider public audiences access to the       trade card collection.
The exhibition `All that Glitters' further       increased public awareness of and knowledge about the trade cards and       associated themes, such as luxury, consumption, consumer culture and       advertising.
Digitisation and online database       The project had two core aims: to draw on academic research to tell a       historical story based on the Waddesdon collection of trade cards and to       digitise this unique collection, making it available to a wider audience.
The trade cards were translated into English and digitised to capture       textual and visual information.
This involved a partnership of two       specialists, a librarian experienced in cataloguing trade cards who logged       the text and a trained art historian (Phillippa Plock) from the field of       print who catalogued the visual iconographic elements.
The resulting       database was launched online in spring 2009.
This pioneering model has       created a public resource that raises awareness of the trade card       collection and improved public access to unique primary source materials.
The Head of Collections at Waddesdon confirmed that the collaboration with       Berg and Clifford marked a `critical first step' in the cataloguing and       digitising of their collections.
As this was the first time Waddesdon       digitised part of its catalogue, the project enabled curatorial staff `to       analyse the kind of information we needed to gather and how it should be       presented'.
Working with academics enabled Waddesdon's curators to refine       content and design issues and to test new approaches to the presentation       of information to as wide-ranging an audience as possible.
Overall, the       collaboration has encouraged a major shift in Waddesdon's conservation       practices, with online cataloguing becoming `a fundamental part of our       outreach and interpretation strategy and ability to network effectively       with the outside world'.
Increased public awareness of the trade card collection and the online       catalogue has been achieved by means of a series of films, `Unlocking       History at Waddesdon', that explore the research and examine a selection       of trade cards in-depth with the researchers and Waddesdon's Head of       Collections.
With the aim of bringing the collection to new audiences, the       films are available on YouTube and, since January 2013, have received 808       views.
The films were also distributed to the National Trust and other       heritage organisations to offer professional audiences an example of the       role and value of academic research and collaboration to conservation       practices and to encourage the uptake of digital cataloguing more broadly       across the heritage sector.
The collaboration has resulted in a permanent culture change at Waddesdon       and recognition of the value of research partnerships.
The methodologies       developed in the `Selling Consumption' project and the resulting data set       has served as a blueprint for the cataloguing of eighteenth-century French       prints and drawings.
Three subsequent collaborations with Warwick, funded       by the British Academy and AHRC, built on the approaches fostered by       `Selling Consumption', including the digitalisation of the catalogue of Saint-Aubin         Livres de Caricatures (2007-10) and the Tableaux de la         Revolution.
The latter drew on the methodology of cataloguing and       digitalising ephemeral material established in `Selling Consumption' and       Plock trained the two PhD students cataloguing the Revolutionary prints,       strengthening the methodological ties between the projects.
`Selling       Consumption' provided Waddesdon's staff with experience in securing       academic funding for the first time and demonstrated that research       partnerships can produce enhanced financial benefits.
The Head of       Collections has acknowledged that Waddesdon `would not have been in such a       strong position to secure this funding had Selling Consumption not broken       the ground'.
The strength of the digitisation project's impact is       evidenced by collaboration with other heritage institutions, particularly       the Bodleian Library, British Museum, the Bowes Museum and the Wallace       Collection.
Developing and testing the database format in dialogue with       curators based in these institutions facilitated an important knowledge       exchange and transfer of new methodologies across a range of potential       users.
Database users, specifically curatorial staff based at the Wallace       Collection and Metropolitan Museum, New York praised the `great       functionality' and the quality of the `descriptive, historical and       technical information' made available in this `marvellous resource'.
Public Exhibition       The research on historical advertising and consumer culture fed into the       exhibition `All That Glitters: Shopping and Advertising in       Eighteenth-Century Paris' at Waddesdon, March-October 2008.
Free to all       visitors, the exhibition was seen by approximately 87,000 people.
Co-curated by the project's Postdoctoral Fellow (Plock), the exhibition       focused on the trade card collection and the role of visual imagery and       text explored in Berg's work, offering visitors a dynamic and creative way       to consider past experiences of shopping.
`All That Glitters' brought       together material objects from across Waddesdon's collection and the       printed trade cards in a thematic rather than an object-led exhibition.
The exhibition curator has said that the exhibition provided Waddesdon       with a good opportunity to showcase its collections further, since many of       the objects `are usually kept in store'.
The thematic approach gave the       public a greater sense of what luxury shopping was like, the types of       products on sale, the production of advertising and the imagery of       consumption.
The exhibition also comprised an audio-visual presentation       showcasing the online catalogue.
The use of multimedia elements within the       exhibition space was initiated by Plock and continues to be used by       Waddesdon in their subsequent exhibitions (e.g.
`Livre de Caricatures and       the Saint Aubin', 2010).
A one-day conference, organised jointly with the National Trust and       Waddesdon Manor, was held in May 2008 to support the exhibition.
The event       attracted 75 delegates from the heritage industry, including the Victoria       &amp; Albert Museum, the Wallace Collection, the National Trust and       Waddesdon Manor, bringing academics and heritage industry professionals       and volunteers into dialogue.
This knowledge exchange was particularly       beneficial in informing Waddesdon Manor's curatorial staff and volunteer       guides about the significance of the trade card collection and its       relationship with eighteenth-century consumerism, enabling them to       communicate a new and richer historical interpretation to public       audiences.
