     Lambert's and Phillips's research has reached so far as to       inform and directly influence judicial       decisions of the UTIAC in Country Guidance cases.
Unlike ordinary cases,       UK judges determining       subsequent appeals are obliged to treat Country Guidance as authoritative       and to apply it.
These       cases do therefore have significant effect on all asylum seekers coming       from these countries, not       just the individual(s) involved in the case.
The research has also       contributed to advocacy for sexual       and gendered rights, and has directly informed a major UNHCR's report on       victims of armed       conflict.
Lambert's article (ref.
3(i)) was extensively cited by the UTIAC       in HM and Others (Article 15(c))         Iraq v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, CG [2010] UKUT       331 (IAC) at paras.91-92       and 253; "We have also drawn assistance from the review of case law and       concepts by Helene       Lambert and Theo Farrell....
The authors note the continuing reference to       IHL [international       humanitarian law] to inform the spirit of the measures by French courts"       (para.91).
The Tribunal       endorsed the applicability of population displacement and state failure in       assessing conflict       severity: "We see no reason why these considerations should not be       factored into the overall       assessment... Destruction of the necessary means of living, if not simply       a remote consequence       (as was found by the Tribunal in GS to be the case in Afghanistan       in 2009), may equally be a       relevant factor.
Similarly population displacement may well be an       indicator of the intensity of such       problems" (para.92); "our overall assessment of Article 15(c) risk has to       be a holistic one looking at       a range of variables, including those mentioned by Lambert and Farrell"       (para.253).
The UT then       went on to adopt the criteria we proposed for assessing the severity of       armed conflict in asylum       cases.
One of the three senior judges deciding the case was Dr. Storey,       one of the participants in       the Oxford Debate (see REF3a).
The decision is available at: http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/docid/4ca367242.html     The Upper Tribunal has since confirmed its decision in HM2 CG [2012] UKUT       00409(IAC) and       invited Lambert and Farrell to brief a dozen of senior judges, including       the President of the UT, on       their ongoing research in this area (London, 18 June 2012).
Lambert's published research (ref.
3(i)) led her to be invited to       present her research findings to:       North American and European asylum law practitioners and decision-makers       (Research       Workshop, York, Canada, 25-27 April 2011), High-Level Governments       officials of the 27 EU       Member States and EU institutions, and the UNHCR (Polish Presidency of the       Council of the EU,       11-12 July 2011), judges of the UKIAC (presentation with Prof. Farrell,       London, 18 June 2012), and       to provide training to 60-70 legal practitioners directly involved in       asylum cases across Europe       (European Legal Network on Asylum, Advanced Course, Bologna, 4-6 May       2012).
The published research also informed the UN Refugee Agency's (UNHCR)       early thinking as well       as the final report on a major research project on asylum seekers fleeing       indiscriminate violence.
A       copy of Lambert's co-authored article (ref.3(i)) was requested and       discussed with UNHCR's senior       legal coordinator and chief of protection policy and legal advice section.
Furthermore, Lambert       cooperated with the UNHCR's consultant writing the UK national report.
The       UNHCR study was       published in July 2011; it discusses in great detail the HM and Others         (Iraq) case and findings,       including the criteria proposed by Lambert in her co-authored article       (UNHCR, `Safe At Last?
', July       2011, at pp.44-47).
The Study is available at: http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/pdfid/4e2ee0022.pdf       and has been widely       communicated and distributed amongst states, UN officials, NGOs, academics       and practitioners       working in the area.
Phillips's published research on sexual orientation and gender       identity in southern Africa       (including items 3(ii-iv) above) has led him to be called as an `expert       witness', in over 70 cases       before the UKAIT and UTIAC since 2002, where Zimbabweans are claiming       asylum on the       grounds of their sexual orientation or the threat of gender based       violence.
The Tribunals have       made specific reference to the value of the information submitted in these       many reports, for       individual judicial decisions, but a far greater impact arises from       Phillips's extensive citation in an       appeal heard by the Upper Tribunal in October 2011, at which the UT       established Country       Guidance for the treatment of LGBT asylum claims from Zimbabwe (LZ         (homosexuals) Zimbabwe       CG [2011] UKUT 00487 (IAC) &#8212; available at: http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/pdfid/4f2279192.pdf).
In LZ (Zimbabwe), Phillips submitted a lengthy written report to       the UT, and then gave evidence       directly to the sitting panel of UT Judge Macleman and Deputy UT Judge       Holmes over a period of       4-5 hours, reflecting the seriousness with which the Tribunal treated       Phillips's evidence.
Phillips's       expert submission significantly informed the UTIAC's decision, as is clear       from their repeated       references to his research in their development of Country Guidance.
In LZ (Zimbabwe), the determination by UT explicitly cites the       evidence of Phillips in over 35       different places, including:     a) At paragraph 8, the UT appraises Phillips's contribution "He is a well       qualified and recognised       expert.... His evidence has been of high value, although we have not       accepted all of his       conclusions."
Similarly at paras 105, 106, and 109 the UT explicitly       recognises the significant       impact of his evidence on their determination, while also articulating       some limits to this.
b) The UT's determination draws directly from the research in publication       3(iii) (above), at para 30       of the judgement drawing on Phillips's analysis of the judicial and       constitutional process, and       para 75 on gender relations.
c) Similarly, from 3(ii) above, the UT draws directly on Phillips's       analysis of case-law, and       unreported cases (in Magistrate's Courts) to reveal patterns of       prosecution and attitudes of the       police and the judiciary at para 31-38 of the UT's determination.
d) At para 43-44 of the judgement the UT draws directly on Phillips's       recent research on blackmail       published in 3(iv) above, and accepts his evidence and analysis       unreservedly.
Phillips's research has also contributed to the development of       strategies by organizations       campaigning for law reform and sexual rights, and also government       departments.
This is       evidenced by regular consultation, and participation in strategic       committees.
Phillips's research       (ref.
3(iii)) led the Swedish Department of Foreign Affairs to hire him to       brief the new Swedish       Ambassador to Zimbabwe (September 2010).
The Minist&#232;re des Affaires       Etrang&#232;res of the French       Government appointed Phillips as `external evaluator' for bids received       from LGBT advocacy       groups around the world, for funding being offered by that Ministry (Nov.       2010 &#8212; Feb. 2011).
This       appointment means direct intervention in the decision to distribute funds       to 3 LGBT projects       (selected from 123 bids around the world), offering a maximum amount of       180 000 Euros.
The publications listed in s.3 have also contributed to the strategic       deliberations of Human Rights       Watch (HRW www.hrw.org) and International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights       Commission       (IGLHRC www.iglhrc.org).
The blackmail article published in the IJHR       (ref.
3(iv)) was chosen by       IGLHRC to be reprinted as the Introductory "framing" chapter for their       special report on Blackmail       in Southern Africa.
Subsequently, IGLHRC invited Phillips onto their Board       of Directors (from Feb.       2011) in order to benefit more directly from his knowledge of the research       field and analysis of       LGBT analysis on a global scale.
IGLHRC is a leading international       organization whose advocacy       has played a key role in the release of people detained on account of the       sexual orientation in       many countries, including most recently Cameroon, Nepal, Malawi and Egypt.
This Commission       was also instrumental in gaining consultative status for LGBT groups at       the United Nations, and       reports regularly to the UN Human Rights Committee, UN Special Rapporteurs       and relevant       human rights Treaty Bodies (e.g.
Committee for the Elimination of       Discrimination against Women       CEDAW).
Phillips's research has further led him to be appointed to the       Board of IDAHO       (International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia http://www.dayagainsthomophobia.org),       a       rapidly growing umbrella organization.
