     Shaping organisational development and partnership working within           East Glasgow CHCP     The CHCP research evolved as an ongoing dialogue with practitioners.
The       research team were often a conduit for staff to communicate issues across       the organisation and in turn to receive feedback from that process.
This       was not a formalised pattern of engagement but one that developed from the       fact that MFS was embedded in the project, working for a day per week on       this study and spending extensive periods of time within the CHCP; the       research assistant was based full time on the project and spent 2-3 days       per week in the CHCP.
This allowed them to use their research to influence       thinking and practice within the CHCP.
As a result of participating in management meetings, observing staff       discussions and working on an ongoing basis to provide feedback to East       Glasgow CHCP, the researchers were able to shape the CHCP's service       delivery and organisation to improve its efficient partnership working and       performance.
As the research findings were disseminated they were       incorporated into East Glasgow CHCP correspondence and workshops, and       provided on their internal web pages.
The work shaped the agendas at       senior management meetings and CHCP committee meetings; local politicians,       partner organisations, and representatives from the local community attend       the latter.
East Glasgow CHCP's Chief Executive referred to the research as providing       him with "a mirror in which to reflect" on his own practice and the       success of the partnership.
Through surveys and interviews, the team       provided evidence on which the CHCP could base its decision making and       priorities, and engage with staff to address the considerations that       featured in the research data, such as lack of trust in management.
Particular impact was made in terms of influencing &#8212; and directly       informing &#8212; the CHCP's Organisational Development (OD) activities and       workshops.
Research findings in relation to inter-professional working and       communications were used to shape OD inputs and to improve staff       understanding of partnership working.
Stimulating debate among health and social care practitioners     Research briefing notes were also regularly circulated to staff and       featured at staff events as a means of stimulating discussion around the       research themes and feeding them back into practice.
For example, one of       the key findings after the first year of the CHCP's existence was that       staff were unsure whether they could trust senior managers.
The       researchers worked with the CHCP to explore the extent to which staff were       `waiting to be convinced' that their efforts would be valued or whether       there was a degree of cynicism within the organisation which would prevent       the cultivation of efficient and effective working practices and       relationships.
During the second phase of the study, there was no       improvement in the level of trust staff had in their senior managers but       communications improved considerably and staff were clearer about the       purpose of the CHCP, its structure and communications, and less concerned       about the dilution of their professional identity.
This was due in large       part to the efforts of the senior management team to improve dialogue with       and involvement from a range of staff; an area of the research in which       the University of Glasgow project was particularly influential.
Significant issues were raised in relation to the capacity for change and       partnership working &#8212; although willingness to change was often in no doubt       &#8212; and the ongoing reporting of the study findings highlighted       opportunities for management to take the development agenda forward,       improve communications and better engage CHCP staff.
Influencing policy and strategy development by government and           quasi-government bodies     Research by DFS carried out with Royal Lancaster Infirmary resulted in       practical attempts to deal with the role of bedside checking as a means of       preventing adverse events.
The hospital used the research as an       evidence-base from which it drew during development of its procedures on       bedside checking.
The study at Royal Lancaster Infirmary also formed the       basis of a briefing paper issued in December 2008 on bedside checking in       hospitals, issued under the Department of Health's Patient Safety Research       Portfolio, aimed at healthcare professionals working in the UK and abroad,       patients and carers using NHS services, academics and health service       managers.
DFS and MFS shared their research in progress on The         Vulnerability of Public Spaces: Challenges for UK hospitals with key       stakeholders in 2012.
The Deputy Head of NHS Scotland Resilience commented       on the usefulness of the research and circulated the paper to the newly       formed Health Sector Resilience Group which sits under the Resilience       Advisory Board for Scotland (RABS).
RABS acts as a strategic policy forum       for resilience issues, providing advice to Scottish Ministers and the       resilience community on how best to ensure that Scotland is prepared to       respond effectively to major emergencies.
The Deputy Head of Resilience       noted that the research could be used to effectively contextualise the       work of the group which would discuss the paper at its meeting of 24 April       2012 (this research was subsequently published in Public Management         Review in 2013, see Output 4 in Section 3, above).
Additionally, the research formed the focus of discussions during the       closing session of a Scottish Government workshop with NHS Scotland staff       on external risk and organisational resilience within healthcare       facilitated by DFS in Glasgow on 26 April 2012.
The workshop involved       business continuity managers from hospitals across Scotland working in       collaboration with senior staff from the Scottish Government's Critical       Infrastructure Resilience Unit.
On the basis of the research, DFS was subsequently involved in       discussions with 40 NHS Scotland and Health Board Winter Planning staff       responsible for dealing with peak demand issues for health care services       during winter at a workshop on 19 June 2012.
At the workshop, DFS drew       from the research to challenge the participants' understandings of       `resilience', particularly in the context of the lessons to be learned       from the winter of 2012, during which widespread snow and ice caused       severe disruption and increased winter-related health problems across much       of the UK.
Following this, DFS worked with NHS 24 to review its business continuity       and risk management process.
This involved a thorough critique of the       policies and practices of the organisation including recommendations for       improving its strategy for business continuity management, which fed into       the Business Continuity Management Group's ongoing development of revised       2013/14 Risk Management and Business Continuity Strategies; NHS 24       published its revised Business       Continuity Strategy 	  on December 2012 and revised Risk         Management Strategy in April 2013.
In 2013, the Deputy Head of NHS Scotland Resilience forwarded the       research to the NHS Resilience Forum, a national forum comprised of       Emergency Planning and Business Continuity Managers from all 22 health       boards serving Scotland who work on policy and guidance for approximately       158,000 NHS staff on how best to deal with emergencies, such as those       relating to mass casualties, hospital lockdown and decontamination, among       others.
The Deputy Head of Resilience noted that the research detailed in       the paper had been taken into account during the preparation of Preparing           for Emergencies: Guidance for Health Boards in Scotland       published in August 2013.
