     Degradation of wood by marine wood boring species causes major economic       losses world-wide.
For example, over &#163;400K was spent recently to remedy       damage by marine borers to Yarmouth Pier, Isle of Wight, while in Seattle,       repairs of $290M have been required due to borer damage to timbers in the       seawall.
Traditional wood preservatives, such as chromated copper       arsenate, are prohibited in Europe (Commission Directive 2003/2/EC) for       use in marine construction due to risks to aquatic organisms, and       established construction timbers, such as greenheart and ekki, are a       diminishing resource.
Lesser-utilised species (LUS) and novel treatments       therefore need to be evaluated for their suitability in the marine       environment.
Impact 1.
Acceleration of evaluation of protection methods while         reducing testing costs     The European standard for marine testing of natural durability of wood       and the protective value of wood treatments (BS EN 275) requires the       exposure and annual inspection of wooden panels in situ for five years.
The cost of maintaining each field testing site can be as high as &#8364;12K       p.a.
(S3) and generation of results is slow.
Standard rapid       laboratory screening methods were previously available for testing       resistance to fungi and wood boring insects, but not to marine wood       borers.
Cragg's team developed a novel laboratory protocol that quantifies       resistance to marine wood borers in naturally durable timbers and timbers       with protective treatments.
This method has been validated against in situ       testing (S1) and confers the ability to perform rapid,       statistically-robust evaluations, reducing both the duration and the cost       of testing.
In 2008, the Timber Research and Development Association       (TRADA), with Portsmouth, used this method to expand their portfolio of       marine timber testing, generating over &#163;200,000 additional income from       contracts with the Forestry Commission of Ghana, the Guyana Forestry       Commission and the Environment Agency (S2).
Similarly, the method       has been used to assess the efficacy of alternative timber modifications       on behalf of commercial companies (Kebony ASA, Norway) and to perform       rapid iterative evaluation of furfurylation methods on behalf of       governmental organisations (Technical Research Institute, Sweden) (S3).
The suite of methods developed at Portsmouth underpins a current,       extensive evaluation programme of novel wood-polymer composites for use in       marine construction by a Scandinavian consortium of government and       commercial timber organisations.
Impact 2.
Evidence of durability backs EA procurement policy     In 2009, the Environment Agency (EA) and TRADA jointly commissioned       Portsmouth researchers to examine the performance of 18 LUS tropical       hardwoods, benchmarked against greenheart and ekki.
This enabled TRADA to       make specific recommendations to its members on specific LUS species as       suitable alternatives to greenheart (S1) and the EA to publish       (2011) authoritative guidance aimed at structural and civil engineers,       design consultants, building contractors, asset managers and procurement       professionals (S4).
Subsequently, the EA has changed its       procurement procedures to include a mandatory requirement to consider LUS       and to follow the methodology within the EA guidance.
It has also set up a       framework contract with two UK-based LUS timber suppliers (this contract       is also open to other government agencies and public sector bodies) and       has used LUS in a range of freshwater and marine applications that have       delivered cost savings and sustained performance (S5).
Impact 3.
Evaluations have been used to market less well-known timber       species Evaluations of the resistance to borer attack of Guyanese timbers       conducted at Portsmouth indicated that several LUS performed as well as       traditional marine construction species.
This information was incorporated       into recommendations by TRADA to the Guyana Forestry Commission (GFC) on       ten timbers for longer-term marine testing (S6), and was included       in a series of datasheets and booklets on relevant tropical timbers       prepared by the GFC (S7).
The International Tropical Timber       Organisation (ITTO) included these studies and recommendations in guidance       and training material delivered to over 80 forestry concession holders,       saw millers, lumber yard holders, exporters, and other stakeholders in the       three major counties of Guyana (S8).
Impact 4.
Information on borer hazard changes affects decision-making         locally and globally     In 2006, Cragg detected living specimens of destructive warm-water borers       in timbers remaining at the wreck site of the Mary Rose ship.
As a result,       the Mary Rose Trust immediately introduced a number of physical methods of       protection against borer attack at the site and initiated an enhanced       programme of monitoring (S9).
Cragg has provided all information       and text for the borer, L. quadripunctata in the Invasive Species       Compendium developed by the international, intergovernmental Centre for       Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI).
The Compendium is an       authoritative database that supports decision-making in the management of       invasive species worldwide (S10).
