     Impact on Commerce     A new business has been created and established its viability by         generating revenue or profits       The research led by Brindle has had a direct commercial impact.
It has led       to three international patents ("13C MR imaging or spectroscopy       of cell death", 2006; "Imaging medium comprising lactate and       hyperpolarised 13C-pyruvate", 2006; and "Hyperpolarized       lactate contrast agent for determination of LDH activity", 2010; Refs 1-3,       Section 5), on which Prof. Brindle is the named inventor, filed by GE (who       funded the research and were assigned the right to resulting IP in the       collaboration agreement).
As a result of this research and in order to commercialise the       application, GE founded the spin-out company, Research Circle Technologies       Inc. (RCT) in 2011.
This spin-out commercialises the IP around the concept       of `metabolic magnetic resonance', from the Brindle lab, and other       academic collaborators which are part of their "Research Circle".
Commercialisation requires assembling "wetware", hardware and software.
The wetware is the contrast agent, which has to be tailored to fit the       biochemical process that is being monitored.
The hardware is the MRSI       equipment that traces the contrast agents, and the hyperpolariser that       produces the contrast agent.
The software interprets the images that the       MRSI delivers.
The research and IP generated in the Brindle group relates       to the "wetware", i.e.
it has provided proof in vitro and       in vivo in animal models of several cancers that hyperpolarised 13C-pyruvate       and 13C-fumarate in 13C-MRSI can be used to assess       early response to drug treatment.
As the MD of RTC testifies, this proof       of concept has been instrumental to GE developing the `Spinlab'       hyperpolariser as a new product, and Prof Brindle's leadership in the       field and involvement in the project has aided in developing sales (Refs 4       and 5, Section 5).
So far three `Spinlab' machines have been sold and       installed (1-USA, 1-Canada 1-United Kingdom), and a further 10 machines       are on order (6-USA, 2-Denmark, 1-United Kingdom and 1-Switzerland), each       at a sales value of $2.2M / &#163;1.41M.
RCT testify that Prof. Brindle and his       lab have played a critical part in the development of the Metabolic       Industry (Ref.
4, Section 5).
Employment in the UK       The UK-based company Oxford Instruments plc, (on behalf of RCT) builds the       cryomagnet systems which are used in the `Spinlab' clinical hyperpolariser       machines.
Their Group Business Development Manager testifies:     "Orders for this machine which RCT receives result in orders (at RTC's     discretion) for our company.
Hence the orders to RCT for hyperpolarisers,     facilitated through the work of Prof Brindle as explained in Jonathan's     letter [letter of support from RCT, Ref.
4, Section 5], result in     income for our company and in securing work for our employees.
[...] Oxford     Instruments also build a pre-clinical version of the hyperpolariser, the     HyperSense, under license from RTC's parent company GE Healthcare, for in       vitro use.
We have sold 42 of these to date globally at an average     sales price [...] of about &#163;230k.
Although our licence only covers in       vitro work, a number of our HyperSense customers have sought and     obtained from GE Healthcare a licence from them to use these machines for     preclinical in vivo applications.
[...] Prof Brindle's work and     leadership in the field has contributed to the uptake of the technology, and     therefore has had a positive impact on our HyperSense sales figures.
This     again has had a tangible impact on securing employment in our company."
Impact on Health     A new clinical technology has been trialled with patients       A Phase I trial (NCT01229618; US-based; trial period:       01/10/2010-01/12/2015; sponsor: UCSF; collaborator: GE       Healthcare) is being carried out with prostate cancer patients using the       hyperpolariser technology (Ref.
7, Section 5).
A total of 31 patients have       so far successfully received an injection of the hyperpolarized agent.
The       data obtained up to now demonstrate that pyruvate not only reached the       prostate but that its metabolic product lactate could be observed (Ref.
8,       Section 5).
Impact on Society     The research findings on hyperpolarised MRSI by the Brindle group and       their down-stream benefits for cancer patients has been brought to the       attention of the public through a wide range of media coverage following       the publication of the Nature paper "Magnetic resonance imaging of pH in         vivo using hyperpolarized 13C-labelled bicarbonate" in       May 2008 (Ref.
2, Section 3).
Several million readers came into contact       with the research findings through coverage eg in the BBC News, the       Washington Post, the Daily Mail (Refs 9-11, Section 5), the Telegraph,       Reuters as well as a range of online media.
