     As noted above, the Government consulted on the advertising and trading       regulations in March       2011, in the run up to the London 2012 Olympics.
As part of this       consultation it invited submissions       over a 12-week period, with over 600 stakeholders informed and over 50       responses were received.
Guy Osborn (with Mark James), already researching this aspect of Olympic       law, responded to this       Consultation (see Guy Osborn, `Response to "Regulations on Advertising       Activity and Trading       around London 2012: A Consultation"' (2011) (with Mark James, copy on file       with Osborn).
This       Response dealt in depth with the specific questions posed by the       Consultation, and made more       general and overarching points including those related to the problems of       adopting a tripartite       approach (ie one which attempted to use the regulations to prevent ambush       marketing, ensure       easy and unencumbered access and ensure a consistent celebratory look) to       deal with disparate       issues.
The Government response to the Consultation was published on 12       October 2011, `The       Government response to advertising and trading regulations London 2012'       (DCMS, 2011) with the       Government noting that the responses `contributed significantly and       positively to the way the       regulations have now been framed and drafted' (DCMS, 2011, 4).
The       Government's response       directly quotes from our submission to the consultation which forms part       of the research captured       in ref.2, see for example, the direct quote and reference on page 15 of       the Government response,       https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-response-to-the-public-consultation-on-the-advertising-and-trading-regulations-london-2012     In addition, following our Response to the Consultation, in the light of       our response the       Regulations were amended to reflect our concerns in the following ways:     Government Response to Questions 1-3       (Note 18, on page 7)       Amendments made to cover unintentional breach of regulations by persons       going about their daily       business; `It is helpful to have these specific examples raised and we       have amended the       regulations to ensure these activities are permitted' (DCMS, 2012, p7).
Our response to the       problem of branded sportswear is in our answer to Q1, linked to the issue       of carrying branded       personal goods, and the Government amended the Regulation dealing with       this to reflect this.
Government Response to Questions 4 and 5       (Note 38, on page 10)       Effect on local businesses &#8212; the government Response to these questions       noted that `we want       local businesses to be able to trade as normal where possible and benefit       from additional       opportunities brought about by Games' (DCMS, 2012, p10).
To facilitate       this, and following the       Consultation, the Regulations were amended to permit deliveries of       non-perishable goods as well       as perishable.
Our response addressed this problem in answer to 4b &amp;       5a where we say that there       is an anomaly that milk deliveries are exempted but not supermarket and       take away deliveries, so       by extending to non-perishables, we can claim some influence.
