     Political impact: Wolke's findings on the special education       needs and eating problems of preterm births have informed political       decision-makers.
The chairwoman of EFCNI (European Foundation of Care for       New-born Infants) notes of Wolke "it is because of his expertise that he       was specifically invited to contribute to and be on the editorial board       for the EFCNI White Paper of Maternal and Newborn Health and Aftercare       Services `Caring for Tomorrow' presented to the European Parliament in       November 2011.
The White Paper specifically references Professor Wolke's       research [3] regarding special educational needs in extremely preterm       children, the association between prematurity and eating problems at age 6       [5] and the use of parental reports as valid indices of child development       [2].
It is important to recognise the significance of this White Paper and       the role that Professor Wolke has played; this White Paper has been       fundamental point which the EU has developed its policy and strategy for       the delivery of healthcare to an ever increasing number of preterm babies       being born.
Hence Professor Wolke's research will have a far reach across       Europe and its member states as well as being a focal point and reference       across the world" [11].
The White Paper and the WHO report (see below) have led the European       Parliamentary Policy Department Committee on Environment, Public Health       and Food Safety (ENVI) to set up a workshop "Newborn Infants" (24 April       2013), in which the MEP (Health Working Group, ENVI Committee) stressed       the need to identify the necessary policy changes at the EU level to       improve maternal and newborn health, as well as to address inequalities       across Member States in this area [12].
Furthermore, the report published by the World Health Organization (WHO)       in 2012 entitled "Born too soon: the global action report on preterm       birth" [13], refers to Wolke's work on neurodevelopmental and education       outcomes [6].
The WHO report provides the first-ever national, regional       and global estimates of preterm birth, shows the extent to which preterm       birth is on the rise in most countries, and offers policy relevant       recommendations to governments and NGOs.
The report relates to WHO's       leadership of an international campaign ("Millennium Development Goal 4")       to reduce child deaths; hence Wolke's research has contributed to       recommendations from WHO at an international level.
Impact on education: In the UK, the Department of       Education's newly issued "Advice on the Admission of Summer born children       &#8212; for local authorities and school admission authorities and parents"       (July 2013) [14] cites Wolke's research at Warwick [6], the only research       referenced.
It is the first time that DoE has issued this guidance which       details the framework that authorities must operate under.
Preterm       children are born before their expected date of delivery but their birth       date is used to enrol them into school.
Summer born preterm children enter       school a year earlier than if they had been born at term.
The CEO of BLISS       [15] notes the significance of this report: "this long awaited guidance,       that Bliss has been campaigning for many years, should significantly       change the way by which Local Authorities in England manage the school       admissions of very early gestation born children.
This will positively       impact many thousands of families every year" as it removes any statutory       barriers to children being admitted outside their normal age group.
The       CEO of BLISS added [15] "Dieter's research has been crucial to Bliss's own       policy work in each of the UK health economies, underpinning much of our       advocacy for delivering the best possible care for babies and their       families".
Clinical impact: Wolke's research has been included in       guidelines regarding resuscitation of preterm children born at the limit       of viability.
His group's research on motor and executive function after       extremely preterm birth [1] is cited in the 2011 Revision of the Swiss       Recommendations published in the Swiss Medical Weekly [16].
The Swiss recommendations explicitly include for the first time that care       of preterm infants prior to 23 6/7 weeks should be limited to palliative       care as a result of long-term developmental disorders associated with       extreme preterm birth.
These guidelines, endorsed by the Swiss Society of       Neonatology, are used by physicians, midwives and nurses and other       professionals involved in the perinatal care of preterm births in       Switzerland.
Wolke's work [7] on light drinking versus abstinence in pregnancy       published in 2013 was commented on by the Royal College of Obstetricians       and Gynaecologists (April 2013) [17], produced considerable public       interest, news reports and a comment from the Department for Health.
Wolke's earlier research (which used data collected in the UK Millennium       Cohort Study) on the absence of risk associated with light drinking during       pregnancy [4] was used in a NHS online report `Light drinking in       pregnancy' [18].
Practitioners: The research from Wolke's group has also       informed both the public and clinical practitioners through its wide       dissemination.
Wolke has given a large number of invited and keynote       lectures (20 in 2012, 17 in 2011, 10 in 2010) including talks to       paediatricians (e.g., European Academy of Paediatric Societies, 2010 and       2012), neonatologists (e.g., Gesellschaft fur Neuropadiatrie, 2010), and       educational professionals (e.g., Institute of Education, 2013) [19].
This       has led to specific material for teachers in information sheets issued by       the Specialist Schools and Academics Trust ("Complex Learning Difficulties       and Disabilities Research Project") [20], widespread media coverage and to       numerous media appearances.
The wide reach of his research has resulted in       increased awareness of the need to develop different educational and       intervention approaches for children born premature by teachers, clinical       practitioners and among the general public.
