     Lavalette has been asked to present his research to a range of meetings,       conferences and       gatherings of social work practitioners both nationally and       internationally.
He was the keynote       speaker to BASW's conference in 2009 (in Liverpool), he has spoken to       adult and emergency team       practitioners in the North West of England about the impact of social       policy changes on social work       regimes (2010, Manchester).
He is a regular speaker at the Merseycare       annual conference to       mental health workers and service users (he has spoken at each of the       conferences from 2010-2013).
He has also addressed national practitioner       groups across the globe including keynote       addresses to the annual social work conferences in Spain (2009) and       Portugal (2010), to a group       of over 100 radical practitioners in Hong Kong (2010), to practitioners in       the Espirito Santo state,       Brazil (2011), and to practitioners in Ireland (2013).
In 2013 he gave a       keynote address to the trade       union led European Anti-Poverty Network meeting in Lisbon.
His reputation as an engaging speaker of interest to practitioners has       led to invitations to speak to       the Social Work Brain Injury Group, where he was the 2012 keynote.
In       November of the same       year he was the keynote speaker at the launch of the practitioner led       UK-Palestine Social Work       network organised by BASW members.
His work was central to the creation of the Social Work Action Network       (SWAN).
Formed in 2006,       SWAN is an organisation of social work academics, practitioners, service       users, carers and       students.
SWAN has held a national conference since 2006.
In 2009 and 2012       these events were       held at Liverpool Hope University.
In 2012 and 2013 the SWAN national       conferences drew 500       people to the events &#8212; making them the largest social work conferences in       Britain in these years.
Lavalette has been the national co-ordinator of SWAN since its inception.
More recently SWAN       groups have formed in Canada, Australia, Hong Kong, Ireland and Greece.
The SWAN network       internationally has grown directly out of Lavalette's work.
SWAN works closely with other practitioner and service user       organisations.
It is formally       recognised by the trade unions Unison and Unite and has formal recognition       agreements with       DPAC (Disabled people Against the cuts), Autism Rights (UK), Shaping Lives       and RAPAR (a       campaigning asylum rights organisation).
Lavalette has regular meetings       with each of these       organisations to organise joint research and campaign work.
It was his central role within SWAN that led to him being profiled in the       Guardian newspaper as a       `radical voice' of note in social work.
Recently Lavalette has become the series editor of a new initiative that       aims to address `critical       and radical social work debates'.
Launched in 2013 and published by Policy       Press this series of       books invite a lead author to write on a relevant topic and then includes       pieces by practitioners,       service users, carers and academics.
At the heart is an attempt to provide       a location where radical       conceptions of social work can be debated &#8212; doing so in a way that       actively includes practitioners       and service users.
2013 also saw the publication of a new international journal Critical and       Radical Social Work, with       Lavalette as one of the two editors.
The journal incudes space, within       each edition, for `Voices from       the Frontline'.
In its first year practitioners contributed from Hungry,       Greece, Ireland, Malta, Hong       Kong, Turkey, South Africa and Spain.
