     Impacts on public policy and services, impacts on international         development     As a result of the research and allied studies, in 2006 the governments       of India, Nepal and Pakistan banned the manufacture and importation of       diclofenac for veterinary use, citing the toxicity of diclofenac to       vultures and the evidence of its effect on their populations7.
However, diclofenac came off patent in the 1990s, and by 2006 many       companies in India were manufacturing the drug for human and veterinary       use.
The drug continues to be legal for human use and human diclofenac is       also used illegally on animals.
As a result, the immediate impact on the       ban on levels of contamination of vulture food and vulture population       trends was limited.
With the evidence from Green and colleagues that       diclofenac was still being used for veterinary purposes up to 2008 (Ref 4,       section 3), the Indian Government strengthened the ban by making it an       imprisonable offence to import, manufacture, retail or use diclofenac for       veterinary purposes.
Human diclofenac also had to be labelled `not for       veterinary use'8.
In 2010, the Government of Bangladesh banned       veterinary formulations of diclofenac, bringing it into line with       neighbouring countries.
In May 2012, the governments of Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan       made a regional declaration on vulture conservation, with recommendations       based upon the work of Saving Asian Vultures from Extinction (SAVE), which       Green was instrumental in setting up (see below)9:     "Further commending the activities of SAVE and its members for their         notable contribution to vulture conservation in the region...
...Removing diclofenic and other toxic NSAIDs completely from the         vulture food chain, through measures including enhanced enforcement on         the ban on veterinary use of diclofenic."
The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) is       co-ordinating collaboration among the governments through a Regional       Steering Committee.
Such inter-governmental collaborations on bird       conservation are rare globally, and this is the first of its kind for the       Indian subcontinent.
Impacts on the environment, impacts on animal health and welfare     Continued monitoring of vulture numbers across the region (which Green is       involved in) has demonstrated that declines have slowed, and may even have       reversed for one species13.
As this result is based on changes       to underlying survival rates and breeding success, it indicates that both       of these have increased rapidly (Green's modelling work supports the       partial removal of diclofenac from the birds' food supply as being the       sole cause of any slowing in decline5 above).
In 2011 an international consortium of conservation agencies, `Saving       Asia's Vultures from Extinction' (SAVE) was set up10.
Green was       one of the founders of SAVE and is chair of its Technical Advisory       Committee.
SAVE partners jointly manage a captive breeding programme in       India, Nepal and Pakistan, with associated research into improving captive       bird husbandry, and this programme is approved by the Government of       India's Central Zoo Authority.
All three vulture species have now been       bred in captivity, with reintroductions of captive-bred birds scheduled to       begin within five years.
Husbandry guidelines11 have also been       produced to improve the welfare of captive birds and the success rates of       breeding programmes; prior to the documented decline, no captive breeding       programmes existed and most captive vultures were held only in zoos.
Impacts on society, culture and creativity     SAVE is developing `vulture safe zones' in which local advocacy is       combined with training of local people in monitoring vulture populations       and the availability of veterinary drugs, and in undertaking studies of       vulture ranging behaviour using GPS PTT tagging.
In some cases, ecotourist       projects have been linked with vulture safe zones12, raising       awareness, and providing additional income for local people.
Impacts on human health     Vultures provide a valuable ecosystem service: the breakdown of ungulate       carcasses.
Their loss provides more food for other scavengers, notably       wild dogs, whose population in the region increased markedly with the       decline in vulture population.
This in turn increases the number of dog       bites with the consequent possible transfer of rabies.
An analysis by       Markanda et al16 estimates the monetised heath cost in       India of the decline of vultures over the period 1992 to 2006 as       approximately 1 trillion Rs (approx.
&#163;9 billion) with the cost more       heavily felt at the end of the period.
While the as yet small recovery in       the vulture population has not yet eliminated this cost, it has slowed its       increase (and may now be reversing it).
Impacts on commerce - companies are producing a new product     Carcass monitoring has shown that meloxicam is starting to replace       diclofenac for veterinary use5 above, and work is underway to       improve the formulation of veterinary meloxicam used by Indian companies       to make it more acceptable to veterinarians and to assess the feasibility       of a government subsidy to encourage its use.
In 2004, only one Indian       drug company was producing meloxicam.
By 2011, this had increased to       thirty companies14.
Boehringer-Ingelheim (B-I), the company that developed meloxicam, have       donated the expertise of a technical expert on drug formulation and       manufacture to assist Indian companies to produce better formulations of       the drug and have made details of an improved formulation freely available       (meloxicam is out of patent, so B-I does not gain commercially from this).
The company has also funded some of the advocacy work that underpins the       vulture safe zones (see above)15.
