     The key contribution of the research led by Sillero-Zubiri has been to       provide robust, detailed evidence of the specific threats facing the       Ethiopian wolf.
This evidence has enabled proper strategic planning for       the wolf's conservation and secured funds to implement effective       protection programmes, within which vaccination against rabies has played       the key role.
The first phase of the research documenting the importance of rabies as a       source of mortality in Ethiopian wolves1 catalysed several new       and important conservation actions.
It led immediately to the species       being reclassified as Critically Endangered by the IUCN Red List of       Threatened Species7, and resulted in the first Ethiopian wolf       action plan (drawn up by the IUCN/SSC Canid Specialist Group8).
It also led to the establishment of the Ethiopian Wolf Conservation       Programme (EWCP), a science-driven conservation initiative that has gone       on to play a crucial role in the protection of the wolf and its habitat9,10,11.
EWCP implemented a campaign of rabies vaccination in local dogs (later       including canine distemper virus), aiming to inoculate 70% of the dog       population around wolf habitats; since 1996 more than 62,000 dogs have       been vaccinated.
Ethiopian wolves had been protected by law since 1974;       due to their rarity the authorities were reluctant to authorize any       management requiring handling or vaccination of the wolves themselves.
Thanks to the compelling evidence provided by the underpinning research       carried out by Sillero-Zubiri and colleagues, immediate funding and       federal permission was forthcoming for the vaccination campaign that       neutralized the 2003 rabies epizootic; vaccination began a mere two weeks       after rabies was identified in the wolf population12.
Confirming the success of this strategy the species was uplisted to       Endangered from Critically Endangered by the IUCN in 20047.
The vaccination approach developed by creating a protective barrier or cordon         sanitaire of vaccinated wolf packs was deployed again in August 2008       when a major rabies outbreak hit the wolves in the Bale Mountains.
The       Ethiopian authorities immediately approved an emergency vaccination       campaign, and 98 wolves were vaccinated, using a more refined and       systematic approach than previously, targeting the dominant pair to       preserve breeding units.
Vaccination was associated with successfully       containing disease to the original outbreak (Fig 1)10-13.
Figure 1: Distribution of wolf carcasses found in 2008 in relation to historical pack vaccination coverage.
As predicted by modelling low coverage vaccination in surrounding packs was effective in restricting the spread of rabies outside the initial outbreak in Web Valley in 2008.
A consequential impact of the implementation of this research has been on       the local people who co-exist with the wolves.
Some 8,500 households with       12,500 dogs live in and around wolf habitats in the Bale Mountains,       largely engaged in subsistence farming and grazing of livestock9,14.
Dogs are essential to local people for herding and also for consuming       human waste, but pose the greatest threat to wolves as vectors of canine       diseases.
EWCP's ongoing domestic dog rabies vaccination campaign results       in significant economic and health benefits for local communities12,       which otherwise lose livestock to rabies and are also vulnerable to the       disease themselves.
The incidence of rabies in humans in villages where       dogs were not vaccinated was up to five times higher than in villages       where dogs were vaccinated14.
The protection of the Afroalpine ecosystem, part of the Eastern       Afromontane biodiversity hotspot, has increased due to the attention       focussed on the Ethiopian wolf through this research.
The efforts of EWCP       and partner Frankfurt Zoological Society have helped to extend the areas       designated as protected areas, with consequent impact for other rare       endemic species.
As a result, the amount of suitable wolf habitat that is       protected has increased from 40% in 2000 to 87% in 201115.
The       tourism value of the wolf is also important; wildlife tourism in Ethiopia       is increasing, with associated benefits to the Ethiopian economy (most of       the 2,000 people trekking in Bale each year come to see wolves).
EWCP       provides other economic benefits through capacity-building and       conservation jobs within the Ethiopian conservation community (for       example, EWCP has funded 8 MSc and 2 PhDs by Ethiopian students).
EWCP       employs 36 field staff, of whom 5 work for the Vet team vaccinating dogs       and wolves; 16 wolf monitors and Wolf Ambassadors monitor wolf       populations, in order to ensure a swift response to rabies outbreaks9,15.
As the apex predator in the Ethiopian highlands, the Ethiopian wolf has       an important role as a flagship species for Afroalpine biodiversity:       conservation of the species translates into the protection and maintenance       of habitats and ecological processes.
The vaccination strategy developed       by Oxford University researchers has led both to the continued survival of       the wolf as well as associated benefits for local people.
There is now a       robust National Action Plan in place for the wolf15, and the       current active level of research, together with the strong partnership of       Ethiopian and international organisations involved, will ensure that       conservation actions can be adapted to changing circumstances.
The example       provided by this initiative, of a science-led conservation programme which       delivers timely targeted actions, offers a blue-print to similar       conservation challenges elsewhere16.
