     The UltraMill machine was developed to support the engagement of UK and       European manufacturing SMEs in high value manufacturing, particularly in       ultra-precision and micro manufacturing.
UPM Ltd., who built the first       machine with Brunel University in 2008, have sold the licence for the       commercialisation and manufacturing rights to ITP Ltd for a 2% share of       the sales of the machine.
Figure 1 UltraMill            In early 2013 ITP manufactured the first batch of 3 machines and sold       them to Germany (Sonplas GmbH), China and the UK.
Sonplas         GmbH(Germany) is a leading international manufacturer of fuel       injection devices, who purchased their UltraMill to manufacture new       injectors for diesel engines.
The development of the UltraMill has created economic, technological and       employment benefits up and down the supply chain.
In particular, a number       of UK manufacturing companies have benefited from the UltraMill by       supplying parts and components for its manufacture.
These include       Renishaw, who supplied the encoders, Delta Tau UK (the controllers) and       Spar-Tec Industries Ltd (the machine guard).
During the development of the UltraMIll, a number of industrial companies       benefited from ultra-precision machining services.
These included Contour       Fine Tooling (2008), Rainford (2010) in the UK, and Aplix 2008/9.
Contour       Fine Tooling (CFT) leads the worldwide market in diamond cutting tools,       holding 30% of the market share.
Before they had become known for their       cutting-edge diamond cutting tools, they manufactured and sold diamond       turning tools.
However, inspired by the concept of the UltraMill, they       developed the first diamond micro-milling tool in the world, using the       UltraMill as a test-bed to demonstrate the feasibility of their prototype       before introducing it to the market.
Figure 2 iPhone 5S             CFT successfully marketed the diamond micro-milling tools; following       their lead, diamond micro-milling technologies are now available from 4       companies in the world.
CFT's diamond micro-milling technology has been used for the bevelled       edges of the iPhone 5S.
23 million units of the iPhone 5S were sold since       its release and Apple currently manufacture 150,000 units per day.
(Daily       Mail 15 Oct 2013)     Following on from the UltraMill, TSB-funded research and development       helped build a new smart cutting tool, which can monitor the micro-milling       process by measuring the cutting forces in real time.
This tool contains a       number of technological innovations and has attracted commercialisation       interest from Renishaw.
Two international patents have been granted on the       design of the tool (August 2013) and the magnetic squeeze film damper for       air bearings (January 2008).
