     Anand is a much sought after commentator on political issues related to       Tibet and the wider       Himalayan region, contributing to and affecting public discourse through       numerous interviews and       citations in international media and active presence on social media: he       has been termed the       `Facebook professor' (1).
His opinion is also sought by officials in the       Tibetan Government in Exile,       India, China, EU, UK and US in the development of their policy positions.
His standing was       reinforced by the Dalai Lama's decision to hold a public talk in the UK in       2012 at the University of       Westminster following an invitation from Anand when he chaired a       closed-door session earlier in       2011 in Helsinki.
Anand first came to public prominence following the eruption of protests       in Chinese-       controlled Tibet in 2008.
He was interviewed on BBC TV, Al Jazeera, BBC       World Service, various       radio stations in USA and Canada and his views were solicited by the New       York Times, the Asia       Times, The Independent and Asahi Simbum (Japan).
He was commissioned to       write articles by the       Guardian, Singapore Straits Times, Times of India and The Hindu.
He was       particularly prominent in       debates about self-immolation as a form of protest since 2011, where an       article critical of the       practice commissioned by the Guardian (2) was republished by Outlook India       (the largest       circulation magazine in the sub-continent) and led to a commissioned       article by the New       Internationalist, an interview with Zee News (3) (a popular Indian TV       station) and public talks       organised by student organisations, activist groups and monasteries in       India and the UK.
Anand was commissioned in 2013 by the Europe China Research and Advice       Network       (ECRAN) to write a policy paper `The Self-Immolation Crisis in Chinese       Controlled Tibet'.
ECRAN       provides policy reports to the European External Action Service (EEAS) and       the 28 member states       of the European Union.
According to the ECRAN Team Leader and Director of       the Chinese Study       Centre at the University of Sydney, the impact of the report has been       high: `it had direct impact on       the policy thinking of a huge community of diplomats, and officials,       across the EU, and located in       China...
The feedback from the EEAS that we received afterwards was very       complimentary, and it       had evidently helped them think through more deeply issues in this complex       area.
I would therefore       say that Dr Anand's paper had very high policy impact.'
(4)     Anand's profile increased further when he made a public interjection in       response to the       controversy around the Karmapa Lama (the second highest ranking Tibetan       religious leader in       exile in India).
Following the false accusation by the Indian media that       Karmapa was a Chinese spy       in February 2011, Anand was commissioned to write an article by the       Hindustan Times (5), shared       by more than 2000 people on Facebook and read online by more than 25,000       people within the       first two days.
This was quickly followed by an interview on Zee News and       a second article       commissioned by Kafila (an alternative media website).
These interventions       received significant       attention well beyond India, with citations in articles in Time World,       Chinese and Korean media and       on Tibetan activist websites.
Anand was approached by Indian government       officials to substantiate       his views and was thanked by the Karmapa's office in India and invited to       meet him personally in       December 2011.
Anand is frequently invited to give policy advice in face-to-face       meetings with officials on       Tibet and wider issues related to the Himalayan region, for example with       individuals in the Tibetan       Government in Exile (including audiences with the Dalai Lama in       Dharamsala), Foreign and       Commonwealth Office, Chinese Foreign Ministry and the US Congressional       Research Service.
The       Head of the Asia Pacific Research Group at the FCO, who meets with Anand       regularly, is highly       complimentary of his `timely and carefully tailored advice...
I find his       work balanced and nuanced in       a field where neither of these traits is common.
He clearly has a very       strong network of academic       and Government contacts in the region which I think are unparalleled in       the UK.
It is extremely       helpful for the FCO to be able to tap into these contacts through Dr.       Anand... he has helped       deepen our understanding so that we can better nuance our approach' (6).
The UK Representative       of His Holiness the Dalai Lama states: `Dibyesh's prolific and objective       research and his ability to       engage with the Tibetan communities in London and India on various vital       issues including       challenges of survival and democratisation, self-immolations and       non-violent protests are       admirable and helpful' (7).
His reputation as a public commentator on Tibet and the broader Himalayan       region has led       to numerous invitations to speak to and visit think-tanks and other civil       society organisations,       including: in Delhi in 2012-13, the Foundation for Non Violent Action       (FNVA), the Institute of China       Studies and the Institute of Defence Studies and Analysis (IDSA); Bhutan       Society UK in 2011; and       visiting fellowships at the Centre for Bhutan Studies (CBS) in the summer       of 2012 and IDSA in       2013.
Anand is highly pro-active in his public engagement activities, through       organising events,       hosting delegations and social media.
The most prominent event was clearly       the Dalai Lama's visit       to the University of Westminster (which was oversubscribed beyond the       packed audience of 500).
He also organised a public event on Kashmir and Tibet, involving two       prominent dissident       intellectuals: Wang Lixiong from China and Arundhati Roy from India.
The       youtube video of his       discussion with Roy has received more than 22,000 hits.
He has hosted       Chinese government       delegations on three separate occasions in 2008-10 (covered by Chinese and       exile newspapers).
His social media activities have been extensive, using Facebook and other       platforms to interact       with and on occasion mentor activists and writers.
As the Deputy Program       Director at Students for       a Free Tibet in India states: `His illuminating research and talks not       only provided Tibetans       diaspora with greater understanding of possible challenges and       opportunities it might face in future       but also inspired and guided many aspiring Tibetan youngsters in their       educational pursuits' (8).
As his research broadens to other areas in the Himalayas, his impact on       public discourse       continues to develop.
An opinion piece was commissioned on China-India       border disputes by the       Indian newspaper Seven Sisters Post in 2011 and his views solicited by       news media including The       Times Magazine.
He was interviewed on Bhutan State TV on the significance       of China-India       relations for the Himalayan peoples; an interview that was picked up in       the country's newspapers.
The President of the Centre for Bhutan Studies highlights how one of       Anand's public lectures that       presented an alternative perspective on Bhutan-India relations has had a       significant impact: `Since       then, quite a few columnists has taken Dr Anand's stance and several       researches are underway       along the same line' (9).
A lecture at Kashmir University in April 2013       was covered by major       Kashmir newspapers and picked up and criticized by an Indian newspaper       that established a       campaign against him (10).
Elements of his Facebook commentary are       re-produced by the       Kashmiri separatist group online magazine Voice of Jammu Kashmir.
Anand       has established an       online platform `Kashmir Writes and Kashmiri Rights' through which he       mentors young Kashmiri       writers.
Already one has had pieces printed in Kashmiri newspapers.
Anand utilises the full range of pathways to impact.
Based on the       international standing of       his research and his willingness and ability to engage across a variety of       formal and informal       mediums, he has had significant impact on public discourse and policy       developments on Tibet and       other aspects of minority-majority relations in the Himalayan region.
