     Baker is described as a leading expert in the field of the       provision of non-state justice, safety and security, emphasizing what can       be achieved where the state does not have the capacity or will to ensure       security and justice to its citizens.
Baker is credited as being       responsible for initiating this approach, which is of great significance       as 80%-90% of all security and justice in Africa is delivered by non-state       actors.
His research has been heavily used in the formulation and       evaluation of security and justice training, and support programmes across       the globe.
Beneficiaries of Baker's research have included:             International Organisations e.g.
Organisation for Economic         Co-operation and Development/Development Assistance Committee         (OECD/DAC), and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
National Governments or Agencies e.g.
the President of Uganda,         Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office (FCO), US Department of Defence,         British Army (12th Mechanised Brigade), Australian Federal         Police, and the Dutch Foreign Ministry.
Donor Agencies e.g.
United States Agency for International         Development (USAID), Department for International Development (DFID),         Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA).
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) e.g.
The Liaison Office         (Kabul).
Think Tanks e.g.
Chatham House; Africa Center for Strategic         Studies (ACSS), Washington DC; Center for Complex Operations (CCO),         Washington DC; Center for Naval Analysis (CNA), Washington.
Commercial Security Consultancies e.g.
Deloitte, Washington DC.
The evidence for impact of Baker's research takes a number of       forms.
For example, key policy documents have referenced his research and       embraced the conclusions.
In addition, governments and international       bodies have requested training seminars and presentations based on Baker's       research.
Baker's services as a specialist consultant and advisor       on non-state policing, security and justice brings work from many parts of       the world and has extended the impact of the research far beyond Africa.
Impacts on public policy, law and services     Baker's research has brought the use of non-state actors in       providing security and justice onto policy agendas globally.
It is now       recognised by governments and aid agencies as an essential component to       the implementation of security and justice programmes.
Security and       justice interventions and programmes which are based on his research occur       across the world, particularly in the African countries.
Baker's work has been used by several international aid agencies,       and he is referred to in policy documents produced by the OECD and AUSAID.
For example, in a chapter entitled `Justice and Security as Public and       Private Goods and Services' in the 2009 report for the OECD's `Contracting         Out Government Functions and Services: Emerging Lessons from         Post-Conflict and Fragile Situations' Baker is cited nine       times [a].
The author of the report confirms that the report was largely       based on Baker's research and ideas [f].
This report is now used       around the world as the basis for security and justice interventions.
It       links Baker directly to the programmes across the globe that are       currently in place for providing security and justice.
His unique contribution is also recognised in by the Global Consortium on       Security Transformation, in its Working Paper 6 on Crime Prevention         and Community in Africa [b].
The paper specifically states: "We         owe to the more intrepid scholars such as Bruce Baker         some useful criminological studies of the aftermath of severe conflict         in a number of African countries, and some fruitful ideas on how         communities can be harnessed to the task of post-conflict crime         prevention, as discussed below.
In recent years a handful of scholars         have begun to consider the ways in which principles such as community         policing tend to adapt to radically different social environments &#8212; as         in post-Cold War Africa.
[...] the foremost, and certainly the most         prolific, academic commentator on this issue in recent years has been         Bruce Baker of Coventry University.
The strength         of Baker's approach lies in his attempt to         investigate the issue across a number of states...".
Security and       justice interventions and programmes which are based on his research occur       across the world, particularly in the African countries of Nigeria,       Ethiopia, Congo, and South Sudan.
For example, the OECD Security Sector       Reform Handbook, which is now used globally as a reference for security       and justice interventions, based its recommendations on the use of       non-state actors predominantly on Baker's work [c].
In a related area of research, Baker and Liebling (a Senior       Lecturer at Coventry throughout the period) published a report on policing       sexual violence in Northern Uganda.
This was taken by Mary Robinson,       United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to President Museveni of       Uganda.
Robinson later reported that she and Museveni discussed the       research findings.
Robinson reported that Museveni had said that this was       very important and had not been mentioned to him before.
He confirmed he       would act on it and debate the issues at the Security Council meeting in       Kampala in October 2010.
Impacts on practitioners and professional services     While Baker's research was based on fieldwork and experience on       the ground in Africa it has been translated into different contexts across       the globe.
Baker's research has had an impact on setting the       agenda, changing discourse, and supporting implementation and training.
As       a result of his work, organisations such as government departments and aid       agencies recognise the need for training and supporting non-state actors       in the delivery of security and justice [e].
Non-state policing is now recognised as important by the British       government and is incorporated into multiple programmes designed by DFID,       who are advised by Baker.
For example, in 2011, a UK team designed       and implemented a programme in Sierra Leone, which sought to develop the       capacity of chieftain "police" and other community-based structures.
In       the light of his published research, Baker has undertaken security       and justice programme design in Ethiopia and Kenya for the British       government's Stabilisation Unit (2011, 2012), and was appointed a senior       security and justice adviser for that Unit (2012).
As an advisor, he       provides an alternative viewpoint to other experts from fields including       law and security.
Baker's research is heavily used in the formulation and evaluation       of international security and justice programmes.
For example, in Papua       New Guinea the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Australian       Aid Programme successful implemented non-state security and justice       training, and installed nearly 900 female non-state judges.
Baker has worked with the Australian Federation Police (AFP) who       are in the process of producing a strategy and training programme on how       to carry out work in overseas territories.
In 2011, he gave a public       presentation to approximately 200 members of the Federal Police, covering       all levels.
The audience was able to identify with the examples from his       research that he provided.
Further to this, Baker was heavily       involved in producing a thematic guide for the AFP which has been approved       and circulated to their 8,000 staff.
This guide has raised awareness of       the issues which overseas police forces are facing and is being used as a       reference aid in practice.
It is also being used by the AFP Overseas       Force, which at any one time consists of approximately 1,500 people.
In       addition to the initial circulation, the guide had been downloaded from       the force's internal website over 600 times as of early 2013 [h].
Baker's research has underpinned the delivery of various training       programmes for international aid agencies, working in the security and       justice sector.
These include:            Dutch government &#8212; a presentation for 25 of its Senior Security         Advisers, 2008;       World Bank/USIP &#8212; a workshop for 150 attendees, 2009;       Commercial Companies &#8212; a workshop for 12 London-based security         consultancies;       DFID &#8212; course for 25 Security Advisers/Practitioners per group,         2009-ongoing;       Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office &#8212; workshop for 30 Ethiopian Security         Personnel, 2010;       Danish Foreign Ministry/DANIDA &#8212; workshop for 200 attendees, 2010;       US Department for Defense &#8212; workshop for 50 US officials, military and         security analysts, 2010;       British Army &#8212; workshop for 150 Officers of the 12th Mechanised         Brigade, 2010.
The DFID workshop is delivered by Baker, and others, and has run       regularly since 2009.
In each cohort, 50% of the participants are UK       government employees, from departments such as DIFD and MOD, and the other       50% are from organisations such as other EU member state governments,       development agencies and non-governmental organisations.
There are       approximately 25 people per course, which runs five times per year.
The       course influences the thinking of security and justice practitioners who       are based in the field.
Due to Baker's work, governments and donors are recognising       non-state actors as providers of security and justice [g,i].
This       awareness is leading to a change in practice in the way that projects are       implemented.
For example, Baker was commissioned by the Africa       Center for Strategic Studies (ACSS), 2010, to write: Non-state         Policing: Expanding the Scope for Tackling Africa's Urban Violence       [d].
ACSS is the pre-eminent US Department of Defense institution for       strategic security studies/research in Africa.
It supports United States       foreign and security policies by strengthening the strategic capacity of       African states to identify and resolve security challenges.
The       publication is cited inter alia by the Human Security Gateway.
This led to       Baker being invited by the ACSS to participate in training for       senior government, justice and security officials from West Africa in 2013       and similar officials from North Africa and the Middle East in 2013.
Conclusion     Baker's research has had global impact in the way in which       governments, NGOs and other agencies view non-state policing, security and       justice actors which resulted in changes to policy, practice and the       training of practitioners.
As such it has made a major contribution to       improving Human Security for millions of people in Africa and other       turbulent regions across the world.
