     Enabled by the key publications and funding listed above, &#214;zerdem's       research has produced       findings that have had significant impact at policy and programme level.
This impact has been       particularly strong for practitioners working in the fields of       peacebuilding, post-war reconstruction,       conflict resolution and diplomacy, and also for those working in aid and       development programmes.
The following three examples are illustrative of this impact.
Each is       supported by testimonials from       senior leaders setting out how their organisations directly benefited from       &#214;zerdem's research.
`Change of DDR Practice by International Organisation for Migration'     &#214;zerdem was commissioned by the International Organisation for       Migration (IOM) to produce their       `Information, Counselling and Referral Service' Handbook.
The handbook       sets out their approach       to disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration programmes, provides an       evidence-based       framework to underpin future programming work with ex-combatants and acts       as a training tool for       the organisation's staff.
The IOM has more than 7,800 staff working in       over 470 locations.
It is       currently running around 2,300 projects with an annual expenditure of USD       1.3 billion.
Having       undertaken disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration (DDR) programmes       in over 20       countries, the IOM recognised the need to distil lessons learned and       provide a training tool for staff       involved in current and future programmes.
They also wanted to identify       interconnections between       past and present missions, and those in different places.
Preparing the handbook involved undertaking an extensive evaluation of       the organisation's current       and previous DDR, programmes and interviewing senior level leaders within       IOM.
&#214;zerdem used       his conceptualisation of `social reintegration' of former combatants and       child soldiers in drafting the       handbook.
This concept is now being used by IOM field offices worldwide,       including in 25 of the 36       countries the World Bank identifies as `conflict-affected'.
Marco Basso,       Chief of Mission for IOM       Afghanistan, identified the strengths of the handbook as:     "Firstly it gives clear direction on how to plan and implement         DDR-focused projects, and it does so         in an easily-accessible way.
Secondly, it has contributed significantly         towards the standardisation         of practice across IOM operations in the DDR field.
Finally, and perhaps         most importantly, it         exemplifies based on IOM's previous experiences."
[a]     &#214;zerdem also engaged in the IOM's project planning for the       Afghanistan Peace and Reintegration       Programme (APRP), which aims to reintegrate the Taliban into society.
&#214;zerdem's "good practice"       recommendations on identity transformation for former combatants and child       soldiers formed the       backbone of his advice to the APRP process.
As part of his involvement, he       assisted the design of       a comprehensive reintegration strategy focused on income generation for       ex-combatants, which       involved key government agencies and the private sector.
Referring to &#214;zerdem's       research, Tajma       Kurt, former DDR programme officer in IOM Afghanistan stated:     "As the DDR-related aspects of IOM's work in Afghanistan drew to a         close, we commissioned an         independent evaluation [from &#214;zerdem].
This         demonstrated considerable improvement in delivery,         with clear effects for the beneficiaries of programmes.
We were able to         assist ex-combatants         transition to civilian life more effectively, providing them with         meaningful employment in a targeted         manner."
[b]     `The Dubai Process'     &#214;zerdem conducted an evaluation of the Dubai Process &#8212; a       cross-border management programme       between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The evaluation was funded by the       Canadian Department of       Foreign Affairs and International Trade (DFAIT), July &#8212; Dec 2010, and was       carried out in       collaboration with researchers from the Carleton University, Ottawa and       the Geneva Centre for       Security Policy (see http://tinyurl.com/nn5ks8p).
The evaluation was commissioned to assess the effectiveness of Canada's       input into mediating       cross-border relationships between Pakistan and Afghanistan, provided a       detailed conflict analysis       and an appraisal of Canada's role in the mediation process.
The       Afghanistan/Pakistan relationship       is a difficult one and the mediation attempts to initiate dialogue and       establish a working-level       relationship between the two countries.
&#214;zerdem investigated the       motives of the parties for       engaging in dialogue and the operational challenges that the stakeholders       faced, and identified the       tangible outcomes of the process as they stood then.
DFAIT was struggling to identify an appropriate cross-border management       framework capable of       responding to the wide range of human development, law enforcement,       customs, counter-narcotics       and socio-economic challenges in the region.
&#214;zerdem's research on       the connections between       security sector reconstruction and conflict transformation formed the       theoretical underpinning of the       evaluation's recommendations.
The wider angle of security       conceptualisation proposed by       &#214;zerdem provided recommendations for an effective way forward for       DFAIT.
According to Ms Elissa Golberg, Canada's Ambassador and Permanent       Representative to the       United Nations and Conference on Disarmament (formally Head of START       bureau at DFAIT),       referring to &#214;zerdem's work for their midterm evaluation:     "The Canadian mediation team found the midterm evaluation particularly         useful for understanding         the motivations of the various stakeholders and their reasons for         engaging in the process, and this         in turn helped them to make decisions to ensure continued participation.
The report also provided         crucial input into the significance of the role of the chair and advice         on how to manage intra-         delegation politics.
This resulted in a better-resourced secretariat for         the process."
[e]     In addition to assessing the impact of Canadian support to cross-border       management, the       evaluation identified more general, tangible outcomes in this area and       proposed a methodology for       dealing with similar border disputes worldwide.
Findings from this       investigation have already led to       a change in the Canadian mediation framework.
An international conference       on cross-border       management was held in Ottawa in March 2011, and since then the DFAIT has       started a thorough       assessment and restructuring of its cross-border mediation programmes       around the world.
`Community-Based Security Reconstruction in Mindanao'     The international community invests substantial time and resources in       reforming the security       sectors of post-conflict countries, but often with little success.
Previous responses have been       accused of being too `state-centric', narrowly-focused, and based on weak       assumptions.
&#214;zerdem's research has provided a constructive critique of how       current responses often fail to       provide security to war-torn societies.
Building outwards from the       existing Comprehensive Security       Sector Reform (SSR) Framework, his `community based security       reconstruction' approach widens       the range of stakeholders involved in reform efforts and offers a       pragmatic methodology based on       the principle of working with the political, socio-economic and cultural       realities of the context.
This       alternative model was presented at an experts' meeting on Security Sector       Transformation in North       Africa and the Middle East held by the United States Institute of Peace       (USIP) in July 2011 (see       http://tinyurl.com/pv6w2w4).
&#214;zerdem has also operationalized his community-based approach to       SSR in Mindanao, a       predominantly Muslim area of the Philippines seriously affected by       ethno-religious conflict [d].
&#214;zerdem was funded by the British Academy to research the role of       communities in the       recruitment of youth and child soldiers and the determinants of young       people's successful       reintegration.
His research has played a pivotal role in the planning and       implementation of the       peace process in Mindanao.
The issue of community security provision has       been a crosscutting       focus of the five Peace Tables convened by the Office of the Presidential       Adviser on the Peace       Process (OPAPP).
It has been especially important in discussions around       new laws for       Bangsamoro (Muslim autonomous region in Mindanao).
&#214;zerdem's       research has fed into these       processes and has been significant in shaping the reintegration discourse       between the peace       panels.
This is particularly important as one of the most critical issues       in the current discussions       between the Mindanao Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and the Government of       the Philippines is       weapons decommissioning.
&#214;zerdem's findings have been used by       local and national decision       makers in reframing security sector reconstruction as a community issue.
This has created space       for communities to be actively involved in decommissioning, which will in       turn increase levels of       trust between the state and local communities.
&#214;zerdem's work has       also included a       comprehensive household survey, which provided demographic information for       three of the most       war-affected provinces of Mindanao.
According to Jurgetta Honculada,       member of the Government       panel negotiating with the National Democractic Front of the Philippines,       &#214;zerdem's work has       "played a very valuable role" forming "the most considerable         body of independent and         academically rigorous research" available [c].
