 Chief Economist and Deputy Secretary of the LPC, Tim Butcher, stated, "The National Minimum Wage was recently voted the most successful policy in the last thirty years and Professor Stewart's pioneering work was instrumental in gaining widespread acceptance of the NMW in the UK" (Butcher (2013a), p2).
This impact is evident in the Low Pay Commission's annual reports which analyse the effects of the NMW and recommend changes ("upratings") in its level.
The LPC's recommendations are based on an evaluation of current knowledge about the effects of such upratings on employment, hours worked, and a variety of other labour market outcomes.
These reports are very influential: the Government has always accepted the LPC's recommendations on annual changes to the minimum wage.
"Professor Stewart's work has been cited in thirteen of the fourteen reports so far produced by the LPC," including all of the reports since 2009 (Butcher (2013a), p1).
"Much of [his] early work... focussed on investigating the impact of the minimum wage on employment [(Stewart (2002), Stewart (2003), Stewart (2004a), Stewart (2004b)]...1 This research concluded that... the introduction of the minimum wage, and its subsequent initial increases, had not adversely affected employment.
These findings were valuable insights that enabled Commissioners to be less cautious in their approach to raising the minimum wage."
(Butcher (2013a), p1-2) "The next phase of his research... concerned the impact of the minimum wage on hours [Stewart and Swaffield (2004)].2 In contrast to the earlier literature, they found some... negative effects on hours over the long run...
However, the reduction in hours was less than the increase in the minimum wage, thereby increasing weekly pay.
These findings convinced Commissioners that the low paid had not suffered a reduction in weekly earnings."
(Butcher (2013a), p2) Recognising that some of the LPC decisions predate the current impact period, Butcher concluded, "I should note that [Stewart's] findings on employment and hours were particularly important in determining Commissioners' recommendations in the period between 2001 and 2008 (and the impacts of those decisions continue to this day) but they have continued to play a role in the decisions made since then."
(Butcher (2013b), p1).
"A further area of research, and most recent, concerned the impact of the minimum wage on the distribution of earnings.
In a thorough and comprehensive study... for the 2010 LPC report, Professor Stewart [measured] the effect of the minimum wage on earnings higher up the earnings distribution (spillover effects)... [and] concluded that spillovers were small or limited.
This further helped Commissioners to view the effects of the minimum wage so far as relatively benign, and influenced their recommendations appropriately."
(Butcher (2013a), p2).3 The reach and significance of Professor Stewart's "pioneering work ... in gaining widespread acceptance of the NMW" (Butcher (2013a), p2) is considerable.
As described above, the direct beneficiaries were policymakers at the LPC tasked with evaluating and setting recommended minimum wages, but indirect beneficiaries include minimum wage employees, firms who employ low wage employees, and even the public at large, via increased tax revenues and reduced benefit payments.
In its most recent report, the LPC estimates 1.4 million workers (5.8% of the work force) were paid below the then-forthcoming minimum wage of &#163;6.08 per hour (LPC (2012), p36).
If features of the distribution of wages in the absence of a NMW were similar to that in 1998, the last year when evidence on below-minimum wages is available, then we estimate the NMW increased wages among low-wage workers by an average of &#163;1.53 per hour (&#163;2,678 per year), or &#163;3.7 billion in 2011.4 These income increases are tangible, material benefits that improve welfare for low-wage employees.
The NMW has also advanced other social goals, including reducing income inequality, decreasing the gender wage gap, increasing tax revenues, and lowering aggregate benefit payments.
Dickens, Riley, and Wilkenson (2012) estimate that each ten percentage point increase in the proportion of workers affected by the NMW is associated with a 4% lower growth rate in income inequality.
LPC (2012, p42) demonstrated that the NMW also reduced the gender pay gap from 15.8% to 8.3% at the median of the pay distribution and from 13.1% to 4.7% in the lowest decile.
Finally, LPC (2012, p152) estimated the October 2012 uprating increased government tax revenue in the 2012/13 budget cycle by &#163;112 million and lowered tax credits and benefit payments by &#163;78 million.
Finally, firms that employ such workers also benefit from the NMW as they are protected against unfair competition from rivals who might otherwise cut wages and other working conditions, imposing costs on their employees and society as a whole.
Contrary to its position at the time the NMW was introduced, the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), the UK's largest business organisation, now concludes "The CBI supports the NMW ... and the role of the independent LPC in setting it...
The NMW was implemented successfully and we accept that it has delivered benefit to the low paid and did not adversely impact on overall levels of employment growth...
Moderate rates [for the NMW] ... help to protect workers from excessive low wages" (Carberry (2013)).
