     The renewal of the Furtherfield programmes, website and organisation was       led by Co-directors Ruth Catlow and Marc Garrett, between 2009 and 2013       with a focus on collaboration, openness and environmental responsibility.
Furtherfield is now acknowledged, by practitioners and audiences, as a       leading, international hub for arts, technology and social change.
Underpinning of impact:       The development of participatory and collaborative processes and       intrastructures are informed by earlier work on Furtherfield web       platforms, VisitorsStudio artware, DIWO programmes and involvement in and       reflection on Node.London as well as ongoing discussions and reviews       hosted on Furtherfield website and the growing network of international       artists, curators and partner organisations.
Extent of the impact:       1) Furtherfield develops engaging web platforms and critical arts content       with an international reach:       In 2009 Furtherfield's digital offer was rated in the top 3% of Arts       Council England Regularly Funded Organisations (RFO).
This rating is an       indication of high quality production values, distinctive, original and       challenging content and high levels of user engagement and participation.
(MTM London, 2009).
2009-10 the Furtherfield website was re-developed using Drupal (a free       and open source, community content management system).
The work was       undertaken as part of WeShare, a project led by Ruth Catlow,       funded by Arts Council England (strategic funding of &#163;15K) to develop a       model for arts organisations to improve their sustainability by       collaborating on the development of digital infrastructure.
Furtherfield publishes annually online between 45 and 70 features,       reviews and critiques of artworks, artists, exhibitions, books, festivals,       emerging cultures in arts and technology worldwide (editor Marc Garrett).
Furtherfield received 187,574 visits to its website between 1 April 2012       and 31 March 2013     Discussion and knowledge exchange between artists, writers, technologists       and activists is supported via Furtherfield's email discussion list, Netbehaviour       (2005-ongoing) and archived online.
Its membership in 2012/13 varies       between 850 and 900 people with an average of 700 posts by approximately       80 individuals in any 3 month period.
Since 2011 this discussion is also       extended to Twitter where Furtherfield has 4000 followers.
2) Audiences for Furtherfield Gallery programmes 2008-13       Furtherfield's work is highly regarded and valued nationally and       internationally.
"Furtherfield has enhanced the public's relationship to       media art through their ongoing support of artistic practices that engage       with new technologies and critical thinking; with a sound commitment to       both local and remote (through the website) audience and community       development."
Kelli Dipple, Intermedia Curator, Tate Modern, 2010.
In       Spring 2012 the Furtherfield Gallery relocated to the McKenzie Pavilion in       the middle of Finsbury Park, North London, supported by Haringey Council.
The gallery programme attracts excellent reviews and has seen a fivefold       increase in its visitor numbers since 2011.
Furtherfield is now an       "internationally leading platform" (Christiane Paul, Whitney Museum       Curator) and is acknowledged as a "pioneer of this emerging practice that       offers a physical space where artists and local communities can discover,       create and be part of the debate around digital art" (Moira Sinclair,       London Executive Director of Arts Council England).
Ongoing feedback from       audiences demonstrates that the general public value our gallery       programmes and show a high interest in our programming (48% high; 34% very       high).
London Wall (N4) (2010) by Thomson and Craighead (UK) was installed for       the inaugural exhibition of the new Furtherfield Gallery in Finsbury Park,       London in an exhibition called Being Social.
This exemplary work was       selected for its ability to reveal the hidden poetry of exchanges between       local inhabitants.
http://www.furtherfield.org/programmes/exhibition/being-social       The exhibition attracted wide coverage and good reviews.
"Furtherfield       points at ways people can access the shifts in territory culturally and       with artistic use of technology or new media" &#8212; Jon Thomson, Artist     3) Programmes have been commissioned for international audiences by       external bodies.
Collaboration and Freedom &#8212; The World of Free and         Open Source Art, (2011), was a collection commissioned by Arts       Council England to reveal how artistic practices have developed in       parallel with global technological cultures.
It was mirrored by the       international network Foundation for P2P Alternatives where it has       received approximately 15000 visitors For this project Catlow and Garrett       commissioned over 35 new texts and interviews and oversaw the selection       and presentation of a selection of artworks.
http://p2pfoundation.net/World_of_Free_and_Open_Source_Art     Free Yourself?
(2011) a collection of 5 works, curated for Electronic       Village Gallery, a touring exhibition designed to reach audiences new to       digital arts in non-standard arts venues in Cornwall.
http://evg.dematerial.org/collection/free-yourself     Do It With Others &#8212; D.I.W.O is the new D.I.Y!
Camp Pixelache festival       2012 Helsinki, Finland.
Marc Garret was an invited speaker.
http://muistio.tieke.fi/pixelache-2012-camp-open-diwo     4) Public commissions, partnership and funding       Since 2008 Ruth Catlow has produced and co-directed a number of public       arts and outreach projects with and for diverse participants and audiences       with budgets ranging from &#163;2K to &#163;20K commissioned by institutional       partners including: Science Museum, A New Direction/Creative Partnerships,       Drake Music, V&amp;A, St Mungo's charity for homeless people.
http://www.furtherfield.org/programmes/outreach     2012-2015 Furtherfield continues to receive core funding from Arts       Council England as a National Portfolio Organisation.
It receives       approximately &#163;80K p/a
