     The research for `Artists' City' has involved substantial engagement with       public-facing organisations on Merseyside.
Bluecoat, Foundation for Art       and Creative Technology (FACT), Liverpool Biennial, The Royal Standard,       Metal and LOOK/13 International Photography Festival are among the       organisations that have benefitted from the research.
We share a strategic       aim of championing the value of cultural and creative capital in and from       Liverpool and have developed common strategies and initiatives for the       development of `The Artists' City'.
We have collaborated with several       partners to improve the environment for artists, for example, by working       with the artist-led organisation, The Royal Standard, to provide emerging       artists with studio space and connecting them to other organisations in       the city.
Mike Stubbs (CEO at FACT) characterises `multiple initiatives       and peer to peer relationships' which `led to industry relevant higher       level research and practice for staff and students, continued employment       for graduates and public platforms for important debate'.
LSAD is, he       believes, `an important plate in the tectonics of the city's artistic and       cultural renaissance'.
Bryan Biggs, Artistic Director of the Bluecoat,       affirms that our activities `have contributed to a lively contextual       environment for local visual arts practitioners'.
He points to the       exhibition programme at LSAD and the partnerships with the Biennial in       hosting exhibitions as key aspects of this     The research has substantially improved the City's exhibition offer.
Site       Gallery attracted over 28,000 visitors during its operational period       (2007-09).
The Martha Rosler Library (12 April &#8212; 14 June 2008) had       a public programme of events, including public discussions with the       artist, which 60 people attended.
Since its inception the ERC has curated       four exhibitions, each drawing around 300 visitors, while the ERC website       now averages 500 visitors a month.
The ERC's seminar series in particular       has attracted the attention of the growing national and international       community of researchers in exhibition studies.
Tate Liverpool's Research       Centre has developed, in tandem with the ERC, a monthly seminar series       across Liverpool aimed at examining the city as host and generator of       cultural activity.
Elizabeth Murphy, Director of the artist-led       organisation, The Royal Standard, affirms that `the exhibition and talks       programme at LJMU [is] a constant point of interest and ... expands       research interests for the directors in terms of curatorial approach and       for studios holders and their personal practice.
The programme also       provides the opportunity to access key works which would not have the       space to be shown elsewhere in the city.'
Additionally, LSAD hosted `New       Contemporaries' at the 2012 Biennial, an exhibition to showcase new and       emerging artists.
LJMU hosted Biennial Conferences in 2008 and 2010, which       featured prominent international curators and welcomed international       delegates.
In 2012 LJMU hosted two major festival strands: `City States'       funded by international cultural councils, and `New Contemporaries',       showcasing national emerging talent.
At the Biennial, LJMU and Shanghai       University, in partnership with AICA, launched the John Moores Critics       Award, which recognises emerging new talent in critical writing about       contemporary art and provides an international platform for emerging       critics in both countries to connect with their audiences and arts       communities.
The research has helped to create a richer environment for emerging       artists.
Since 2011 LSAD and Metal, the multi-disciplinary residency space       for artists in Liverpool, have worked alongside studio groups to develop a       joint programme designed to raise awareness of the artists' led scene in       the city.
Artists are rewarded for their skill and enterprise through new       initiatives.
For example, LSAD (supported by an Arts Council grant)       collaborated on the development of the `Liverpool Art Prize' with Metal       for artists born or based in the Liverpool city region.
Ian Brownbill,       Director of Metal affirms that that collaboration has diminished the gap       between student emerging artists and the established artist community in       the City.
Allied to this initiative, LSAD has also developed the John       Moores Critics Award (with the University of Shanghai) and the John Moores       Painting Prize China.
LSAD research into graduate retention and support for new and emerging       creative practitioners has led to a new programme, `Hunting in Packs', for       artists in the first stages of developing their careers, enabling access       to facilities which would otherwise be beyond their means and networking       them within the intellectual hub of the Artists' City.
For example, Thinking         City, jointly developed by Liverpool Biennial, Tate Liverpool and       LSAD, a programme of monthly Artist-led public salons, starting in 2013,       where emerging artists and the public can discuss the role art and culture       can have in the future of the city and its broader social processes.
