     A large proportion of activity around the Biennial creates process-based,       temporary and site-specific art projects.
Liverpool, whose visual arts       venues were amongst the first to develop programmes of artists working       with communities, has provided a fertile environment for arts       participation, although public art has not always been well received by       local audiences.
However, artists at LJMU have shown how many contemporary       art practices bear upon local perspectives and identities, helping to       ameliorate public perceptions of contemporary art.
Significant outreach       took place as part of Appleton's Hope Street Project at project:       Appleton collected `phrases of aspiration', recordings by around 650       locals, school children and visitors articulating their hopes for the       city, at outreach events including the Hope Street Festival, FACT's Tenantspin       project, the Long Night at the Biennial and in a Radio City phone       in with local DJ Peter Price &#8212; as well as via the automatic recording       system within Cathedrals.
Appleton relayed the phrases between the       cathedrals in The Hope Street Project, which became a nocturnal       landmark during Liverpool's European City of Culture Celebrations, and was       affectionately known in Liverpool as `God's Washing Line'.
It featured       extensively in the local press, radio and television (for example, BBC         News 20/11/08 http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/7740086.stm).
Many thousands of people saw the installation and thousands visited the       two Cathedrals to experience the sound installations.
Beneficiaries of the research have also gained by participation in       community-responsive arts programmes designed to assist audiences develop       their appreciation and understanding of visual culture.
By showing how art       works foster shared meaning, the research shows that attitudes towards       place &#8212; such as a sense of belonging &#8212; are enhanced.
In addition to being       screened at the Biennial, MacKinnon-Day's Private Views Made Public       (Biennial 2010) was installed in seven, non-art rural locations throughout       the region and led to a series of community events, including a culinary       master-class in a regional restaurant and a screening at the Merz Barn in       Cumbria.
Mackinnon-Day has extended her community-responsive research into       a local urban farm.
MacKinnon-Day's Arts Council-funded residency for at       Rice Lane City Farm (2012 on-going) is an artist-led project in an       economically deprived district of Liverpool with a long history of       community activism (the author of The Ragged-Legged Philanthropist,       Robert Tressell, is buried there).
The research is driven by a goal of       engaging local audiences in the history of the site, and in facilitating       activity around local environmental issues.
Audience surveys conducted by the Biennial show that there is now an       exceptional level of local awareness of the Biennial and that 68% of local       residents were aware that the 2012 festival was taking place and 96% of       those asked believe that the Biennial is an important event for Liverpool.
The breadth of the Biennial's reach has continually expanded and in 2012       35% of the audience is new to the visual arts, having little or no       knowledge of contemporary art.
Our collaborative work with the Biennial       has provided opportunities for participants to get involved in trying new       things.
Appleton's Shang-pool Arcadia (Biennial 2010) invited the       public to link via a variety of virtual encounters with people in       Shanghai.
Audiences engaged with Shang-pool Arcadia in two live       linked simultaneous events: Picnic in Arcadia at the Bluecoat       (23/10/10) and Voyages in Arcadia as part of a Biennial Late Night       event (26/11/10).
The project involved cross-disciplinary participation       and collaboration with audiences from schools in Merseyside and Shanghai.
For example, 20 pupils from Upton Hall Grammar School, Wirral were       introduced to modelling techniques inside Second Life in preparation for       the project.
The Second-Life virtual park is accessible from anywhere in       the world and has been accessed by thousands of people.
Shang-pool         Arcadia was shortlisted as one of three projects for the       international Learning Without Frontiers Awards 2011.
(http://www.learningwithoutfrontiers.com/lwf-awards-finalists-2011).
The work of Appleton and MacKinnon-Day for the Liverpool Biennial has       fostered networks and connections for participating audiences.
It also       offers social networks that inform users about other people's cultures.
Around 200 members of the public participated in Appleton's Shang-pool         Arcadia live event, which enabled virtual meetings between people       from Liverpool and Shanghai in the artist's Second Life landscape of       Stanley Park.
MacKinnon-Day used an artist's residency in Shanghai to       create 10 Day Rehearsal, which compared her experiences of working with       Chinese women in military and social situations.
The final film work was       shown to the women at the qipao club, Shanghai and at The Pagoda       Arts Centre, Liverpool, during the Liverpool Biennial 2012.
The piece was       also used as part of a Chinese workshop on Chinese culture at Edge Hill       University and it has subsequently been shown at the Jai and Jai Gallery       in Los Angeles.
