     The impact of the research at national level includes contributing to the       work of the highly influential independent health policy think-tank, the       King's Fund.
The research findings from the second NIHR SDO-funded project       were included in two reports written by the researchers in collaboration       with the King's Fund, Accountability of Foundation Trusts in the         English NHS: views of directors and governors and Accountability         in the NHS: Implications of the government's health reform programme.
Both reports are available on the King's Fund website.
These reports draw       on the underpinning research to map the formal accountability       relationships of foundation trusts in England and explore the       interpretations of these relationships.
The analysis concluded that       although major policy objectives give greater autonomy to foundation       trusts and encourages them to be more accountable to the local population,       they continue to look towards the Department of Health rather than to the       local population and its representatives.
They identify five types of       accountability most relevant to healthcare: accountability by scrutiny,       management, regulation, contract and election (evidence 1 and 2 below).The       reports in turn influenced the Government's task force, the NHS Future       Forum.
In 2012, the Chair of the NHS Future Forum, was tasked by the       government to assess future models of governance in the NHS.
He noted how       these King's Fund analyses of governance in the NHS influenced the       thinking of the Future Forum about the design of the governance of the       clinical commissioning groups formed following the Health and Social Care       Act 2012.
In particular, the need to widen the governance apparatus was       acknowledged as the need to safeguard against ritualistic and formal modes       of governance and regulation.
The underpinning research has more recently (2012 onwards) shaped the new       model of leadership adopted by the NHS's National Leadership Academy.
This       provides the basis for the full suite of leadership programmes for       managers and clinicians throughout NHS England, as described by the Head       of Professional Development, NHS Leadership Academy:     `Thank you for the work Richard Holti and John Storey did towards the       research that underpinned the primary research for the new Healthcare       Leadership Model for the NHS and beyond.
Their report&#8212;but more, the       reading, thinking and synthesis that went before&#8212;has informed what I       believe will become a truly impactful model.
... You can be pleased that       your initial work has influenced so well a core model of leadership that       will underpin the core Professional Leadership Programmes of the world's       4th-largest employer.'
(3)     The impact on the NHS Leadership Academy of the research has led to       collaboration with the global management consulting firm Hay Group to       develop a continuing professional development (CPD) solution for the NHS       Leadership Academy.
The award of a contract to the OU and Hay Group was       announced by the NHS Leadership Academy in February 2013 (4).
It is the       first national programme for leadership and the largest investment in       leadership development ever undertaken by the NHS.
There have been 1,500       practitioner (managers and clinicians) registrations for the training (as       of 31 July 2013) and the NHS have planned that 12,000 healthcare       professionals will undertake the CPD in the next three years.
The impact       of the underpinning research was described by a Director at Hay Group:     `Hay Group has been working with Richard Holti and John Storey to develop       a new Leadership Model for the NHS Leadership Academy.
Without doubt the       intellectual input from Richard Holti has shaped the thinking behind this       Leadership Model in a fundamental way and the research on NHS leadership       and governance he conducted with his colleague provided the basis for       this.'
(5)     In addition to influencing policy at a national level, the work of       Professor Storey and his colleagues has also had an impact at the level of       individual hospital trusts.
Based on the underpinning research, Professor       Storey, together with Professor Paul Bate (University College London), was       invited to be part of an action research project to improve the governance       and leadership of University College London Hospital (UCLH) (Feb 2008 to       March 2009).
The project, led by the Chief Executive, involved the       devolution of certain types and degrees of governance from the Board to       the major service lines within the hospital, termed `service-line       management' (SLM).
Professor Storey's role was to concept test the idea       and implementation of SLM at UCLH.
His involvement included a review of       the existing governance structures and processes within UCLH and an       evaluation of the migration towards devolved service-line management.
The       Chief Executive, UCLH, described the impact of the research:     `UCLH is a national institution with an international reputation, and the       work that Professor John Storey and Professor Paul Bate undertook on       clinical engagement and governance greatly influenced our thinking around       the organisational structure of our Board and the increasing engagement of       clinicians in developing our future strategic direction.'
(6)     After successful adoption by UCLH, service-line management was adopted by       a number of other healthcare trusts, which were advised by Professor       Storey and colleagues.
These NHS trusts included: Luton &amp; Dunstable       NHS Foundation Trust, Northampton General NHS Trust, Kings College London       NHS FT, NHS Salford and NHS Lambeth &amp; Southwark.
The former Chief       Executive of Luton &amp; Dunstable NHS Foundation Trust commented:     `Professor Storey's work on governance and service-line management came       at an opportune time when I was CEO of Luton &amp; Dunstable Hospital in       2009.
We were experimenting with earned autonomy of our Directorates.
We       wanted to devolve a number of decisions and powers previously vested in       the Board or Executive, and his advice on appropriate governance       arrangements at both Directorate and senior level was really helpful.'
(7)     The Director, Greater Manchester Clinical Support Unit, commented: `We       found the findings of the research conducted by John Storey and Richard       Holti extremely valuable in opening the conversation on models of       leadership with clinicians (doctors and nurses).
It introduced and gained       professional acknowledgement of the emerging development of shared       leadership models across integrated sexual health services in Greater       Manchester.'
(8)     The concept of service-line management has more recently been approved       and endorsed by the health regulator, Monitor, as the management model for       all foundation trusts in the UK health service (9).
