     This research filled an important gap in knowledge about the links       between emotions, emotion regulation and performance in financial       decision-making.
Poor financial decision-making, by both professionals and       private investors, has been identified as a key contributor to the 2008       financial crisis, and the long-term and profound damage of that crisis       demonstrates the importance of these failures.
This research has made an       economic impact for an individual bank and a widespread social impact       through improving the awareness and skills of individual investors and       financial consumers.
A major commercial impact of the research has been on the European online       bank, Saxo Bank (http://www.saxobank.com),       which was also a partner in the xDelia research.
As an online bank, an       important part of their client attraction and service is via their online       TradingFloor.com.
Outputs of Professor Fenton-O'Creevy's research,       particularly the outputs from the xDelia project, have been included in a       dedicated educational section of TradingFloor.com called `Train Your       Brain' (evidence 1 below).
This section presents the findings of the       research as a two-part, online resource titled `The Emotions and Trading       Biases Course', which includes:            an online questionnaire developed by Professor Fenton-O'Creevy and         collaborators that allows users to identify their emotional biases when         making financial decisions; feedback on the questionnaire is provided         via videos designed by Professor Fenton-O'Creevy and Saxo Bank in the         xDelia project so that individuals are made aware of their own biases;       a diagnostic online game based on the findings of the underpinning         research, providing further insight into users' emotional biases.
The Train Your Brain web pages explicitly reference the input from       Professor Fenton-O'Creevy's xDelia project, provide the summary to the       xDelia final report and refer users to the xDelia project website.
Saxo       Bank's TradingFloor.com portal has a broad reach, being available to the       bank's customers and the general public, and has over 6,000 registered       users (as of Dec 2012).
The Bank views the provision of `Train Your Brain'       and the `Emotions and Trading Biases Course' as important in supporting       the development of their clients, and sees them as a significant part of       the educational and development offerings to both of these groups, and as       part of their customer satisfaction and retention strategy.
The Head of       Research and Innovation at Saxo Bank stated:     `Professor Fenton-O'Creevy's collaboration with Saxo Bank through these       several years has been very valuable to us in several ways.
In general,       his knowledge and insights concerning the psychology of trading and       investment has helped the bank target new areas of focus and craft tools       and processes for approaching these areas.
Through formal research and       many important discussions, Professor Fenton-O'Creevy has helped the bank       to develop ideas concerning investor education and training of its       employees and to put together client-facing resources that represent part       of the bank's value proposition.
This contribution has helped provide a       foundation and framework that the bank continues to build upon.'
(2).
The underpinning research has also led to significant social impact.
Professor Fenton-O'Creevy has worked with Prof Adrian Furnham (UCL) and       the BBC's Lab UK to produce `The Big Money Test'.
This online       test, which is hosted on the BBC's Lab UK website, invites members of the       public to participate in an in-depth (20 mins) questionnaire about their       emotions and financial decision making.
They then receive customised       feedback in the form of videos recorded by Martin Lewis (of       moneysavingexpert.com), which are based upon the underpinning research       (3).
These videos explain the practical meaning of key elements of their       results and offer tips on management of personal finances.
This       interaction and personalised feedback ensures a move beyond widespread       public engagement to social impact on the understanding and skills of       individuals.
Further interest in The Big Money Test has been       generated by its being featured on the BBC's peak-time consumer affairs       programme, Watchdog.
The Big Money Test has had       considerable reach, with over 109,000 participants (as of April 2012).
The underpinning research also provided the basis for Professor       Fenton-O'Creevy's role as an Academic Advisor for BBC2's documentary on       the causes and ramifications of the financial crisis, titled Love of         Money (2009).
This role involved providing academic and research       guidance to the production team and overseeing the provision of supporting       resources, which are usually provided online.
The series had an average       audience of 1.3 million per episode and an audience appreciation measure       above the BBC average (4).
Similar to other programmes co-produced       by the OUBS with the BBC, this series attracted a wider demographic mix       than other specialist programmes, including groups identified by the BBC       as hard to reach.
The programme also had a higher than average proportion       of viewers accessing the supporting online materials, again demonstrating       that the programmes and their support resources go beyond general public       engagement and achieve impact at the individual level.
Further social impact has been generated through the production of a       podcast on iTunes U titled Money and Emotions, which has been       downloaded over 21,000 times.
Professor Fenton-O'Creevy has also authored       two series of articles for The Telegraph Business Section, both       discussing the role of emotions in financial decision-making and trading.
More recently, the underpinning research has had an impact on both UK and       international policy makers through invited meetings and presentations.
Professor Fenton-O'Creevy gave an invited presentation at the OECD       Investor Education Conference on recognising the role of emotions in       investor education (3-4 Feb 2012, Goa, India).
Following personal       invitations, Professor Fenton- O'Creevy provided invited input into the       financial education strategy of the UK's Money Advice Service.
He also was       invited to meet the New Zealand Government Commissioner with       responsibility for Financial Literacy and Retirement Income.
The       Commissioner commented after the meeting     `Thank you very much for sharing the information about the xDelia       project.
Our office has used the information to help develop our thinking       regarding our financial literacy programme.'
(5)     Professor Fenton-O'Creevy also met with officials from the Central Bank       of Brazil (Feb 2013) who subsequently included findings from the research       in training events they ran for their staff in the Central Bank and for       the Executive of the Brazilian National Strategy for Financial Education       (6).
Professor Fenton-O'Creevy's research findings have also been instrumental       in the formation and development of the firm Essentia Analytics Ltd (7),       to which he was invited to join the Advisory Board in May 2013.
Essentia       Analytics develops tools and coaching approaches based on behavioural       approaches to financial decision-making to support the performance of fund       managers and other professional financial decision makers.
The CEO of       Essentia has said:     `Professor Fenton-O'Creevy's work bridges a crucial gap between       Behavioural Finance theory and its application.
In our quest to help       professional investors make more skilled investment decisions, we draw       upon it gratefully and usefully.'
(8)
