     Research from this study has, and continues to, inform the debate on       alcohol marketing to young people by policy makers, the medical       profession, interest groups and the wider public.
The findings of the NPRI       research study led the Board of Science of the British Medical Association       (BMA) to commission a report in 2009 from the researchers to assess the       impact of alcohol marketing on the drinking habits of young people.
This       report was titled: Under the Influence: the damaging effect of alcohol         marketing on young people (evidence 1 below).
The Director of       Professional Activities at the BMA described the collaboration:     `The BMA has been privileged to work with Professor Hastings and his       colleagues on a number of reports, and also when we are considering new       areas of work.
The report he wrote for the BMA ... has become a seminal       document in the UK struggle to get the alcohol abuse epidemic under       control.
It is firmly the base of our public health lobbying and we know       is heavily referenced by all members of the Alcohol Health Alliance.'
(2)     The report Under the Influence, which quoted much of the       underpinning research from the MRC NPRI study, prompted the BMA to call       for a ban on alcohol advertising and the establishment of minimum price       levels for alcohol.
The report was covered extensively in the media,       including interviews with Professor Hastings on News at Ten and       Radio 4's Today programme, prompting considerable public debate       about alcohol advertising and pricing (3 and 4).
As part of its 2009 investigation into the conduct of the UK alcohol       industry, Professor Hastings was appointed as a Special Advisor to the       House of Commons Health Select Committee.
The Committee obtained access to       internal marketing documents from both producers and their advertising       agencies and asked Professor Hastings and other colleagues from The Open       University, most prominently Dr Farrell, to undertake an analysis of these       documents.
The findings were presented to the Select Committee and       published as a memorandum entitled They'll Drink Bucket Loads of the         Stuff (5).
The Health Select Committee minutes state: 'Professor       Hastings found that the documents reveal major shortcomings in the current       self regulatory codes covering alcohol advertising.
Specifically, the       codes do not, as they are supposed to, protect young people from alcohol       advertising; prevent the promotion of drunkenness and excess; or the       linking of alcohol with social and sexual success.
Nor do they even       attempt to address sponsorship, and the documents show this is being       systematically used to undermine rules prohibiting the linking of alcohol       with youth culture and sporting prowess.'
(6) Under the Influence       was also cited in the House of Lords' debate on legislation relating to       drinking alcohol in public places.
In this debate, Baroness Walmsley made       direct reference to the importance and centrality of the BMA report,       stating: `It is interesting that during the recess we saw a report from       the BMA, Under the Influence, about the damaging effects of       alcohol marketing on young people.
The solutions are all to do with       marketing and not with simply removing the alcohol from the child on the       street.'
(7)     On 30 March 2011, the Conservative MP for Totnes, introduced a Private       Member's Bill to Parliament on the regulation of alcohol marketing to       children.
The Bill drew directly from the underpinning research and       concluded: `that increasing exposure to alcohol marketing encourages       children to start drinking younger and to drink more when they do'       (8).
The MP for Totnes described the impact of the research undertaken by       Professor Hastings and colleagues: `The work of Professor Hastings and his       team was of immense value in the preparation of my Private Member's Bill       which aimed to tackle the inappropriate marketing of alcohol to young       people.
Whilst such bills are rarely able to progress beyond second       reading due to the shortage of Parliamentary time, this bill was important       in raising awareness and influencing the policy debate both within       Parliament and nationally.
Professor Hastings was also personally very       helpful sharing his expertise about the wider issues and further sources       of evidence-based information.
The opportunity for national politicians to       consult experts in this specialist field is of immense value' (9).
Professor Hastings was awarded the OBE in 2009 for his work in the field       (10).
