     Applying an ecosystem service approach to improve government policy         for valuing and protecting the environment including the first ever         National Ecosystems Assessment     The Centre's research informed a step-change in national and regional       policy frameworks for natural resource management by contributing to       Defra's theoretical rationale for adopting an ecosystems services approach       (Study 1) and collaborating in examining the case for undertaking a       National Ecosystem Assessment (NEA) (Study 2).
The former has since been       taken forward in the context of Defra's Action Plan for the Environment,       while the latter directly resulted in the first analysis of the UK's       natural environment in terms of its benefits to society and economic       prosperity.
This &#163;2 million initiative reported in 2011 and was recognized       by government as a vital step forward in developing integrated approaches       to environmental management.
Its recommendations were taken forward in the       2011 Natural Environment White Paper including the setting up of a       research and practice network led by CRPR (Study 3).
CRPR research       contributed directly to the National Assessment; Defra's Head of Science,       Land and Farming Directorate said the research made a `recognised       contribution to the development and implementation of ecosystems policy in       Defra', including because it `gave us the evidence to commit to conducting       the world's first National-level Ecosystem Assessment', hailed as a `gold       standard' by Europe.
He said UK Government received many requests for       advice from other Governments replicating NEA.1     The Centre's research has led to the practical implementation of the       ecosystems services approach for decision-making across a set of rural       policy issues.
The research led to the production of national guidelines       on the use participatory and deliberative techniques for embedding the       approach across government (Studies 1 and 2).
This research resulted in       Defra's (2007) Ecosystem Action Plan incorporating the principle of       stakeholder engagement and dialogue into its revised approach (Defra       2010).
Defra's Head of Science, Land and Farming Directorate commented       that this part of CRPR's research `provided a clear framework for how       decision makers at a range of spatial scales could incorporate the       non-monetary value of ecosystem services into their decisions through       participatory and deliberative processes.'
He also noted that `the       Ecosystems Policy team in Defra passed on this guide to numerous policy       contacts within and outside the Department for them to consider how these       various techniques might be able to enhance their decisions.
'1       This work was part of Defra's evidence base that has since informed       developments in HM Treasury Green Book guidance on the non-market       valuation of environmental impacts.
The original consultation document       regarding these guidelines was downloaded by more than 300 stakeholders       and became the focus of a major seminar on enabling citizens' choices       about land use and the natural environment as part of a Department for       Business, Innovation and Skills sponsored science dialogue project by the       Natural Capital Initiative.
Improving policy on environmental stewardship in upland farming         through participation in a review of the English Uplands     The CRPR findings about the farming community's pivotal role in       environmental protection as part of the ecosystems services approach were       taken forward by an inquiry undertaken by the Commission for Rural       Communities into the English Uplands.2 This Inquiry provided       the major stimulus to the Government's review of uplands policy and the       launch of a new suite of policy initiatives and related funding in March       2011.
The package included &#163;6million a year available to hill farmers for       environmental stewardship schemes in recognition of the contribution they       make to ecosystems across a range of services including carbon storage,       and the maintenance of recreational land and landscape.
The then Chairman       of Commission for Rural Communities commented `The Inquiry research has       become a seminal report which is gradually being rolled out by HM       Government.
This is due in large part to the huge impact of Professor       Winter's influence on the whole of the research and inquiry process'.3     Improving environmental farmland policy including better training for         farmers about agri-environmental schemes     Lobley and Winter's findings from the ESRC RELU Project (Study 6) that       more specific and specialised training and advice improves farmers'       expertise in and attitudes towards an ecosystems-oriented,       wildlife-friendly approach, were communicated to Defra and other       stakeholders from 2011.
The independent ESRC/NERC/BBSRC reviewer of the       grant funding Study 6 noted in 2011 that `the highlight of this research       has been its impact on the design and implementation of agri-environmental       schemes.
This has already been reflected in changes to the delivery of       Entry Level Stewardship (ELS) and will inform the design of a modified       agri-environment scheme that will operate from 2014 to 2020.'
The reviewer       identified the research contributions as `extremely valuable evidence of       the positive impact of training on farmer attitudes and, crucially, on the       quality of the environmental management that they undertake.'
The findings were presented in a set of briefing meetings with senior       Defra and Natural England representatives, which resulted in the       introduction of fundamental environmental training as a component of the       ELS4.
The head of Defra's Agri-Environment Theme Group       described the Centre's work as having clear links with and implications       for policy development and delivery.5 Lobley is referenced in       Natural England's Agri-environment Schemes in England 2009 A Review of         Results and Effectiveness report that states `There is       increasing evidence (Lobley et al, 2009) that supporting agri-environment       scheme agreement holders through training and advice can have a       significant impact on the delivery of environmental outcomes'.6       Changes in attitudes and farming practice have been evident.
A set of       interviews with farmers who participated in the training found that 75 per       cent claimed the training had either a significant or very significant       effect in the way they participated in ELS.
Changes were evident in       farmers' use of different seed mixes and better management of habitats for       wildlife (Lobley 2013).
Under the expanded ELS training and information       programme, up to the summer of 2012, 8,733 farmers have been in receipt of       face to face training and advice through farm visits and events.
To       supplement and build on the visits, there have been a number of farm walks       and workshops.7 With nearly 60% of England's agricultural land       now under Entry Level Stewardship and agri-environmental spending       estimated at &#163;1m a day, the significance of this shift over the longer       term is considerable.
