     Improving electoral administration in recording official voting data:       Vowles and Karp's finding of errors in the 2008 election recording of       special votes in polling places revealed that many `special voters' had       not been recorded on the master rolls as having voted.
Misclassification       in the 2008 dataset was as much as 40 per cent.
The problem was       subsequently also identified in data from the 2002 and 2005 elections, and       was discussed and documented (Vowles 2010).
The findings were communicated       to the New Zealand Electoral Commission, which is responsible for the       administration of national elections, in 2009, along with the implications       of the problem.
Recording of special voters for public inspection is a       legal requirement and could be needed if an electoral petition challenging       the result were to be initiated.
As a result of Vowles and Karp's       findings, the Commission `reviewed the clarity of [its] instructions in       producing the master rolls' to Returning Officers in the 23 Electoral       Offices across the whole country and `put greater emphasis on this area       when training Returning Officers' (Chief Electoral Officer, personal       communication, 2009).1 Following up his earlier research,       Vowles monitored the effectiveness of the changes in the 2011 NZES.
He       found a reduction in the problem although not its complete elimination,       with 4 per cent of those validated as non-voters claiming they had cast a       special vote.
The Electoral Commission has now further responded by       increasing automation in the process for scrutinising the master rolls in       time for the 2014 election which should further improve administration.
Better understanding of voter attitudes for more effective electoral         administration:       The research findings about public understanding of NZ elections (Miller       and Vowles 2009; Vowles 2011) helped the Electoral Commission decide on       appropriate administrative services for elections.
Vowles is part of a       group assisting the Electoral Commission in improving its strategy,       including leading a workshop in August 2013, to inform their policy for       the 2014 NZ election.
The importance of the research to this beneficiary       is reflected in the part-funding of NZES by the New Zealand Electoral       Commission since 2005.
The 2008 and 2011 NZES contained several questions       developed jointly with the Electoral Commission.
Findings about the 2011       election were communicated to the Commission in March and April 2012 with       research helping the Commission assess the potential to introduce voting       using the internet.
Vowles reported findings that most people still prefer       personal voting (46%) although 36% would prefer the internet to the       Commission.
This supports the Electoral Commission's policy of not       introducing a wholesale change immediately but to move forward with a       trial of online voting scheduled for elections in 2016.
Improvements to Electoral Commission information campaigns and         informing media debate during the mixed member proportional system         national referendum:       The research findings that there were misconceptions about MMP in public       attitudes (Vowles 2010; 2011) helped the Electoral Commission's education       strategy for public understanding in the November 2011 MMP referendum.
The       educational materials were effective with 88% of those who received       Commission information feeling confident in their ability to make a       meaningful vote, and, amongst all voters, 82% of registered electors       knowing that the question would be whether they wanted to keep MMP or not       (compared to only 35% in May 2011 before the campaign).2 Vowles       communicated with campaigners and media organisations prior to the       referendum.
In the national press, Vowles' (2011) research about MMP's       effects on the accountability of representatives was used in media       stories, including the largest circulation newspaper, the New Zealand       Herald.
On 16 Nov 2011 the paper reported the `quality analysis being       contributed to the debate' by the research and how `Prof Jack Vowles       nicely demolishes the anti-MMP argument about the supposed lack of       accountability under the current system.'
(http://bit.ly/ve6D9p).
Rudman, an influential national columnist, wrote about the referendum       campaign in the New Zealand Herald (Dec 14th 2011) (http://bit.ly/1dxKQIw)       after it had been completed.
He cited Vowles' finding that `the survival       of electorate-defeated MPs through dual candidacy is relatively rare' as       important in Rudman's own support for the retention of MMP during the       campaign.
The media debate contributed to high public knowledge about the       referendum which was further promoted by the researchers making NZES       datasets available to all campaigners, with some using it to target their       campaigns (Gray and Fitzsimmons 2012).3 The high level of       knowledge was confirmed by data from the NZES showing that 9 out of 10       people were aware of the referendum.
Vowles and Karp's research helped confirm the legitimacy of the 2011       referendum outcome by showing that voters made an informed choice in       retaining MMP in evidence to the Justice and Electoral Law Committee       select committee.4 Karp's analysis confirmed that the public       did have a preference for MMP as expressed in the referendum result       undercutting criticism and reinforcing the legitimacy of the referendum       result.
(http://www.parliament.nz/resource/0000190224).
Vowles extended his research on voter turnout, which had previously been       used by the Electoral Commission2, to show that MMP had not       reduced turnout in elections as some critics of it had claimed (http://www.parliament.nz/resource/0000190244).
A summary of findings appeared on the parliamentary website and triggered       media debate.
In the New Zealand Herald (29 May 2012), Vowles research was       seen to challenge the media tendency of `turning elections into a two       horse presidential style contest' because `this ignores the MMP reality       that an election can be very close even though the gap between the two       main parties is wide' (http://bit.ly/K6HaBL).
Parliament Today (28 May 2012) also ran an article reporting the research,       quoting it substantially.5     Informing a national review of the mixed member proportional system         including to maintain thresholds on party electoral support necessary         for admission to Parliament:       The research findings about public attitudes to MMP were used by a major       review of MMP to the Ministry of Justice in 2012 and affected the review's       recommendations.
The research found that nearly half of New Zealanders       believed that too many parties were represented in the New Zealand       Parliament, including a third of people who voted for MMP in the 2011       referendum.
Vowles submitted these findings as evidence to the MMP Review       in May 2012 (http://www.mmpreview.org.nz/search/apachesolr_search/NZES)       MMP potentially contributes to more parties being represented in       Parliament depending on the threshold of the vote that parties have to       achieve to obtain representation.
The information about the potential       threat to the legitimacy of MMP provided grounds for the Review Panel to       resist arguments that the overall threshold, currently winning at least       one electorate seat or 5% of all party votes, should be lowered       significantly or abolished, which would have increased the number of       parties in Parliament.
The influence of the research is reflected in       extensive citation in both the Proposals Paper6 and the Final       Report (with 10 references throughout the Final Report7).
