     Impact on clinical practice       When it was reported in 2005, the results of the SALTIRE trial were highly       controversial.
Many commentators initially refused to accept the findings       such was the widespread belief that statin therapy would be effective in       treating aortic stenosis.
However, the importance of the study was       recognised in an accompanying editorial in N Engl J Med [5.1] and it has       since been cited 336 times (Web of Knowledge; Thomson Reuters, 2013).
Importantly, two further randomised controlled trials (SEAS [2008] and       ASTRONOMER [2012]) corroborated the findings of the SALTIRE trial.
The       weight of evidence, initially from SALTIRE and supported by the additional       two trials, has changed clinical practice internationally, as evidenced by       expert commentaries citing SALTIRE on international websites, for example,       UK (British Cardiovascular Society) [5.2], USA (Medscape) [5.3] and       Argentina (Sociedad Argentina de Cardiologia) [5.4].
Dr KL Chan, lead       investigator of the ASTRONOMER trial, stated on TheHeart.org "with three       randomized trials...it really means that statins have no role per se in       the treatment of aortic stenosis" [5.5] and a 2010 review stated "statins       cannot be advocated to patients solely to prevent progression of aortic       stenosis" [5.6].
Impact on public policy       The SALTIRE trial was acknowledged as being the first in the field and was       cited in 2008 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association       guidelines for the management of valvular heart disease as evidence       against the use of statin therapy in these patients [5.7].
Similarly, the       2012 European Society of Cardiology guidelines advise against statin usage       as a primary treatment for aortic stenosis [5.8] (SALTIRE cited in the       forerunning 2007 version).
Impact on health and welfare and the economy       Approximately 1 million people in the United Kingdom have valvular heart       disease and this is predicted by the British Cardiovascular Society       (www.statistics.gov.uk) to increase by 50% by 2025.
Nearly half of these       individuals are accounted for by aortic stenosis, giving an overall       prevalence of 400-500,000 people currently in the UK.
The SALTIRE findings       and their subsequent confirmation have therefore prevented the       inappropriate implementation of statin treatment as a disease-modifying       drug in the majority of patients with aortic stenosis.
Furthermore,       because myalgia and major hepatic dysfunction are associated with statin       therapy in 5% and 1% of people, respectively, avoiding statin use has       prevented potentially detrimental side-effects in approximately 30,000       people.
In economic terms, based on the prescription cost of atorvastatin, this       is calculated to result in cost savings of up to &#163;169M per annum for the       UK alone [5.9].
