     Pathways to impact     Because of the "orphan" nature of non-cancer palliative care at the       outset of the work, the team engaged in an important drive to establish       the importance of this service and its development with professional       groups and healthcare students.
To assist in this, Murray and colleagues       founded the International Primary Palliative Care Network in 2007.
This       global network (committee members from UK, Australia, Canada, South       Africa, Belgium) leads its field in research, advocacy and service       innovation.
It helps researchers from all continents collaborate and       advocate for palliative care in the community.
Impact on clinical practice and education     Murray's team developed the Supportive &amp; Palliative Care Indicators       Tool (SPICT) to identify for palliative care more people dying with       conditions such as COPD and dementia [5.1].
In 2009, they introduced       routine advance care planning in all nursing homes in Midlothian,       Scotland, decreasing hospital admissions by 50%, and greatly improving the       overall quality of care as evaluated by relatives.
Both of these       interventions are now being rolled out throughout the UK; the latter won a       Scottish Award for Excellence in Dementia Care and has prevented thousands       of hospital admissions and deaths, with considerable economic benefits       [5.2].
Internationally, the SPICT has been adopted in the UK, Spain,       Holland, Ireland and Uganda.
All UK hospices now have community care teams supporting patients with       non-malignant diseases.
Non-cancer palliative care rose from 6% of UK       services in 2000 to 18% in 2012 (National Council for Palliative Care       [5.3]).
The research has also informed quality improvement standards for       heart failure in UK and Europe [5.4].
Regarding educational practice, in 2008, the team won the BMJ's "Making a       Difference Campaign", so that until 2011, the BMJ prioritised publications       about non-cancer palliative care.
Moreover, this opportunity was used to       advocate successfully for a new journal, BMJ Supportive &amp; Palliative       Care, launched in 2011.
Illustrations of the conceptual framework for       service are now incorporated in major undergraduate and postgraduate       medical texts [e.g., 5.5].
Impact on public policy     Through the Palliative Care Network and other channels, such as the       independent think-tank Demos, which cited the work in 2010 [5.6], Murray       and colleagues have stimulated governmental and public debate about       demographic and end-of-life challenges.
The work has directly influenced       both UK Government policy and previously cancer-only-funding charities,       such as Marie Curie Cancer Care, so that they are both now investing twice       as much in palliative care for non-cancer patients than they were a decade       ago.
UK, Irish and Singaporean government policies reference the work       [5.7-5.9, respectively], calling for a re-design of services to better       meet diverse needs.
In 2013, Murray, as an executive member of the       International Association of Hospice and Palliative Care, co-authored a       successful submission to the World Health Organization to list palliative       care medications in a separate section from oncology, and for morphine to       be listed as an essential medicine for palliative care for the first time.
Impact on society     Murray became a founder member of a national group to encourage a public       discourse about death and dying, and mobilise communities and individuals       to be involved in preventing and minimising distress at the end of life.
The website of this group had 1908 unique hits during a recent "death       awareness" week [5.10].
Similar public involvement strategies are       increasingly being integrated in other national end-of-life strategies       [e.g., 5.9].
Impact on international development     In 2011, the team was instrumental in founding an African Palliative Care       Research Network, which currently supports the first African-based BSc and       MSc in palliative care.
Furthermore, the group, with Edinburgh University       Global Health Academy, was awarded a &#163;1.5M Department for International       Development grant to integrate palliative care into the health systems of       Rwanda, Kenya, Uganda and Zambia.
The team has helped develop the first       patient pathway for palliative care from a tertiary hospital down to       district and health centre levels in Africa.
The Palliative Care Unit at       Makerere University, Uganda, led by Leng (Honorary Research Fellow, UoE),       trials many innovations.
African Ministry of Health personnel have       attended training in Edinburgh, and the team has advised the Zambian       Ministry of Health on cervical cancer care.
