     Pathways to impact       Expert advice underpinning legislative changes in both Europe and North       America leaned       heavily on Sharpe's work.
Sharpe has contributed to expert reports to       policy-makers at the       highest levels.
Examples include: the Advisory Committee on Hazardous       Substances (2010);       the European Parliament Science and Technology Options Assessment (2013);       the European       Science Foundation (2010); the European Environment Agency [5.1]; the US       National       Academies Committee on Health Risks of Phthalates (2008); the US Consumer       Product Safety       Commission: US Chronic Hazard Advisory Panel on Phthalates (2011); Food       and Agriculture       Organisation/the World Health Organization (2012) [5.2]; EC Scientific       Committee on emerging       and newly identified health risks (2013); and the US Department of Health       &amp; Human Services       National Toxicology Program (2008).
Invitations to speak at critical       European and international       conferences included: the European Chemical Industry on EDC and       phthalates, ECETOC       (2009), European (2012) and International (2013) Plasticizers conferences,       and a critical review       for the NGO ChemTrust (2009) on the role of EDC in TDS [5.3].
Sharpe has       also acted as       expert adviser to many companies, including Johnson &amp; Johnson (2009;       safety of phthalates in       children's toys), Bayer (2013), and BASF (2011-13; scientific advisory       panel).
Impact on public policy       Sharpe's research at UoE, with others (such as Swan's group in the USA)       fundamentally altered       UK and EU and significantly influenced North American attitudes to EDC in       general, and to       phthalates specifically, their presence in the environment and their       associated potential health       effects, especially in high-risk groups where there is exposure to EDC at       critical periods in       development or susceptibility: in utero and in childhood.
Sharpe's work on the impact of environmental exposure to EDC and       phthalates alerted       legislators to the developmental dangers of EDC exposure and took a lead       role in driving a       radical reformulation of regulations for the manufacture and use of all       chemicals in Europe:       REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation &amp; Restriction of       Chemicals) [5.4, 5.5].
REACH       represented a critical shift in liability, placing the onus on chemical       manufacturers to prove the       safety of their compounds before approval and registration.
It also       encompassed retrospective       evaluation of key chemicals where manufacture and use preceded REACH       implementation (in       particular EDC), and laid the foundations for new regulation of EDC in       food by the European       Food Safety Authority [5.6].
Sharpe's work linking TDS to phthalate exposure led to certain phthalates       being banned from       use in children's toys and childcare articles [5.7-5.10], as detailed       below.
Following an EC Recommendation on the ban of phthalates in children's       toys in 1998, eight       member states (Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy       and Sweden)       restricted the use of phthalates in toys and in childcare articles, with       the other member states       taking a `controlled use' approach by measuring the release of phthalates       from children's toys.
In 1999 the EC published a "Community Strategy for Endocrine Disruptors"       followed (to 2011)       by a series of official reports dealing with its implementation [5.1,       5.7].
Subsequently, the EU Phthalates Directive 2005/84/EC banned the use of       certain phthalates       (DEHP, DBP and BBP) in PVC and other plasticised materials in all toys and       childcare articles       throughout the EU from January 2007.
Phthalates DINP, DIDP and DNOP were       banned for toys       and childcare articles that could be placed in the mouth of children of       all ages, even if in parts       unlikely to be mouthed [5.8].
The impact extends further than children's       articles: since 2010,       Denmark's Environmental Protection Agency has put pressure on the EU to       ban phthalates       from sex toys with new restrictions in REACH planned by the European       Chemicals Agency.
The impact of Sharpe's research on EU policy and legislation is referred       to by the primary EU       website on this area of healthcare, the Endocrine Disruptors Website       [5.7].
EU strategy for       short, medium and long-term actions on EDC management in the EU is       covered; Sharpe's       research is referenced several times in its supporting database.
In 2009, the US Congress banned six phthalates from children's toys       throughout the USA;       additional requirements added in 2011 require third-party testing and       certification for products       manufactured after 31 December 2011 [5.9].
A CBS in-depth video article       (May 2010) quoted       Sharpe and acknowledged that "Dr. Sharpe's study led to Congress banning       the phthalates in       toys" [5.10].
In Canada, the same six phthalates were banned from all       children's toys and       childcare articles in 2011.
