     Impact on public policy and services     The STOPPIT study showed that progesterone was ineffective in women with       twin pregnancy, and       has led to clear guidelines published in 2011 or 2012 from three       continents (Europe (NICE), North       America and Australasia [5.1-5.6, 5.7]) that progesterone should not be       used for this purpose.
Impact on health and welfare     The research has changed clinical practice internationally for women with       twin pregnancy (e.g.
in       Canada, Australia [5.8]).
In the UK alone, the research has prevented the       ineffective treatment of       11,000 women per year.
Daily administration of a vaginal gel in pregnancy (as advocated in women       with singleton       pregnancy at high risk of preterm birth) is unpleasant.
The STOPPIT study       has stopped this       happening.
Additionally, all drugs administered during pregnancy have the       potential for teratogenic       effects, with these effects sometimes not being immediately apparent       (e.g., stilboestrol).
Although       there are no known adverse effects of progesterone at the stage of       pregnancy used for preterm       labour prevention, the STOPPIT study has prevented risk of exposure to any       covert long-term       adverse effects.
Impact on the economy     The excess cost of treating women with twin pregnancy with progesterone       was &#163;2,334 per patient,       with no clinical benefit.
On a UK population basis alone, the excess cost       of treating women with       twin pregnancy with progesterone was &#163;25M (2008 prices).
These costs are       now avoided.
Impact on society     Public awareness and public involvement in research has been increased by       reference to the work       in the media including the BBC News website on 10th June 2009       [5.9].
Additionally, the data were referred to in a public lecture given by Jane       Norman "The mysteries of       birth &#8212; far from elementary my dear Watson" in October 2010, which has       been accessed over       2,700 times on YouTube [5.10].
