     The WHO and its subsidiary African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control       (APOC) have reduced morbidity in many parts of west Africa and eliminated       onchocerciasis from some isolated foci in South America [5.1].
Onchocerciasis is now identified as a target for elimination from Africa       by 2020.
Because ivermectin is not suitable for use in children under 5 years or       in those co-infected with L Loa, and drug resistance is emerging,       it is unsuitable for mass treatment programmes in over 8 million Africans.
The work described above in Cameroon [5.2] demonstrated that doxycycline       could overcome the problem of L loa co-infection, provided       attention is paid to ensure community involvement in drug administration.
Impact on practitioners and services       Doxycycline is now defined as one of only two treatments effective for       onchocerciasis by the CDC [5.3].
CDC also notes that the alternative       (ivermectin) may cause dangerous side effects in the presence of L Loa       co-infection.
The Cameroon Academy of Sciences has recommended the use of doxycycline       for the treatment of river blindness to the Cameroon Government (2013)       [5.4]; the Government is now revising the national onchocerciasis control       strategy in accordance with these recommendations.
Furthermore, in South       America, doxycycline is being used to treat residual cases and foci where       eradication rather than control is being targeted [5.5].
Impact on public policy       The Cameroon study's very high compliance rate of over 97.5% was       attributed to detailed training of health workers recruited directly from       the study community and the involvement of social scientists to ensure       local traditions were not compromised.
Since the study, WHO/APOC has       advocated greater use of community-directed treatment programmes [5.1].
This approach is more expensive than traditional mass treatment programmes       but, as demonstrated, effective use of doxycycline would protect the       community for at least 4 years [5.2] and therefore be cost-effective.
Impact on the economy       A 2004 WHO study concluded that the disease burden of onchocerciasis was       about 884,000 disability-adjusted life years.
This can be interpreted as a       loss of 15% gross national product in areas of high endemicity.
Such       losses are being reduced through the adoption of doxycycline in mass       treatment campaigns.
Impact on health and welfare       The Cameroon study showed that, when empowered, community health workers       can successfully deliver doxycycline for six weeks for the treatment of       onchocerciasis.
It paves the way for the initiation of control programmes       for 8 million people across Cameroon, DR Congo and the Central African       Republic.
At the end of the 6-week course of treatment with doxycycline, the       community as a whole reported both immediate and long-term benefits [3.6].
Relief from itching and the regression of nodules were indicative of       clearance of O volvulus.
More rapid wound healing and reduction of       secondary bacterial infections were reported together with increased       appetite and sexual desire.
The positive feedback from community members       who took part in the first phase of treatment motivated reluctant       individuals to adhere to treatment.
Resolution and prevention of skin disease is particularly important for       women as this avoids the major social stigma and societal exclusion       (including no marriage) that is associated with onchocerciasis.
