     Impact on clinical practice     The first clinical application of transplanted frozen ovarian tissue was       in Edinburgh in 1993 and this led to an explosion of interest and activity       in this field around the world.
The first human live birth was reported in       2004 from Belgium [5.1], using a procedure that exactly replicated the one       first validated in Edinburgh.
Since 2008, ovarian cryopreservation has become widespread in clinical       practice world-wide, and the term `oncofertility' is now in general use to       describe this developing clinical specialty, linking fertility       preservation and cancer treatment.
Major centres of expertise and national       programmes operate in Europe (Denmark, Belgium, France, Spain, Israel and       Germany) and elsewhere (US, Australia).
Ovarian tissue cryopreservation is       now regarded as a standard of care in the UK and elsewhere.
Clinical practice recommendations were published by the American Society       of Clinical Oncology (and updated in 2013 [5.2]) &#8212; on which guideline       group Wallace was the only UK representative &#8212; and led to the rapid       development of the field in the US.
Both Anderson and Wallace have been       keynote guest speakers at the Oncofertility Consortium, founded in 2008       with funding from the National Institutes of Health to establish US       clinical care pathways and promote research in fertility preservation and       now covering 50 centres across the US.
While most of the impact has been in adult oncology, prepubertal and       adolescent girls have made up approximately one third of the patients for       whom ovarian tissue has been stored in Edinburgh and UoE remains the only       centre in the UK offering this clinical service.
The UoE contribution in       paediatric oncology is widely recognised internationally with centres in       France and Denmark (and probably elsewhere) now offering this clinically       (e.g., [5.3]) with the team's approach widely adopted as indicated by 347       citations of reference [3.3].
Impact on public policy     Anderson and colleagues' pioneering contribution in this field is       recognised in Scottish (Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network       (SIGN), 2013), UK (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence,       2013), Europe, and US (American Society for Reproductive Medicine, 2008)       guideline documents [5.4-5.6], all of which cite the work of the Edinburgh       group.
The importance of ovarian cryopreservation in girls is recognised       in the current SIGN guidance (2013), which states: `Cryopreservation of       ovarian tissue (within the context of a clinical trial) should be       considered in girls at high risk of premature ovarian insufficiency'       [5.5].
Anderson and Wallace were instrumental in establishing, and are key       members of, the International Society for Fertility Preservation (2009)       [5.7] and a task force for fertility preservation by the European Society       for Human Reproduction and Embryology (2010) [5.8], whose aims are to       develop ovarian tissue cryopreservation for much wider access to women       across Europe and worldwide.
In the UK, ovarian tissue storage requires a license from both the Human       Tissue Authority and the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority       (HFEA).
The Tissue and Cells Directorate of the Scottish National Blood       Transfusion Service in Edinburgh is currently the only tissue bank in the       UK with these licenses, although other centres (Oxford, Southampton) are       developing this.
The UoE team's interactions with the HFEA helped develop       the latter's approach.
Impact on health and welfare     The cryopreservation of ovarian tissue has now been performed in many       hundreds of women and girls, initially in Europe and subsequently in the       USA, Australia and South Africa.
Despite the time lag required to ensure       survival from their cancer, ovarian tissue has now been replaced in 60       women in three leading European centres (Denmark, Belgium and Spain) and       more elsewhere, and has resulted in a rapidly growing number of babies.
Twenty-four babies have now been born in nine countries around the world       since 2008 (Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Israel, France, Italy, Germany, USA,       Australia) [5.9, 5.10] and an increasing number of successful pregnancies       and new centres are reported every year.
