     Impact on health and welfare and clinical services       Below, three groups of genetic disorders identified and characterised by       UoE researchers, and their specific impact on aspects of clinical       management/service, are described in greater detail.
Although rare,       inherited developmental disorders are distributed across the world and are       devastating for patients and their families.
Crucially, the identification       of causative mutations permits effective genetic counselling: a       cornerstone of the family management of each of these disorders.
UoE       research findings have directly resulted in the availability of clinical       tests (including some offered in-house, see below) to clarify genetic risk       and have enabled diagnostic and/or prenatal testing for these devastating       disorders.
Genetic testing and pre-natal screening - eye disorders:       Developmental eye disorders occur in approximately five per 10,000 live       births and are responsible for around 25% of severe visual impairments in       childhood.
Diagnosis of the primary ocular disorder may be self-evident,       but &gt;50% of cases manifest distinct systemic abnormalities, such as       developmental delay, kidney or heart defects and cleft lip or palate.
A       full diagnosis including identification of causative genetic abnormalities       is essential to define the visual potential of the child, inform the       counselling of the parents and establish prospective management, including       the possible need for special educational placement, with respect to the       long-term prognosis.
Tests for mutations in the SOX2, OTX2 and PAX6       genes are now offered by multiple labs in the UK and internationally       including the USA, Germany, France, Denmark and Switzerland [5.1].
Prenatal genetic testing for anomalies in these genes (that allows       informed decision on pregnancy) is offered by some laboratories, e.g.,       GeneDx in the USA.
Tests for STRA6, NF1 and SMOC1       gene abnormalities are available in the UK and internationally [5.1].
Molecular diagnosis informing effective clinical management and         counselling - childhood-onset neurological disease: CMT is one of       the most common inherited neurological disorders affecting approximately 1       in 2,500 people, equating to approximately 23,000 people in the UK and       125,000 people in the USA.
While Aicardi-Gouti&#232;res syndrome represents a       rarer disorder, together, these conditions demonstrate the distinct ways       in which clinical diagnosis can be facilitated by accurate genetic       testing.
Both conditions are incurable and early diagnosis is instrumental       for clinical management and counselling.
Genetic testing for causative       mutations is important in CMT because it does not represent a single       disorder, but a group of conditions that are superficially clinically       similar, but with widely differing modes of inheritance and penetrance.
Effective genetic counselling has only become possible with the       application of genetic testing [5.2].
In contrast, Aicardi-Gouti&#232;res       syndrome poses a rather different clinical challenge, as it phenocopies       congenital viral infections such as CMV, rubella and transplacentally       acquired HIV.
Given the substantial risk of recurrence in subsequent       pregnancies, molecular diagnosis of Aicardi-Gouti&#232;res syndrome is       essential for counselling and also key to the provision of prenatal       diagnosis in subsequent pregnancies.
Tests for mutations in TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B,       RNASEH2C (Aicardi-Gouti&#232;res syndrome) and PRX (CMT) are       offered in several countries including the UK, USA, Germany, Spain,       Austria, France and Italy [5.1].
Genetic testing to establish effective prospective management - growth         syndromes: Primordial dwarfism is a rare disorder resulting in       extreme pre- and postnatal growth failure, such that people with this       group of conditions are often described as `the smallest people in the       world'.
The identification of the genetic basis has had a significant       impact on clinical management.
In particular, it has helped to define       those with resulting syndromes who are at risk of insulin-resistant       diabetes mellitus, and of neurovascular complications, enabling specific       targeting of appropriate surveillance [5.3].
Tests for mutations in primordial dwarfism genes are available in the UK,       USA and the Netherlands [5.1].
In the UK they are offered directly by       Jackson's laboratory, and since 2008 Jackson's lab has performed molecular       gene testing on over 400 patients from 35 countries worldwide.
Impact on policy and guidelines       In the report "Genetic ophthalmology in focus: a needs assessment and       review of specialist services for genetic eye disorders" published in       April 2008 (to which FitzPatrick and van Heyningen contributed), the       Foundation for Genomics and Population Health indicated how NHS       ophthalmology services needed to change in response to the opportunities       offered by genetic science.
The foundation placed mutation detection in       severe developmental eye disorders on the list of main gaps and perceived       priorities for testing [5.4].
This report has had major impact on UK       Government policy: for example, it was analysed by the House of Lords'       Science and Technology Committee in 2008-2009 [5.5], leading to new       recommendations and improved services.
Notably, van Heyningen was an       expert witness to the Committee on April 30th, 2008 [5.5].
Impact on society and public engagement       Genetic testing is recommended by diverse societies and organisations and       is promoted on their websites, e.g., the International Children's       Anophthalmia Network [5.6].
In addition, because people with primordial       dwarfism are among the shortest people in the world, this small group has       a disproportionately large impact on public engagement with developmental       disorders.
Primordial dwarfism and its genetic causes have been discussed       in several high-profile television documentaries that generated huge       public interest, e.g., "The Tiniest Boy in Britain" (2011) and "21 and 3ft       tall" (2013).
Notably, the latter included an interview with Jackson and       describes research in his lab [5.7].
