     Broadberry and Crafts' early research and 1990s policy influence has a       current, continuing impact,       which is enhanced by their contemporary impact on public attitudes       and government policies.
In the late 1990s, Broadberry and Crafts' research contributed to New       Labour's response to       Thatcherism, for example, in HM Treasury's `Productivity Agenda' from 1999       and 2000.
Crafts       regularly met with and presented to policymakers; as early as the 1997       Wincott Lecture Crafts       highlighted pro-growth policies (from Crafts (1996)) which were reflected       in the `Five Drivers of       Productivity Performance' (investment, skills and human capital,       innovation, competition, and       enterprise) which Labour presented in its policy statements from 1999       onwards (cf.
HM Treasury       (2000)).
The impact of this research continues into the current period.
Dr Charles       Bean, Deputy Governor       for Monetary Policy at the Bank of England, commented, "The historical       perspective afforded by       [Crafts'] research into Britain's comparative economic performance ... has       provided policymakers       with a unique perspective on the engines of growth and the [supply-side]       policies to support it...
While the importance of supply was contentious in the 1980s during the       Thatcher years, I think it is       fair to say that it is now accepted by all the main political parties and       Crafts' work has played into       providing the hard evidence to support that belief" (Bean (2013)).
Ken Warwick, former Director General at the Department for Business,       Innovation, and Skills (BIS),       commented "[Crafts] is the economist of choice for anyone working on       economic policy in the field       of productivity, economic growth, and a wide range of supply-side       policies... Nick's research and       his participation in Whitehall debates helped ensure that... economic       policy during 1997-2007       continued to emphasise a market friendly approach" (Warwick (2013)).
John Kingman, Second Permanent Secretary and Conrad Smewing, Deputy       Director, Corporate       Finance, Business, Innovation, and Skills, both at HM Treasury, noted       Crafts' continuing impact:       "Crafts' research... had a clear impact on the Treasury's approach to       supply-side economic policy       in the 1990s and 2000s.
Particular areas where he has been influential in       policy thinking include       competition policy &#8212; where for example his work had direct impact on       policy development for the       1998 Competition Act ...and approaches to the labour market and industrial       relations.
This       thinking continues to have an impact on the Treasury's prioritisation and       policy approach in a       number of areas, [f]or example a renewed Treasury focus on competition and       competition policy is       currently being set in train" (Kingman and Smewing (2013)).
The 2008 financial crisis, change of government, and sluggish economic       performance in the last       few years have revived interest in pro-growth economic policies.
Crafts is       notable for targeting       academics, policymakers, and the broader public through his writing.
Crafts is one of the most       highly-read authors on VoxEU, a leading economics blog which publishes       research in non-technical       language for a general-interest audience.
His eight articles since 2008       attracted over       150,000 page views.
Dr Bean concurs, "I think it is worth recording       Crafts' efforts to engage with       policymakers and the wider public.
For instance, he delivered last year's       well-received Royal       Economic Society Policy Lecture [and] is a regular contributor to the Vox       website ([where] his       recent contributions... have garnered over 30,000 hits each) and to the       quality press."
Crafts' research has also had a contemporary policy impact.
The economic       and policy analysis       team at BIS (and its predecessor BERR) have relied on Crafts (2013) to       motivate the Coalition       Government's pro-growth policies limiting the adverse impacts of       regulation and continuing to       invest in transport infrastructure (BERR (2008), BIS (2010a), BIS       (2010b)).
Indeed, three of the       `four pillars' of the current Government's Plan for Growth &#8212; lowering       regulatory and legal barriers to       starting and growing a business, encouraging investment, and creating a       more educated workforce       &#8212; are identical to those in Crafts (1996) and repeated throughout       Broadberry and Crafts' research.
Lord Gus O'Donnell, former UK Cabinet Secretary 2005-2011, concluded,       "The Treasury has       struggled for years to understand the determinants of growth and       productivity.
Crafts' work has       been fundamental to putting this policy area on a much stronger footing...       His emphasis on the       importance of the right structural reforms had a big impact on the       Treasury's thinking and directly       influenced the debates about what should go in various budgets.
Governments have taken on       board many of his points such as the need to improve the planning system       and to strengthen       competition" (O'Donnell (2013)).
Warwick added, "With the global financial       and economic crisis in       2008-09, the Government's approach to economic and industrial policy       shifted somewhat &#8212; with a       greater emphasis on strategic intervention, countercyclical policy and       sectoral strategy... [Crafts']       work has proved a salutary reminder of the dangers of excessive       intervention and the risks       associated with trying to `pick winners' [in industrial policy].
[This]       helped analysts in Government       shape the new approach to industrial policy in ways that were consistent       with the literature and the       lessons from past experience" (Warwick (2013).
Kingman and Smewing add, "Crafts' more recent work continues to shape       thinking at the Treasury.
In particular his Royal Economic Society lecture of 2012 [Publication (6)       above] and associated       work has contributed to internal policy debate and policy development on       crucial supply-side       issues.
One notable area is planning reform, where his research fed into       the policy development       leading up to the publication of the "Plan for Growth" alongside Budget       2011.
Other areas where       he has been influential include the importance of infrastructure spending,       which formed a major       part of the 2013 spending review, the role of the housing market and       housing policies in recovery,       and the Treasury's approach to industrial policy as part of the       Government's Industrial Strategies.
The reach and significance of Broadberry and Crafts' research is       considerable.
Direct       beneficiaries include UK policy makers and members of the private sector       they consult with, while       indirectly their research touches virtually every sector of the British       economy, making all UK       households, firms, and workers beneficiaries of their work.
Broadberry and Crafts (2003) estimate that economic growth in the       post-war period was between       0.75 and 1 percentage point lower than it could have been due to the       inefficient structure of       education, labour relations, and competition policies in place at that       time.
Crafts (2013) argues       that further changes in supply-side policies could help the current       economic recovery and close the       output gap, a primary consideration given output (as of end-2012) is still       3 percentage points below       its 2008 level.
