     The work was the first to alert UK governments, policymakers and       professional bodies to the scale of the burden of poorly treated allergic       disease and led to a range of policy and service initiatives to enhance       allergy care provision.
Impact on public policy     Since commencing this research in 2003, Sheikh and co-workers have       consistently reported their findings to professional bodies and UK       government.
Sheikh led the national epidemiological research that informed       the Scottish Medical and Scientific Advisory Committee's Review Working       Group on Allergy Services in Scotland (2009) [5.1] and contributed       to the Royal College of Physicians and Royal College of Pathologists       report Allergy Services: Still not Meeting the Unmet Need (2010)       [5.2].
Sheikh and colleagues have also provided expert clinical, methodological       and leadership input in relation to national and international guidelines,       for example:            Resuscitation Council (UK) Guidelines on Emergency Treatment of           Anaphylactic Reactions (2008) [5.3] (Sheikh was a co-author and is         co-chair for the 2013 revised guidelines).
World Allergy Organization Guidelines for the Assessment and           Management of Anaphylaxis (2013) [5.4], which are used in 89         countries (Sheikh was the sole UK and one of only three European         co-authors).
World Allergy Organization White Book on Allergy (2011 and         2012) [5.5], which provides international gold standard recommendations         for allergy care (Sheikh was a co-author).
European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology's European           Declaration on Immunotherapy [5.6] (2012) (Sheikh was a co-author)         and Guidelines on Anaphylaxis (2013) (Sheikh has been a member         of the Guideline Executive, was the Methodology Lead and is senior         author on these Europe-wide clinical guidelines).
Sheikh's involvement has harmonised the national, European and       international anaphylaxis guidelines to ensure that evidence-based and       consistent messages are being communicated to front-line clinicians       worldwide.
Key amongst these is ensuring that professionals understand       that adrenaline is the first-line treatment; this has translated into more       provision of potentially life-saving adrenaline auto-injectors to       patients/carers.
The UoE team is closely involved with UK charities: The Anaphylaxis       Campaign (Levy is Scientific Chair, Schwarze and Sheikh are members of the       Scientific Committee), Allergy UK (Sheikh has provided advice on strategic       direction) and Asthma UK (Schwarze is a Trustee).
This involvement has       broadened the focus of these charities to encompass community-based       allergy care, which in turn has enhanced their capacity to fundraise.
For       example, Allergy UK is running a &#163;1M appeal to fund community-based       allergy nurses across the UK (the first appointee, in Autumn 2013, will be       based in Edinburgh).
In 2013, Asthma UK awarded funding for the &#163;2M       community-focused Centre for Applied Asthma Research to UoE.
Impact on practitioners and services     The policy impacts have led to many UK governmental and professional       service developments.
Sheikh co-authored the Department of       Health-commissioned Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health       anaphylaxis care pathway for children with allergies (2011) [5.7].
Sheikh       was the Royal College of General Practitioners joint inaugural Clinical       Champion for Allergy (2010-2012), which led to the College designating       allergy a clinical priority, and is now their Clinical Expert.
The UoE       team was also instrumental in the establishment of a new Managed Clinical       Network in 2012: The Children and Young People's Allergy Network Scotland       (CYANS; chaired by Schwarze, with Sheikh and Worth on the Steering Group       and leading the National Anaphylaxis Database), which has involved over       450 healthcare professionals across Scotland [5.8].
For the National       Review of Asthma Deaths (2012-13) [5.9], Levy is the Clinical Lead and       Sheikh is a member of the External Expert Reviewer Group.
The UoE team has also been instrumental in driving service improvements       through professional training through, for example, the BMJ Masterclass on       respiratory/allergic diseases delivered by Sheikh, Pinnock and Levy.
This       has been given 2-4 times/year since 2008, attracting ~3000 participants       from across the UK.
Clinician awareness of anaphylaxis is now very high:       in a 2012 survey of 3537 US paramedics, 98.9% correctly identified a case       of classic anaphylaxis.
Impact on health and welfare     Increased awareness of allergy and anaphylaxis among clinicians and       patients/members of the public and harmonised evidence-based guidelines       have contributed to a decline in allergy-related deaths worldwide.
Dramatic decreases have been reported in Ontario, Canada: there were 31       food-related anaphylaxis deaths from 1986 to 2000 but only 6 from 2004 to       2011 [5.10].
In the UK, Sheikh and Levy are involved with re-establishing       anaphylaxis and asthma fatality registries, which will enable accurate       data-gathering for the future.
Impact on society and public engagement     Sheikh has made numerous appearances in the mainstream media (e.g., Fox       News, Radio 4, Telegraph, The Herald and Daily Mail) and social media       discussing the changing epidemiology, risk factors, new treatments and       public health implications of allergy.
This has contributed to a public       shift away from ineffective complementary and alternative treatments,       towards greater involvement with academics (UoE has a 50-strong       allergy/respiratory patient and public involvement group), charities and       service planners/providers (e.g., CYANS and Care Commissioning Groups) to       ensure improved, more equitable provision of evidence-based allergy care.
