     The original description of this work [3.1] has had a major impact on the       field, even defining a new       language and terminology used to describe liver volumes in the context of       resectional surgery.
Pre-operative       liver volume analysis has become the standard of care incorporated in       guidelines       internationally, and has reduced mortality related to liver surgery.
Impact on public policy       The utility of liver volume analysis, and the finding that the critical       volume of liver required for safe       liver function is around 26%, has been corroborated by others and       incorporated into guidelines       worldwide for the safety of liver surgery and its practice, for example in       the UK (2012), USA (2013),       Japan (2008) and Australia [5.1-5.4].
Impact on clinical practice       The techniques of 3D modelling and virtual hepatic resection developed in       this work have been       universally adopted in major centres performing complex liver surgery and       are now the standard of       care worldwide.
Evidence of this is the use of liver volume analysis as a       baseline in initiatives to       improve surgical and oncological outcomes.
For example, registries of       novel surgical techniques       that seek to extend what is achievable by liver resection require liver       volume analysis [5.5] and       randomised controlled trials of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in unresectable       secondary liver cancer       that use "resectability" as an outcome measure require liver volume       analysis where an extended       resection may be required [5.6].
Furthermore, the UoE team's approach to       measuring liver volume       has been adopted for a wider context than just liver resection and it is       now a particularly important       component of the assessment of living liver donors as part of the       transplant assessment process       [5.7].
The association between liver volume and functional metabolic adaptation       has been recognised       and it has been shown that functional recovery of the liver precedes       volume recovery [5.7].
This       important observation permits surgery to take place considerably earlier       after portal vein       embolisation than hitherto considered.
The importance of liver volume       analysis and critical liver       volume has also been recognised in association with the small-for-size       syndrome that can occur       after liver resection or partial liver transplantation [5.7].
The use of open-source software has been important to increase the       accessibility of the techniques       to surgeons worldwide.
The software developed at UoE used in study [3.6],       OsiriX, is the most       widely used healthcare image viewer with 50,000 active users and &gt;1000       downloads/150 000 hits       per day.
These methods have subsequently been used in reporting outcomes       in clinical trials [5.8].
Impact on health and welfare       The principal beneficiaries of this work are patients undergoing liver       surgery, through gains in the       number of patients made resectable and improvements in safety, with       implications for the       treatment of 3600 patients annually in the UK alone.
The safety of liver       surgery, in which liver       volume analysis has become an integral part, has improved significantly in       the past two decades.
Death from haemorrhage or liver failure is now a rare event with mortality       rates of 2-4% in most       major centres.
The ability to determine the volume of the liver remnant       accurately is an essential       adjunct to treatments that render 85% of patients previously deemed       irresectable to become       resectable [5.9].
Impact on commerce       Using extensions of the techniques developed at UoE, commercial software       and hardware       companies have developed technologies for 3D reconstruction of vascular       and biliary structures       and the volumes of the territories they supply or drain [5.10].
Specific       systems for 3D liver       reconstruction currently being developed are Ova (Hitachi Medical       Corporation, Japan), Synapse       Vincent (Fujifilm, Japan), HepaVision (MeVisLab, Germany), Ziostation (Qi       Imaging, Japan),       VirtualPlace (AZE, Japan) and VR-Render (IRCAD, France).
Other large       multinational companies       such as Siemens, GE Healthcare and Philips Healthcare are developing       general 3D visualisation       systems that can be applied to the liver.
In 2013, Global Industry       Analysts, Inc. projected that the       global market for 3D medical imaging would reach US$2.2B by 2018.
