     Pathways to impact     Improvements made to SCNT and the successful cloning of Dolly the sheep       challenged the dogma that the genetic material of specialised cells is no       longer capable of driving the development of a complete animal.
This       momentous achievement opened new frontiers in science, technology and       medicine.
It also inspired heated debate on the essence of humanity among       scientists, philosophers, religious leaders, politicians and the public.
Dolly the sheep found her place among major scientific achievements and       her legacy continues to have enormous impact.
Wilmut has played a key role       in the public engagement surrounding mammalian stem cell cloning,       delivering 49 public lectures since 2008.
Impact on society, public scientific and ethical policy     The realisation that it is possible to clone adult mammals had profound       implications for religious organisations and led to the introduction of       new laws and ethical guidelines.
Although many were instituted prior to       2008, the "legacy of Dolly" continues to impact on ethical debate in the       religious, secular and legislative arenas.
For example, the cloning of       Dolly is specifically referred to in a recent church position statement:       "A statement of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops on       embryonic stem cell research" published for the first time in June 2008       [5.1], and in numerous recently published books on ethics [5.2].
"Dolly"       continues to inform governmental thinking and policy: for example, in       2008, the European Group on Ethics of Science and New Technologies (EGE),       in response to a request from the European Commission, issued an opinion       on the ethical implications of cloning animals for food supply [5.3]; and       the Australian government requested a review of its Prohibition of Human       Cloning for Reproduction and Research Involving Human Embryos Acts in       December 2010 [5.4].
Impact on society, public engagement, arts and culture     The life and death of Dolly continues to have a significant impact on art       and culture.
For example, a mask taken from Dolly the sheep was one of the       highlights at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery at its reopening       after major renovation in 2011 (11,186 visitors within the first four days       after reopening alone) [5.5], and Krystelle Bamford, a winner of the 2010       New Writers Award, wrote a poem entitled "On the Death Mask of Dolly the       Sheep" that was published in the November 2012 issue of the American       Poetry Review, a major international poetry magazine based in the USA       [5.6].
Dolly and the scientists who created her were also featured in the       exhibition "Cells - the smallest of all portraits", an experimental       learning project involving pupils from Scottish schools (October 29th       2012 - February 3rd 2013, Scottish National Portrait Gallery).
The manner in which Dolly as a scientific icon has caught the public       imagination is unlike few scientific discoveries of the last decades.
Starting with extensive broadsheet coverage, including the cover of Time       magazine (Fig.
1 in section 2), the media interest in and reach of Dolly       has demonstrated extraordinary breadth and durability.
Since 2008,       reference to Dolly and cloning have appeared in numerous media relevant to       a wide range of age groups ranging from the "Itchy &amp; Scratchy" cartoon       and "The Simpsons Comic" to the recently completed "Great Tapestry of       Scotland", in which a whole panel is devoted to Dolly to represent       Scottish scientific discovery (Fig.
2).
Fig.
2 The Great Tapestry of Scotland           The Simpsons Comic         Impact on society, public engagement and education     Dolly herself has become a "scientific icon" of UK biomedical science and       is displayed in the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh (1.9M       visitors annually).
The National Museum of Scotland website lists Dolly as       a highlight, and states that "Dolly has been enormously popular, with       visitors coming from all over the world to see her.
She has even travelled       to Hungary to open a new science museum in Budapest!"
[5.7].
The principles of SCNT are now part of the science curriculum at high       school level in the UK and other countries.
Notably, they have been       integrated into the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma curriculum       [5.8], a two-year educational programme primarily aimed at students aged       16-19 that provides an internationally accepted qualification for entry       into higher education, and is recognised by many universities worldwide.
IB courses are available in 3628 schools in Europe, North America, South       America, Asia and Africa [5.9].
Impact on society, public science policy     Dolly played a major role in clarifying the value of stem cell and       regenerative medicine research to Government, contributing to the       establishment of several high-profile initiatives including the UK Stem       Cell Initiative chaired by Sir John Pattison.
More recently, in autumn       2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer identified Eight Great Technologies       of strategic importance to the UK and announced an additional funding of       &#163;600M to help support their development.
Regenerative medicine is placed       among these great technologies and the influence of Dolly the Sheep and       Edinburgh's research was highlighted in a speech by the Minister for       Universities and Science (the Rt Hon David Willetts MP) delivered on       January 24, 2013 at the Policy Exchange [5.10].
