     Approximately 50% of hysterectomies performed worldwide are for the       treatment of symptomatic       uterine fibroids (12,000 per year in the UK).
Fibroids thus constitute a       major public health problem       and it was crucial to know whether UAE is a useful alternative.
Murray's       work has clarified that       UAE is superior to surgery in the short term.
Impact on public policy       The REST trial has informed key clinical guidelines.
The 2010 NICE       guidance on UAE for fibroids       [5.1] was informed by Murray and colleagues' publication [3.1] together       with a pre-publication       version of the follow-up paper [3.2].
The fact that NICE sought this       pre-publication version reflects       the lack of robust long-term evidence prior to the REST trial being       conducted.
The REST results       also formed a key part of the evidence base for the 2009 report by a joint       working party of the       Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and the Royal College of       Radiologists on the       use of UAE in the management of fibroids [5.2].
The REST study is also       cited in NICE guidelines       on heavy menstrual bleeding [5.3], which endorse the use of UAE for       treatment of fibroids.
Internationally, REST is cited by the American College of Radiology       Appropriateness Criteria&#174;       Expert Panel on Interventional Radiology [5.4] and in a review published       in the Australian and New       Zealand Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology [5.5], both of which endorse       the use of UAE,       based on the REST data.
The relevant Cochrane systematic review was updated in 2012 [5.6].
There       are still only six       randomised trials published in the area, only two of which (including       REST) report follow-up data to       5 years.
Notably, REST has the greatest number of UAE procedures to be       evaluated within any       single randomised trial.
In addition, the primary publication [3.1] has affected professional       standards for reporting trial       results, with the paper being flagged in the British Medical Journal [5.7]       as a model for good       reporting of patient flow through a trial.
Impact on clinical practice       Although the numbers of UAE procedures are not readily available, a 2011       survey by the Medical       Technology Group [5.8] showed that 90% of primary care trusts in England       now routinely       commission UAE, with UAE accounting for 10% of all in-patient treatments       for women with fibroids.
Across Europe, a 2009 survey of members of the Cardiovascular and       Interventional Radiological       society of Europe [5.9] showed widespread access to UAE, with the UK       containing the greatest       number of providing centres.
The REST trial was again cited in this survey       as providing clinical       rationale for the procedure.
Impact on health and wellfare       Women considering UAE rather than hysterectomy as a treatment for their       symptomatic fibroids       are now able to make an informed choice comparing the immediate benefits       (including faster       recovery time) of the less-invasive UAE against the greater 5-year risk       (32% with UAE compared       with 4% with surgery) of the need for subsequent re-intervention to       control emergent symptoms.
Impact on the economy       The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists working party report       [5.2] highlights the       finding that although UAE is cost-effective relative to surgery when       evaluated at 12-months follow-up, the economic benefit in favour of UAE       diminishes over time with the increased need for re-interventions, and is       negated after five years.
