     Pathways to impact       It was clear that the linkage of a new widely-used material to a mechanism       of toxicity might spark       an unbalanced response and result in damage to UK and worldwide industry       and wealth creation.
Therefore, Donaldson took a considered and multi-faceted approach to       dissemination of the       findings to government, industry and the public.
He and colleagues       informed and presented the       findings to the UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE), the UK Department       for Environment, Food       and Rural Affairs and the Nanotechnology Industry Association (NIA) prior       to publication of the       Nature Nanotechnology paper [3.1]; consequently the NIA informed its       members and developed a       proportionate public response.
In collaboration with the Science Media Centre (London), Donaldson gave a       press conference in       May 2008 that was attended by top UK and international science journalists       (including the BBC,       Times and Guardian).
Accompanying statements were provided by the British       Lung Foundation       and UK academic leaders in the field [5.1].
Craig Poland (technician then       PhD candidate, UoE,       2004-2009) presented the findings as an invited speaker at the American       Thoracic Society       Annual meeting in Toronto (2008).
Impact on society: public engagement and awareness       Donaldson's study achieved widespread global coverage in multiple media       forms: newspapers       (e.g., Financial Times, New York Times, Agence France Press and Indo-Asian       News Service),       magazines (e.g., Scientific American), television and internet forums       (e.g.
BBC News, CBC News       Canada, NHS Choices).
These increased public awareness and stimulated       debate on the risks of       CNT, as evidenced by news interest and by prominent citations of the work       in high-impact       documents discussing the human health risks of CNT, such as those produced       by the US National       Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) [5.2] and by Safe       Work Australia [5.3].The       practical impact of the work is illustrated by the HSE Nanosafety       Partnership Group's health and       safety guidance document [5.4].
Impact on public policy       In September 2008, an HSE guidance document entitled "Risk Management of       Carbon       Nanotubes" [5.5], which specifically and solely cited Donaldson's study,       was provided to all UK       nanotube-related researchers and industries.
Later that year, the US       Environmental Protection       Agency (EPA) formally put manufacturers on notice that it considered CNT       to be chemically       different from conventional carbon compounds, and potentially subject to       regulation as "new"       chemicals under the Toxic Substances Control Act [5.6].
Donaldson has       frequently been, and       continues to be, consulted as an expert in the field of toxicity of       nanoparticles: for example, in       2010 to the Science and Technology Committee of the House of Lords [5.7].
Impact on industry/commerce       The results of Donaldson's research were noted by industry with interests       in CNT (see NIA       response noted above): for example, specifically addressed in a statement       submitted to the US       Technology Sciences Group by Bayer Material Science AG [5.8].
There have       been at least two       publications from the legal profession considering the ramifications of       the Donaldson study alone       [5.9], and its importance was recognised by the insurance company Lloyds         of London, which       awarded Poland a "Science of Risk" prize in November 2010.
Concerns within       the key insurance       industry on the risks of nanotechnology are reflected in the impact of       Donaldson's work; the work       assisted with actuarial decisions that resulted in the withdrawal of       insurance provision for CNT from       November 2008 by Continental Western Insurance Group [5.10].
