     Waterson's research and policy recommendations have been used by       competition and sector regulators to reduce search and switching costs and       promote competition, both of which benefit consumers.
Dr Amelia Fletcher,       Chief Economist at the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) from 2001-2013 noted,       "Since 2001, the OFT has had a remit to carry out market studies where       competition does not seem to be working well for consumers.
As Chief       Economist at the OFT [in] that time, I was involved in developing our       framework and methodology for carrying out such studies.
Waterson's work       on search and switching costs ... was very influential in this...       including recent studies into personal current accounts (2008-9) and       consumer contracts (2011)" (Fletcher (2013)).
Under UK competition law, the OFT may refer a market to the Competition       Commission (CC) for investigation.
Robin Finer, Director of Economic       Analysis at the CC, said "Waterson's work on consumer behaviour,       particularly in relation to search and switching, has had an important       impact in several of the CC's market investigations...
Some important       examples of investigations where we have identified substantial barriers       to consumer search and/or switching are: store cards, domestic bulk liquid       petroleum gas, home credit, personal current account banking services in       Northern Ireland, and payment protection insurance...1 In all of         these cases, it was important to identify the relevant barriers to         search and/or switching, to understand their impact on competition, and         to identify suitable remedies to help customers overcome them.
Professor         Waterson's work contributed heavily to providing a sound theoretical         basis for all of these steps in our analysis and in improving outcomes         for consumers" (Finer (2013).
Finer concluded, "The influence of Waterson's work on the CC's approach       to market investigations can be seen from our recently updated guidelines       for market investigations (April 2013), where we outline the potential       importance of customer behaviour, particularly in terms of search and       switching, in making competition work effectively, ... both in terms of       our competitive assessment and our choice of remedies" (Finer (2013)).
The Government's centrepiece economic policy, `Plan for Growth', also       cites Giulietti, Otero, and Waterson (2010) in support of its statements       about the importance of competition and that "markets rely heavily on       active and informed consumers to drive competition" (BIS (2011, p12)).
Waterson's work has been prominently cited in government documents in       Finland, Australia, the European Commission, and the World Bank.
Former       Australian Competition and Consumer Commission Deputy Chair, Louise       Sylvan, concluded "Waterson's published work on the ways in which...       consumers drive competition... were seminal to our initial thinking and       the direction of our subsequent work both in the recommendations on       superannuation regulation in Australia in 2010 and more globally through       the... Economics of Consumer Policy work that I chaired... at the OECD [in       2010]" (Sylvan (2013)).
Professor Crawford's research directly impacted Ofcom's decision to ban       rollover contracts.
Ofcom concluded, "Our research, in particular the       econometric analysis that we commissioned on the switching behaviour of BT       customers [i.e.
the Crawford research], indicates a clear causal link       between ARCs and reduced levels of consumer switching.
We believe ... that       any example of such a contract is likely to be harmful to consumers and to       effective competition" (Ofcom (2011, p1)).
Based on these conclusions,       Ofcom prohibited automatically renewable contracts in the fixed voice and       fixed broadband small business and residential sectors from 31 December       2012 (ibid).
Dr Andrea Coscelli, Director of Economics at Ofcom, said of this process,       "Professor Crawford and his colleagues were able to use sophisticated       econometric analysis to separate out and identify the effects of rollover       terms and showed that they did in fact materially inhibit [consumer]       switching [behaviour]... We had wrestled with these issues prior to the       involvement of Professor Crawford and without his input we would have       found it difficult to make a robust case (both internally and externally)       that [rollover] terms [in consumer contracts] were having an adverse       effect...
The impact of the work was enhanced by the clear presentation of       the final results to key decision makers within Ofcom and this had a       significant effect on our final decision" (Coscelli (2013b)).
Policymakers responsible for enhancing competition are direct       beneficiaries of this research, but the reach and significance extend to       consumers for whom a reduction in such costs provides tangible benefits.
For example, reporting on the consequences of remedies introduced after       the payment protection insurance investigation, the CC concluded, "the       total consumer detriment to be addressed would be significantly more than       &#163;200m per year.
The remedies package as a result incorporated significant       information provision requirements to enhance search and switching.
Implementation necessarily involved costs but the net benefit of the       measures taken was evaluated as being substantially positive" (CC (2009)).
The estimated direct benefit to consumers of eliminating the switching       costs induced by BT's rollover contracts was 33.5% of the price of       telephone service, equal to at least &#163;120 million/year (Crawford et.
al.
(2012)).
Ofcom has banned or threatened to ban rollover contracts in       residential and small business broadband services and mobile services       (Ofcom (2011, p5)), which would extend the value of consumer benefits by       an additional &#163;220 million/year, for a total of &#163;340 million/year.2
