     Pathways to impact       The UoE team has disseminated the output of research endeavours       extensively.
Critchley, Baird, Glasier and Williams have made major       contributions and provided expert consultancy to the National Institutes       of Health and major Pharma: Jenapharm, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc,       Schering, Repros Therapeutics Inc., Bayer Pharma AG, HRA Pharma, PregLem       and Gedeon Richter.
Glasier has engaged public opinion and lobbied       government to ensure OTC availability of emergency contraception.
Impact on health and welfare, policy and the economy       Contraception: Emergency contraception is used by over 4 million       women per year in the USA and 20% of women aged 18-35 per year in the UK.
The UoE data on the safety and utility of PR ligands as emergency       contraceptives persuaded the Scottish Government to make levonorgestrel       available OTC for this purpose for free from 2008.
This resulted in a 10%       drop in medical abortion rates in Scotland (13,904 to 12,447) between 2008       and 2012 [5.1].
Later, the team's demonstration of the superiority of ulipristal acetate       over levonorgestrel was used to support the decision in 2010 by the US       Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to license the former as an emergency       contraceptive [5.2].
The data are also cited in guidelines in the UK and       US: the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2011)       "Clinical Knowledge Summary", endorsing the use of ulipristal acetate as       an emergency contraceptive; guidelines from the UK Faculty of Sexual and       Reproductive Health (updated January 2012); the Centers for Disease       Control and Prevention "US Selected Practice Recommendations for       Contraceptive Use, 2013" [5.3]; and the American College of Obstetricians       and Gynaecologists Practice Bulletin on Emergency Contraception (November       2012).
In March 2013, the WHO Family Planning steering group, chaired by       Williams, agreed that ulipristal acetate should be added to the "Medical       Eligibility Criteria for Contraceptive Use" when it is updated in 2014.
An independent cost-effectiveness analysis that cites ref.
[3.2]       suggested that the use of ulipristal acetate as an emergency contraceptive       instead of the alternative levonorgestrel would result in 37,589 fewer       unintended pregnancies and resultant societal savings of $116.3M in the       USA each year [5.4].
This study concludes by stating that "Efforts should       be promoted to increase access to [ulipristal acetate]".
Treatment of fibroids: Annual estimated direct costs of managing       uterine fibroids in the USA alone are $4.1-9.4B and lost work-hours cost       $1.55-17.2B.
UoE work on the mechanism of action and predicted efficacy of       PRMs was instrumental in the first PRM being approved for the treatment of       symptomatic fibroids.
Ulipristal acetate (marketed as Esmya&#174;) received a       European Medicines Agency &amp; Medicines and Healthcare Products       Regulatory Agency license in Spring 2012 for use in women for 3 months       pre-hysterectomy, offering women a convenient oral treatment option to       reduce heavy bleeding and fibroid size prior to surgery.
The Scottish       Medicines Consortium approved ulipristal acetate as a pre-operative       treatment for uterine fibroids (up to 3 months) in January 2013.
Drugs       targeting the PR are now licensed for use in 67 countries.
Treatment of HMB: UoE researchers have formed the lead UK team       deriving data on the mechanism of action of LNG-IUS and thus contributed       to the development of management strategies with use of this slow-released       PR agonist for the 1 million women in the UK who annually seek help for       HMB.
International guidance documents in the UK and USA recommend LNG-IUS       for the treatment of women with HMB and state that it should be offered       before invasive procedures (UK National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence Clinical Guideline on Heavy Menstrual Bleeding, published in       2007 and remaining the current guideline; Institute for Quality and       Efficiency in Health Care "Treatment Options for Heavy Periods", published       in 2009 and updated in 2013 [5.5]).
Impact on practitioners       To provide meaningful quantitation in the studies of uterine architecture       and HMB necessary to define the positive or negative effects of       therapeutic PRM intervention, and critically to stratify patients with       abnormal uterine bleeding for both research and therapeutic purposes,       Critchley, as co-chair of the FIGO Working Group on Menstrual Disorders,       with colleagues defined the PALM-COEIN classification system for abnormal       uterine bleeding (2011).
This is now entering clinical use worldwide (for       example in North America [5.6, 5.7]), and is being adopted as the industry       standard.
Impact on commerce       The UoE work on PRMs, both directly and via Baird and colleagues' input to       the World Health Organization and other bodies, indirectly influenced the       drug development programme of Pharma to identify PRMs, define the biology       of PRMs and, crucially, to explore the potential indications of PRMs       [5.8].
The expertise of the Edinburgh team continues to be sought by       international pharmaceutical companies (Bayer Healthcare AG; HRA Pharma;       Gedeon-Richter; TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc.).
This input has been essential       to inform therapeutic developments, for example through the review and       classification of histological slides etc., and to conduct       Pharma-supported multi-centre clinical trials [5.9, 5.10] to progress the       clinical utility of PRMs in the field of benign gynaecological complaints       (including HMB and fibroids).
