     Impact on health policy     In 2010, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE)       published clinical practice       guideline CG91 "Depression in adults with a chronic physical health       problem" [5.1].
The SMaRT-1       clinical trial is referenced several times in the guideline as evidence       for the efficacy of a       collaborative-care model of depression management in a UK population.
The       findings from       Sharpe's work are also placed in the "Recommended for practice" section of       the evidence-based       practice guidelines and recommendations on depression management published       in 2008 by the       US-based Oncology Nursing Society (ONS) [5.2].
ONS is a professional       organisation of over       35,000 registered nurses and healthcare providers dedicated to excellence       in patient care,       education, research, and administration in oncology nursing, which       actively promotes evidence-based       implementation of practice to cancer care nurses internationally.
Other       important guidelines       and policy-setting-documents that refer to the SMaRT-1 trial include:       National Comprehensive       Cancer Network (NCCN) clinical practice guidelines in oncology on distress       management in the       USA (version 2, 2013) [5.3]; "The management of depression in palliative       care" &#8212; European clinical       guidelines developed on behalf of the European Palliative Care Research       Collaborative in 2010       [5.4]; and "Psychosocial health care for cancer patients and their       families: adaptation and internal       and external review.
"&#8212; a quality initiative of the Cancer Care Ontario       (Canada) (2010) [5.5].
The initial publication of the results of SMaRT-1 trial increased       awareness about depression and       suicidal thoughts among cancer patients [5.6].
A recent review of       depression screening and       management in cancer patients published by an international team       identified this trial as the only       identifiable high-quality controlled trial of depression management in       cancer patients [5.7].
Impact on health and welfare     Many seriously ill patients with cancer have access to potentially lethal       medication that they could       take in overdose.
Such acts are recognised as being under reported (why go       looking for trouble?
why put the family through additional trauma?)
by the certifying       physician, who can easily cite the       underlying malignancy as the cause of death.
It has been reported in the       US that 19 out of every       1,000 males diagnosed with cancer and four out of every 1,000 female       cancer patients take their       own lives.
In general, 15-50% of cancer patients display depressive       thoughts and symptoms, and       5-20% meet diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder [5.8].
Left       untreated, depression in       seriously ill patients can be associated with increased physical symptoms,       suicidal thoughts,       worsened quality of life and emotional distress.
Moreover, depression can       impair the patient's       interaction with family during a pivotal time in which patients may be       saying goodbye, thank you, or       planning for their death.
Depressive symptoms can even erode the construct       of patient autonomy       by interfering with one's ability to engage in medical decisions and       attain a sense of meaning from       their illness [5.8].
The intervention scheme developed by Sharpe and       colleagues contributes to       improved quality of life and potentially prevents suicides among cancer       patients, although for the       reasons stated above the exact numbers of patients assisted is impossible       to assess.
Impact on health economics     The NICE costing statements "Depression: the treatment and management of       depression in adults       (update)" and "Depression in adults with a chronic physical health       problem", which describe the       economic consequences of implementation of NICE guidelines CG90 and CG91       (the latter of       which was directly influenced by the SMaRT-1 trial), states that "the       indirect costs of depression far       outweigh the health service costs, therefore any additional costs incurred       in the health service are       likely to be more than offset by savings and benefits to the wider       economy" [5.9].
Importantly, under the national UK Quality and Outcomes framework (part       of the General Medical       Services contract from the Department of Health, which was heavily       influenced by the NICE       guidelines), General Practitioners are now financially rewarded for       performing a cancer care       review, which includes assessment of patients' social support networks and       emotional needs       [5.10].
