     Pathways to impact     The staff of the NCJDRSU disseminate their findings beyond academic       publications and presentations.
Real-time data on the worldwide incidence       of variant CJD is freely available on the Unit's website [5.1], as is the       trend incidence of vCJD, which is mathematically analysed by Public Health       England.
The Unit's website received 20,000 hits during 2012.
The team       presents an annual report to the UK Department of Health (DoH) and       regularly provides data to the DoH in relation to parliamentary questions.
In addition, senior staff make regular contributions to newspaper, radio       and TV media.
Will, Ironside, Knight and Dr Mark Head (Reader, UoE, 1998-present)       regularly present to committees in the UK, Europe and USA, for example the       World Health Organization (most recently in 2010), US Food and Drug       Administration Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies Advisory       Committee (TSEAC; annually since 2009), the UK Spongiform Encephalopathy       Advisory Committee (SEAC; 2009), the Advisory Committee on Dangerous       Pathogens (regularly over the last 5 years), the Advisory Committee on the       Safety of Blood, Tissues and Organs, the European Centre for Disease       Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the European Medicines Agency (2008 and       2011).
Impact on public policy     NCJDRSU staff have played instrumental roles in advising national and       international policy-makers.
Will and Ironside have been members of the       WHO International Health Roster of Experts since January 2009.
The outcome       has been that UoE data on the incidence of vCJD have profoundly influenced       policy in the UK, and internationally [5.2, 5.3]: NCJDRSU diagnostic       criteria [3.5] have been adopted by the WHO and ECDC [5.4].
The NCJDRSU is       the sole external unit linked to the WHO vCJD web page [5.5] and, of the       22 citations underpinning the WHO guidelines on tissue infectivity, eight       were generated by the Edinburgh group [5.6].
Informed by the European       EUROCJD surveillance data, the case definitions for vCJD have been revised       and now apply to all EU countries [5.7].
In the USA, Knight has been an invited expert companion on CJD       Foundation/CJD Surveillance Centre annual visits to Congress/Senate to       present data informing USA funding and policy (2009-2013).
The 2010 US       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CJD diagnostic criteria were       adapted from ref.
[3.5] and the WHO criteria [5.8].
Impact on clinical practice     The case definition for vCJD in the EU is based upon the NCJDRSU       diagnostic criteria and is applied via the ECDC.
The Neuropathology       Laboratory in NCJDRSU is an international referral centre for the       diagnosis of all forms of human prion diseases, and the Unit acts as the       hub for reporting of cases of vCJD to the EU (2010 onwards).
It is the       only infectious disease centre that remains outsourced from the ECDC       [5.9].
The pattern of suspect sporadic CJD referrals in UK over the last five       years suggests diagnosis by local neurological services has improved since       reporting began in 1990; the number of identified cases has increased       gradually over time, while the number of referrals remains approximately       constant, although there has been variation.
This probably reflects       improved case ascertainment, particularly in those individuals over 70       years old, as discussed in the NCJDRSU Annual Reports 2009 and 2010.
For       example, identified definite and probable sporadic CJD deaths in the UK       numbered 28 in 1990, 85 in 2010 and 90 in 2011.
Furthermore, the annual       mortality rate for UK sporadic CJD in the 75 to 79-years age group was       3.39 during 1990-1995 and 5.43 in 1996-2011 [5.1, 5.10].
The NCJDRSU`s National cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) laboratory service has       provided NHS clinicians and services with an important diagnostic aid, and       the CSF protein test results, as defined by the Unit, are embodied in the       current internationally agreed (and WHO-adopted) diagnostic criteria.
The       use of cerebral magnetic resonance imaging in diagnosis (adopted into the       formal diagnostic criteria in Jan 2010) has been an additional significant       aid to clinical practice and, through the Unit, Dr David Summers (NHS       Neuroradiologist) has provided an expert opinion on scans in individual       cases, both nationally and internationally.
The newly developed and highly       specific CSF RT-QuIC test has been audited by the Unit and has recently       begun to impact on clinical diagnosis.
Impact on health and wellbeing     Effective diagnosis of CJD is important for patients and their families,       and for clinical management.
The NCJDRSU `s pooling of &gt;11,000 cases       across Europe is very important for meaningful study of the natural       history of this rare disease and for the development of treatments.
Staff at the NCJDRSU are closely involved with CJD-related charities and       patient support groups both in the UK and internationally.
They make       regular presentations to patient and family meetings in the UK, USA, Italy       and Australia, and have authored newsletters and information booklets for       the UK charity, the CJD Support Network, which have been used as models       for information provision in other countries.
Will and Knight contributed       to the clinical/diagnostic parts of the USA CJD Foundation educational DVD       prepared for families and clinical professionals, and Knight was given the       2012 `Champion for CJD Families' award by the Australian CJD Support       Network.
