     Pathways to impact       Illegal images of children online are an enormous problem and one that is       growing globally: 80 million online child pornography images were       identified between 2002 and 2012.
Having performed the first systematic       analysis of the characteristics of children involved in indecent images,       Quayle and colleagues engaged in a substantial programme of activities to       disseminate the findings at national and international conferences and       workshops for key policy makers, third sector agencies and law enforcement       bodies.
This included a keynote address and thematic report at the Third       World Congress against Sexual Exploitation of Children and Adolescents,       Rio de Janeiro (2008), presentations to the Council of Europe (2008) and       European Parliamentary Groups (2013), and the Virtual Global Taskforce       (2013).
Quayle is a board member of the Prevention Policy Committee at the       National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in the US, providing       expertise on victimisation.
Impact on international policy       Quayle was tasked by the Chief of the Child Exploitation and Obscenity       Section, United States Department of Justice, to co-convene a G8 meeting       in 2009 at the University of North Carolina.
Quayle's expert presentation       at the meeting described the only specific victim-related research in this       area.
The meeting led to the publication of a book [3.2], endorsed by the       US Department of Justice, that has been used by specialist police forces,       the judiciary, child protection workers and non-governmental organisations       (NGOs).
The G8 meeting also led to the Law Enforcement Projects Subgroup       (LEPSG) Declaration of Ministers, 2009 [5.1].
This Declaration instigated       the development of legislative proposals in both Japan and Russia to       criminalise possession of indecent images of children.
A further outcome of the G8 meeting was the later establishment of the US       Department of Justice and European Commission-hosted Global Alliance       Against Child Sexual Abuse Online [5.2].
Quayle was an invited expert at       the initiating ministerial conference in December 2012 [5.3].
The outcome       of the Global Alliance was that 27 EU Member States and 21 other countries       gave a formal agreement to enhance efforts to identify victims and ensure       they receive the necessary assistance, support and protection; enhance       efforts to investigate cases and identify and prosecute offenders;       increase public awareness; and reduce the availability of child       pornography online.
To achieve these shared policy targets, participants       also committed to pursue a number of operational goals, to indicate what       specific actions would be taken to reach them, and to commit to implement       them.
By virtue of this work, Quayle became a member of the Child Online       Protection (COP) initiative, formed in 2008 by the United Nations'       International Telecommunications Union.
The COP initiative is an       international collaborative network for action.
In conjunction with UN       agencies and other partners, it actively promotes the online protection of       children and young people worldwide by providing guidance on safe online       behaviour.
As part of this initiative Quayle co-authored "Guidelines for       Parents, Guardians and Educators" (launched in Geneva in 2009) [5.4].
This       is available in English, French, Spanish, Arabic, Chinese and Russian       through a wide network of UN and European Commission bodies as well as all       of the leading NGOs.
It forms part of four sets of guidelines that are       used by developing countries to formulate policies adapted to their       cultural context to provide a safe online environment for children.
The UoE research also underpinned input into US legislative procedures.
Quayle was one of two non-US invited experts on an advisory panel for the       US Sentencing Commission (July 2011) [5.5], to assist in providing       guidance for a revision of sentencing of child pornography offenders in       the US.
This meeting informed the Report to the Congress: Federal Child       Pornography Offenses (2012) [5.6] that will form the basis of new       sentencing guidelines.
Impact on practitioners and society       Quayle is a board member of the Prevention Policy Committee at the       National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in the US, providing       expertise on victimisation.
The foundation provides expert services to       national police forces on internet victim issues, and provides       professional training for police, social workers and child protection       agencies.
UoE research by Quayle has underpinned practical advice given to social       workers, teachers, police, youth workers, residential workers and       psychologists.
For example, Quayle presented findings related to       adolescence, new technologies and sexual behaviour at the "New       Technologies and Child Protection: Challenges and Solutions" WithScotland       conference, Tulliallan, March 2013 [5.7]; she also gave a presentation on       sexting at the "Cyberbullying: A practical approach" meeting, Dublin,       March 2013.
Both events attracted much media attention in the UK and       Ireland, e.g., The Herald, for which Quayle provided a comment [5.8].
Quayle also provided an expert comment for an article on the BBC news       website in 2011 when Lincolnshire Police announced that it had broken up a       web-based news group that sold and distributed images of child sex abuse       [5.9].
