     UoE researchers have identified asymptomatic carriage of vCJD-related       prion protein and cases of secondary human-to-human transmission of vCJD       infection via blood and blood products.
Through tractable models, they       have established the absolute and relative risk of transmission via blood       products in a manner that informed and had significant impact on public       health policy worldwide, particularly in the UK, Europe and North America.
Pathways to impact and public engagement       Edinburgh researchers have advised policy-makers on the risk and risk       management of TSEs, and more specifically CJD and vCJD [5.1].
Professors       Manson, Ironside, Will and Knight and Dr Head are all members of national       and international advisory committees and risk assessment policy groups:       these include the Advisory Committee on Dangerous Pathogens (ACDP) [5.2],       the Advisory Committee on the Safety of Blood, Tissues and Organs (SaBTO),       the UK Blood Services Prion Working Group (PWG) and the Spongiform       Encephalopathy Advisory Committee (SEAC).
These groups discussed issues       and provided reports directly to the DoH on a range of issues and       activities associated with potential transmission risks of TSEs, including       blood and blood product transfusion, surgical technique and tissue       handling, and cleaning of reusable instruments and equipment (for example,       endoscopes) [5.3].
Just a few of many examples of meetings at which UoE research was       discussed are: at the ACDP-TSE Risk Assessment and Risk Management Group       (November 2009, February 2010, July 2010 and November 2011); at the PWG       (December 2011 and November 2012); and at SEAC (November 2009 and February       2010).
The ACDP Annual Report 2010 refers to reviews of major surgical       procedures, disposal of surgical instruments and reviews of the World       Health Organization (WHO) guidelines.
The ACDP Annual Report 2012 refers       to a discussion of the risk assessment associated with the Roslin (Manson)       activities on scrapie and BSE [5.4].
In addition to their individual       contributions to policy groups, NCJDRSU staff regularly provide data to       the DoH in relation to parliamentary questions.
International examples of UoE involvement with policy-making bodies       include the participation of Will in meetings of the European Medicines       Agency (2011) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Transmissible       Spongiform Encephalopathies Advisory Committee (2009, 2010, 2011, 2013).
Both Will and Manson have served as expert advisors to the European Food       Safety Authority committees.
Impact on public policy       The participation of UoE researchers in national and international       policy-making bodies demonstrates the clear impact that their work and       expertise has had, and continues to have, on public policy in respect to       TSEs and in particular vCJD.
UoE's contribution and value to policy in the       UK is highly valued by the DoH [5.5].
UoE's identification of       blood-related secondary transmission of vCJD led to a number of       precautionary health policy changes, such as withdrawal and recall of       blood and associated products obtained from donors who develop vCJD,       importation of plasma for UK plasma fractionation, and leucodepletion of       all blood components.
These precautions almost certainly prevented further       vCJD transmissions and critically limited the possibility of a       self-sustaining blood-related secondary epidemic [5.6].
All these policies       are continually reviewed and remain in place, and are dependent on the       ongoing provision of data by the NCJDRSU.
Specific examples include the participation of Ironside and Will on the       CJD Incidents Panel (CJDIP), set up to advise hospitals, trusts and public       health teams across the UK about management of incidents involving all       forms of CJD, and reporting to the ACDP TSE Risk Management Subgroup.
The       CJDIP culminated in the establishment of new 2013 guidelines covering all       aspects of CJD management, from reporting new cases and infection control       to public health advice and control of CJD risk and spread for both public       and health workers.
In the 2013 risk assessment of vCJD and transfusion of       blood products produced by the Health Protection Analytical Team at the       DoH, approximately 20% of the references are from UoE researchers [5.7].
In a further example, in the updated (2012) ACDP TSE Risk Management       Subgroup guidance document "Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy       agents: safe working and the prevention of infection" 8 out of the 17       references cited are from UoE researchers [5.6].
Impact on international policy       In 2010, WHO updated its earlier (2006) "Guidelines of Tissue Infectivity       Distribution in Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies".
It is clear       that UoE researchers had major impact on the updated guidelines.
Of the       invited expert scientific presentations (Annex 2 of WHO document) UoE       researchers contributed significant numbers in many relevant disciplines,       for example: Ironside and Will in "epidemiology" (2 out of 5); and       Professor Marc Turner (Professor of Cellular Therapy, UoE 1997-2011;       Director of the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service) in both       `evaluation of TSE blood transmission risk' and `evaluation of TSE removal       procedures'.
Further, of the total Annex 2 references, almost 20% are       accredited to UoE researchers, including 8 out of 17 in the "epidemiology'       section.
In the Annex 1 "Tables on Tissue Infectivity Distribution in       Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies"; of 22 references in the "Human       TSE' section, 8 constitute UoE-based research [5.8].
The WHO guidelines in turn are referenced in European Commission (EC)       guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform       encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary products.
The most recent       (2011) position statement from the European Medicines Agency Committee for       Medicinal Products for Human Use on CJD and plasma- and urine-derived       medicinal products refers frequently to UoE researchers and studies (e.g.,       the Transfusion Medicine Epidemiological Review) [5.9].
The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other       international bodies have instituted similar policies.
UoE impact in North       America is demonstrated by the production in May 2010 by the FDA of       preventive measures to reduce the possible risk of transmission of CJD and       vCJD by blood and blood products, updating earlier guidance in place since       2002.
The new guidance, in which the UoE team is frequently referenced,       incorporated donor deferral recommendations for donors who have received a       transfusion of blood or blood products in France, provided updated       scientific information on CJD and vCJD and revised labelling       recommendations for transfusion products [5.10].
