     CLOTS-1 showed that full-length GCS for stroke patients were ineffective,       and in fact had adverse       effects.
CLOTS-2 indicated that knee-length GCS, which are more commonly       used, might actually       increase the risk of DVT.
Pathways to impact       The UoE trial team carried out a substantial programme of dissemination       activities beyond the       primary results publication: 20 local, national and international       conference presentations, two       webinars, materials posted on the CLOTS website       (http://www.dcn.ed.ac.uk/clots/), engagement       with five guideline committees (including the National Institute for       Health and Care Excellence       (NICE) and the Royal College of Physicians), and extensive media coverage.
These efforts have       directly impacted on both the revision of guidelines and on clinical       practice.
The outcome has been       the diversion of valuable nursing time to other more effective areas of       stroke care than applying       and maintaining GCS compliance, ensuring greater comfort for patients by       them not having to wear       the stockings (which are hot, uncomfortable and often get soiled), and       substantial cost savings.
Impact on public policy       Prior to the publication of the results of CLOTS-1, the draft NICE       guidelines on the prevention of       venous thromboembolism in hospital patients recommended GCS in stroke       patients.
However, the       final publication of the guidelines was delayed for 3 months so that the       results of the CLOTS-1 trial       could be taken into account.
The final recommendation (March 2011) was:       "Do not offer anti-       embolism stockings for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis to patients who       are admitted for       stroke" [5.1].
The US guidelines now also recommend against routine use of GCS in stroke       patients [5.2].
The       American College of Physicians quoted the CLOTS trials and recommended       "against the use of       mechanical prophylaxis with graduated compression stockings for prevention       of venous       thromboembolism (grade: strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence)"       in stroke patients       [5.3].
Also in response to the trial results, national guidelines in at least       Scotland [5.4], Singapore [5.5],       Canada [5.6], Italy and South Africa no longer recommend use of GCS in       stroke patients.
Impact on practitioners and services       The trial results and resultant altered guidelines have had a clear effect       on healthcare provision in       the UK and beyond.
The results of a 2011 web-based survey of practice       amongst UK stroke       physicians showed "the virtual eradication of use of stockings for       thromboprophylaxis in acute       stroke in the UK" and concluded that "the CLOTS studies have had a       dramatic impact on clinical       practice" [5.7].
These findings are supported by another study; "Data on       GCS use were available       for 1,971 patients with acute stroke enrolled into the Efficacy of Nitric       Oxide in Stroke trial from       February 2003 to April 2011.
The use of GCS in the UK declined from 60.7%       (398/656) to 3.5%       (20/567) (p &lt; 0.001) after publication of the CLOTS-1 trial       results.
Similar reductions were seen in       other GCS-using countries.
Practice change was apparent within 3 months of       the study       publication" [5.8].
Impact on the economy       The study findings are applicable to the approximately 65,000 immobile       stroke patients admitted to       hospital in the UK each year.
Based on published figures [5.9], the       "virtual eradication" of GCS use       in the UK is estimated to have saved, per annum, &#163;1.3M (assuming three       pairs/patient costing &#163;7       each) for the GCS themselves, &#163;20M in nursing time to size, fit and       monitor the stockings, plus       additional annual cost associated with the treatment of the 1500 patients       with skin breaks caused       by stocking use.
Impact on health and welfare       As a result of the CLOTS trials, stroke patients are no longer subjected       to wearing ineffective       uncomfortable stockings for prolonged periods in hospital.
Furthermore,       they are at less risk of       developing skin damage/ulceration that may themselves prolong hospital       admission, estimated as       6000 fewer cases since 2009.
