     Professor Scharf's research shaped public and policymakers' views about       Gift Aid reform and the favourable tax treatment of charitable       contributions.1     Jeremy Sherwood, Branch Head, Charity Tax at HM Treasury, stated "[the       Scharf and Smith] research provides very valuable evidence on a topic       where robust UK data is surprisingly scarce...
The research has been       enormously helpful in providing analytical information to help explore the       various proposals and their likely impacts on donor behaviour" (2009).
In       response to the Report, HMRC and HM Treasury officials invited sector       representatives to participate in an open forum (HM Treasury (2010)), and       the final report of this forum drew on the 2009 report to outline       proposals for Gift Aid reform (Fanning (2010)).
More recently, Scharf's       research underpins the entire section of "Coalition Government proposals       to encourage philanthropy" in their plans regarding Gift Aid reform (House       of Commons (2012a)).
Scharf's research also triggered a spirited public discussion about the       role of charitable donations in public life and their tax treatment.
This       came to a head in late Spring 2012 when the Government proposed to cap tax       relief for deductions, including charitable deductions.
The uproar from charities and their donors was immediate.
19 charities       cited Scharf and Smith (2009) in making public statements or policy       proposals since 2008 about Gift Aid or the cap on charitable deductions.
Scharf provided non-academic presentations and blog posts, several of       which were prominently reported in the media.
The Guardian editorial of 17       April 2012 concluded Scharf and Smith (2009) offered the "best evidence"       on tax incentives (Guardian (2012)) and both authors discussed their       research on the Today programme (BBC Radio 4).
In response to the uproar,       the Government did a quick U-turn: while the cap on deductions was indeed       introduced in April 2013, charitable deductions are excluded from this       limit (House of Commons (2012b)).
Karl Wilding, Head of Policy, Research, and Foresight at the National       Council for Voluntary Organisations, reflected, "The recent disagreement       between HMT and the charity sector in relation to unrestricted tax reliefs       and Gift Aid highlighted the ongoing difficulties faced by the sector in       the battle for evidence-informed policy...
The sector needs... more work       such as the economic analysis by Smith and Scharf on the price of       giving... Smith and Scharf had an impact on the debate by providing a       balanced, independent commentary.
I am confident that Smith and Scharf       made a contribution to the debate and, as such, ... had a real impact in       the charity sector" (Wilding (2012)).
Lockwood's methods for estimating the impact of a financial services VAT       also had an immediate effect on government policy, this time in the EU.
Lockwood's methods for analysing the costs and benefits of a VAT were       adapted by the European Commission (EC) to calculate whether the financial       sector receives favourable tax treatment.
Finding that it did, the EC       subsequently used this result to justify a novel Financial Transactions       Tax (FTT).
Mr. Gaetan Nicodeme, Head of Sector in the Directorate-General       for Taxation and Customs Union in the EC, noted "The approach taken in       [Annex 5 to the 2011 FTT proposal] to calculate the share of irrecoverable       VAT is similar to the one taken by De la Feria and Lockwood (2010) in       Appendix A of their study.
The only difference is that they used OECD IO       tables instead of Eurostat's tables" (Nicodeme (2013)).
It concluded that       the financial sector has a tax advantage of at least &#8364;14 billion, or 0.11%       of Euro area GDP.
Lockwood's Fiscal Studies article also formed the basis of a       consultation with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) on the appropriate taxation       of the financial sector.
Frans Oomen, partner for Indirect Taxes at PwC,       concluded, "During the project, Lockwood added significant knowledge,       insight, conceptual thinking, and quality in ... developing a conceptual       framework as well as using statistical information to build an economic       model and a methodology [to assess] whether the VAT exemptions for banking       services in the EU lead to a lower level of VAT revenues as compared to a       full VAT taxation system of banks.
In [PwC's] view, the findings of the       report have contributed to a wider and better understanding of the       financial and economic implications of the EU VAT system and to the       discussions around the EU's tax policy introducing a Financial       Transactions Tax as an additional tax for the financial sector" (Oomen       (2013)).
Another project sponsored by a separate division within the EC       also relied on de la Feria and Lockwood's methodology to quantify the       effects of the taxation of financial services (IFS (2011)).
Scharf's and Lockwood's research have had significant and meaningful       effect in debates about the tax treatment of charities and financial       services.
Scharf's research played a significant role in the debate that       ultimately prevented charitable donations from being included in a       deductions cap.
It also has influenced public and policymaker       understanding about the likely impact of changes in Gift Aid rules in an       environment where more than 50% of UK residents make charitable       contributions worth over &#163;4 billion on an annual basis.
While the primary beneficiaries of Lockwood's research have been EC       policymakers, the public at large will benefit from the increased tax       revenues the FTT will bring.
From 2014, the FTT will tax exchanges of       shares and bonds at a rate of 0.1% and derivative contracts at a rate of       0.01% and is estimated to raise &#8364;57 billion annually, approximately 0.4%       of EU GDP (EC (2012)).
