     Pathways to impact     Following an invitation from the BBC in 2006, Professor Logie designed       interactive demonstration       tests of working memory derived from his research carried out from 2004 at       the University of       Edinburgh (demonstrations).
These interactive demonstrations were then       made available on the       BBC Science web pages.
Impact on public engagement     Since 2008, approximately 250,000 people [5.1] from 150 countries       spontaneously found and       engaged with the demonstrations on the BBC web pages via the internet on       their own computers.
Around 160,000 of these people aged between 8 and 80 chose to complete all       the demonstrations.
All participants were given feedback on their performance in the       demonstrations, along with an       explanation of the cognitive ability that each demonstration was intended       to test.
The recorded       performance levels showed that those who completed all the tests clearly       understood what they       were required to do, in that they generated performance patterns that were       similar to those found       in controlled laboratory studies using very similar tests.
The results       from the demonstrations were       of sufficiently high scientific quality to meet the standards required for       publication in peer-reviewed       journals that have exacting standards [see, e.g., 3.4-3.6].
As a result,       this large database has been       used to address a series of different research questions about changes in       cognitive function across       age.
Seven such papers have been published from the database thus far.
Although participants       were self-selected as having internet access and sufficient knowledge of       English to complete the       demonstrations, they represented a much wider range of age, of formal       education and of social       background than is typical for volunteers in experimental psychology       research.
Volunteer       participants from the public who take part in laboratory studies are       typically highly motivated to       understand what cognitive tests are measuring.
The fact that over 230,000       members of the public       from over 150 countries found the demonstrations on the BBC Science web       site, and chose to       spend up to 30 minutes attempting the demonstrations, is evidence that the       demonstrations       attracted their interest and engaged commitment of both time and mental       activity.
The data quality       from over half of these individuals indicated that they gained sufficient       understanding to complete       all the demonstrations successfully.
Further impact arose from the demonstrations being chosen to feature on       the BBC daily current       affairs programme `The One Show' in April 2009.
Over three days, 27,000       viewers of the       programme completed all the demonstrations on-line, including the       high-profile guests who were       interviewed on the programme that week.
At the request of the BBC, the       scores for the viewers       who participated were analysed and placed on `The One Show' web site along       with an explanation       of the demonstrations and the results.
The BBC controls the availability       of the demonstrations on       its web pages but, at the time of writing, the tests are still available       for completion by members of       the public via The One Show web site [5.2].
There are comments on The One       Show web page       from people who completed the tests.
The highlighting of demonstrations by the BBC, and on The One Show in       particular, has resulted in       multiple spontaneous requests from both print and broadcast popular media       [e.g., 5.3] to Professor       Logie for comment and interview on a wide range of questions regarding       human memory.
Further       evidence of the impact of the demonstrations on a broader audience came       from Professor Logie       being invited to be the main consultant for a 320-page Reader's Digest       book on Cognitive Ageing       for the public, published in August 2011 [5.4], and the same for a further       similar book published by       Reader's Digest in August 2012 [5.5].
The demonstrations have now been       modified and included in       a major new public exhibition, `Bodyworks', launched in March 2013 at the       Glasgow Science       Centre (annual footfall &gt;270,000) [5.6].
Acknowledgement of the       contribution of the demonstrations       from the University of Edinburgh is on display in the exhibition.
