     Larval forms of the schistosomiasis parasite are released from freshwater       snails and penetrate the skin when an individual comes into contact with       infective water.
Schistosomiasis is the second (after malaria) most       important parasitic infection of public health concern in Africa, with       children being most at risk of infection and disease; urogenital       schistosomiasis affects more than 100 million people in Africa.
Symptoms       of this neglected tropical disease are caused not by the worms themselves       but rather the host's immune response to the worm's eggs.
In affected       populations, children carry the heaviest burden of the disease with       schistosomiasis causing haematuria, nutritional deficiencies, anaemia and       growth retardation amongst other health issues.
Untreated infections       acquired in childhood can lead to kidney and bladder pathology, bladder       cancer, reduced fertility and susceptibility to HIV infection.
Control of schistosomiasis is based on preventive treatment, snail       control, improved sanitation and health education.
Morbidity due to       schistosomiasis is currently controlled by the periodic, targeted       treatment of infected people with the anti-helminthic drug, PZQ.
Children       aged under 5 had been excluded from schistosome control programmes for       several reasons: a lack of safety data on PZQ in this age group,       misconceptions about the level of infection in pre-schoolers and also       previously-held thoughts that the immune system in the under 5s was not       sufficiently developed to act synergistically with PZQ.
UoE research       demonstrated how PZQ treatment influences acquired immunity [1,2,3] and       showed that PZQ is effective and well-tolerated by pre-school children       [5], and that the effects of PZQ on the immune responses to schistome       antigens and allergens in the under 5s were similar to those observed in       older children [2,4,5].
This research, together with that of two other       groups funded by WHO to investigate the use of PZQ in this age group in       Mali and Sudan, was presented at a WHO workshop in September 2010.
As a       result of these findings, the main recommendation of this meeting was the       inclusion of pre-school children aged 5 years and under in schistosome       control programmes [a, b].
Until a paediatric formulation of PZQ is in use, PZQ doses to children       are calculated based on patient weight.
However, in the field, correct       dosages of PZQ need to be administered quickly to large groups of children       with minimal equipment for the task.
Therefore, in the field a PZQ `dose       pole' measuring height is used as a proxy for weighing scales for       calculating the dose of PZQ.
The WHO meeting recommended that the PZQ dose       pole be evaluated for extended use in pre-school children.
Data from       several African countries including that supplied by the UoE research [4,       5] was used to validate the use of the PZQ pole in children aged 5 and       under [c], and it is now deployed in the field.
[f].
Following WHO recommendations, which require a national survey and plan       of action before implementation of a national helminth control programme,       Mutapi collaborated with the University of Zimbabwe and Ministry of Health       to conduct a National Schistosomiasis Survey throughout Zimbabwe,       formulate a national Neglected Tropical Diseases Control Policy and draft       a plan of action.
This National Prevalence Survey was carried out in 2010       to ascertain levels of schistosome infection across the country.
This       allowed stratification of the control programme according to schistosome       infection levels and formulation of a treatment strategy using WHO       treatment guidelines.
Mutapi was involved in the design of the national       survey protocol and subsequent data analysis, drawing on findings from the       previous UoE research.
The report from this survey resulted in a proposal       to the Ministry of Health in Zimbabwe for a national control programme and       the formulation of a plan of action for schistosome control.
The resulting       policy was published in July 2011 as a National Control Policy of Zimbabwe       [d, f].
This policy included treatment of pre-school children as a result       of the UoE/UoZ research [5], making Zimbabwe's MDA programme the first       control programme worldwide that includes the treatment of children under       the age of 5 years.
As a result of the WHO policy change and the       Zimbabwean Control Programme, 2 million pre-school children in Zimbabwe       are now included in a national control programme.
In September 2012 a mass       drug administration (MDA), including pre-school children for the first       time ever, was delivered through the country's network of schools and       health facilities in all districts of Zimbabwe with support from WHO,       UNICEF, WFC and other development partners.
346,970 pre-school children       received treatment against Schistosomiasis for the first time [e, f].
UoE is leading a monitoring and evaluation survey of the Zimbabwean       control programme and we have shown that the first MDA has been extremely       successful in reducing S. haematobium infection amongst pre-school       children.
This new treatment strategy arising from the UoE research is       therefore also instrumental in reducing the risk for pre-school children       of developing irreversible complications in adulthood.
The Chair of the 2010 WHO workshop on schistosomiasis states:     "Internationally, this on-going programme and evaluation study in         Zimbabwe has many ramifications.
Niger, Uganda and Malawi are now         expanding the delivery of treatment to pre-school age children.
By this         token the work is of international importance.
It will help tens of         thousands of children in the short term and several million in the long         term."
[g]
