     EuroStemCell led directly to the present large-scale, high-impact       programme of communication and public engagement in stem cell research and       regenerative medicine throughout the REF period.
The materials and       activities described below extensively feature the UoE research of Austin       Smith and colleagues.
Without these research outputs, the EuroStemCell       grant with its major outreach component would not have been awarded and       the establishment of www.eurostemcell.org       and the associated films and educational materials would not have been       possible.
The UoE research constituted a series of major advances,       including clarification of a critical controversial issue by providing one       of the breakthroughs that negated reports which had misled clinicians and       patients into believing that transplantation &#8212; for instance of blood stem       cells &#8212; could directly repair damaged heart, muscle or nervous system       tissue [6].
UoE was thus in a unique position to ensure that this       important scientific understanding reached the public domain.
Impact on society, culture and creativity; and on awareness of health         and welfare.
www.eurostemcell.org       is a major information portal that provides trusted, accurate and       up-to-date information on stem cells and regenerative medicine for       European citizens.
It delivers information in the form of fact sheets,       FAQs for patients, and commentaries on a wide range of topics in stem cell       biology, regenerative medicine and related societal issues written in       plain language and reviewed by experts prior to publication.
Multilingual       functionality was added from 2011 (English, French, German, Italian,       Spanish, and Polish; these 6 languages make the site accessible to &gt;80%       of Europeans).
Social media channels are now integrated into all       communications to provide supplementary dissemination platforms, extending       the reach of public engagement.
In the REF census period the website received 1,010,468 visits (767,006       unique) from &gt;200 countries.
Website traffic has grown during the       period, with 333,624 visits in the year Aug 2012 &#8212; July 2013.
95% of       respondents to our 2011 website evaluation felt that it provides reliable       information and 86% would recommend the site to others.
It is a trusted       information source for a wide range of specialist and non-specialist       audiences.
The website is routinely used by European Commission Research       Directorate Scientific Officers to inform answers given by the       Commissioner for Science and MEPs to parliamentary questions [a].
From May       2010-31 July 2013, 463 patient enquiries were responded to.
Our Twitter       account (twitter.com/eurostemcell) has 2,847 followers, including       journalists (@RogerHighfield), patients and patient groups       (@MichaelJFoxOrg, @ParkinsonsUK, @PatientsLikeMe) and educators       (@hrogerson, @tesScience, @ViciaScience).
We have developed a stem cell outreach toolkit, 14       extensively-tested, downloadable resources and activities with full       instructions for use, available to educators and science communicators       (http://www.eurostemcell.org/stem-cell-toolkit).
For example the dialogue       event based partly on [6], "A Stem Cell Dream", was used at Bergamo       Scienza science festival, Italy (October 2011), attended by over 300       members of the public       (http://www.eurostemcell.org/story/400-attend-stem-cell-dream-bergamo-scienza).In       March 2011 interactive sessions on stem cells at the Science Museum London       "Lates" event were attended by thousands of adults and in March 2012       almost 2000 people took part in EuroStemCell events at the Centre for Life       in Newcastle ScienceFest.
We have produced a graphic short story "Hope         Beyond Hype", as a tool for engaging audiences, including the       hard-to-reach youth audience, with the process through which a new basic       science discovery must go to become part of a new therapy.
This was       released online in 2012 and has had &gt;120,000 read-views.
It is       highlighted by patient organisations including Parents Project, MS Society       and Parkinson's Foundation [b] and educational resource sites including       the National STEM Centre [c], and is a recommended resource on the       European teacher resource website http://www.scienceinschool.org/2013/issue26/spinal.
We have distributed a physical outreach kit of resources to over       30 research centres across Europe and have trained &gt;230 scientists for       public engagement.
Within the REF census period, the outreach kit has been       used at &gt;17 science and cultural festivals and at least 5 science       centres, reaching over 20,100 members of public.
In 2006 we produced four short documentary films about our stem       cell research, "Stem Cell Stories".
We subsequently produced two       further films &#8212; the feature-length documentary "Stem Cell         Revolutions: vision of the future" (2011) and the short         educational film, "Stem cells, the future: an introduction to         iPS cells" (2012).
These films address UoE research [2-4,6] and       other findings and were generated through a partnership between UoE       scientists and film-makers (including UoE's Edinburgh College of Art).
The       films have won multiple awards including best documentary for Stem         Cell Revolutions, Vedere La Scienza Science Film Festival, Milan,       March 2012.
The eurostemcell.org film pages have received 176,000 views       from 127 countries.
Our YouTube film channel has had &gt;100,000 views and       has 369 subscribers (http://www.youtube.com/eurostemcell).
We have also distributed &gt;800 copies of the Stem Cell Stories DVDs,       which have been used in schools and in activities with patients [d].
We       developed online accompanying lesson resources to match curriculum       requirements.
An online synchronised viewing and discussion of the film `Stem         cells: the future' was co-ordinated in Scottish Schools in December       2012.
38 secondary school science classes (&gt;600 students) participated.
The film has been used in 4 UK teacher-training events (ASE (Association       for Science Education) Liverpool 2012, ASE Reading 2013, ASE Scotland       2013, SSERC (Scottish Local Authorities' Schools Education Research       Centre) 2013).
`Stem Cell Revoutions' has toured to 30 venues throughout the UK       reaching a collective audience of &gt;1500 (at August 2013).
Screenings       are followed by an extended Q&amp;A session with an expert scientist       and/or clinician to promote deep engagement with stem cell research and       regenerative medicine.
The film has also screened at 11 international       science festivals and events in Europe, Japan, New Zealand and Australia.
In audience surveys at 16 UK screenings (&gt;550 questionnaires)       respondents were asked about the potential impact of the film on their       future behaviour.
85% were more likely to discuss the topic of stem cell       research with colleagues/friends; over half were more likely to go to a       public meeting (52%) and nearly a third (31%) also reported that they were       now more likely to provide a written opinion in a public consultation.
Impact on practitioners and services: We have developed a toolkit       of educational materials, activities and other curriculum-relevant       resources for use in different educational contexts, for 11 years old       upwards, that fit with the curriculum objectives of 5 European countries       and the International Baccalaureate.
Two of our tools "Ready or Not?
A         role play on taking stem cells to the clinic" and "All About         Stem Cells", drawing particularly on work in [6], have been included       by the Scottish Government agency Learning and Teaching Scotland in their       recommended resource for teachers of post-16 school students studying       biology [e].
"All About Stem Cells" was used at the European       Molecular Biology Laboratory International Teacher Training course, `Stem       Cells at the Forefront'; 93.3% of the participants said they would be very       likely to use the resource in their classrooms.
"Discover Stem Cells"       is an interactive lesson for students aged 12-14 supported by guidance       material.
250 kits have been distributed to teachers and researchers in 5       countries.
A Spanish translation is used in the schools programme at the       Seville Science Centre Casa de la Ciencia, and a German version in       teacher training workshops run by the Max Delbruck Centrum fur Molekulare       Medizin, Berlin.
In the REF census period, these tools have been delivered       to over 29,300 school students Europe-wide including the annual UniStem       event in Italy.
Elements of the educational Toolkit have been used in at       least 10 CPD events to 160 teachers in the UK and across Europe.
SSERC has       endorsed our films for use in secondary schools and "A Stem Cell Story"       has been incorporated into a lesson plan published by Oxford University       Press, and is recommended by Scottish government agency Learning and       Teaching Scotland as a tool for National         Qualifications support.
We deliver training events for science communicators/public engagement       practitioners, e.g.
a discussion session at the 12th International Public       Communication of Science and Technology Conference (Florence, Italy, 2012)       attended by approximately 60 public engagement practitioners and social       scientists (http://www.eurostemcell.org/story/whats-best-way-help-researchers-and-patients-communicate); and       a workshop on designing public engagement tools for use by researchers at       the British Interactive Group (BIG) conference, York, UK in 2012.
Impact on public awareness through press and media: www.eurostemcell.org       influences the representation of stem cell science and scientists in the       media.
Its function as a coordinating force for communication of stem cell       biology and regenerative medicine in Europe has made it a point of contact       for press and broadcast media specialists including the Science Media       Centre (SMC) and the Wellcome Trust.
An example is our coordination, with       SMC, of a major press briefing around the European Advocate General's       advice to the European Courts of Justice on the patentability of       procedures related to the use of human embryonic stem cells [f].
This was       attended by science journalists resulting in extensive print (the       Independent, Guardian, Times, Telegraph, FT, Daily Mail, Daily Mirror,       Metro and New Scientist) broadcast (BBC News) and online media coverage.
Impact on commerce: Distribution, streaming and TV rights for the       feature `Stem Cell Revolutions' are licensed to SDI Productions       Ltd, to market personal and educational copies as downloads or DVDs       worldwide, as part of the Virtuous Circle programme funded by Creative       Scotland, which aims to establish a sustainable documentary industry in       Scotland.
199 downloads were sold for private and educational       (multi-viewer) use in the 12 months to August 2013 [g].
An important       component of the film's distribution is the website stemcellrevolutions.com,       built by SDI Productions Ltd to collect viewer information for science       documentary audience building, and for online sales and distribution.
The       film is also embedded on more than 25 other websites through a blogger       outreach programme.
To August 2013, stemcellrevolutions.com       has received 17,110 visits (11,888 unique visits) and 42,854 page views.
The site has 713 Twitter followers, 2,494 Facebook `likes' and 973       emailable supporters.
The film has received 32,925 player loads and 6,591       previews from 79 countries.
SDI Productions have licenced the film for       broadcast on TV to ARTE (France and Germany) and for distribution (DVD,       TV, internet) in Japan and in the Czech Republic [g].
