     Numerous important and chemically diverse products are derived from       plants.
For example, ~30% of contemporary drugs are either natural       products or can trace their origins to such compounds [a].
Unfortunately,       natural products can often be difficult to exploit because they are       typically found at low concentrations and the plants that produce them are       not usually available on a commercial scale.
Furthermore, natural products       often possess complex biochemical structures and therefore even their       chemical synthesis is not economically viable routinely.
UoE offered a unique skill set in plant biotechnology that attracted       Unhwa to initiate a research collaboration.
Unhwa Corp is a       research-orientated company venturing into the higher value-added industry       of developing botanical drugs and manufacturing new biomaterials for       pharmaceutical, nutrition and the cosmetic business.
It was established in       2005, is based in Jeonju, Korea and employs 125 people.
Unhwa Corp has       local subsidiaries in Asia, China, Japan, USA, Europe, Latin America and       Africa.
Unhwa and the Loake group worked together to develop the technology to       isolate and culture CMCs from T. cuspidata and thus circumvented       obstacles routinely associated with the commercial growth of DDCs.
We also       cultured CMCs from P. ginseng, the products of which show multiple       bioactivities.
[1,2] Therefore, the research has provided a cost-effective,       environmentally friendly and sustainable source of naturally produced       pharmacological and other important natural products.
The collaboration       allowed Unhwa to confirm and validate the proprietary CMCs that are now       trademarked as Ddobyul&#174;.
The commercial advantage to Unhwa was significant       since the collaborative research programme leading to paper [1] both       confirmed the validity of the new cost- effective approach to isolating       stem cells and provided the platform on which their unique selling       proposition of products derived from stem cells could be marketed [b, c]     Unhwa Corp's business strategy and operations has changed as a direct       result of the research.
They immediately tripled the production of CMCs in       2011 from one ton of plant stem cells per month to three tons per month.
They invested [text removed for publication] in 2011 to purchase a base in       Jeojuni, Korea for a new production facility to meet increased demand for       their products.
They invested a further [text removed for publication] in       July 2013 for this facility which will allow further increased production.
Initially, the production facility will house 120 x 250L bioreactors with       plans to increase this four-fold with an eventual 66.5 ton production       capacity.
The company strategy for the new production facility is to increase the       production of CMCs from a variety of plant species for the biosynthesis of       a variety of natural products and other therapeutic agents.
The       development of this technology with UoE has therefore made a significant       contribution to Unhwa's strategic plan and to the sustainable production       of key, well-established therapeutics.
The research was reported on the       news of all six major Korean television channels and drove a wave of       significant new financial investment into Unhwa Corp through the purchase       of Unhwa shares, supporting further scientific-related jobs in Jeonju,       Korea.
The Lee et al.
paper [1] was widely reported in the scientific and       popular press, drawing attention to the opportunities for commercial and       healthcare benefits.
The global broadcasting channel, Discovery, featured       the technology in three episodes of their primetime show "How do they do       it?"
from May to August 2011 [d]; Loake featured in the programme.
Unhwa       indicate that this exposure has helped to increase the credibility of       their technologies and thus underscore their business success; the UoE       paper is heavily featured on company websites [b, c, e].
Unhwa Corp was       awarded the 2011 Technology Award by the Korea Ministry of Knowledge       Economy and Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology (KIAT) for the       technology.
This is awarded to new, progressive technologies in any       industrial field that have succeeded in commercialization and have a great       ripple effect on domestic industry.
They were also awarded a New Excellent       Technology (NET) certificate by the Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare       in 2011 and Green Certification from KIAT [b].
This is a national       certification system certifying green technology that satisfies the global       standard of green growth and economy.
Unhwa sell their plant stem cells under the trademark Ddobyul&#174;.
Unhwa has       brought sixteen skin care products to a global market in more than 20       countries, all with these plant stem cells as the main ingredient.
These       products are sold in stores (Korea, Japan, Hong Kong) and online with       country-specific websites, e.g.
Korean, USA, Japanese and Russian sites.
Unhwa also produce many products developed under private label for other       brand distributors, including over 20 kinds of cosmetics products and 5       kinds of nutrition products for more than 4 major clients.
Products based       on their proprietary P. ginseng, T. cuspidata and Solanum         lycopersicum stem cells retail at between US $33 and $209.
Unhwa       also sell three nutrition products including Ddobyul&#174; Wild Gingseng,       selling for up to $297, and is utilizing Ginseng Stem Cells as a form of       nutrition ingredient sold as product to other commercial clients.
Unhwa       estimate a net profit related to these products since 2011 of [text       removed for publication]; the company turnover doubled between 2009/10 and       2011/12.
Loake became Science Advisor to Unhwa's future research strategy and a       further research agreement was signed in June 2011 to a value of [text       removed for publication] to study "Control of natural product       biosynthesis: a systems approach", a significant investment in UK academic       research by a foreign industry.
