     The Forestry paper [5] took the apparently academic issues of       population genetic theory and forest genetics and explained their       relevance to forest managers in terms both of how seed should be sourced,       and how the genetic resources of our native forests should be managed and       conserved.
After the publication of this paper, the Forestry Commission       commissioned an additional Technical Paper on the topic, for circulation       within the wider Forestry community [Ennos, R. A., Worrell, R., Arkle, P.,       Malcolm, D. C. (2000) Genetic variation and conservation of British native       trees and shrubs.
Forestry Commission Technical Paper 31.
Forestry       Commission, Edinburgh.
38pp.
ISBN 0 85538 412 3].
In his foreword to this       Technical paper, the Head of Policy &amp; Practice Division, Forestry       Commission observed that the Forestry publication [5]:     `is the first attempt at setting a comprehensive framework for the         development of knowledge and policies for the genetic conservation of         our native trees and shrubs....we very much welcome the main         message ... and have decided to publish the report in full as a         Technical Paper in order to stimulate wider discussion of this important         topic'.
The UoE publication [5] stimulated a debate in the UK about the       regulation of seed sources for planting in native woodland regeneration       schemes.
This was followed rapidly by the production of a Practice Note       [a] on the topic by the Forestry Commission in 1999.
This note, which is       still best practice, recommends that when planting native tree species,       seed should be used only from populations that are adapted to the       environmental conditions present at the planting site.
Often, though not       always, this involves planting seed from populations in the local area.
These are key recommendations from the Forestry paper [5].
The       Practice Note recommends utilising seed from within the same seed zone, or       a neighbouring seed zone as a means of ensuring that seed is adapted to       the planting site.
Experimental evidence of local adaptation of Scots pine       and birch within the UK [1, 4] underpinned this policy, and confirmation       of the ubiquity of local adaptation of native trees to environmental       conditions was provided by [5].
A number of policy and standards documents       produced between 2000 and 2008 reinforced this approach: the UK Forestry       Standard (Forestry Commission, 2004) encourages the use of local stock for       planting native species and the Woodland Assurance Standard (UKWAS) also       encourages use of local provenance (UKWAS Steering Group, 2006).
These       guidelines are based on the principle that locally-sourced planting stock       is likely to represent the best-adapted material available for a site.
A       specific Guidance Note for seed sourcing of native trees and shrubs in       Scotland, laying emphasis on sourcing locally adapted seed, was published       by Forestry Commission Scotland in 2006 [b].
In this note, which again       remains current policy, the technical paper [Ennos et al.
2000] was       specifically cited as underpinning the policy advice.
Originally put forward as recommendations, the Forestry Commission seed       sourcing policy outlined above has now become common practice thanks to       the dissemination and acceptance of the position papers and frameworks       outlined above, with a commensurate impact during the REF impact period.
For instance, the seed provenance policies have been widely enforced in       the REF period by linking the payment of planting grant to the use of       adapted seed sources.
A typical example of this is from the Scottish       Government's current Native Woodland Creation grant scheme, introduced in       2009, where a condition of grant is that:     "The woodland must be comprised of native species and provenance           appropriate to the site."
[c]     Guidance published by the EU and the Forestry Commission in 2008 [d]       advised nursery operators on appropriate sourcing of seed.
In the UK,       forest tree planting stock is produced by approximately 25 nurseries.
In       2008 approximately 67% of native species plantings were sourced from       British populations as a result of the policy and guidance change.
&#163;4       million of the total annual trade of &#163;8.2 million in British native trees       now comes from local, adapted sources [d].
The Programme Group Manager at Forest Research's Northern research       station states that:     "[Professor Ennos'] paper in Forestry [5] and his Forestry Commission         Technical paper (Ennos et al.2000) provided clear and comprehensive         reviews of the major determinants of genetic diversity in woodlands in         Britain.
These publications have underpinned much of the subsequent         policy that relates to the sourcing of planting stock of our native tree         and shrub species in Britain today.
...Such information is vital for the         development of appropriate future policy as Britain's contemporary         forests are facing unprecedented uncertainty from threats relating to         climate change as well as novel pests and diseases."
Beyond the immediate changes to practice and the commercial impact of       this, the ultimate impact of the research is that the native woodlands       created since the change in policy, comprise populations that are better       adapted than they would otherwise have been.
This means that widespread       dieback and failure of inappropriately planted continental sources, e.g.
Finnish silver birch in Scotland [4], has been averted.
Local seed       sourcing is likely to have also reduced the rate of inadvertent transport       of exotic pathogens into the UK on imported seed and planting stock.
Finally the populations which establish from well-adapted planting stock       and populations are likely to show greater long term resilience and       adaptability to native and introduced diseases and to climate change than       maladapted plantings, ensuring that our investment in woodland planting       will deliver the expected long term benefits for associated wildlife and       biodiversity [e].
