     By showing that it is possible to minimise the main disadvantages of       cages whilst keeping the advantages, UoE-led research into the design and       development of furnished cages has led to an improvement in the welfare of       all commercial laying hens in Europe [a,b].
The policy impact of this work       started to take effect in 1996 but the main animal welfare (and       commercial) impact has been in the period 2008-13, arising from EU       legislation banning battery cages which came into effect in 2012.
It is widely accepted that conventional battery cages for housing laying       hens cause many welfare problems and they can compromise many or all of       the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC 1997) "Five Freedoms": that farm       animals should have freedom from hunger and thirst, from discomfort, from       pain, injury or disease and from fear and distress, and freedom to express       normal behaviour.
Battery cages do not even meet the earlier       recommendation of the Brambell Report (HMSO, 1965), that an animal should       be able without difficulty to stand up, lie down, turn around, groom and       stretch their limbs.
However, non-cage systems also have welfare issues.
UoE research, along with other groups, showed prior to 1993 that       free-range and deep litter systems carry with them welfare problems such       as cannibalism.
To minimise the risk of cannibalism, beak trimming is       performed.
This is itself a welfare issue.
In 1996, the EU's Scientific Veterinary Committee (Animal Welfare       Section) reviewed the welfare of laying hens in cages and reported that       "because of its small size and its barrenness, the battery cage as used at       present has inherent severe disadvantages for the welfare of hens.
To       retain the advantages of cages and overcome most of the behavioural       deficiencies, modified enriched cages [our italics] are showing       good potential in relation to both welfare and production" [c].
They also       reported on other housing systems "aviaries, percheries, deep litter or       free range systems provide... improved possibility for the birds to       express a wider range of behaviour patterns ... [However] mainly because       of the risk of feather pecking and cannibalism, these systems have severe       disadvantages for the welfare of laying hens."
This 1996 report directly       references the UoE research published since 1993 [1] [3] [4].
Sweden was the first country to introduce furnished cages on a large,       commercial scale from 1998; the UoE work was influential in the design of       these furnished cages [b].
In late 1998 a number of representatives of the       Council of Ministers and the Commission's Directorate-General for       Agriculture visited Sweden to see the advantages and disadvantages of       furnished cages for themselves.
This led to a 1999 directive by the EU,       which was strongly based on advice from this Scientific Veterinary       Committee [a,b].
In 1999, the EU passed a directive (1999/74/EC) leading       to the banning of conventional battery cages because of the welfare issues       associated with them and specifying the minimum requirements required for       furnished cages.
This directive banned conventional battery cages in the       EU with effect from January 1st 2012 after a 13-year phase-out       period.
As an alternative to battery cages, the directive allowed either       non-cage systems or furnished         cages.
Under the directive, furnished cages must provide at least       750 cm2 per hen, of which 600 cm2 is 45 cm high, a       nest, a littered area for scratching and pecking, 15 cm of perch and 12 cm       of food trough per hen and a claw shortening device [d].
This is a close       match to the original Edinburgh Modified Cage design [2, 5].
The Guardian       newspaper has described this as "one of the most significant pieces of       animal welfare legislation ever passed"     The EU directive was passed despite opposition from the egg industry of       Europe and worldwide, mainly due to the increased cost of using systems       other than battery cages.
A contemporary BBC news article reports that       "The European Commission had called for an increase in the size of battery       hen cages ...
But MEPs went a step further and agreed by a two-thirds       majority to ban such cages altogether".
The availability of the       economically-viable furnished cage design derived from UoE research [4,       6], with its proven welfare benefits, enabled the full battery cage ban by       providing an economically-viable but high-welfare standard cage,       mitigating the economic impact that a ban on any caged system would have       had, and making it possible to implement the battery ban without having       such an adverse cost impact that it would have become more difficult for       the EU to protect its egg industry against competition from the rest of       the world.
Without the option of the furnished cage, it is probable the       battery cage ban would not have been passed into law.
EU-wide there were 240 million laying hens housed in battery cages in       2006, representing 80% of the EU flock [Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC)       figures].
The number of hens housed in furnished systems has risen during       the REF period as a result of the phasing out of battery cages prior to       the 2012 implementation date of the ban: from 0% in 2006 to 14.3% (72.8       million) in 2010 and 42.3% (210 million) in 2012 [e].
The number in       battery cages has decreased throughout the period: 32.4% (165 million) in       2010; 11.3% (46.5 million) in 2011; 0% in 2012.
Other hens are now in       barns, free-range or other approved systems.
In the UK alone, over &#163;400M       has been spent to meet the standards laid down for the 2012 EU ban.
DEFRA       figures for 2012 indicate that 48.5% of UK eggs laid come from furnished       cages; this compares with 9% in 2009 [FAWC].
New Zealand has also acted to ban battery cages in favour of free range,       barn, or enriched-cage systems.
The New Zealand government ruled that from       7th December 2012, no new battery cages could be installed in       the country.
In 2012 there were approximately 500 million laying hens in the EU,       including 34.8 million in the UK [f].
The UoE research has led to the       increased welfare of some 1.3 billion laying hens to date throughout       Europe in the period January 2008 to July 2013.
