     The major impact of this research is in animal health and welfare policy       and improved welfare of       birds subjected to a large-scale cull in the event of a disease outbreak.
The method developed by       SRUC has been adopted by all relevant government domains.
Previous       large-scale culling       systems could harm both human health and bird welfare.
Our research       provided a humane method       of killing large numbers of poultry in situ, significantly       reducing the health risk to catchers and       removing the need to handle live birds (the risk posed by dead birds       infected with HPAI is       significantly less than that posed by live birds).
Following our work, the       UK and other governments       adopted a policy for whole house gassing using the technique developed in       case large scale       culling was required in the face of a disease outbreak.
At the time of writing Whole House Gassing offers the primary means in       the UK and Ireland of       culling large commercial poultry flocks in the event of a HPAI disease       outbreak, and the project       team has provided detailed information to a number of other potential       users.
Members of the       project team were involved in providing input into standard operating       procedures to be used by       state veterinary staff as well as the contractor that would supply the gas       and delivery equipment.
As evidenced by the Dutch experience, failure to contain an outbreak of       HPAI is ruinously       expensive, destroys commercial and breeding flocks that take years to       replace, as well as       damaging public confidence in a product.
Also, the greater the spread, the       greater the number of       birds to be culled, and culling animals is increasingly a cause for public       concern (as, for example,       following the Foot and Mouth Disease outbreak in 2000/2001).
Irrespective       of the number of       animals to be killed it must be done in a way that, as far as possible,       minimises the impact on both       animal and human welfare.
The protocol developed under this project       provides both Government       and industry with a means of achieving these sometimes apparently       conflicting needs, which has       been adopted by policy makers.
