     The major impact of this work has been to inform EU policy and improve       the welfare of laying hens.
The SRUC research was instrumental in       underpinning the decision of policy makers in the EU, and subsequently       administrations in member states, to enshrine in legislation the       requirement that the ca 200 million laying hens housed annually in       extensive systems in Europe have access to perches when in the laying       house.
SRUC research has been used by member states to justify to producers the       need to install aerial perches over slatted surfaces.
So for example, in       Scotland the work we have done has enabled Government to be even more       specific in interpreting relevant EU legislation, with the Government       requirement being that hens have access to aerial perches (Welfare of       Farmed Animals (Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2002 (SSI 2002 No.
334))       while continuing to use literature that we have produced in 2007 to guide       producers as to the requirements and benefits of aerial perches.
More       recently, producers have attempted to argue against the installation of       perches on the basis that they increase the incidence of bone fractures in       laying hens.
Our work has demonstrated that careful design of perches can       address welfare issues and increase productivity without increasing bone       fracture in laying hens.
Further national impact on policy is demonstrated in the Farm Animal       Welfare Council's (now Farm Animal Welfare Committee) (FAWC) opinion paper       on osteoporosis (Dec 2010), which referred to work done by SRUC (on the       association between bone fracture and housing system), and concluded that       `the design and layout of perches can be improved to prevent bone         fracture.
If this is achieved, the different interpretations of the         relevant European Directive within Great Britain could be eliminated,         favouring provision of aerial perches.'
FAWC advises the UK       Government on animal welfare issues.
The work is regularly cited by       welfare bodes and producers alike outside the EU, and remains highly       topical with bodies ranging from the International Egg Commission to New       Zealand's National Animal Welfare Advisory Committee citing the work in       support of requirements to use perches in extensive and, increasingly, in       cage systems (now mandatory within the EU).
SRUC research in this area also has an impact on animal welfare, as       perching is a highly motivated behaviour in hens.
The system based on our       research is cited by animal welfare organisations such as Compassion in       World Farming (2012) as an archetypal high welfare system.
