     Impact on policy debates     The research findings have contributed to and informed the debate on       positive measures to increase the political representation of women.
Participation in a Government Equalities Office seminar, `Why Equality       Matters: The Representation of Women in Public Life', (London, November       2008) involved a presentation of the research findings on women's       political representation and subsequent discussion with local councillors,       MPs, civil servants and academics on the best means of increasing the       number of women politicians at local and national level.
The discussion       informed the Electoral Reform Society's submission to the Speakers'       Conference on Parliamentary Representation (2009) which cites the       research.
This impact was achieved through an initial invitation to       present the research findings at a conference organised by National Union       of Schoolmasters and Women Teachers in London in June 2008 (`One in Five -       a one-day national conference on women's participation in the political       process' (also addressed by Teresa May)).
This led to coverage on Women's       Parliamentary Radio (www.wpradio.co.uk);       and invitations to present the research findings to the Government       Equalities Office seminar and at The Hansard Society and British Council       Scotland seminar `Has Devolution Delivered For Women?
Participation,       Representation and Power: Lessons For The Future' in Scotland (January       26th 2010, Edinburgh).
The profile of the research was raised by press coverage in the national       media (see section 5) which was linked to the end of award dissemination       conference held in Swansea.
It attracted 75 conference delegates (30%       academic, 15% political/governmental and 45% third sector).
Ninety three       per cent of those returning evaluation forms rated the event as `very       interesting' or `interesting', with nearly all comments very positive (`A       very informative, educative and empowering session.')
Participating in the conference were representatives of EHRC (Wales) and       Welsh Women's Aid as well as Assembly Members and members of local       government.
In addition two thousand copies of a research findings         bulletin outlining the main findings (see section 2 above http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/sociology/rsw/research_centres/gender/gppcd/dissconf)       were distributed to all Welsh Assembly members, MPs, chief executives of       local authorities, political parties, councillors in local government, and       a range of voluntary sector organisations in Wales; the latter included       Welsh Women's Aid, Chwarae Teg/ Fair Play and the Wales Women's National       Coalition, as well as the EHRC (Wales), the House of Lords and the       National Assembly for Wales Libraries and the European Women's Lobby.
The       research findings were also presented at the Welsh Institute for Social       and Cultural Affairs Seminar, Bangor, March 2008 and at practitioner/       academic conferences held during the course of the project.
Impact on third sector organisations     The findings relating to domestic abuse and gender inequalities were       drawn on by the End Violence Against Women campaign in Wales (launched in       2009 and now the Violence Against Women Action Group), through the Wales       Women's National Coalition (before its demise) and Welsh Women's Aid.
They       were used to develop campaign material by the End Violence Against       Women Group in Wales and by Welsh Women's Aid.
In collaboration with Welsh       Women's Aid, Charles produced an information leaflet on the       misleading use of statistics about the gendering of domestic abuse.
This       leaflet and the widely publicised research findings bulletin       contributed to an enhanced cultural understanding of how domestic       abuse relates to gender and to the withdrawal of misleading statistics       formerly found on the Welsh Assembly Government website and on other       websites (for example, Swansea City Council, the Dyn project).
They also       raised questions about the gender-neutral definition of domestic abuse       adopted by the Welsh Assembly Government and Swansea City Council in their       domestic abuse strategies.
This impact was achieved in the following way.
The research pointed out       that a gender-neutral definition of domestic violence could reduce       resources available for women and children escaping domestic violence       because of the alleged need for an equal level of provision for men in       similar circumstances.
Such a gender-neutral definition was present at the       all-Wales and local level in domestic abuse strategies.
An early draft of       the chapter by Charles and Jones, `Developing a domestic abuse strategy'       later published in Charles and Davies (eds.)
Gender and social justice         in Wales, Cardiff University Press (2011), which discussed the       research findings, was circulated and discussed within the End Violence       Against Women group in Wales in 2009.
As a result of these discussions a       campaign was initiated for a gendered definition of domestic abuse and an       information leaflet was drafted.
A strategic decision was taken in 2009       not to press this issue but to wait for the results of the consultation       process on the development of a Welsh Assembly Government (WAG) strategy       to end violence against women and girls in Wales.
This resulted, in 2010,       in the launch of the new WAG strategy on violence against women which       includes a gendered definition of violence against women.
By means of these discussions and the development of position documents       by the End Violence Against Women group and Welsh Women's Aid, the       research findings contributed to campaign materials used by organisations       working to end violence against women in Wales.
These campaigns fed into       the development of the Welsh Assembly Government's first violence against       women strategy, The Right to be Safe (2010), which adopts the       United Nations definition of violence against women as well as clarifying       that violence against women is an equality and human rights issue.
The director of EHRC (Wales) had been on the project's advisory group.
Subsequently (2010) the EHRC contacted Charles to develop a case study on       the effects of domestic violence at work which she did in collaboration       with Beecham.
The case study, Bridget's story, showed how a supportive       workplace is vital in ensuring that routes to safety are achievable.
It       also provides evidence based costs for providing support to individuals       within the workplace.
It was used as part of EHRC Wales's campaigning       material on the need to develop workplace policies on domestic violence in       Wales.
Subsequent impact evaluation carried out by EHRC (Wales) showed       that the campaign had helped to raise awareness of domestic abuse in the       workplace; 35 devolved organisations had a domestic abuse workplace       policy, covering 180,032 staff in Wales, and 8 devolved organisations were       developing policies which will cover 29,422 staff.
The case study:       `Domestic abuse is your business: Bridget's story - the business case for       having a workplace policy' is available online at www.equalityhumanrights.com/yourbusiness
