     Impact on Policy       Our research has identified approximately 10 million tonnes of carbon       dioxide equivalent that, under ideal conditions, could be mitigated from       the ALUF sector by 2022.
This information has provided a basis to develop       a voluntary target of around 3 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent       agreed between Defra and the agricultural sector.
As such, the research       has had immediate consequences for thousands of farm enterprises and the       industries that supply their inputs and provide them with advice.
Our work has informed policy design by showing which measures can be       implemented at a cost that is less than the government's benchmark cost       for reducing carbon emissions.
UK and devolved governments continue to       request input from our framework to evaluate policy options for the       development of further voluntary action by the agricultural industry (i.e.
200,000 UK holdings).
The potential value of the saving is significant and       using the government's benchmark cost of carbon, we have estimated is the       equivalent of &#163;250 million worth of avoided climate damages.
The findings       have been adopted by the CCC in the setting of sectoral carbon budgets       within the UK government and devolved administrations.
In Scotland for       example, the work has provided the basis for government targets and the       current voluntary government policy known as Farming for a Better Climate.
It has also been used as an evidence base for the development of low       carbon action plans to reduce carbon within the industries involved within       the sector.
Impact on Public Engagement       We have maximised the impact of the work through a concerted knowledge       exchange programme, deliberately going beyond the academic audience and       targeting those responsible for developing policy in this area, as well as       those responsible for land management.
This has been achieved through a       wide range of activities including presentations to the UK and Scottish       Governments, the CCC, press briefings with ministers, policy briefings and       presentations to organisations representing land managers.
The work has       highlighted to industry that many of the measures to reduce carbon can       also potentially improve the profitability of the farming enterprise.
By       focusing on these win-win situations, policy targets are more likely to be       achieved.
Impact beyond the UK       Within and beyond the UK, our research has demonstrated the validity of       the MACC approach to understanding agricultural emissions, and the initial       SRUC research team has since been busy responding to requests for       follow-on research from Defra and the Scottish Government.
The work has       also attracted widespread international interest from other countries       facing similar challenges and was presented as part of an international       workshop in Dublin in 2009 and Copenhagen in 2010.
The researchers       involved have been invited to present the work to international       organisations such as the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United       Nations and the Organisation for Economic Development amongst others.
Further requests for advice have since been received from the Irish       Agricultural and Food Development Authority (TEAGASC), China, and Vietnam.
Our staff co-authored a report with INRA on the French national GHG budget       [5.10].
