     The major impact of this research is improved profitability and       sustainability of the UK dairy       industry.
Adoption of these new indexes has improved production, fertility       and economic       performance of dairy cattle.
Cattle now live longer (from 3.4 years in       2004 to 4.3 years       productive life in 2009).
Cow fertility has improved (average calving       interval has decreased from       431 days in 2008 to 423 days in 2012) and health (somatic cell scores, an       indicator of the       incidence of mastitis, have decreased from 206,000 cells/ml in 2008 to       198,000 cells/ml in 2012)       with milk yields still increasing (8,765 litres/cow/annum in 2008 vs.       9,091litres/cow/annum in       2012).
The economic benefit of selection on the versions of &#163;PLI produced as a       result of this research       are estimated to be around &#163;634M over the period 2008-2013 [5.10].
Also,       the changes to the       sector brought about by the new selection indexes and breeding goals have       cumulatively       reduced greenhouse gas emissions per breeding animal by an estimated 1.4%       (reduction in       CO2 equivalent) per annum.
Pathways to Impact     The versions of the &#163;PLI index developed in this REF period have become       very widely used in       the UK dairy industry, allowing selection of those breeding animals best       suited to UK needs from       the massive international pool available.
The vast majority of dairy cows       in the UK are bred       using artificial insemination (AI), to bulls which rank highly on &#163;PLI.
It       is the combination of high       AI use, and the selection of high &#163;PLI bulls by AI companies which       underpins most of the       impact.
Additional, smaller gains arise from farmers selecting the best       available AI bulls, and       breeding replacement heifers from the highest ranking &#163;PLI cows.
We have worked to support the dairy industry levy bodies (currently       DairyCo) in encouraging       widespread uptake by breeding companies and farmers, via many workshop and       conference       presentations and with articles for websites, the farming press, and other       media activity.
The use       of the tools we have developed has helped dairy producers in the UK become       more sustainable,       helping them to breed animals that are more profitable, fertile, healthy,       have longer productive       lives, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions per unit of milk produced.
Our research led to lifespan being included in the national dairy       breeding goal (which became       &#163;PLI in 1999) in 1995.
This was the first move away from a production-only       breeding goal for UK       dairy farmers.
&#163;PLI was further upgraded in 2003 with the inclusion of       health traits (somatic cell       counts from milk as an indicator of mastitis/udder health, and locomotion       as an indicator of       lameness), and in 2006 with the inclusion of fertility traits; traits that       were all identified as       important and researched by our group.
Genetic evaluation &#8212; the process of predicting the genetic merit of       animals from pedigree and       performance data (milk yield, growth, disease incidence etc.)
and,       recently, molecular genetic       data &#8212; is a mathematically complex, internationally scarce, but key       enabling technology in       delivering the impact described.
We established Edinburgh Genetic       Evaluation Services       (EGENES) in 2005.
It provides livestock genetic evaluation and data       handling services, and has       helped to accelerate the transfer of research results into industry       practice.
EGENES has been       contracted by DairyCo to provide genetic evaluations for the UK dairy       population since 2005.
The close partnership between our researchers, EGENES and DairyCo in       research, translation       via genetic evaluation services, and supporting knowledge exchange with       users, has been       instrumental in achieving impact.
International Impact     The approaches and methodology employed have influenced practice       internationally via       Interbull &#8212; the international agency for quality assurance and technical       developments in cattle       genetic evaluations; see: www.interbull.org.
For example, the genetic evaluation of body       condition score which we pioneered has since been adopted in 15 other       major dairying       countries, including Canada, the Netherlands and USA and our methods for       including body       condition score as a predictor of dairy cow fertility have been mirrored       in national routine       evaluations for fertility in Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, New       Zealand, South Africa, Spain       and the UK.
