     Impact on Policy       The research was incorporated into practice guidelines for the Scottish       Government document The Farm Soils Plan (used to help compliance       with the EU requirement for Good Agricultural and Environmental Condition)       and contributed to the report The State of Scotland's Soil (SoS)       [5.1].
The Farm Soils Plan was distributed to 10,000 farmers within the UK       and is on the Scottish         Government web site.
The SoS         report has been used as evidence to support further thinking on       soils, which has in turn influenced UK policy.
The main impacts of SoS are       tied in with other drivers such as Scottish Soil Framework, Land Use       Strategy and Rural Diffuse Pollution Plan for Scotland.
Impact on Stakeholders       The VESS chart [5.2] and associated research results were communicated to       the agricultural industry mainly through talks to farmers and consultants       via the Scottish Agricultural College (now SRUC) and the Scottish       Agricultural Organisation Society Monitor Farm schemes, Soil Association       Climate Change Programme, England Catchment Sensitive Farming Delivery       Initiative, HGCA- SAC Cereals Open Days and Knowledge Transfer days [5.3],       supermarkets, schools, the Farming for a Better Climate Initiative and the       Royal Highland Shows.
Average attendances were between 10 and 50 per       event.
The VESS chart and training videos are freely available on the SRUC webpage       (1500 views of the videos so far) and VESS is promoted by other       organisations such as the Soil         Association, Linking Environment and farming (LEAF)       and the Duchy         College Rural Business School.
Feedback forms (between 7 and 40 per       meeting) from farmers' meetings indicate that the research and associated       advisory effort is increasing farmers' awareness of the risk of soil       structural damage with stated intentions to improve affected soil and       increase farm profitability.
In overview, major stakeholder engagement       activity based upon this research has contributed significantly to raising       awareness of the importance of soil quality.
It also highlighted the       importance of using indicators of quality to guide improvements of soil       fertility and to reduce the emission of nitrous oxide, the greenhouse gas       dominating equivalent carbon budgets in UK.
Economic Impact       Reduction of soil structure has an immediate economic impact at farm level       because a decrease in soil quality decreases crop yield.
A decrease in       structural quality as a result of compaction decreases grain yield by,       typically, 16% [5.4].
If each of 1000 farms with substandard soil       structure was improved by one VESS unit of soil structural quality then       wheat yield would increase by 28 tonnes, a potential increase in revenue       of &#163;4,500 per farm, &#163;4.5M annually overall (these figures are based on an       average sized farm in the UK of 60 hectares with one third of the soil       assumed to be in sub-standard physical condition and an average wheat       yield of 7 t/ha.
The structural improvement cost is estimated to be       &#163;50/h).
International impact       The VESS chart [5.2] has been adopted internationally and translated into       several languages &#8212; including Spanish (Universidad Polit&#233;cnica de Madrid,       Spain), Portuguese (Universidade Estadual de Maring&#225;, Brazil), French       (INRA, P&#233;ronne, France) and Danish (Aarhus University, Denmark).
The       impact has been particularly noticeable in Brazil, where VESS is used as a       rapid means of estimating soil quality in areas under no-tillage, and       under sugar cane production (9.6 million ha in 2011).
In the past three       years, 300 agricultural students and 350 agronomists have been taught how       to use the method in Paran&#225; and Goias States.
In 2009-2012, it was shown       to be a useful indicator of soil quality relevant to grain yield in a       large international study [5.8].
In response to invitations, Dr Ball       travelled to demonstrate and develop the method locally in Brazil,       Denmark, France and New Zealand.
