     Somatic Cell Nuclear Transfer (SCNT) cloning is the only technology       available that enables generation of 99.8% genetically identical offspring       from selected individuals of adult animals (including sterilized animals).
As such, it is being exploited as an efficient multiplication tool to       support specific breeding strategies of farm animals with exceptionally       high genetic value.
Impact on commerce and agriculture     The SCNT technology has been widely adopted and used to create clones of       other animals (e.g.
cows, deer, ferrets, goats, horses, mice, mules, pigs,       wolves, rats, rabbits, monkeys and water buffalo).
Multiple new companies       have been established (e.g.
Korean firm RNL Bio and US firm BioArts in       2008, and Kheiron in Argentina in 2012) and cloning plays increasingly       important role in the animal-breeding industry.
For example in 2010 the       world's first cloned Polo pony was born [5.1].
Over 60 clones have been       generated since then, and one of the cloned ponies fetched $800,000 at an       auction in Argentina, which was attended by more than 1000 people (2010)       [5.1].
In June 2012, the F&#233;d&#233;ration Equestre Internationale (FEI) &#8212; the       group that governs international equestrian events, has lifted its ban on       cloned horses participating in competitions [5.1].
Consequently, cloned       horses will be allowed to participate in the Olympics beginning in 2016.
The FEI estimates that more than 110 horses were cloned in 2010 only.
First orders for commercial pet dog cloning were completed by the Korean       company RNL Bio and US firm BioArts in 2008 [5.2].
In January 2008, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) decided that       meat produced from clones and their progeny is acceptable for human       consumption [5.3].
Similar conclusions have been drawn by European Food       Safety Authority and published on 15 July 2008 (updated in 2012) [5.4].
There is already some use of cloned livestock in Europe, for example       several hundreds of cattle that are progeny of cloned ancestors live in       Switzerland [5.5], but animal cloning for food production in Europe meets       with considerable opposition.
Use of cloned animals is more widespread in       Asia and America, where people are more accepting of consuming cloned       animal products [5.6].
Preserving diversity of livestock     The use of cloning from frozen somatic tissue is a much more       cost-effective strategy for bio-banking of endangered breeds than the       storage of sperm or egg cells.
Sample collection and storage is easier and       cheaper, the technique can be deployed quickly in emergency situations       such as a disease outbreak, and cloning recovers all the genetic variation       of the donor &#8212; not just half of it as when using sperm.
Consequently, SCNT       cloning of farm animals is a common new service in some countries       including the USA, Argentina and Brazil [5.7], and it is covered by all       major veterinary genetics and animal biotechnology textbooks [5.8, 5.9].
Cloning has been used to conserve several animal breeds in the recent       past.
For example in 2012 an increasingly rare Himalayan pashmina goat       breed was successfully cloned.
This important achievement, which was       performed in the frame of the National Agricultural Innovation Project       (NAIP) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, offers hope to the       people of Kashmir of increasing production of pashmina; a type of cashmere       wool.
In Kashmir more than 10 million people are associated with $85       million shawl industry that depends on the availability of the       exceptionally fine wool produced by the rare animal [5.10].
