     The impact of our research has been improved animal welfare through       changes in legislation, new codes of practice and better vehicle design       and operation.
Specifically:     Definition of thermal comforts ranges for livestock made available to         the industry to improving transportation practices: The concept of       AET is one of our most important contributions to the field.
It has been       adopted in both industry and in regulatory practice, as well as by       breeding companies (e.g.
Ross &#8212; Aviagen Manual).
Direct inputs to European and UK animal transport legislation (EC         1/2005): The research has enhanced the understanding of the       conditions animals face during transportation and the stress that places       upon them.
The definition of optimal or target thermal conditions in       transit and acceptable limits for temperature and absolute humidity is the       foundation of legislation relating the thermal conditions in transit for       poultry, cattle, pigs and sheep (e.g.
EC 411/98 and EC 1/2005) and the       on-going review of legislation.
Our work features in European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) Opinions on       which European Transportation Legislation was based (EC411/98 and EC       1/2005).
The impact is apparent in the recommendations made concerning       poultry transportation in the EFSA Opinion / Report of 2011 which in turn       forms the basis of the recommendations for future revision of EC 1/2005.
Provision of the basis for the design and operation of mechanical and         improved passive ventilation systems on commercial transport vehicles         (as embodied in legislation): our research demonstrated the efficacy       of mechanical ventilation of animal transport vehicles in reducing thermal       stress and improving animal welfare.
This led directly to the development       and evaluation of improved passive and mechanical ventilation systems on       commercial vehicles, which has also been incorporated into current       legislation.
The earliest modelling studies underpinned the development of the Concept       2000 poultry transporter, which uses mechanical ventilation.
The       manufacturers developed fan-ventilated animal transporters for red meat       species using our research and the associated legislative requirements.
Indeed mechanical ventilation is now mandatory for all higher standard       vehicles in Europe taking livestock on long journeys, defined as exceeding       8 hours duration.
More recent work (e.g.
for Defra) has directly addressed the long       distance transport of pigs, acceptable thermal envelopes for livestock and       the influence of journey times on the welfare of pigs.
The outputs of       these studies have fed directly into Defra policy development and the       revision and amendment of current European legislation.
Economic benefits due to the reduction of mortality during transport         and improved product quality (e.g.
in broiler chicken transportation):       The work has improved animal welfare by reducing stress during       transportation and with over 56 billion broiler chickens transported world       wide every year, better vehicle ventilation and control of the on-board       temperature could decrease previously significant economic losses.
Animals       that die whilst being transported cannot be sold, and so represent a loss       of profit, but the new transportation systems are estimated to have       reduced the in-transit mortality rates by 50%.
An estimate of mortality       under UK transport conditions prior to the introduction of ventilated       systems, was ca 0.1%, which means with production of ca       850 million chickens every year, losses of 850,000 birds was commonplace.
Improvements to transportation are conservatively estimated to have saved       425,000 birds per annum.
