     As a result of our research in 2008 the salmon-breeding company with       which it was collaborating,       Landcatch Natural Selection (LNS) Ltd, implemented marker-assisted       selection (MAS) for IPN       resistance when selecting its elite and commercial salmon populations.
This is the first successful       documented example of MAS in any aquaculture species.
A license agreement       between The       Roslin Institute and LNS enabled a molecular genetic test for IPN       resistance incorporating the QTL       resistance markers to be sold internationally to aquaculture companies.
The size of impact of the research is quantified in an economic analysis       by Roslin and LNS,       validated by BiGGAR economics.
IPN resistance, using MAS, reduces IPN       mortality by 25% (i.e.
from ~25% on average to virtually zero).
After taking account of the       market share of LNS for the       eggs and smolts required by UK salmon industry, this equates to an       economic impact of &#163;26.4       million GVA (comprising reduced costs and losses, as well as greater       output of marketable       salmon) and between 360 and 450 jobs across the UK.
As LNS also supplies       15%-20% of the       eggs and smolts required by the global salmon farming industry, similar       impacts can be       documented overseas as well.
Other important impacts are also identifiable.
Salmon farming is heavily       concentrated in the       Scottish Highlands and Islands, and therefore provides employment in some       of the remotest       communities in the UK where few alternative opportunities exist.
Severe       outbreaks of IPN are       potentially devastating for such communities; hence this research supports       these fragile rural       communities.
Implementation of the findings also reduces the ecological impact of       salmon farming as IPN is an       endemic infectious disease that affects both wild and farmed salmon.
This innovation has been hailed as a highly successful example of the       application of BBSRC       research for industrial benefit, and led to an effective Knowledge       Transfer Partnership5.1 (KTP).
The innovation and related findings have been widely communicated through       different media       (including numerous press releases, scientific and industry publications       and presentations5.2-5.7) to       ensure widespread publicity.
The KTP associate (Dr. Gheyas) won the KTP       Centres in Scotland       prize for Best Project Presentation.
Dr. Houston won the 2012 Knowledge       Exchange and       Commercialisation Prize at The Roslin Institute Staff Awards for his role       in the commercial       application of the IPN resistance tests.
Furthermore, the research translation process has served as a paradigm       for other economically       important diseases.
LNS Ltd received funding in March 2011 via the       Technology Strategy       Board/BBSRC Genomes UK: Exploiting the Potential of High-Throughput       Sequencing funding       competition to further develop the high-density salmon single-nucleotide       polymorphism (SNP) chip,       which will be a key tool for improving the competitiveness and       sustainability of the UK salmon       farming industry.
The project has resulted in the successful production of       the world's first high-       density SNP array for an aquaculture species, which is now being applied       to select salmon for       increased resistance to sea louse infestations in collaboration with the       Universities of Edinburgh,       Stirling and Glasgow and world-leading microarray supplier, Affymetrix       Ltd.
This new application of       genomic technologies has been made possible by the success in finding       genomic solutions to IPN.
