     Impact on the Economy       Malting and brewing are very important to the UK economy with 1.65 million       tonnes and 53,000 tonnes of barley used for these purposes respectively in       2012.
Premiums for grain of a quality suitable for malting can be valued       at an additional &#163;5/tonne.
Prior to 1998 RLS was not a significant disease       problem in the UK but now it is regarded as the second most destructive       foliar pathogen in the North and West of the UK.
With a sudden, rapid       increase in the incidence of the disease in the country's barley crops,       especially in Scotland, there was an urgent need for information on the       disease and how to control it.
The first HGCA-funded research quickly       provided growers with the first fungicide programmes aimed at controlling       RLS in barley crops, saving the industry an estimated &#163;5.4 million per       annum from 2001 onwards.
Impact on Disease Control       The development of the first PCR diagnostic allowed the fungus to be       detected in leaves two to four weeks before symptoms appeared.
This       enabled growers to target fungicide application, providing protection to       crops that had not yet developed visible disease symptoms.
In Scotland the       area protected from Ramularia by an effective fungicide rose from 4,000 ha       to over 160,000 ha in just two years and more than trebled in the entire       UK to just over 350,000 ha.
Identification of seed as a major inoculum       source enabled seed health schemes and treatments to be developed, aimed       at reducing or eliminating Rcc in barley seed stocks.
Impact on the Agricultural Industry       The increasing importance of RLS in spring and winter barley led to its       inclusion in the list of pathogens examined in HGCA-funded research into       Appropriate Fungicide Doses (2001-onwards).
As a result, RLS is now       considered to be a major pathogen by the Chemical Regulation Directorate       and agrochemical companies must now screen for activity in new chemicals       used against the pathogen.
Ongoing developments will have an impact on       reducing the current &#163;57 million annual yield loss in UK barley       production.
Subsequent HGCA-funded work allowed determination of resistance ratings       for Ramularia leaf spot in commercial UK barley varieties.
Official       resistance ratings for Ramularia in spring barley varieties were published       for the first time in 2013.
This is a significant step, as this       information, along with all project summaries, is sent out to 26,000       barley growers in the UK (over 3,000 of them in Scotland) and is used when       selecting the most appropriate varieties to grow.
This reduces reliance on       pesticides and has environmental as well as economic benefits.
A forecasting scheme, based on leaf wetness at a key period in early crop       development was developed in 2010.
The risk scheme allows farmers to       adjust fungicide programmes if they are located in a low or high-risk       region.
The scheme has been publicised for 3 growing seasons via our Crop       Protection Report (http://www.sruc.ac.uk/info/120118/crop_clinic/500/crop_protection_report)       which received over 2,000 web page hits a month at the relevant publishing       dates, and through 600 Crop Protection Report subscriptions.
Providing practical information to the industry (farming, malting and       brewing, seed and agrochemical) has been an integral part of research       undertaken in the past 14 years.
Our research findings are disseminated in       a number of ways; via press releases and articles, the SRUC website, SRUC       Crop Protection Reports and Advisory Newsletters, Open Days (approx.
250       attendees at each) and winter disease roadshows (approx.
200 attendees at       each) and farmer meetings (approx.
150 attendees at each).
Feedback from       Open Days indicates that 95 to 100% of respondents are happy with the       findings presented and are confident it can make a positive impact on       their production systems.
New scientific information has been disseminated       through peer reviewed papers and European and international scientific       conferences and workshops.
We have promoted the research at two European       workshops organised specifically on RLS.
At the outset of this research, losses due to RLS in Scotland were       calculated to be &#163;13M on an annual basis.
Our research led to targeted and       effective fungicide programmes for growers offering major reductions in       yield losses due to RLS.
By 2012, 98% of Scottish barley crops received       fungicides with the major products used highly active against RLS.
The       pathogen decreases both yield and grain quality.
