     The research has contributed extensively to public debate on household       food poverty and its socio-political ramifications at local, national and       international levels.
It has informed policy and media comment.
It has       created new means for reinforcing and publicising local food networks,       aligning production and consumption for public benefit.
The main impacts       are outlined below.
Space does not permit further detail - such as       Dowler's engagement with faith groups (notably the Iona Community) and       their role in sustaining a reasonable diet and good nutrition in poor       households.
Policy Impacts.
Using her established position on the Food Ethics       Council (FEC - where she has been an elected trustee / board member for 8       years) and the former UK Public Health Association, Dowler promoted       discussion of the research at the highest levels.
As a representative of       both agencies, Dowler was invited to give evidence to the Cabinet Office       Strategy Unit's consultation on food (2007).
This consultation generated       the report Food Matters: Towards a Strategy for the 21st       Century (2008) - `an overarching statement of government food       policy' (The Strategy Unit 2008, (i)).
The report recommended the creation       of DEFRA's Council of Food Policy Advisers, a 16-person expert panel.
Dowler was selected as one of four academic members (2008-10).
The Council       engaged with multiple users - such as the National Heart Forum, where       Dowler represented the Council in November 2009 - as part of its remit to       provide advice to the Minister over the development of a national food       policy, an objective achieved in 2010 (see Macmillan and Dowler, 2012).
Following the election that year, the Coalition government dissolved the       Council, but Dowler was appointed to the newly created DECC/ DEFRA Social       Science Expert Panel where she remains centrally networked in       policy-making circles.
The research has made a contribution to policy-making at national and       international levels.
For example, the research has been cited in policy       documents, such as The Scottish Government, Food Affordability, Access         and Security (2009) and The Scottish Health Survey: Main Report,       (Sept 2010).
Dowler co-authored a commissioned report for NHS Scotland       "Understanding food culture in Scotland and its comparison in an       international context" (November 2010).
In December 2011, she contributed       to an expert panel's oral evidence to the House of Commons Environmental       Audit Committee.
She was sole academic speaker at an Industry and       Parliament Trust event on the future of household food security at the       House of Commons in October 2012: research citations pepper the published       notes.
Invited participation in a WHO/EU policy discussion on obesity       (Riga, 2008), consultancy work for UNHCR on human rights and nutrition and       invited participation as one of three international experts at an       Institute of Medicine workshop in Washington DC (2011) reviewing       relationships between food insecurity and obesity - all this illustrates       how international public engagement has been stimulated by this research.
Media Impacts Following the 2008 financial crisis, rising food       prices created increasing media interest in how poorer households could       cope, an interest further stimulated by recent cuts in UK welfare       benefits.
As her research centred essentially on policy and the diet of       poorer households, Dowler's advice and comment has been persistently       sought.
She is a regular contributor to Radio 4's The Food Programme, a       key media outlet for academics, practitioners and policy makers in the       field, and has made many media contributions, including appearances on       regional television in the West Midlands and Scotland.
Dowler acted as       professional adviser for ITV1's series The Hunger Shame and appeared in       BBC 1 The Great British Budget Menu - both centred on dietary issues       facing poor households.
Patrick Butler, social policy editor at The         Guardian (among other journalists), uses Dowler as his primary       source on food policy and poverty.
Invited comments in the print media on       food and poverty, household food insecurity and food banks have included a       commissioned editorial in Food Ethics Council (FEC quarterly       journal) that led to an invited letter in The Observer (1 January,       2012) in response to an earlier article on food banks.
This was       subsequently cited in a Guardian article on the growing reliance on food       banks, prompting public debate (21 August 2012).
Public Engagement Impact National impact also emerged from local       research on household food sustainability.
Work supported by Council for       Protection of Rural England (CPRE) produced a research toolkit to enable       local people to develop their own `mapped' interconnections between local       food producers, retailers and consumers (see Dowler and Kneafsey, Mapping         Local Food Webs Concepts and Methods.
Interim Report Part 1, SURGE,).
Local volunteers in 16 locations accepted the challenge: using surveys,       interviews and outreach they analysed interactive networks between local       production, food outlets and consumption within a 2.5 mile radius of town       centres, revealing economic, social and environmental benefits of local       food systems.
Published reports on 6 pilot and 10 subsequent locations,       with a summary (From Field to Fork: The Value of England's Local Food         Webs - citing Dowler and co-researchers), were launched at the House       of Commons (June, 2012) and announced in a news release (11 June 2012)       "New national report finds local food is recipe for economic success".
