     The research results were communicated to the sheep industry directly by       visits to agricultural shows (e.g.
Royal Show, Highland Show, over several       years) with information on posters, or on stands and by giving talks to       breeders' and veterinarians groups, for example at ADAS, Redesdale,       Northumberland and at AVTRW meetings.
Impact on Policy     The findings led directly to the implementation of the National Scrapie       Plan (NSP) [5.2], which ran in the UK from 2001 to 2009 and, following the       European Commission Decision 2003/100/EC, to similar programmes throughout       the EU.
These strategies were implemented with the twin aims of       controlling classical scrapie, and protecting the consumer from the       exposure to BSE via sheep meat, should the national flock have become       infected.
The genotyping components of these programmes imposed breeding       strategies upon entire sheep industries, such that breeding flocks were       required to select against susceptible PRNP alleles (i.e.
VRQ) in       favour of resistant alleles (e.g.
ARR) [5.2].
The National Scrapie Plan, funded by the UK government, provided free       genotyping of 1.8 million sheep in 11,000 flocks in an effort to control       all TSEs, including BSE, in sheep.
As a result of EU policy, sheep       breeders both within and outside the EU require (Directive 91/68/EEC)       [5.3] genotyping and health certificates in order to trade their sheep       (OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code, 2008) [5.4].
Scrapie continues to be       a notifiable disease in the EU, trade in affected animals or animals       coming from a flock known to have the disease in the last two years is       prohibited, and genotyping for resistance remains the best means for       disease control.
Selection for TSE resistance by PRNP genotyping has reduced the       reported incidence of scrapie in sheep as a result of profound impact on       the genetic structure of the entire UK sheep industry: between 2002 and       2006 the frequency of the susceptible VRQ allele decreased in ram lambs by       60% and the frequency of the ARR allele rose by 37% and as a direct       result, the reported prevalence of sheep with scrapie has also decreased       from 0.22% in 2003 to 0.04% in 2008 [5.5].
Voluntary PRNP       genotyping continues, through the industry-funded Scrapie Monitoring       Scheme (since January 2009), which issues certificates of sheep genotype       for trading purposes.
Impact on the Economy     UK sheep meat exports are worth &gt;&#163;380million (2011 figures) [5.5].
Breeding for resistance to scrapie and BSE, and the fact that it was being       carried out, undoubtedly protected the sheep industry from similar damage       to that inflicted by BSE on cattle and the UK economy.
WHO estimates US$6       billion losses to the UK and in addition, EU paid out 4.7 billion euros in       control measures for cattle BSE.
In June 2013, the USDA followed the example of UK and the EU and       implemented a Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program [5.6].
Impact on Animal Welfare     Sheep welfare has been improved by selection against PRNP       genotypes linked to susceptibility to scrapie and subsequent reduction in       incidence of disease.
There is under-reporting of scrapie but       nevertheless, Defra statistics [5.5] indicate over 200 scrapie sheep were       reported to them in 2002, and three in 2011.
Our work that established the genetic basis of scrapie resistance has       ensured continuous maintenance of the UK (and international) sheep flocks       in the face of potential disease outbreaks [5.5].
The expertise developed       has continued to attract translational research funding from Defra and UE       sources focussed specifically on modes of transmission of the disease.
PRNP gene based selection for eradication of TSEs and for the creation of       resistant populations is now an accepted approach for control of all TSEs       in livestock [3.5].
The EU regulations which were based on       Hunter's/Goldmann's research now impact worldwide and have led to many       genetic surveys of sheep and goat populations to assess their potential       for resistance breeding.
