     Impact on Health and Welfare:     Based on our research findings, in 2006 we established a       Public-Private-Partnership (PPP (University of Edinburgh, CEVA Sante       Animale (a global veterinary health company), IKARE (a UK-based charity) -       and the Government of Uganda) called Stamp Out Sleeping Sickness.
This was created to ensure:     (i) Mass treatment of cattle in five districts in the disease-overlap       zone     (ii) Compliance with Govt.
policy to treat cattle at markets (a legal       obligation for the buyer, but not applied in practice)     (iii) The establishment of veterinary businesses to deliver a       cattle-spraying service and vet provision (where none was available in the       post-privatised system)     (iv) To tie in with Ministry of Health screening activities to coordinate       human and animal treatments.
We tested the interventions in seven districts of Uganda, targeting       500,000 cattle in two phases.
In phase I, 250,000 cattle were treated and       in 2008, phase II, a further 150,000 cattle were treated.
The clear         impact of intervention was the finding that a 75% reduction in total         trypanosome prevalence was achieved by mass treatment alone and sleeping         sickness cases have fallen year on year since the PPP was established       (it has been calculated that reported human cases have been reduced by       90%)[5.1]     To ensure the prevalence of the human infective parasite remains at a low       level, 15-20% of the at-risk cattle population need to be treated monthly       [5.2, 5.3, 5.6].
We are now involved with SoS in a three-year mass cattle       treatment programme - injection and spraying- to quickly reduce human       infective parasite prevalence in cattle [5.4; 5.9].
Impact on public policy     The model for sleeping sickness control we have developed is now promoted       by WHO and donor agencies.
[5.2; 5.6; 5.7; 5.8].
To eliminate sleeping       sickness from SE Uganda a new approach to funding was needed to avoid the       pitfalls associated with public goods (sustainability and accountability).
Working with Social Finance (http://www.socialfinanceus.org)       we have developed a novel partnership to leverage private investment to       pay for sleeping sickness control by shifting donor funding towards       results based funding mechanisms (Development Impact Bonds) [5.9].
Impact on the economy     Human and animal health gains, as a result of reduced parasite       prevalence, have been independently quantified in terms of: sleeping       sickness cases averted; disability-adjusted life year (DALYs) averted       (with $ value) and care costs averted.
Animal productivity gains as a       result of reduced parasite prevalence can be quantified in terms of       sleeping sickness parasite free cattle and Tick-free cattle - cattle       treatment also controls tick-borne diseases providing additional economic       impact.
The economic benefit is estimated as $100-400M in human health       care costs plus an estimated $25 per head of cattle per year increased       productivity from improved animal health care provision in the poorest       communities (in post conflict districts of Uganda).
[5.3; 5.5, 5.10,       5.11].
