     Public Policy and Awareness       Public policy and awareness represents the major realised impact of the       research to date, and the       primary focus of this case.
The generation of birds that cannot transmit       avian flu received national       and international press coverage (e.g.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-12181382).
The recognition of the potential of genetically modified birds encompassed       both potential disease       resistance and their potential use as bioreactors.
A Google search       (September 2013) on       "Transgenic chicken and Roslin" generates &gt;90,000 hits including such       disparate web sites as       medicalnewstoday.com,       smartplanet.com,       vetsonline.com,       burrillreport.com,       www.heraldscotland.com       and theranger.co.uk.
The increasing public acceptance was evident       when the transgenic birds resistant to influenza were recently featured on       the BBC1 show       Countryfile (11.8.2013).
This show was linked to a debate on the relative       importance of genetic       technologies in livestock improvement.
The change in attitudes was       evidenced in the positive       stance taken by interviewees.
The research not only demonstrated the       feasibility of the technology,       but also exemplified a major benefit to both animal welfare and human       health.
The impact is evident in the explicit promotion of GM animals as well as       plants, in the recently       announced UK Agri-tech Strategy (2103) where the research at Roslin was       directly cited.
Sang       and colleagues have used numerous other opportunities to explain and       discuss GM technologies       and issues including presentations and discussions with school children,       public lectures, e.g.
meetings of Edinburgh and Brighton Caf&#233; Scientifique (~130 attendees) and       University of       Edinburgh public lecture series "Our Changing World" (~150 attendees,       &gt;1000 views).
In addressing the issues of safety, licensing and public acceptance that       applications of genetic       modification in poultry breeding and production raise, Sang has been an       advisor to policy       development, given a seminar on GM chickens to Centre for Veterinary       Medicines, Federal Drug       Administration (US regulatory body, October 2012) and been ad hoc advisor       to the European Food       Safety Authority GMO panel.
The ethical issues of the use of transgenes       have been widely       debated, for example: http://bioethicsbytes.wordpress.com/2013/01/04/headline-bioethics-gm-chickens-offer-solution-to-bird-flu-problem/.
Similarly, the technology sparked debate about       whether it is possible to patent transgenic animals.
http://www.slwip.com/services/ip_papers/transgenic_animals.html     Improved Animal Welfare, Health and Production       The investment in development of bird flu resistance is being advanced         through collaboration with         a world-leading poultry breeding company (EW-Group) (BBSRC Industrial         Partnership Award         BB/J017108/1; &#163;432K).
This investment is, of itself, a reflection of the         awareness by the major         breeding companies that the technology is likely to be effective and         accepted.
EW-Group will       evaluate the potential of the GM approach to control avian influenza       virus, while developing the       business strategy and investigating the regulatory and public acceptance       issues inherent in       introducing genetic modification into their programme.
Poultry meat is       currently the second largest       (34%) meat market after pork, predicted to become the largest because of       its broad appeal to       people of different religious backgrounds.
Industry experts believe that       flu resistant birds would       command a 10% premium price in markets in South East Asia where bird flu       is endemic.
