     This research led to and underpinned the establishment of BVD eradication       programmes in Scotland and then elsewhere in the UK by developing the       eradication programmes; demonstrating the relatively low BVD prevalence in       Scottish herds [3.6] and deriving the economic case for eradication at       farm level.
By providing such vital evidence in the form of results,       already accepted by the cattle sector, the work also influenced government       animal health policies on disease control and helped change how livestock       industries approach the control of infectious diseases at both national       and international levels.
Impact on Farming Behaviours: Through our work, the concept that       for voluntary livestock disease control to succeed in Scotland,       stakeholders have to be persuaded by i) clear information presented, by       ii) trusted sources, and iii) an accessible format, has become much more       widely accepted.
The research has underpinned establishment of HI Health,       which began a process that has led to the creation of the voluntary UK       CHeCS.
These schemes, which have now been running for 12 years, have       encouraged ca 13,000 UK cattle farmers (equivalent to ca       15% of the national herd) to undertake measures to prevent and control       specific infectious disease of cattle.
In addition, this laid the       foundations for the Scottish Executive to support a Mandatory Bovine       Diarrhoea Eradication Scheme put forward by Scottish farmers.
As examples,       the impact of this research includes:            Supporting a successful eradication scheme in Shetland by providing         knowledge to support all levels of an intervention that has maintained         Shetland's status as BVDV free for 20 years.
Such support includes cost         benefit estimates associated with re-introduction at farm level, expert         consultancy and refinement of test interpretation.
Underpinned the rationale of the Scottish BVD Stage 1         eradication scheme where close to half of Scotland's beef herds and a         third of the dairy herds signed up through a voluntary screening         initiative.
Impact on Veterinary Practice: This research impacted by providing       knowledge to convince the majority of cattle veterinary practices (the       major referents for farmers about biosecurity issues) across Scotland of       the rationale for engagement in BVD control schemes.
This helped develop       the underpinning stakeholder knowledge platform in Scotland whereby over       95% of Scottish cattle farmers have completed the compulsory Scottish BVD       eradication scheme Stage 2 on schedule.
Economic Impact: The research demonstrated BVD control results in       an avoided output loss of between &#8364;500 to &#8364;4,000 per dairy farm per annum       across Europe.
In Scottish beef suckler farms we demonstrated an average       saving of ca &#163;2,000 per typical herd per annum.
Given that there       are about 1,000 BVD accredited farms in our health scheme, the total       benefit from membership is ca &#163;2M per annum.
The research further       demonstrated that a Scottish eradication scheme was, in net present value       terms, economically beneficial delivering &#163;11M to consumers through       reduced milk price and &#163;37M to dairy farmers through reduced veterinary       costs and a greater sales volume (Weldegebriel et al., 2009,       Preventive Veterinary Medicine.
88: 49-56).
Assuming similar benefits       throughout the UK, equivalent national figures equate to &#163;110M and &#163;370M       respectively as Scotland has approximately 10% of the UK dairy herd.
These       figures have directly impacted development of government policy that has       now gone beyond the UK.
As an example, the research has underpinned the       rationale for Animal Health Ireland's new BVDV eradication programme which       has saved the country over &#8364;100m/year compared to the cost (Net Present       Value) of eradication from Ireland at &#8364;55m over 6 years.
