     Impact on Policy     To date, three countries (Sweden, Switzerland and Norway) have banned       farrowing crate use completely and at least one other (Austria) has       initiated a phasing out of crates.
In addition, there is voluntary       industry uptake of loose-farrowing alternatives (e.g.
UK, Denmark, and       Australia).
SRUC research on stress physiology of the farrowing sow has been used by       European veterinary committees and working groups as a basis for       recommendations for legislation which affects how all farmers in the EU       raise, house, and manage their livestock/pigs as well as in developing       guidelines for the keeping of pigs (e.g.
Defra Welfare Codes, RSPCA       welfare standards for pigs).
Although there is no full EU ban on crates,       the EU council directive 2008/120/EC says "...sows and gilts must be given       suitable nesting material in sufficient quantity unless it is not       technically feasible for the slurry system used in the establishment..."       This recognition that nest-building is an intrinsic need stems from the       scientific evidence reported and cited (SVC, 1997).
Higher welfare       standards such as those laid down by the RSPCA for their Freedom Food       label (http://www.freedomfood.co.uk/media/9318/pigs.pdf)       ensures substrate provision and has placed an imminent ban on crates (by       2014).
Recently, the British Pig Executive (BPEX), in a document outlining       their vision for 2020, stated that they would "...continue to focus on       finding solutions that allow sow freedom around farrowing..." (http://www.bpex.org.uk/articles/301937/2020_Pig_Health_and_Welfare_Strategy.aspx).
This acknowledgement of the welfare issues has also been voiced by the       Danish Pig Industry who committed to ensuring 10% of their breeding herd       (equivalent to ~120,000 sows) would be loose-farrowing by 2020.
Our       scientific evidence showing the unequivocal welfare detriments to sows       housed in farrowing crates and not permitted substrate for nest-building       is used repeatedly to support such decisions.
Impact on Piglet Mortality     The issue of piglet mortality continues to be a major welfare and       economic concern in all farrowing systems.
Total pre-weaning mortality in       commercial piggeries ranges from 16-20% (cf.
BPEX Pig Yearbook 2012),       equating to approximately 2 million piglet deaths per annum in the UK       alone.
With every 0.5% increase in pre-weaning mortality, output is       reduced by 10kg/sow/year, a significant loss of income to producers and a       significant inefficiency within the supply chain.
In order to reduce       piglet mortality and ensure no rise in piglet mortality in loose farrowing       systems, it was vital to identify the causes of death in different       farrowing systems and thus identify what contributes to piglet survival       [see reference 3.5 above].
A concern that piglet mortality is increased in       loose farrowing systems slows progress in abolishing the farrowing crate.
However, SRUC investigations into causes of piglet mortality and the       genetics of piglet survival, within loose farrowing systems have led to a       readily available breeding strategy to actually improve piglet survival.
When applied nationally, this approach reduces piglet mortality rates by       3% equating to 60,000 fewer piglet deaths, saving the industry &#163;2.7         million annually.
This work was conducted with breeding companies       and farmers and therefore translated directly to industry by incorporating       into breeding programmes.
This work has been distributed via the EU Welfare Quality programme       factsheets (available in 5 different languages), as well as disseminated       at invited presentations on improving piglet survival which include: 25       pig discussion groups, 2 industry workshops, 3 international conferences       and many on-farm consultations.
