     The research created a publicly available cultural artefact, RottenBeat (www.rottenbeat.com) in Spring       2009.
This is a web-resource which streams the music of territorially and       linguistically isolated scenes, making their music available to English       speakers and enabling musicians to promote their work internationally.
Its       main objective was to `translate' the culture of post-socialist punk into       the languages of potential audiences, and to combine accounts from the       research sites with academic, journalistic, and media accounts.
RottenBeat       averages 4,166 views a month, approximately 90% of which are external to       Warwick.
The research team supported new forms of artistic expression.
As       well as creating RottenBeat it provided opportunities for live performance       which enabled post-socialist punk bands to bring their music to       international audiences.
Over a hundred musicians participated in the       research with two of the bands putting on live performances in the UK.
For       many, it was the first time English- speaking audiences had been able to       appreciate the views and music of these artists.
One of the participants       from Saint Petersburg explained that he wanted `people abroad to know that       Russia is not only about Putin, Abramovich, oil, and mafia, but that here       there are also people like us, who are fighting'.
The project provided a new platform for previously `undiscovered',       non-commercial underground music and art to an English speaking audience.
Some of the bands and performers participating in the research were       invited to project workshops where they were able to perform their music       and to discuss it with British peers, journalists and other interested       people.
This had not previously happened and was the first time the voices       of Russian punk musicians were heard by an English speaking audience.
One       of the workshops led to much wider coverage of the group, Zverstvo.
The       project invited Zverstvo, a provincial avant-punk band from Krasnodar,       Russia, to London in May 2011 to take part in a workshop, `RottenBeat:       Academic and Music Dialogue with New Russian Punk', organised in       collaboration with Pushkin House.
As a result of this visit the band       attracted substantial media attention in Russia.
In 2012 they were       reviewed by Artemiy Troitsky, the most prominent musical critic in Russia       (http://finam.fm/archive-view/5766/),       and one of their songs, which had been recorded live in London, was       included as one of the best songs in the official `playlist of 2012' by       Afisha.ru, the central Russian internet portal devoted to contemporary       Russian popular culture.
It was referred to as the `refrain of the year &#8212;       as illogical, absurd, straightforward and unavoidable as the last 12       months' (http://www.afisha.ru/article/best2012_songs/).
The project also contributed to an exhibition of politically engaged       artists in London such as Nikolai Kopeikin, the leader of the       art-collective KOLKHUi (http://www.pushkinhouse.org/single-       exhibition/items/kopeikin-meets-london).
Gololobov was a member of the       organising committee and the project team organised an introductory       workshop on the day of the official opening.
These activities give       additional credibility and status to artists' and musicians' work at home,       and more space and security to create where they live.
Impact through media profile     On the basis of the experience and expertise gained during the project,       Gololobov was invited to be a freelance author and content supplier for       the new Calvert Journal, A Guide to Creative Russia, to be published in       London from 2013 onwards.
This online magazine attracts over 1000 readers       per day, from across the UK, the US, Europe and the world, appealing to       those interested in Russian art and culture (see section 5).
His article       considers the provisional phenomenon of Russian punk, in particular       relation to Zverstvo, a provincial band that produces its own version of       punk.
Since its publication in mid-July, the article has been read over       300 times.
In 2012 Gololobov was consulted in the aftermath of the Pussy Riot       protest in Russia when two members of the female punk band, Pussy Riot,       were arrested.
The expertise of the researchers has been drawn on in media       discussion of Pussy Riot, their relation to the underground music scene       and the human rights issues raised by their detention.
Gololobov       contributed to the debate on human rights issues in Russia, being       interviewed for various Russian media programmes.
He was also interviewed       and prepared a fact sheet for Nature on the case of a Russian       chemist who was imprisoned for her scientific views and who shared a cell       with a member of Pussy Riot.
The article which resulted (see section 5)       followed the publication of an online interview with Gololobov which was       extensively cited by the Russian media.
By raising the profile of the       Russian chemist's case, this coverage helped to secure her release on       bail, and significantly contributed to raising awareness of the human       rights situation in Russia.
The research has attracted considerable media attention (see section 5);       it has engaged the public by means of public lectures, a series of talks       on Post-Socialist Punk published on iTunes, and has an entry in Wikipedia.
