     The paper [1] received keen media interest leading to dissemination of       results to the wider public [2-6] and to the now widely accepted view that       squirrelpox is a key determinant in the replacement of red squirrels by       greys.
The work has greatly improved public understanding of this issue as       evidenced by many subsequent media articles highlighting the disease       threat to red squirrels (e.g.
there are 74 news articles on the BBC       website alone since 2008 discussing the threat from squirrelpox to red       squirrels &#8212; search `pox squirrel').
The publication has had an impact on environmental policy in Government       and NGO sectors guiding specific management and planning decisions to       bring about environmental benefits through the conservation of a key       threatened native species.
The economic impact of the research, though       difficult to quantify, is not negligible: it is estimated that the       invasion of grey squirrels have cost the British economy &#163;14 million per       annum [2].
Large-scale control of grey squirrels (trapping and removal of       greys) has been implemented in an attempt to reduce grey abundance to a       level that will not support disease persistence and therefore prevent its       spread.
These procedures which began in 2006 are ongoing and are       implemented at large scale across the UK to protect remaining red squirrel       populations.
Evidence of these impacts is outlined below.
Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) identified key sites where       management to benefit red squirrels should be prioritised with the central       aim `to maintain viable self-sustaining populations of red squirrels in       the future' [7].
The report states that `Tompkins et al.
(2003)       [1] have demonstrated that, even at low levels of infection in grey       squirrels, squirrelpox virus accelerates the process of replacement and       has therefore been a crucial factor in the decline of red squirrels in the       UK.'
The impact of the Maxwell Institute's research [1] was therefore to       highlight potential risks associated with the infection.
Its findings were       incorporated in the `Scottish Red Squirrel Action Plan 2006-2011' [8],       launched by SNH, Forestry Commission Scotland (FCS) and the Scottish         Government, one of the aims of which is to halt the decline of red       squirrel populations and slow down or contain the spread of deadly       squirrelpox.
Control strategies were implemented on the ground from 2008.
In practice in regions where disease incidence is reported in greys they       are trapped and removed with the aim of eradicating squirrelpox (locally).
This work is ongoing with the Government and NGO sectors coordinating       their effort through Saving Scotland's Red Squirrel (SSRS) &#8212; http://www.scottishsquirrels.org.uk/         ).
A further impact since 2008 was the initiation of targeted       control of greys aimed at slowing and containing the spread of squirrelpox       and the establishment of 18 red squirrel strongholds, totalling       approximately 100,000 hectares, throughout Scotland, in which greys and       squirrelpox can be excluded.
The SSRS budget to implement squirrelpox       control is approximately &#163;400K per year (similar schemes run in England       and Wales).
Therefore as a result of [1] disease management is at the       forefront of red squirrel conservation strategies [8-10] with red squirrel       stronghold locations chosen to minimise infection risk.
In 2013 White entered a partnership agreement with SNH to provide `A       Modelling Assessment of Control Strategies to Prevent/Reduce Squirrelpox       Spread'.
The modelling assessment extended the framework of [1] and       assessed current grey squirrel control efforts indicating that they had       reduced the rate of spread of squirrelpox but would not prevent the       disease from expanding to occupy most regions of Southern Scotland over       the next 5-10 years.
The work highlighted how the spread of disease to the       currently disease-free high density populations of Central Scotland may be       prevented by targeting grey control to specific dispersal routes       (pinch-points).
The model study also assessed the impact of potential grey       squirrel control beyond the Central Lowlands of Scotland that will act as       a contingency should squirrelpox reach the Central Scotland populations,       the impact of squirrelpox at the interface between red and grey       populations in Highland Scotland and the viability of control measures at       regional strongholds that support red squirrel populations.
The model       results were presented at the SSRS Steering Group meetings in 2013 and       were fundamental in shaping an options paper [10] that outlined the       proposed strategies for protecting red squirrels from 2014.
The options       paper reports that `Grey squirrel control is responding to the modelling       work ... where control in the identified pinch-point areas is already       taking place', and the SSRS preferred option intends to `increase       resourcing to allow greater coverage of the remaining pinch-point areas'       outlined by the model study.
Thus, the model results are fundamental in       shaping current and future policy and for planning the allocation of       resources.
A key strategic stronghold for red squirrel conservation is the Isle of       Arran.
In 2012 the Arran Red Squirrel Assessment, FCS [11] stated that       research should `evaluate the risk of disease spread on Arran through the       use of modelling approaches.
The paper [1] highlighted the threat posed by       squirrelpox on the population abundance of red squirrels.
They showed that       a squirrelpox epidemic could lead to the rapid reduction in red       abundance.'
The Maxwell Institute is assisting FCS with the development of       modelling strategies to assess the disease risk posed to red squirrel       populations on Arran.
The investigation extends the mathematical framework       developed in [1] and designs strategies that limit the spread and severity       of squirrelpox outbreaks.
