     Projections Toolkit.
Significant impact has been achieved in the       form of increased turnover for Longevitas, an SME formed in 2006, which       offers its customers leading-edge software for modelling and analysing       demographic risks, including mortality, longevity and critical illness.
The increased turnover results from the licensing and marketing of a       software application &#8212; Projections Toolkit &#8212; which was developed       by Longevitas staff from code originally written by Currie.
The Projections         Toolkit is an important tool in the service provided by Longevitas       to the pensions and insurance industry and embodies a wide range of       forecasting models &#8212; specifically the 2- dimensional models [1-3, 5] and       the Lee-Carter models [4].
[text removed for publication.]
Impact on practices of advisory agencies.
The research has       generated further impact through the uptake of the smoothing and       forecasting methods described in Section 2 by two bodies, the Office for       National Statistics and the Continuous Mortality Investigation, whose       respective remits includes the provision of statistical analyses for use       by government and by the pensions and insurance industries.
The Office for National Statistics (ONS) provides official       statistics on behalf of the UK government including the National       Population Projections (NPP) which impact strongly on government policy on       pensions, social care and health.
Since 2006 the ONS has used the 2-       dimensional smoothing model to remove fluctuations from age to age and       year to year in formulating smoothed mortality surfaces for each gender       [8].
During development of the new methodology, Currie provided direct       support to the Principal Methodologist involved at ONS.
Our contribution       to the work of ONS is described in [9] which states (p4) that "Mortality       rates for the UK in each calendar year in the period 1961 to 2009 have       been smoothed to remove fluctuations from age to age and year to year,       using a new methodology" &#8212; a direct reference to their use of our 2-       dimensional smoothing model as described by them on p5: "A p-spline model       was then applied to the resulting crude mortality rates to produce a       fitted, smoothed mortality surface to the historical data for each       gender."
The Continuous Mortality Investigation (CMI) is funded by the       insurance industry and actuarial consultancies and has two main functions:       (i) the collection of claims and exposed-to-risk data from across the       insurance industry and pension schemes, the collation of these data by       source (for example, by type of insurance), and the creation of a       repository of the resulting mortality data sets; (ii) the modelling and       forecasting of the data in (i).
The underpinning research, which has been partially supported by the CMI       (see section 2), is now incorporated into their forecasting methodology       [10].
Specifically, the research has provided the methods used in the CMI       model for smoothing the data by fitting a 2-dimensional P-spline age-cohort       model, as described in [3]; see the CMI 2010 Working paper [11].
The final model is used extensively by many insurance companies to assess       pricing and reserving for various classes of assurance and annuities, and       by pension schemes in valuing their liabilities for funding or risk       transfer assessments.
