     4.1.
Impact of pointer conversion     Pointer conversion is now available in Intel's commercial icc       compiler.
This was added in 2005, and continues to be used in versions       11.0, 11.1, 12.0, 12.1, and 13.0 of this compiler, released in 2008, 2009,       2010, 2011, and 2012.
Intel dominates the desktop and high-end processor       market.
Research undertaken at Edinburgh is now used to improve code       performance on Intel platforms across the world.
This is a wide impact       since the vast majority of desktop machines are Intel-based: according to       http://www.cpubenchmark.net/market_share.html,       estimates of market share since 2008 show that Intel has between 70% and       73% of the x86 processor market with ARM providing almost all the rest.
A       smaller scale company CAPS-Enterprise (approximately 20 people) are also       known to have implemented this technique in their software tool chain,       which is used by Intel in their library development.
4.2.
Impact of machine-learning-based approaches     GCC is the most widely used compiler in the world.
It is open-source and       has a large community of academic and industrial contributors of which IBM       is the leader.
Working with IBM we developed MilePost GCC, a compiler that       automatically learns to optimise [A, B, C].
The learning component is       available as a simple plug-in that determines optimisation based on prior       knowledge.
Uniquely this can access a shared database allowing       community-based continuous optimisation.
There have been 643 downloads by       developers, the number of end users is not known.
This work led to the       creation of the Collaborative Tuning resource [D], a platform for exchange       of best practice in performance optimisation of program code.
4.3.
Impact of machine-learning-based approaches     Our work on compiler/architecture co-design in collaboration with the       architecture group at the School of Informatics influenced the design of       the reconfigurable EnCore processor.
The associated ArcSim       high-performance architecture simulator is based on the parallel JIT       compiler technology developed by us.
EnCore and ArcSim are the subject of       a separate School of Informatics REF impact case study.
4.4.
Impact of auto-parallelisation research     Combining our experience in parallelisation with machine-learning-based       optimisation has led to a major breakthrough in the area of       auto-parallelisation.
This was recognised when ARM made a substantial       investment in a heterogeneous parallelism centre of excellence at       Edinburgh [E].
This is ARM's first centre of excellence outside the       University of Michigan.
The centre funds fundamental research in data       centre scale parallelism leading to patentable ARM IP.
We are currently       jointly working with ARM on an LLVM-based OpenCL compiler based on this       work.
This work has attracted considerable industrial interest: NVIDIA has       made one of our students a fellow for our work on heterogeneous       parallelisation while Freescale, Imagination Technology and IBM are       collaborating on a variety of projects.
Samsung is developing a prototype       based on our JIT technology.
The pioneering work on profile-directed       parallelisation is the on-going subject of commercialisation.
The       University of Edinburgh and Samsung have signed a collaboration agreement       [F] publicised at http://wcms.inf.ed.ac.uk/icsa/news/samsung-research-collaboration.
4.5.
Details of on-going collaboration arrangements with industrial         partners     The ARM centre of excellence has two components: an overarching       collaboration agreement, and student project agreements.
This allows       intellectual property to be jointly created and exploited by all parties.
Students have a supervisor at both ARM and Edinburgh.
They are paid an       enhanced stipend and undertake a three-month internship during their       studies.
In 2012 Intel announced expansion of its Intel Doctoral Student Honour       Programme into Europe.
The University of Edinburgh was one of only three       universities in the UK to be selected.
In 2012 one of our students       Bhargava Rajaram was awarded an Intel PhD fellowship [G].
Christophe       Dubach was awarded an Intel Early Career Faculty award: this was the only       award made to a UK academic [H].
