     The UK Government spends substantial public funds on new affordable and       social housing each year (&#163;10bn in 2008-10; 70,000 new affordable housing       units).
Depending on where and how this money is invested, it can benefit       the c.1.6m households in need, including the c.90,000 households accepted       as homeless annually (Bramley et al, 2010).
If misdirected, however, it       may be wasted in oversupplied markets.
Alliance research by Bramley and       his group has significantly influenced the allocation of resources for       affordable housing in England and Scotland between geographical areas,       types of provision and client, and over time in relation to the market.
Impact over the period 2008-2013 builds on Bramley's participation in a       Policy Action Team on Unpopular Housing (1998-2000), led by the (then)       Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
This alerted       authorities to the dangers of oversupply in low demand areas and the need       to modify housing allocation therein.
The [text removed for publication]       Department for Communities and Local Government has said "the complex       research delivered important and robust evidence on the scale, causes and       consequences of unpopular/low demand housing.
It informed policy       development at the time, and it is encouraging to see how it continues to       play an important role in the ongoing evidence base around housing supply       and need."
Another crucial milestone on the pathway to current impact was the       citation of the team's work, multiple times, in [text removed for       publication] (2004) Review of Housing Supply (see 5.1, below).
This raised       awareness of the scale of affordable housing need in pressured regions,       particularly the south of England and Southeast Scotland.
Since then, the       team's published outputs and modelling tools have assisted the Housing       Corporation (now the Homes and Communities Agency) in England and the       Scottish Government in reviewing their regional allocation processes, and       have been used by the Department for Communities and Local Government       (DCLG) to assess policy options in the context of the 2010 Government       Spending Review.
Overall, the research has significantly contributed to a       shift of emphasis in public investment and planning from declining urban       regions to higher demand growth regions, from a 46% / 54% split in 1995 to       a 20% / 80% in 2007 and a 32% / 68% split in 2009/10 (English regions).
Writing about Bramley's work (see 5.2), [text removed for publication]       the DCLG has said... "Glen was our first choice to lead work on the       development of a Housing Needs model.
This was invaluable to the       Department in making the case for affordable housing in a tough Spending       Review process (2010).
[The] work also helped to influence the development       of our innovative Affordable Rents model and supported the accompanying       Impact Assessment.
We are once again drawing on [it] for the current       Spending Round to inform modelling assumptions, including evidence on       additionality of affordable housing."
The Model used by DCLG in the 2010 Government Spending Review was highly       admired by the Housing New Zealand Corporation.
This led to Bramley and       Leishman, with Research Assistant David Watkins, developing a Demand and       Supply Forecasting model for New Zealand.
The results are now in active       use informing the 10-year re-investment programme of the state housing       agency in assets valued at $15bn.
The Agency [text removed for       publication] has described how the work "represents a quantum leap forward       in our ability to forecast demand for state housing".
(See 5.3).
In a consultancy-led review for a regional body, the team's West of       England SHMA (Strategic Housing Market Assessment) of 2009 was the most       commended of its kind in the South West region.
[text removed for       publication] Bristol City Council has confirmed that... "Professor Glen       Bramley's work has been judged to be sound and rigorous and has been very       significant in ensuring that Bristol has an adopted Core Strategy, as well       as solid guidance for agreeing affordable housing contributions by       developers".
(See 5.4).
In Scotland, the Highland Council SHNDA (Housing       Need and Demand Assessment) was the first to be certified as Robust and       Credible by the Scottish Government.
At local level, the       affordability-based approach to needs assessment has been promoted in       official guidance by the UK national and devolved governments.
Much of       this guidance, including the SHMA Guidance in England (2007) and the       Housing Need and Demand Assessment Guidance for Local Authorities in       Scotland (2008), has been based, in part, on advice given, and       publications authored by, the Alliance team.
Most recently, the [text removed for publication] Scottish Government's       Centre for Housing Market Analysis has confirmed that "The Bramley-Watkins       study for The Highland Council (THC) was the basis for the development of       our Housing Need and Demand Toolkit.
This provides a robust but       straightforward platform for planning authorities to conduct required       housing analysis".
(See 5.5).
The toolkit embodies economic forecasts for       prices and other variables derived from Leishman et al's 2008 model of       housing supply and affordability.
He goes on to say that our work, in       particular for THC, was "crucial to the development of the mechanism for       the allocation of social housing funding in Scotland that was agreed       between local and central government in late 2012".
Consultants providing analytical services to local authorities in England       now provide assessment tools based on `Bramley' model-types as a       commercial service.
One example is B.
Line Housing Information Ltd.
This       consultancy undertakes Strategic Housing Market Assessments for groups of       local authorities.
On its website, B.
Line promotes the fact that "The       affordability model featured in our work on Strategic Housing Market       Assessments is derived from the Bramley Model" (see 5.6).
More rigorous local assessments are critical to the effective use of       planning powers to facilitate affordable housing provision.
For example,       in public spending terms, Section 106/75 agreements are more       cost-effective delivery mechanisms than traditional public procurement and       funding streams.
The Alliance research has enhanced the ability of       national government to underpin the stronger use of planning powers to       deliver affordable housing, worth &#163;2.6bn in subsidy from land value in       2007-08, up from &#163;1.2bn in 2003 and negligible ten years earlier, as shown       in DCLG evaluation research.
In a report for Scottish Government in 2010,       the team demonstrated the extent of enhanced capacity for housebuilding       achievable with effective use of planning agreements in areas of high need       and high residual land values.
Although Bramley's contribution to the Government's Low Cost Home       Ownership Task Force concluded in 2003, its impact has extended into the       period 2008-2013.
Along with subsequent research for a range of bodies       into the scale of need and demand for `intermediate housing' &#8212; such as       shared ownership &#8212; and ways of financing it, it has led to an expansion       and better targeting of this sector.
In England, the share of       `intermediate' in all affordable housing rose for 13% in 1991 and 19% in       2001 to 43% in 2008-10.
Evidence of the international impact of this       strand of research is provided by the [text removed for publication]       Housing Agency, Ireland, who has said "The outcome of the work [was]       inclusion in the Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2009 of Part V       &#8212;Affordable Dwellings Purchase Arrangements, Sections 78 to 96.
This       allows for equity loan arrangements which were the final outcome of the       studies.
Due [to] the economic situation this part of the Act has not been       commenced...However, the principles of the equity loan have been used in a       different way as part of the main approach to the current methods of       delivery of social housing... and also in a mortgage-to-rent scheme...       What we have learned from you has had a significant impact and has helped       in dealing with our current economic circumstances."
(See 5.7).
