     The collateral multiplier channel, first identified in the paper "Credit       Cycles", foreshadowed important aspects of the chain of events witnessed       recently.
The amplification and propagation of business cycles through the       feedback mechanism in asset prices via the collateral resembles the sharp       deterioration in financial intermediaries' balance sheets during the       crisis.
For that reason, this insight was an important input into       policymaking discussions within central banks during the crisis.
In order to maximise the impact of his work, Moore gave a series of       invited lectures in the Bank for International Settlements (2008), Banque       de France (2008), Bundesbank (2008), Sveriges Riksbank (2009), Banco       Central de Uruguay (2009) and the Bank of England (2011).
The insights       presented in these talks, as well as direct access to his written work,       have had considerable influence on their audience.
For example, in an       email to Prof Michael Elsby (UoE), an economist at the Federal Reserve       Bank of New York explicitly notes that he was invited to participate in       policy discussions in the Bank as a result of his familiarity with       Kiyotaki and Moore's work:     "In the policy work that I've done last year, the reason why I was       involved was that I was working on Kiyotaki-Moore.
So, it definitely had a       policy impact."
[see 5.1 below]     Closer to home, an Executive Director of the Bank of England certifies       that     "Moore's papers, "Credit Cycles" (...) and "Liquidity, Business Cycles       and Monetary Policy" (...) are both seminal pieces of work which have       influenced the thinking of the Bank of England and other central banks in       operating monetary and macroprudential policy during the crisis and       beyond."
[5.2]     The influence of the paper was a key factor in its being awarded the       prestigious Ross Prize in Financial Economics ($100 000) in 2010.
The       citation, entitled "The Impact of "Credit Cycles" by Kiyotaki and       Moore", notes in particular that:     "This is a landmark paper for the literature...
The insights of this       literature have been essential in understanding the current crisis and the       "lost decade" in Japan."
[5.3]     This influence has also percolated into the public debate.
An article in       The Economist criticising economists for the inability of their       models to engage with the crisis triggered a debate initiated by Nobel       Laureate Robert Lucas.
In a piece by Markus Brunnermeier, Kiyotaki and       Moore are cited as economists who have provided useful models:     "Research by Ben Bernanke and Mark Gertler, Nobu Kiyotaki and John Moore,       Rick Mishkin and other macroeconomists provided helpful policy guidance,       exactly because their models emphasise the importance of financial       frictions for the macroeconomy."
[5.4]     Similarly, in a prominent article criticising the economics literature       for its irrelevance to the crisis, Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman highlights       the Kiyotaki-Moore agenda as an important exception:     "There were some exceptions.
One line of work, ... A related line of       work, largely established by my Princeton colleague Nobuhiro Kiyotaki and       John Moore ..., argued that prices of assets such as real estate can       suffer self-reinforcing plunges that in turn depress the economy as a       whole."
[5.5]     This view was echoed by David Romer at a 2011 conference organised by the       International Monetary Fund on post-crisis macro policy:     "I am not claiming that modern macroeconomics in general has not been       valuable.
To give just one example, empirical and theoretical work on       credit-market imperfections (for example, Bernanke, 1983, Bernanke and       Gertler, 1989, and Kiyotaki and Moore, 1997) offers important insights       into financial crises and very likely informed the policy response."
[5.6]     Beyond enriching our understanding of the financial crisis, Moore's       research also presaged policy responses that could counteract the severe       recessions exacerbated by financial frictions.
Kiyotaki and Moore showed       that an injection of liquidity into the economy can help mitigate the       adverse effects of a financial crisis.
From this insight emerged a highly       unconventional piece of policy advice: conduct open market operations that       exchange illiquid assets for liquid ones.
This policy resembles important       aspects of the "quantitative easing" conducted by the Federal Reserve (and       the Bank of England) during the crisis.
The impact of "Liquidity, Business       Cycles, and Monetary Policy" was acknowledged by Charles Evans, President       of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (reinforcing the comment from the       Bank of England above).
In a speech, delivered at the peak of the crisis,       he makes frequent reference to the paper, noting in particular that:     "[O]ur Term Securities Lending Facility, which the Fed implemented in       mid-March, roughly corresponds to the Kiyotaki and Moore recommendations."
[5.7]
