     Following the high visibility of his books on the ICT sector (including       prizes and extensive press reviews) Fransman was sought after by       governments and international organisations, receiving numerous       invitations to give lectures, briefings and face-to-face discussions with       policy makers around the world.
The wide dissemination of Fransman's ideas and expertise has given his       research an international reach, influencing policy makers, regulators and       companies in the ICT sector across the world.
It has impacted the OECD,       the UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as       governments and firms in Brazil, China, Japan, South Africa, South Korea,       Thailand and Vietnam.
The impact has been of two types.
First, Fransman's research furnished       policy makers and managers with a better understanding of the       relationships and interdependencies among the subcomponents of the ICT       Ecosystem.
This contributed to better strategies even in developed       countries, such as those in the OECD:     "...the project that you undertook for the OECD on innovation in the ICT       sector...has been very useful in our internal discussions.
Your work in       this area has helped in our deliberations on innovation."
[see 5.1 below]     or in OFCOM of the UK:     "...Professor Fransman's work is well-known and respected amongst the       telecommunications regulatory and policy community in the UK... his       theorising in relation to what he characterised as the "ICT ecosystem" and       the consequential implications for industry and policy-makers as the       convergence between telecommunications, broadcasting and computing       continues to transform these industries.
I have drawn on his work in       developing strategic analysis of the sectors Ofcom regulates..." [5.2]     Second, Fransman's research impacted policy-making and regulation in       developing countries through its implications for science, technology and       innovation (ST&amp;I) strategy.
Vietnam provides a good example of this.
Fransman visited the       country on three occasions in the 1990s funded by the Ministry of S&amp;T,       the British Council, and the Canadian government, respectively.
With his       new ecosystem theory fully developed, in 2011 he returned to Vietnam as a       member of the International Advisory Board appointed by UNIDO to advise       the Ministry of S&amp;T on their ST&amp;I Strategy, 2011-2020.
He gave the       main presentation to the Council for S&amp;T Policy, which reports to the       Prime Minister.
Evidence of his recent impact is provided in the statement       by a leading member of the Vietnamese government:     "... the work of Professor Martin Fransman has been studied in our       organisations and used widely in the domain of S&amp;T&amp;I [by] policy       makers in Vietnam.
...[he] has been instrumental in shaping [the] thinking       of Vietnamese policy makers for [the] new S&amp;T Strategy to 2010 while       working with [the] Ministry of S&amp;T of Vietnam... His contribution was       valuable for [the] revision of [the] new Strategy for Vietnam in science,       technology and innovation up to 2020."
[5.3]     Another recent example is South Korea.
In November 2011 he gave       the lead-in keynote address to the global conference organised by the       Korea Information Society Development Institute as part of the process of       developing Korea's future strategy for its ICT sector.
The conference was       based around Fransman's concept of the ICT Ecosystem.
In April 2012 Fransman was invited to address the Japanese       Techno-Economic Society (JATES) on the topic, "What should Japan do to       Survive and Thrive in the Evolving Global Economy?"
JATES' membership       includes the Chief Technology Officers of many of Japan's leading       companies.
We have the following testimonial:     "He has given us insights over the years that have helped us shape our       ideas about the future of telecommunications regulation, stimulated our       academic thinking, and helped us in formulating advice to Japanese       industry and the public sector... his works have had a broad impact on the       Japanese ICT sector.
Recently his ideas about the ICT Ecosystem have been       influential in advancing my colleagues' thinking... the notion of an       ecosystem as Professor Fransman describes is becoming an accepted concept       in business circles [in Japan]."
[5.4]     The Chinese edition of his book Japan's Computer and         Communications Industry not only increased the reach of his       research, but also lead to further impact:     "... the book is very popular not only among scholars but also policy       makers... More recently, his layers' model of the ICT sector has greatly       helped [our] thinking about local Chinese firms' rapid development of       technological capabilities and competitiveness."
[5.5]     In the wake of his pivotal influence overseas, in 2012 Fransman was       invited by the UK Department of Business, Innovation and Skills to       join the newly formed UK-China Innovation Network.
This body advises the       UK government on the implementation of its agreements with the Chinese       government in the area of ST&amp;I.
