     Hughes's research was originally funded and developed in order to provide       a direct contribution to the formulation of policy at an international and       national level.
It formed a large element of a study undertaken by the       World Bank which was funded by the Governments of the United Kingdom, the       Netherlands and Switzerland.
This study was specifically commissioned         as the primary background document for the negotiations at the       Copenhagen Conference of Parties (COP15) for the UN Framework Convention       on Climate Change in 2009.
[see 5.1 below] Agreement was not reached in       Copenhagen, so it was subsequently used in reaching an international       agreement on funding for adaptation to climate change in 2010 at the COP16       held in Cancun, Mexico.
The final agreed funding (of approximately       US$80bn) was closely in line with the report's recommendations.
In       addition to the specific research on infrastructure and the main EACC       report, Hughes also co-authored several sector (infrastructure) and       country (Samoa, Vietnam) reports &#8212; all published by the World Bank &#8212; which       drew upon the original research.
These reports have, in turn, been used by       developing countries and international organisations for assessing the       risks and in formulating national strategies for adaptation to climate       change.
[5.2]     Hughes has applied and extended this research in a number of follow-up       studies, including being the lead author on a study of the costs of       adaptation to climate change (by regions) in China undertaken in 2011 as       part of a program of research on green growth in China.
This research was       co-sponsored by the World Bank and the Development Research Centre of the       State Council of China, resulting in a policy statement on greener       growth, describing how China should respond to the challenges of climate       change.
As the State Council is the Cabinet of the People's Republic of       China the results of the study have been incorporated into China's current       development strategy and plan.
The Economist has referred to the       report as     "This rare joint study, produced with the strong backing of Li Keqiang       (who is expected to take over from Mr Wen as prime minister next March),       also raised the possibility of a "middle-income trap" and called for       wide-ranging economic reforms."
[5.3]     Building on the same research methodology, Hughes has directed a study       (through the Asian Development Bank) that examines how policies for       adaptation to and mitigation of climate change in North East Asia can be       combined.
This is sponsored by the Government of South Korea and with the       direct involvement of senior officials from China and Japan.
In these and       other cases (Samoa, Vietnam, Western Balkans), the results of the research       have been or are being used as the basis for developing strategies for       adapting to climate change over the next one or two decades.
[5.4]     Hughes's research also informs his work as Chairman of the Water Industry       Commission for Scotland, where he can have a direct impact on how the       Scottish water industry prepares for the effects of climate change.
A case       in point is how the Commission assigns investment priorities based on the       risk assessment methods that Hughes has developed.
For example, to manage       the increased risk of droughts they prioritise investment in water storage       and transport as well as upgrades to pipeline networks.
[5.5]
