     Main's research into the way that companies design executive pay       arrangements through remuneration committees and his development of the       Career Shares device has featured both in Government policy documents and       in developing industry practice.
This impact has come about through two       primary routes.
One is his research relationship with Towers Watson, a       leading Human Resources Consultant.
The other is through two major       government investigations in the area &#8212; the 2011-12 BIS investigation of       executive remuneration [5.1] and the BIS sponsored 2012-13 Kay Review of       UK Equity Markets and Long-Term Decision-Making [5.2].
Main worked closely with Towers Watson between 2005-13, both through       joint research projects (where they were able to facilitate access to the       elite decision makers who sit on remuneration committees) and in exposing       his research ideas to a wide range of end-users.
Towers Watson provides       advisory services in terms of executive remuneration to a wide range of       FTSE350 boards.
While pointing to specific individual clients raises       issues of confidentiality, the impact of Main's research can be clearly       (and publicly) traced through the general position papers (2008- 2011)       that Towers Watson issues by way of marketing their services [5.3, 5.4,       5.5].
For example, a 2008 Towers Watson paper entitled "Effective Remuneration       Committees" [5.3] provides advice on how remuneration committees should       best conduct their business.
This is based explicitly on a joint research       study conducted with Main, which highlights the tendency of remuneration       committees to mimic each other in their design of executive pay       arrangements.
More directly linking to the idea of Career Shares, the       Towers Watson 2010 client advice document, "Perspectives: Deferred shares       &#8212; a partial solution to executive remuneration alignment" [5.4], is based       explicitly on a joint research project with Main on the consequences of       forcing deferral of cashing in rewards (in this case the annual bonus).
The most explicit Towers Watson client advice based on Main's work on       Career Shares can be found in their 2011 circular, "New ideas to reward       sustained performance" [5.5].
This makes extensive use of Main's work on       Career Shares, and Towers Watson recommends the arrangement to clients.
Evidence of impact on the thinking and strategies of policy makers and on       government policy discussions is available in the government Discussion       Paper on Executive Pay that was published in September 2011 by the       Department for Business, Innovation &amp; Skills (BIS) [5.1].
This draws       heavily on Main's research output (referring to five of his papers), and       there is explicit recognition in government circles that Main's work has       helped to influence BIS thinking in terms of executive pay [5.1, 5.2].
In a similar vein, the BIS sponsored "Review of UK Equity Markets and       Long-Term Decision- Making" by John Kay comes down firmly in favour of the       Career Shares arrangement that emerges from Main's work as the best way of       arranging long-term incentives, given the imperfect decision making of       remuneration committees.
The final report, The Kay Review (2012) [5.2]       specifically recommends the type of Career Shares arrangement that Main's       research has promoted as the best policy reaction to the current       dissatisfaction with executive pay.
Specifically:     Recommendation 15: "Companies should structure directors' remuneration to       relate incentives to sustainable long-term business performance.
Long-term       performance incentives should be provided only in the form of company       shares to be held at least until after the executive has retired from the       business."
Kay Report, 2012.
Kay had received firm recommendations along these lines from the likes of       Standard Life Investments [5.6] who submitted evidence to the effect:     "We commend to you work done by Professor Brian Main, of the University       of Edinburgh.
His recent paper entitled `Executive Pay &#8212; a career       perspective' contains some very interesting ideas.
In particular, with the       benefit of supporting evidence, he recommends that executives should be       required to hold shares in the company for a period of time after they       leave it.
This proposal would provide encouragement to executive directors       to focus on the long-term development of their business."
Standard Life Investments: Evidence to the Kay Review, 2011 [5.6].
Brian Main engaged with both of these government lines of enquiry through       submitting evidence to each of the evidence calls and, at one point, by       accepting an invitation to talk to officials at the BIS regarding his       research.
Wider impact of Main's work in this area can be seen in general       discussion of his ideas in the professional press.
This includes: the       letters page of the Financial Times; in "Nutshell" (a monthly       email to all Chartered Members of the Chartered Institute of Personnel       Development, around 60,000 senior practitioners); in featured discussion       in a PARC (Performance and Reward Centre) Report (a research centre formed       by 50 leading global organisations); and in numerous television and radio       interviews.
