     1.
Shaping public policy.
Findings from the "Innovation" stream       of research have been communicated to public policy-makers at various       fora, including the ESRC Public Services Programme Conference (2009), an       ESRC Public Policy seminar series for Scottish public policy-makers and       service managers (2009), and the Sunrise conference for public policy       decision-makers in Denmark (2012).
This latter event led to the signing of       the declaration on social innovation and co-production by the Danish       government and its partners in providing public services, which drew       specifically on this research in relation to the role of TSOs in the       co-production of public services [5.1].
This work is cited as underpinning research in the policy guidance on       innovation in public services published both by the UK Cabinet Office       [5.2, 5.3] and by the Australian Government [5.4], particularly concerning       both the specific challenges of innovation compared to incremental change       and the governance of risk in innovation in public services.
It has also       been highlighted by the Academy of Social Sciences in their publication on       effective research impact in Scotland [5.5].
The research was also       submitted as evidence to the Independent Inquiry into Abuse at Kerelaw       Residential School and is cited in the evidence presented to the Christie       Commission on public services reform in Scotland [5.6, 5.7].
The four reports from the longitudinal study of TSOs [3.5] informed the       decision making of the Scottish Government on the budget settlement for       the third sector over the past three years and on its tendering policy for       public services.
It also led to roundtable discussions with heads of       directorate in the Scottish Government.
These influenced their evaluation       of the role of the sector in engaging positively with the public service       reform agenda, particularly around local partnership working and       preventative measures [5.8].
The extension of this study for a fourth, and       possibly fifth, year by the Government (at a time of restraint in public       finances) demonstrates their belief in the import/impact of the research       on public policy in Scotland [5.8].
The research was also submitted as       evidence to the Christie Commission on public services reform in Scotland       and influenced its final report, specifically in relation to the role of       TSOs in the co-production of public services [5.6].
Directly as a result of this work, Osborne has been elected as Vice-Chair       of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations (SCVO) (2011-       ongoing).
The longitudinal research has been instrumental in shaping       discussions and decisions of the SCVO Policy Committee, which comprises 60       senior TSO managers across Scotland, on the role of TSOs in providing       public services [5.9].
It has been used by both SCVO [5.9] and the       Association of Chief Officers of Scottish Voluntary Organisations (ACOSVO)       [5.10] in negotiating with the Scottish Government over annual funding of       the third sector in Scotland.
Professor Osborne is also a member of the       Community Planning Partnerships Overview Committee of the Scottish       Government, where his work has fed into policy-making in relation to the       role of TSOs in Community Planning Partnerships [5.9].
2.
Improving the management/impact of TSOs in delivering public         services.
Research from the Innovation stream has improved the       ability of TSOs to manage and deliver public services.
First, findings       have been presented at SCVO annual conferences (2011, 2012, approximately       300 practitioners at each) and at dedicated workshops for the research       participants, leading to discussion of the implications for the management       of their organisations, especially in recommending effective strategies       for organisational survival and growth during and after the recession       [5.9].
Second, it underpinned five training courses (organised by ACOSVO       with approximately 40 participants in each) in strategic management and       public service reform for chief officers of TSOs to enhance their impact       upon the public services reform agenda in Scotland [5.10].
Further impact of the research has been engendered through Osborne's role       as Vice-Chair of SCVO and Chair of its Finance and General Purposes       Committee.
The research findings have influenced the management of SCVO by       informing risk and innovation policies and shaping its strategic       orientation towards innovation in public services.
3.
Increasing public awareness of TSOs.
Finally, this research       has also been used by Osborne to influence public opinion on the role of       the third sector in Scotland through newspaper articles in the Edinburgh       Evening News (2011, daily circulation=32,160) and The Scotsman (2012,       daily circulation=28,500), and through public engagement workshops on the       Big Society in Scotland, as part of The Gathering (2010, annual 2-day       event organised by the SCVO, attracting 3,000 people), and on the role of       the third sector in the future of Scotland, as part of the ESRC Festival       of Social Science (2012).
These events stimulated further online       discussion through blogs discussing the impact of the research for       Scotland and also further articles in The Scotsman responding to the       research.
