     As a direct result of this body of research, Professor Hutton's estimates       of life expectancy for those afflicted by cerebral palsy and other       neurological injuries are widely requested and used internationally.
The       impact of this has been broad in both reach and significance       to legal professionals, individuals and healthcare providers, in       particular in legal financial settlements.
Evidence for life expectancy in litigation     International reach:       Since 2008, Hutton has provided expert evidence for 73 cases related to       cerebral palsy life expectancy, and 30 cases concerning spinal cord and       brain injuries.
Expert reports use data which are maintained and updated       by Hutton and refer to her published research.
These include cases in the       UK, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, South Africa and Eire.
In adversarial       jurisdictions, two life expectancy reports are usually provided, although       in England, Wales and Australia, expert witnesses can receive joint       instructions from both sides.
Hutton has provided reports for defendants       or plaintiffs, or in response to joint instructions.
In Scotland, where       experts are only allowed to provide reports for one side, Hutton's reports       are respected by both pursuers and defenders (for example [9a, 10, 11]).
In Scotland, Hutton provided evidence for 33 cases during 2008-13,       estimated to be about two thirds of all cerebral palsy births subject to a       claim.
Within the UK, there are few expert witnesses instructed on life       expectancy after neurological injuries besides Hutton, and they all       typically cite Hutton's research in their evidence.
Internationally, the       only other experts routinely instructed are the California-based Life         Expectancy Project.
Their reports cite Hutton's research, and she       regularly appears in the same cases (for example [12]).
Hutton has been approached on behalf of the [text removed for       publication] to secure her services as expert witness for future cases and       instructions [13].
Significance and applications of life expectancy expert reports:       The majority of high-value medical negligence cases address allegations of       obstetric failures, which lead to cerebral palsy.
Annual payments by the NHS Litigation Authority (England) on clinical       claims increased from &#163;863M in 2010/11 to &#163;1.28 billion in 2011/12.
35% of       these claims result from cerebral palsy cases [9b].
Since settlements are generally confidential, it is not possible to give       precise figures to quantify the financial impact of Hutton's work.
Minimum       disagreements between the pursuers and defendants are of the order of five       years, but are more usually ten or more years in cerebral palsy.
As annual       costs for care for a severely disabled person are at least &#163;200,000 (see       for example [14]), this equates to &#163;1 million per case for a discrepancy       of 5 years, and to &#163;2m per case when the discrepancy is ten years.
Moreover, for a person who might require two paid staff in attendance for       24 hours a day, the annual cost of care would be twice as much.
The       economic impact of Hutton's research in the years 2008-2013, for 100       cases, would therefore be conservatively estimated in the range       &#163;100M-450M.
Corroborating evidence of the majority of the 103 cases that Hutton has       provided expert evidence for (2008-2013) can be provided by the HEI but       due to limitations on space and references allowed, only one will be       described below.
One example of a motor and industrial case is the largest individual       settlement in the UK, awarded to Agnes Collier, who suffered spinal cord       injury in a car accident on 18 March 2009, resulting in a settlement       agreed on 19 November 2012.
The sum awarded, &#163;23 million, was calculated       directly from Hutton's evidence on life expectancy.
[15]     "[text removed for publication]     [text removed for publication] "[15].
Patient networks:       Hutton provided informatfion for a `CP factsheet on cerebral palsy       research' [16] provided by a Scottish charity, Capability Scotland, which       supports people with cerebral palsy and their families.
This factsheet is       updated annually, and she has commented on the 2013 version, at the       request of Capability Scotland.
The factsheet links to a four-page leaflet       on CP research providing information for the general public on Hutton's       website, which also attracts references from an internet forum of SCOPE,       the cerebral palsy charity for England [16].
She and Professor Pharoah       have also provided specific advice about life expectancy to a few       individual members of the public who have approached them (e.g., [17]).
Further practitioner reach:       Hutton's cerebral palsy research is cited in two textbooks for       paediatricians and epidemiologists (2010, 2009) [18].
Hutton has given seminars on life expectancy as part of continuing       professional education for lawyers, through the Association for Victims of       Medical Accidents (AVMA) (London, 2008) [19].
