     After the publication of Dirty Money in 1995, Gilmore was       appointed as the sole scientific (legal)       expert to MONEYVAL, in recognition of his status in the field.
He remains       the only holder of this       position.
This, and related appointments with the Council of Europe,       including as sole legal advisor       to the Committee charged with the re-negotiations on the Warsaw Convention       that came into force       on 1 May 2008 (CETS 198 2005, eif 08), enabled Gilmore to feed his       research findings directly       into the international standard-setting process.
The core message he       conveyed was the       importance of effective enforcement, which implied the need for a shift in       emphasis from       criminalisation to confiscation among institutions and state actors.
Importantly, the work on the       Warsaw Convention &#8212; which reinforced the original Convention provisions on       money laundering       and the confiscation of criminal proceeds to achieve greater effect in       practice &#8212; endorsed       Gilmore's conclusions developed in the second edition of Dirty Money.
These conclusions were       confirmed in Gilmore's MONEYVAL-commissioned `horizontal' study of country       reports examining       peer-review evaluation on compliance, required by the FATF (2006-7): the       system was not       working (5.1).
These steps served as the platform for the impact during       the REF period, which       involved two important contributions.
1.
Gilmore's discussions with the then Head of the Dutch delegation to       FATF, Andrew Strijker, led       directly to the shaping of the Dutch FATF presidency agenda for 2009-2010,       in meetings from       November 2007 onwards.
Regarding Gilmore's input, Mr Strijker has said       that: `...his authorship of       "Dirty Money" that has a broad audience, his horizontal review of country       assessments and       `lessons learned' from international practice, and his role as scientific       expert for MONEYVAL,       acted as the major trigger to draw from his experience'.
Moreover,       `...those first discussions with       Professor Gilmore turned out to be rather important when looking at new       FATF recommendations       of 2012 and the latest FATF work' (5.2).
Reflecting the reach of Gilmore's research, the Dutch presidency led a       targeted review of FATF       standards, a process concluded in February 2012.
A Dutch priority, flowing       from the early       discussions, was significantly to reinforce confiscation methods and to       embed this objective in the       culture of national enforcement practices.
The achievement of this goal is       reflected in the adoption       of revised, markedly strengthened FATF Recommendations (R30 and R31,       replacing former R27       and R28), grounded in Gilmore's research conclusions.
This is confirmed by       John Ringguth,       Executive Secretary to MONEYVAL: `[d]uring the review of the FATF       standards, begun under the       Dutch Presidency, Professor Gilmore encouraged MONEYVAL to promote a       global level greater       focus on the strengthening of those FATF standards which relate to law       enforcement, effective       criminalisation of money laundering, and effective confiscation.
This       advice was followed'.
(5.3)     2.
In its 2008-2009 session, the House of Lords European Union Committee       published a report,       `Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism', in which Gilmore is       acknowledged as its `sole       specialist adviser' whose `unrivalled knowledge of the subject and wise       guidance [was] invaluable'       (p10).
This work placed considerable emphasis on confiscation and the need       further to enhance       cooperation at the international (FATF) and regional (CoE and European       Union) levels.
MONEYVAL gave evidence acknowledging that `...many of the technical legal       problems...have       been addressed in the new Warsaw Convention', directly endorsing Gilmour's       prior input (p 202).
(5.4)     The Report strongly supports the work of MONEYVAL and stresses the need       for the UK       Government to participate in the realisation of FATF enforcement       objectives.
As summarised in       the recommendations: `The review of the FATF Recommendations is a good       opportunity to re-       examine, not just the text of Recommendation 38, but the manner in which       it is implemented, and       the way in which compliance is measured.
(para 72)...We commend the       Commission for its efforts       to increase cooperation among Member States over confiscation of the       proceeds of crime.
We       urge the Government to take a lead in driving this agenda forward with       renewed vigour' (para 74).
(5.4)     The UK Government endorsed the House of Lords Report and confirmed that       its approach will       inform UK negotiating positions within FATF and the CoE.
In particular, on       the review of the FATF       Recommendations, it stated: `We welcome this conclusion of the Committee,       which recognises       that improving international cooperation in confiscating the proceeds of       crime is paramount in       ensuring a confiscation regime with truly global reach'.
(p 5) (5.5)
