     By the time these comments on the Land Registration (Scotland) Act 1979       were made, Reid had been appointed a Scottish Law Commissioner, charged       with directing a major programme of land law reform (now fully implemented       by legislation).
Beginning in 2002 Reid wrote three consultative       Discussion Papers on land registration; Gretton, who succeeded him as a       Law Commissioner in 2006, was responsible for the final Report and for       draft legislation (2010).
A Bill based on the Law Commission's draft was       introduced to Parliament by the Scottish Government in 2011 and was passed       the following year as the Land Registration etc (Scotland) Act 2012.
The       Act is a substantial piece of legislation comprising 124 sections and five       schedules.
The impact that is claimed is this legal change, being the       culmination of a programme of reform of property law by the Scottish       Government (5.1).
Reid and Gretton's earlier research had pointed to a conceptual flaw at       the very heart of the 1979 legislation.
According to normal principles of       property law, ownership cannot pass from one person to another without a       consensual juridical act requiring the participation of both.
But while       that juridical act &#8212; the granting and acceptance of a deed of conveyance &#8212;       was left undisturbed by the legislation, it had become a meaningless       formality.
For ownership now passed by the act of registration alone and       without reference to the validity or otherwise of the underlying deed.
Title, in other words, derived from registration and not to any extent       from the deed; and in a phrase of Reid's, taken up by the Law Commission,       the registrar had a `Midas touch': whatever he registered turned to valid.
Quite apart from its departure from fundamental principles, this Midas       touch suffered from the same defect as in the myth from which the name       derived: its inflexible and indiscriminate nature created a valid title       even in cases &#8212; such as forged deeds &#8212; where validity was plainly the       `wrong' response.
Having made this conceptual error, the legislation then sought to       ameliorate its consequences, Reid and Gretton pointed out, by sometimes       allowing `rectification' of the Register on grounds of legal (as opposed       to factual) inaccuracy.
But since, due to the Midas touch, an entry on the       Register could never actually be wrong, legal inaccuracy had to be       measured by reference, not to land registration law, but to ordinary       property law.
The resulting `bijuralism' &#8212; the simultaneous application of       two different systems of law &#8212; was clumsy, complex and uncertain       (especially in relation to later transmissions).
It was also, as Reid and       Gretton demonstrated, unnecessary.
Its evident policy aim, of protecting       acquirers who relied in good faith on the Register, could be achieved by a       direct rule to that effect.
The Midas touch could then be abolished,       bijuralism discarded, and the normal rules of property law (including       consensual transfer) restored.
The 2012 Act so provides.
The result is not       only simplicity and conceptual rigour but also a system which, by ceasing       to privilege fraud and error, strikes an appropriate balance between       existing owners and good faith acquirers from a non-owner.
The significance of these changes was conveyed by Fergus Ewing MSP,       Minister for Energy, Enterprise and Tourism, proposing the motion in       Parliament that the Land Registration (Scotland) Bill 2012 should be       passed:     The bill seeks to provide the people of Scotland with a land register       that is fit for the 21st century....The bill will also provide for a       fairer and more balanced system of land registration ... By bringing       registration law more closely into line with general property law, the       bill addresses legal tensions that have caused confusion and uncertainty       for property owners since the introduction of the land register.
The       changes will ensure that the land register continues to underpin the       Scottish economy.
(5.4)     Commenting on the Land Registration Act, leading legal practitioner       Stewart Brymer said: `[A] special mention should be made of the dedicated       work and intellectual leadership of Professor Kenneth G C Reid and       Professor George Gretton.
We are fortunate to have such eminent legal       scholars, and their contribution to the development of the Scottish law of       property, in what, I am sure, will be regarded in retrospect as a golden       age of the law of property in Scotland, cannot be over-estimated' (5.5).
