     Raab's research has contributed to a more robust regulatory framework for       information privacy through informing (1) public debate and (2) regulatory       practice.
(1) Raab's insights have informed political debate on the social risks of       surveillance and data-sharing.
His contribution to two high profile       reports ensured his insights directly shaped political discussion.
The       first of these was A Report on the Surveillance Society (2006),       which Raab and colleagues in the Surveillance Studies Network were invited       to produce by the UK Information Commissioner.
Raab authored prominent       sections on the social effects of public-sector surveillance, and the       different options for regulation.
The report attracted worldwide media and       practitioner attention, triggering a number of impacts from 2008 onwards.
It brought into international currency discussion of the `surveillance       society' and how it could be controlled.
For example, the European Data       Protection Supervisor made the report his main point of reference in a       December 2008 article setting out data protection trends and implications       for the EU (See 5.1 below).
The report also triggered the launch of       investigations in both the House of Commons Home Affairs Select Committee       and the House of Lords Select Committee on the Constitution (2007-9).
The       then Information Commissioner testifies that this unprecedented level of       parliamentary attention would not have happened `without the report       produced by Charles [Raab] and his colleagues' (5.2).
Raab played a central role in drafting a second influential report: the       House of Lords' Constitution Committee report Surveillance: Citizens         and the State (HL Paper 18, Session 2008-09) (5.3).
Appointed       Specialist Adviser to the Lords' inquiry in 2007, he was able to shape the       Committee's investigation, including evidence-taking and witness       interrogation.
He drafted large portions of the report, including on the       effects of surveillance on privacy and broader values; the importance of       raising public awareness and utilising PIAs; and the need for a variety of       regulatory instruments.
The report garnered extensive media attention,       including articles in the Daily Mail, Guardian, Observer       and BBC Online.
Both reports helped civil-society bodies to draw attention to worrying       developments, and Raab contributed directly to this process.
He was       academic mentor for Liberty's influential report, Overlooked:         Surveillance and Personal Privacy in Modern Britain.
Published in       2007, the report went on to shape Liberty's campaigning on surveillance       issues throughout the REF period.
The Director of Liberty notes that it       was a `seminal piece for Liberty's policy thinking', and `we continue to       draw on it for policy' (interview November 2012) (5.4).
Raab also steered       Demos' report Private Lives: A People's Inquiry into Personal         Information (2010) and co-authored a report for the Equality and       Human Rights Commission, Protecting Information Privacy (2011).
(2) Raab's research has also had a more direct impact on the regulation       of information privacy, informing specific policies and frameworks in the       UK and beyond.
In 2009-10, Raab was invited to contribute to the Scottish Government's Identity         Management and Privacy Principles (2010) (5.5).
His distinct       contribution is evident in principles that warn against discrimination and       social exclusion in identification processes; that encourage organisations       to raise awareness of privacy issues; and that promote transparency.
These       principles have been widely cited and applied in Scottish Government       policy.
For example, they are cited as relevant background to the Scottish       Government's Joined-up Data for Better Decisions: Guiding Principles         for Data Linkage (2012), which covers statistical and health       research, and in Scotland's Digital Future: Delivery of Public         Services (2012), where they help to underpin privacy assurance in       the strategy for digital public services and ICT that is being developed       across the Scottish public sector (see 5.5).
Raab has also influenced the use of Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) in       the UK.
In 2012, Raab (with four colleagues) was commissioned by the       Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) to review the practice of PIA.
The       report and its recommendations have shaped the ICO's subsequent guidance       and advisory work on PIA, including its plans to work with business and       public sector organisations to build public trust in their data management       practices, and to promote the code at European level (see 5.6).
More specifically, Raab's insights on PIAs influenced the Scottish       Government's 2010 application of PIAs to its eCare data-sharing programme       for social care involving children.
According to the Head of eCare Design       Authority, a feasibility study commissioned from Raab and a small team of       experts in 2004 `was taken on board...influencing and giving us the notion       of PIA as a tool and a means of working with stakeholders' (interview,       October 2012) (5.7).
The influence of Raab's work on regulation reaches beyond the UK.
For       example, in Canada the Office of the Saskatchewan Information and Privacy       Commissioner's Annual Report for 2010-11 drew on Bennett and Raab's 2006       book (5.8), and in Australia the Deputy Privacy Commissioner for Victoria       adopted the same book's analytical construction concerning regulatory       roles for his paper at the 2008 Australian Institute of Administrative Law       Forum (5.9).
