     Jeffery and McEwen's research has (1) informed the discourse and       strategies of political elites on both sides of the constitutional debate,       and (2) strongly shaped the Commission on Scottish Devolution (Calman       Commission) and the resulting provisions on fiscal autonomy in the 2012       Scotland Act.
(1) McEwen's research initially shaped the thinking of the Scottish       Government's Constitutional Affairs Minister during the Scottish       Government's National Conversation on Scotland's constitutional future       (2007-2009).
The Minister had previously reviewed McEwen's 2006 book for       the Sunday Herald in May 2006 and was influenced by the comparisons with       Quebec.
McEwen's research ideas were conveyed in a private meeting of       selected academics convened by the Constitutional Affairs Minister in 2008       and 2009.
The SNP subsequently invited McEwen to present at an `away day'       of advisers in Autumn 2011.
The Minister testifies to the importance of       these meetings and McEwen's research in general to the Government's       thinking on Scotland's welfare policy and its relationship with the rest       of the UK after independence.
He writes: `Academic research, including       McEwen's work on Scotland and Quebec, informed our deliberations within       government when I was Minister with responsibility for the       Constitution...I took note in particular of the insights from the Quebec       referendum experience and the issues of welfare and social policy she       examined.
This helped to inform our thinking on the continuation of a       social union after Scottish independence' (5.1).
On the other side of the constitutional debate, Jeffery's research on       social citizenship influenced senior members of the Labour Party who used       it to justify a further-reaching form of devolution, rather than full       independence for Scotland.
In Summer and Autumn 2007, Jeffery had several       meetings with the Scottish Labour leader, and with the Director General       for Devolution within the UK Government (5.2).
In these meetings they       discussed Jeffery's ideas on social citizenship as a frame for thinking       about political community on a UK-wide level.
The Scottish Labour leader       drew on these ideas in a major speech on St Andrew's Day, 30 November       2007, which `pre- announced' what then became the (Calman) Commission on       Scottish Devolution in April 2008 (5.3).
While the speech itself was       delivered shortly before the REF reporting period, it set out the       rationale and remit for the subsequent Commission.
In the speech, the       Labour leader called for a remit which would emphasise the need for       greater fiscal autonomy for the Scottish Parliament in order to bring       greater accountability to devolved decision-making, while at the same time       securing continued access of Scots to the welfare state, referring to this       as `our social citizenship'.
(2) Jeffery's work on social citizenship not only helped shape Labour       thinking on the remit of the Calman Commission; it went on to influence       the multi-party Commission after it was set up in April 2008.
The then       Director General for Devolution, with whom Jeffery had previously shared       his ideas about the importance of citizenship rights and the social union       (see above), became Secretary of the Calman Commission with responsibility       for drafting its reports (5.2).
Jeffery was invited to brief the       Commission at a private meeting held in May 2008, before it took wider       evidence, in which he outlined how devolution impacted on social       citizenship rights.
Jeffery's ideas on social citizenship and the `social union' were       deployed in the Commission's reports.
Ideas of the `social union' were       used to defend the retention at UK government level of powers over social       security and redistributive taxation, `because it is an aspect of the       social union to which Scotland belongs' (Calman, 2009: 8) (5.4).
His work       informed the Commission's view that `there are social rights which should       also be substantially the same, even when it is best that they are       separately run in Scotland' (Calman, 2009: 6) (5.4).
These arguments about       the social union were reiterated in the White Paper on a new Scotland Bill       (Scotland Office 2009: 4) (5.5), which was the UK Government's response to       the Calman Report, and which became the basis of the 2012 Scotland Act.
Jeffery's research also influenced the Calman Report's recommendations on       finance.
A key part of the Commission's remit was to recommend mechanisms       to strengthen the Scottish Parliament's financial accountability.
In 2008,       Jeffery was appointed to the Independent Expert Group on Finance       established to advise the Calman Commission on these questions.
As the       only political scientist in a group composed mainly of economists, Jeffery       was central to ensuring the Commission's discussion of territorial finance       was placed within a political and constitutional context.
The Secretary of       the Calman Commission confirmed that Jeffery's contribution persuaded the       Commission that finance is not solely a technical matter but profoundly       political, and therefore required the Commission to address issues of the       balance of statewide equity vs. devolved autonomy/accountability as well       as questions of economic efficiency.
He noted that `work at Edinburgh was       critical' in `the contribution of the key idea that financial systems       serve constitutional ends' (5.2).
Jeffery's ideas on the relationship       between equity and autonomy were adopted as two of the `basic principles'       to inform `considerations for funding sub-national governments' and       subsequent `constitutional design' (Independent Expert Group, 2008: 7-9;       10) (5.6) adopted by the Calman Commission in its interim (Calman       Commission 2008: 62-4; 68) (5.3) and final (Calman Commission, 2009: 66,       76, 89) (5.4) reports.
These principles were in turn taken forward into       the UK Government's White Paper (Scotland Office 2009: 3-4; 8-9) (5.5) and       underlay the new provisions on fiscal autonomy in the 2012 Scotland Act       which, from 2015, will increase the proportion of Scottish Parliament       spending covered by tax decisions accountable to Scottish voters from       around 14% to around 35%.
