     A comprehensive impact strategy was built into the FoES project from the       outset.
IPPR's involvement in the project was central to implementation of       this strategy: IPPR helped ensure publicity for the findings of the       successive waves of research, and also brokered discussions with senior       Labour party figures.
The strategy has enabled the research to have three       substantial non-academic impacts.
First, the research stimulated widespread public debate on the status of       England within the United Kingdom.
Publication of the two FoES reports (in       January 2012 and July 2013) prompted widespread media comment and debate,       including:            well over 100 newspaper reports on the findings (including stories in         all the main London quality newspapers), and Leader articles in many         London and Scottish-based newspapers;       features on major broadcast news shows (including Radio 4's Today         programme) and on the BBC News website (see 5.1 below);       op-ed pieces written by research team members around publication of         the FoES II report, published in the Daily Telegraph, Scotsman,         Western Mail, and on the Conservative Home and New           Statesman blogs;       Analysis by leading political commentators (including Bagehot in The           Economist(5.2), Andrew Rawnsley in The Observer(5.3),         Jackie Ashley and Martin Kettle in The Guardian, Philip Johnston         in the Daily Telegraph, Dominic Sandbrook in the Daily Mail,         and Brian Taylor of BBC Scotland) of the implications of the research         for England's status within the UK and/or the potentially destabilising         effects for Britain of English dissatisfaction with current governing         arrangements.
The wider influence of FoES on political debate is shown by, inter         alia, references to the research made in Alex Salmond's January 2012       Hugo Young Lecture; references in the November 2012 report of the       Commission on Improving Devolution in Wales; numerous discussions of the       research on highly influential blogs (see examples 5.4 and 5.5); and the       invitation extended to the research team to present findings at the 2013       Hay Literary Festival.
Second, the research directly influenced the Final Report of the McKay       Commission (the Commission on the Consequences of Devolution for the House       of Commons) (5.6) to which Jeffery was appointed in recognition of his       expertise on territorial politics.
FoES II included several questions       requested by the Commission.
The Commission used (then unpublished) FoES       II findings in its March 2013 Final Report, citing FoES heavily (see McKay       2013: pp14-20) (5.6) as providing `compelling evidence that there are       distinct concerns, felt across England, that lack sufficient opportunity       to be expressed through current institutional arrangements' (p.21).
This       understanding of public attitudes, in turn, underpinned the Commission's       central recommendation that `decisions at the United Kingdom level with a       separate and distinct effect for England...should normally be taken only       with the consent of a majority of MPs for constituencies in England'       (pp.8-9).
The direct influence of FoES II has been acknowledged by Lord       McKay: `[I]t was essential to understand how the electorate in England       viewed present arrangements, and what if any adjustments they considered       necessary...
These demands were fully met by the FoES 2012...The FoES was       in short an essential, clear and helpful foundation for the Commission's       understanding of the contents and direction of the "English Question" in       spring of 2013.
On that basis the Commission was enabled to make proposals       for a solution to the West Lothian Question' (5.7).
Third, the most prominent FoES finding - of an increasingly distinct       English identity and growing demand for institutional recognition of that       identity - has influenced the Labour Party's constitutional thinking.
Several left-leaning blogs immediately responded to the first FoES report       by arguing for a new Labour approach towards England.
That challenge was       taken up by senior Labour figures, including John Denham, Private       Secretary to Labour Leader Ed Miliband, who blogged on the IPPR website in       late-January 2012 about the need for Labour to develop a positive `case       for a progressive England,' referring directly to the FoES' finding of       resentment among the English: that they `feel like they are losing out and       being treated less fairly than the others' (5.8).
Denham advocated a       response based in the revitalisation of English local government rather       than special procedures for English laws at Westminster.
These thoughts       were expanded upon in a major speech by Ed Miliband in June 2012 in which       Miliband argued that `the best reflection of devolution to Scotland and       Wales in England lies in taking power out of Whitehall and devolving it       down to local authorities'; Miliband's Senior Advisor has confirmed that       `[t]he report on English attitudes was studied by Ed's advisers, and       helped inform the speech he gave at the Royal Festival Hall last year.
We       all recognise the growing importance of this agenda and your research has       proved an invaluable resource for us' (5.9).
Other senior Labour figures,       notably the Shadow Minister for Political and Constitutional Reform, while       taking a rather different line in advocating special procedures for       English laws at Westminster, have also referred directly to FoES findings       in developing their arguments (5.10).
