     The research has had impact on three sets of beneficiaries: Commission       management, the UK       Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), and the Scottish Government.
First, the research provided senior management in the Commission with a       detailed analysis of       the backgrounds, careers and attitudes of its officials.
The Commission's       knowledge about its       employees has been limited and, as outside researchers, the team were able       to ask questions       which management could not ask its own staff.
The interest of senior staff       in the research has       been evident from the outset with the Secretariat General providing       considerable support,       granting the team a rare level of access whilst respecting their need for       independence.
The       Commission requested regular updates on the findings, with Kassim and       Peterson making a       series of reports on provisional findings to the Secretariat-General, the       President's cabinet and       senior officials from the Directorate-General (DG) for Human Resources and       Security in 2009       and 2010.
Following final completion of the analyses, the team were       invited to make       presentations to key constituencies within the Commission.
From July 2010       to July 2013,       presentations and briefings have been made on 14 separate occasions.
These       include an       overview to 50 top managers at the Directors General weekly meeting in       July 2010; briefings to       senior management teams in six different Directorates-General from July to       Oct 2011; a       presentation to the Cabinet of the Vice President of the       Commission in July 2012; and, in       September 2012, a presentation to the Commission's Senior Management       Review, attended by       senior 400 managers and addressed by the President of the Commission, the       Vice President of       the Commission, and the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers.
Senior management       have requested video recordings of these events, copies of the       presentation slides, and DG-       specific policy briefings.
The value senior management attached to the results is indicated by the       President of the       Commission sharing a platform with a member of the project team to address       senior       Commission officials for the September 2012 event; and the Commission       profiling the research       in its in-house magazine Commission en Direct.
The President       commented in January 2010 that       `The project's findings will help us make the Commission a more efficient       and effective       administration that better serves European citizens' (5.1)     More specifically, the project findings have helped inform Commission       management's       knowledge of its own officials, enabling them to `develop a more fine       grain understanding of the       view of staff' (Secretary General of the European Commission) (5.2).
The       Secretary General has       confirmed that the findings `fed into discussions... on recruitment,       career progression, reform       and reform management' (5.3).
The Learning and Development Unit of DG       Human Resources       and Security organised a lunchtime seminar in July 2013 at which Hussein       and Peterson       presented the findings to 200 officials from across the organisation.
The       Head of Unit noted that       the turnout `was very impressive and the feedback has been extremely       positive'.
He has       requested copies of the key publication to use for training purposes       (5.3).
Second, analysis of the nationality and career profiles of Commission       officials contributed to       Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) reflections on how the UK can       improve the       recruitment of British nationals to the European administration.
In August       2012 Kassim delivered       a presentation at the FCO to an audience of 40 civil servants from across       Whitehall, focusing on       the representation of British officials at the Commission.
The UK is the       most poorly represented       member state in the Commission, and especially under-represented in       powerful DGs such as       Competition, Economic and Financial Policy and Agriculture.
Following the       meeting, the Europe       Director in the FCO wrote that `we received a lot of positive feedback on       the event and on the       research that you provided, including at Ministerial level' (5.4) She       stated that the research had       `served to confirm or crystallise a number of important points for us,       enhanced our       understanding of the key issues, and the policy advice you gave on the       back of your research       has provided valuable food-for-thought'.
More specifically, she noted that       `your research will       feed into HMG's policy analysis and formulation regarding how to take       forward the recruitment       agenda over the next 6 months' (5.5).
Connolly and Kassim subsequently       participated in a       `brainstorming' meeting with senior officials on the future of recruitment       policy.
Third, the research has informed the Scottish Government about the staff       of the Commission.
At       this critical juncture of Scottish politics, there is recognition that       officials from across the Scottish       Government will need to engage more effectively with officials across the       Commission.
In       November 2012, Peterson and Kassim presented the findings of the project       to the Scottish       Government at an event organised with the External Affairs Division,       attracting officials from       seven different divisions (5.5).
A questionnaire completed by attendees       confirmed the value of       the session in adding new knowledge about the organization.
In written       comments, participants       agreed that the briefing had facilitated a more nuanced understanding of       Commission officials'       backgrounds and views, providing attendees with a better sense of how to       liaise when engaging       with the administration (5.6).
