     The research findings uncovered an important area for practice       development.
The impact of the work has been, and continues to be,       considerable at policy and practice levels, while also raising public       awareness of the needs of older adults at night in care homes.
Policy       In 2009 the researchers were funded (by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation)       to establish a working group with representatives from each of the UK care       regulatory bodies.
This group worked over four meetings to translate the       research findings into recommendations and actions for practice.
The most       practical of these is a checklist which informs practice and raises       awareness of night-time care.
This checklist is targeted at care home       inspectors and care home managers.
The implementation of the checklist is       most evident in its use by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) (England and       Wales).
The CQC have used the checklist to inform changes and additions to       their regulation and inspection policy/guidance, for use by all care home       inspectors (CQC Working Group 2009 &#8212; see below).
The checklist is also       freely available on their webpage of resources for care home managers to       raise awareness among managers about inspectors' expectations in relation       to night-time care quality [5.1].
The study was also presented at the Scottish Policy Innovation Forum in       2008 to an audience of people responsible for making and implementing       policy.
The Scottish Care Inspectorate reviewed the work and the recommendations       internally, then left the use of the checklist to the choice of individual       inspectors rather than taking the more systematic approach recommended by       the English CQC.
In 2009 findings from the study were submitted by the Joseph Rowntree       Foundation to the Department of Health in response to their consultation       informing the national dementia strategy in England.
Practice       Care home inspectors in England and Wales now use the checklist developed       as part of this project.
In 2011, the National Mental Health Development       Unit incorporated specific guidance, arising from this research, on night       time care for older people in care homes with delirium, dementia and       depression [5.2].
The study produced materials made freely available to care practitioners,       including a set of posters and a postcard, as well as a short piece of       drama (`Night and Day' audio-play with Forum Interactive), with       facilitation guidelines which are used in training for carers.
In       addition, a summary of the findings of the study and links to the training       materials has been widely published on a range of websites which provide       information and training to social care professionals in the public and       voluntary sectors and informal carers both nationally and internationally.
These include the Voluntary Health Scotland website, communitycare.co.uk,       connect-in-care.net, and skillsforcare.org.uk, and the International       Association of Homes and Services for the Ageing (IAHSA) global ageing       network.
The study has also informed guidance provided by some of the       leading charities and social care information networks, such as the Social       Care Institute for Excellence and the Housing Learning and Improvement       Network which inform social care practices in the UK [5.3].
The findings       of the study have also been disseminated to social care practitioners       internationally, for example, through the Aged Care INsite journal [5.4]       and Aged Care Channel in Australia.
Further dissemination and practical advice for practitioners is also now       available in the book Providing good care at night for older people       (Kerr and Wilkinson), which was launched in November 2010 at the UK       Dementia Congress and has since been translated into German and Polish       [5.5].
The Polish edition sold 200 copies in the first 6 months (April &#8212;       Sept 2013) [5.6].
Public       In addition to the impact of the research in policy and practice, the       findings have also raised public awareness of the importance of night-time       care for older adults in care homes through press releases and coverage in       the media.
In 2008 the research was reported in The Guardian newspaper,       Scotsman and Evening News (Edinburgh), and on the BBC News Channel and STV       [5.7, 5.8].
