     The impact has five major strands, as follows:     Strand 1: The researchers have worked closely with several       parliamentary committees, including the House of Commons Public Accounts       and Treasury Committees, the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee,       and the Scottish Parliament's Finance Committee, to ensure that the       research has informed legislative opinion and impacted on its       decision-making (see 5.1).
Hellowell and/or Pollock provided both oral and       written evidence (summarising the findings and analyses of the research)       to all of these committees in terms of their respective inquiries into the       PFI.
For example, Hellowell provided oral evidence to the House of Commons       Public Accounts Committee in respect of the work on rate of return to PFI       investors (21 February 2012); and to the House of Commons Treasury Select       Committee in respect of the government's introduction of PF2 (November       2012) to present).
In a letter to Hellowell, which was sent following the oral evidence       session to the Public Accounts Committee, the Assistant Auditor General       for the UK Parliament wrote:     "I am writing to thank you for your contribution to the Public Accounts       Committee hearing on the use of equity in PFI deals.
We thought your       testimony was clear, and that the points you made supplemented our own       analysis very effectively.
The hearing, while wide-ranging, endorsed the       report's findings and indeed the findings of your own analysis, and raised       a number of important policy challenges that HM Treasury should address in       its review of PFI."
Strand 2: The policy impact of these interventions, based on       Hellowell's research, has been significantly enhanced by the wide       dissemination of findings and analyses in the print and broadcast media       (see 5.2).
Recent examples of public engagement through broadcast media       include: numerous interviews in the Financial Times and The Guardian (e.g.
Financial Times 24 March 2013; 5 December 2012; The Guardian 26 September       2012); an interview on the Radio 4 documentary programme The Report (12       July 2011); an interview on BBC's Panorama programme.
(28 November 2011) (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0184xg1       or http://tinyurl.com/oyerc2k);       an interview on Channel 4 News (18 April 2011) (http://blogs.channel4.com/faisal-islam-on-economics/the-economic-argument-for-pfi-has-never-been-worse/14112       or http://tinyurl.com/pqeo8fk);       and an interview on the Radio 4 documentary programme File on 4 (19 June       2011 (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b011vf2f       or http://tinyurl.com/pn7wo2j).
Strand 3: In 2011 Hellowell was engaged by the Treasury Select       Committee to act as special adviser on its inquiry into the PFI.
This role       involved: providing written and oral evidence to the members of the       Committee; providing advice for individual Committee members and the Chair       of the Committee; drafting, reviewing and revising the outputs from the       inquiry; and co-drafting two reports.
There is now a follow-up inquiry       into the PF2, on which Hellowell is once again special adviser.
There is       strong evidence that the inquiry and the reports had a major impact on       policy (see 5.3).
The reports received significant media coverage.
In an       article on 18 July 2011 by the Public Policy Editor of the Financial       Times, the report was described as the "most searingly critical yet from       any parliamentary committee [on the PFI]" (p.3).
In November 2011, the       government announced a "fundamental reform" of the PFI.
In December 2011,       Geoffrey Spence, the chief executive of Infrastructure UK (the section of       the Treasury with responsibility for the PFI), told a conference organised       by Partnerships Bulletin: "In terms of old PFI, Parliament is united in       its belief that private finance of this sort is bad value for money.
In       that light the government decided to call a halt to PFI and seek new       models."
Strand 4: Many of the key features of the new financing model,       PF2, are designed to address the problems which Hellowell's research (and       advice based on that research) has identified (see 5.4).
For example,       sections of the Treasury Select Committee report authored by Hellowell       (and attributed as such) called attention to (a) the high cost of private       finance in the wake of the financial crisis; (b) the high rates of return       to equity in particular as a source of excess costs; (c) the lack of a       profit-sharing mechanism and the excess profits associated with this.
In       PF2, problem (a) is being addressed through a fundamental reconstruction       of the contract model and the sources of funding it is designed to       attract; problem (b) is being addressed through the use of equity       competitions and public sector equity, explicitly designed to reduce rates       of return; and problem (c) is being addressed by the introduction of       cash-sharing mechanisms relating to surplus cash generated in project       operations.
Strand 5: Hellowell's research has influenced the content of World       Bank capacity-building programmes for developing country governments on       this area of policy (see 5.5).
In turn, this is likely to have a       significant impact on the economic policies and practices of countries       across the developing world According to April Harding, Lead       Public-Private Partnership Specialist at the World Bank Institute:     "I have found Mark Hellowell's papers on PPPs in the health sector       rigorous and policy-relevant.
His publications were core readings in a       Private Health Sector Policy course for Asian health policymakers which       the World Bank Institute delivered in June 2013.
To respond to the growing       demand for support in this area, the World Bank has committed to       developing and delivering more policymaker training in this area.
I will       be managing this initiative.
I will certainly integrate the output from       Mark Hellowell's research on this topic."
