     With the introduction of bans on smoking in public places in Scotland       (2006) and England (2007), the REF period has seen intensive activity in       the field of smoking prevention and cessation, where the underpinning       research of the Group and its ongoing policy evaluation activities have       had an intensive impact on changing policies and practices.
Young people and smoking     The Department of Health (DH) commissioned Amos to lead a review on young       people and smoking in England to inform the development of the       Government's tobacco control strategy white paper.
The DH Review was       quoted and referenced in the UK Government's 2010 white paper `A Smokefree       Future &#8212; a Comprehensive Tobacco Strategy for England' [5.1] and included       a key diagram from the report (p. 26).
This diagram also appears in the       Scottish Government's 2013 `Tobacco Control Strategy for Scotland' [5.2,       p. 12].
The UK Government's 2011 white paper `Healthy Lives, Healthy       People: a Tobacco Control Plan for England' also referenced the Review       [5.3].
The model developed in the Review underpinned the UK Government's       adoption of a broad policy approach.
The Review's findings also influenced       smoking prevention policy and practice at regional/local levels.
Amos       presented the findings at several regional/local tobacco control seminars       and has received feedback that this directly impacted on local plans and       priorities.
This can be confirmed by regional tobacco control leads [5.4].
The Review's findings form part of the teaching on the only national CPD       course on tobacco control       (http://www.ukctcs.org/ukctcs/teaching/index.aspx       or http://tinyurl.com/puaswep).
Several of Amos's research publications on young people were referenced       in the Scottish Smoking Prevention Working Group's report `Towards a       Future Without Tobacco' [5.5].
This report had a major influence on the       Scottish Government's Smoking Prevention Action Plan `Scotland's Future is       Smoke Free' (2008) [5.6].
In the Foreword, the Minister for Public Health       states that the Action Plan "builds upon and responds to the excellent       report, `Towards a Future without Tobacco',... the Expert Group's       recommendations also provide a clear mandate for the action proposed".
This is highlighted throughout the Action Plan.
Amos was a member of the       expert Prevention Working Group and played an active role, including       making presentations to the Group on her research.
Young people and smoking cessation     In Scotland the evaluation of the young people's cessation pilots led to       the recommendation in the Scottish Government's 2008 Smoking Prevention       Action Plan that youth smoking cessation services should not be       established; rather, young people should be supported through standard NHS       cessation services.
The Action Plan states that "in the light of the       recent poor outcome of the pilot smoking cessation services for young       people we recommend active consideration is given to developing other       approaches" [5.6, p. 37].
This is reiterated in the national guidelines       for smoking cessation [5.7], with the study cited as the evidence base.
The DH Review (see above) is also cited in these guidelines.
Legislation banning smoking in enclosed public spaces     TCRG members were involved in the national evaluations of the English and       Scottish smokefree legislation.
In Scotland, in response to a       Parliamentary Question on 12/11/08, the Public Health Minister referred to       the evidence from the national evaluation programme, which included two       TCRG studies, which showed that Scotland was benefiting from the ban       [5.8].
The Minister also stated "importantly, there is evidence of a       change in the cultural acceptability of smoking", which related to the       TCRG qualitative studies' findings.
The English evaluation programme was       mentioned in the 2010 white paper `Healthy Lives, Healthy People: Our       Strategy for Public Health in England' [5.3].
`Healthy Lives, Healthy       People: a Tobacco Control Plan for England' [5.3, pp.
37- 8], drawing on       an independent academic review of the evidence from the evaluation       programme [5.9], concluded that "the Government believes that the aims of       the legislation continue to be effectively achieved."
This evidence review       cites the Final Report and a paper from our English study (Hargreaves et       al 2010) and the Final Report of our Scottish study (Martin et al 2008).
Smokefree homes     The REFRESH project piloted an innovative intervention which successfully       used personal home air quality feedback with motivational interviews to       help smoking mothers reduce their children's exposure to secondhand smoke.
REFRESH has influenced policy and practice.
REFRESH is mentioned four       times in the Scottish Tobacco Control Strategy [5.2, p. 24], including in       Action Point 28.
Recommendations from REFRESH influenced the inclusion in       the Strategy of a commitment to set a target to reduce children's exposure       to secondhand smoke.
Scotland was the first country in the world to make       such a commitment.
TCRG members with ASH Scotland used REFRESH findings to       develop a `How to' guide for practitioners working with parents.
2700 hard       copies have been distributed to 2700 practitioners and it is also       available on the study website (http://www.refreshproject.org.uk).
It is cited as a recommended resource by the NHS Health Scotland's       Maternal and Early Years website and led to a question on smoking in the       home being included in the new 24-30 month infant review delivered by       public health nurses [5.10].
The Scottish Government's Second Hand Smoke-       Social Marketing Steering Group has explicitly drawn on the findings of       REFRESH in the commissioning of a national public health campaign to be       launched in Spring 2014 (5.10).
