     When the outbreak of H1N1 influenza was first identified in Mexico there       was worldwide concern that this might signify the start of a pandemic with       levels of mortality comparable to those of the 1918 flu outbreak.
Keeling,       House and Danon have a reputation for both cutting-edge mathematical       modelling and applied quantitative epidemiology; this has led to their       research being used to advise and inform policy and decision-making for       pandemic influenza (in 2009 and for future outbreaks), as well as for       other infections such as the recent measles outbreak in Swansea.
Informing UK policy through membership of DoH Advisory Committees.
Keeling became an active member of the government's Joint Committee on       Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI- influenza) [16] and during 2009 was       the designated independent chair of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza       Subgroup on Modelling (SPI-M) [15, 17].
He remains a member of both.
In       both these roles Keeling has provided, and continues to provide, detailed       mathematical/modelling advice to the DoH, based on his research described       above [1,2,14-16, 18, 19].
He has provided SPI-M with real-time modelling       updates on control and containment of pandemic influenza "which played an       important and often critical role in formulating the Group's [SPI-M's]       consensus forecasts of what was happening and what would happen later in       the pandemic" [15].
Both during and after the pandemic,       Keeling has provided analysis that "has been essential in determining UK       pandemic policy" [15].
As acknowledged by a Senior Principal Analyst at       DoH and HPA, Keeling "played a very significant role in generating the       SPI-M consensus view which has been fundamental to the construction of the       UK's pandemic response and the management of the 2009 pandemic" [15].
Since 2009, SPI-M has continued to meet and provide updated advice to the       Civil Contingencies Committee (commonly known as COBRA) in light of recent       scientific evidence.
A key issue during the early stages of any pandemic is determining the       true scale of the outbreak (whether all cases are severe and the outbreak       is currently small, or the outbreak is larger but fewer cases have severe       symptoms).
This knowledge is vital in terms of effective public-health       planning.
Danon and a team of researchers from around the world (USA,       Mexico, Hong Kong and the Netherlands) together with the CDC (Centres for       Disease Control, USA) provided early evidence that H1N1 was a mild       infection [1] in distinct contrast to all earlier reports.
This       precipitated a change worldwide in the way the infection was considered.
The retrospective analysis undertaken with members of the HPA shows how       data from infected households during the early stage of any pandemic could       be used to infer the answers to many of these fundamental questions about       case severity [5].
As such, this strategy is being considered as part of       future planning both in the UK and overseas [14].
In addition to providing a quantitative estimate of the current       epidemiology, mathematical models were used to provide information about       the potential effect of control [3, 6].
During the pandemic there was       considerable debate around the optimal use of vaccination, in part driven       by poorly- posed findings in the early literature.
Once vaccines were       available in the later stages of the pandemic, preliminary results (later       published as [3]) supported the general medical advice that vaccination       should be targeted first to those with severe health risks and then to       young children.
Antivirals form the other pharmaceutical arm of control,       but they did not perform as well in practice during 2009 as indicated by       controlled tests; our results [3] showed that prompt antiviral treatment       was key to reducing population-level transmission and have informed debate       about future antiviral drug usage.
A Senior Principal Analyst at DoH and       HPA, referring to the 2009 pandemic, acknowledged that Keeling's work       "formed an important contribution to the overall analytical programme       which led to the savings of many hundreds of millions of pounds while       greatly increasing the health of the Nation" [15].
Outreach to Public, Practitioners and Pupils.
Our work in       this area has led to substantial impact in term of public interest and       engagement (impacts on society), impacts on practitioners and the       enhancement of science knowledge in school children both locally and       internationally.
In all of these policy engagement events we highlight the       importance and significance of the impact of our mathematical models in       underpinning policy, and how we have substantially informed public debate       and stimulated public interest and engagement.
Examples of public       activities include:            Interviews with newspapers and media related to both H1N1 influenza         and subsequent research, including [20]:         Keeling's and Danon's Guardian interview (October 2011) (average daily         circulation of 265,000 in 2011) that linked their research work with the         film Contagion [20a];         Promoting the importance of childhood vaccination against influenza         through The Times of India [20b], the Mail Online (averages more than 8         million daily browsers) [20c], House interviewed by Reuters (January         2013) [20d], Danon on BBC Coventry &amp; Warwickshire radio (November         2011) and House (January 2013) on WAMC Northeast Public Radio (public         radio station in New York) [20e].
Presentations and interviews for NHS practitioners and coordinators         and associated services: For example, House presented at a public policy         exchange symposium (for public health officials, from NHS practitioners         and pandemic coordinators to local government officers in community         services and the Metropolitan Police) in April 2013 [21].
The company         Wellards, which provides training on all aspects of the sales         environment for professionals in the pharmaceutical and biotech         industries with over 16,000 users from 300 companies, has used the         research as one of its case studies on `Vaccines in the NHS' [22].
Presentations to Maths `A'-level students: Keeling presented how we         predict epidemics and control to "two capacity audiences, each of 900         students engaging them with the significance of mathematics in his         research and the significance of his research to the general public" in         a Mathematics in Action programme (2011-12) organised by The Training         Partnership [23] (who provide events complementary to the A-level         curriculum).
