     Our team has engaged closely with life-science practitioners and       decision-makers in both       government and firms, via: 51 talks by Tait to audiences with strong       industry/government       representation; 33 workshops with industry/government participants; the       advisory committees       listed in section 4.2; and a series of publications in outlets read by       practitioners, such as Science       (29 April 2011) and Nature Biotechnology (26 [2008]: 500-501):       both available via       www.wiki.ed.ac.uk/display/REF2014REF3B/UoA+23.
Above all, though, impact has been achieved       via the action research involved in TARGET, AGIT and ALSIS.
4.1 Impact of TARGET (corroboration sources: see section 5.1)       Our action research implementing TARGET in real time involved us directly       in policy-making       processes.
For example, when employing it in Lithuania, it became clear to       us that a major barrier       to effective biotechnology policy making was a `turf war' between two       ministries.
We therefore       recommended the creation of an independent steering committee, which was       then established and       helped overcome barriers to communication.
[text removed for publication] of the       Lithuanian National Research       Council comments `The evidence of positive impact of your work is the       development in the policy       making ... in the ...science centers program which is in progress now'       (email, 20 April 2012).
More generally, policy-makers who have used TARGET report that they have       found it very helpful       in determining the best policies to implement, according to the local       context and capabilities.
Eg:       `Your expertise ... has been particularly useful to us as we develop and       test ... "smart       specialization" [see section 2.1] as framework for innovation policy       making' ([text removed for publication],       Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development [OECD], email, 7 May       2012).
`Your input and recommendations ... were a valuable contribution to the       development and       refinement of the Lower Austrian Smart Specialisation Strategy' ([text       removed for publication], Ecoplus,       Business Agency for Lower Austria Ltd, email, 7 May 2013).
4.2 Impact of AGIT (corroboration sources: see section 5.2)     Tait is employing the results of AGIT in advising government       policy-makers on how to improve       regulation so that it moves beyond simply the rejection of unsafe or       ineffective products to       becoming more supportive of beneficial innovation.
Tait is currently a       member of the Emerging       Science and Bioethics Advisory Committee (ESBAC) and the Synthetic Biology       Leadership Council       (SBLC) where she has been given leading roles in sub-committees to advise,       based on the ALSIS       and AGIT approaches, on governance-related aspects of their remits.
On SBLC she has on several occasions submitted advice, on request, direct       to its Co-Chair David       Willetts MP, and Willetts has arranged to visit Innogen to discuss how its       ideas could be applied to       the `eight great technologies' in which he hopes the UK can be a world       leader.
Testimony to Tait's       role includes:     `Professor Tait's ... clear views on how innovative governance can be       applied to a variety of       regulatory situations are of great value to ESBAC.
Synthetic biology, cell       based therapies and       stratified medicine all represent emerging scientific areas where a       commonality of approach to       regulation will be advantageous.'
([text removed for publication], email, 11 April 2013);     `...discussion of regulatory issues with you has been invaluable ... to       clarify our position with       regard to ongoing strategy.
... shaping our response to European       legislation on the regulation of       ATMPs [Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products], ...and [enabling] us to       improve the impact we... make on behalf of the patients and families with       genetic diseases' ([text removed for publication], Genetic       Alliance, UK, email, 2 May 2013);     `... the valuable input you have already made [to] ... the SBLC.
[including] ... your summary of       the issues arising from the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD),       which ... had a clear impact       on our prioritisation of issues [and] is now leading to valuable ongoing       discussions and follow-up       actions with key stakeholders.
Your direct involvement and extensive       experience is also playing       an important role in shaping plans for a regulatory and governance       sub-group that will facilitate       the way we engage with stakeholders.'
([text removed for publication], SBLC, email, 9 May       2013)     Tait has also, for example, advised the Technology Strategy Board (an       independent advisory body       that reports to the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills) on the       creation of its       Responsible Innovation Framework (RIF):     `Your input to the early thinking and framing of the RIF, the subsequent       execution of the       Framework ... and your role as an assessor has contributed significantly       to the current position       we now have.
...
The impact of your help and support in helping shape the       policy and the       process has been invaluable' ([text removed for publication], Technology Strategy Board,       email, 11 March       2013).
Companies using AGIT report that it helps their staff understand the       complexities of regulation in       this sphere.
Thus [text removed for publication] of the large Swiss seeds, agrochemical       and biotechnology       company Syngenta comments:     `Innogen's Adaptive Governance of Innovative Technology framework has       helped me to       understand the stages in the development of regulation of new technology       and how science       ought to influence each stage.'
(email, 13 Sept 2013)     Further evidence of the usefulness of AGIT to Syngenta is that it is now       funding research by our       team applying AGIT and our team's perspectives on stakeholder engagement       with a view to       improving the regulation of agricultural biotechnologies; this is the       first time Syngenta has funded       research into the governance of new technology.
4.3 Impact of ALSIS (corroboration sources: see section 5.3)     The companies using ALSIS similarly report that it has enabled them to       make better-informed       decisions on product and process development in light of the emerging       regulatory system and its       impact on business decision-making.
For example, [text removed for publication] of Roslin       Cells Ltd, comments:     `Your analysis methodology and the specific tools used to undertake the       value chain analysis was       extremely effective ... As a direct impact ... we have extended our       product offering and improved       the analysis which we use to assess the viability of new opportunities.'
(letter, 12 Sept 2013)     Other evidence of the practical usefulness to companies of ALSIS and our       other methodologies is       that substantial numbers of companies are now prepared to invest staff       time and effort in joint       research with our team.
Five multinational companies (including eg       GlaxoSmithKline) and nine       smaller companies are now involved as partners with us in joint projects       with funding from the       Research Councils and Scottish Funding Council.
Two executives explain why       they have chosen       to partner with our team:     `GSK [GlaxoSmithKline] have identified [the Edinburgh team] ... as a       world-leading group who       have demonstrated, strong credentials for leading large investments.'
([text removed for publication],       GlaxoSmithKline, letter, 17 Dec 2012)     `The [Innogen] team is a world-leading group who ... have the inherent       skills and experience       necessary to support innovation processes, [and] to contribute to the       successful governance of       synthetic biology.'
([text removed for publication], Selex ES, letter, 19 Dec 2012)     Note re testimony: [text removed for publication] were participants in the action       research (using TARGET, AGIT       and ALSIS, respectively).
[text removed for publication] are now partners with us in joint       projects.
[text removed for publication]       recruited Rosiello's expertise to advise OECD on Smart Specialisation.
[text removed for publication] are       reporters on the impact.
