     In this section, we first outline how this work has been brought into the       public domain, and then we lay out the evidence of its impact.
The main       mechanism has been six essays, each around 4,000 words, in the London         Review of Books since 2008 (part of a series of 12 LRB       articles on the sociology of markets MacKenzie has published since 2000)       and two invited 800-word articles in the Financial Times.
These       articles are listed in section 5.3.
In the relevant period, the audited       circulation of the FT averaged around 375,000, and that of the LRB       around 50,000 (figures from Audit Bureau of Circulations: http://www.abc.org.uk/).
MacKenzie has also disseminated the research findings directly to       practitioner or mixed academic/practitioner audiences.
Examples include:     i.
Talk at conference on the financial crisis at the Centre for Research       in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH) at the       University of Cambridge, 16 October 2009, attended by participants from       the Bank of England, Bank of America, UBS, Association of Corporate       Treasurers, Bank for International Settlements, PricewaterhouseCoopers,       Prudential and Royal Bank of Scotland.
ii.
Keynote address at practitioner/academic symposium on "The       Quantitative Revolution and the Crisis", held in New York on 4 December       2009.
Other speakers included the Director of Research of Goldman Sachs,       the Director of Quantitative Research at Bernstein &amp; Co. and the Chief       Risk Officer of State Street Global Advisors.
iii.
Subplenary address at the 64th Chartered Financial       Analysts Institute annual conference, May 2011.
The CFA Institute is the       world's largest body of finance professionals.
iv.
Talk to the dissemination meeting of MacKenzie's and Hardie's ESRC       project on complex financial instruments, 8 June 2012, attended by       participants from the Bank of England, Aegon, Bank of Scotland, Scottish       Widows Investment Partnership, Barclays and Standard Life.
v. Talk to around 80 traders and risk managers at the New York trading firm, Jane       Street, 26 Sept 2012.
The impact of this work is in enhancing "cultural understanding" (Main       Panel C, Criteria, Table C1) of finance.
Its contributions are       "examples of research findings having been communicated to, but not       necessarily acted upon, by the intended audience, but which nevertheless       make a contribution to critical public debate" (ibid., paragraph 80).
Evidence         of their significance and reach in this role includes:     Public recognition of this dissemination work (corroboration       sources: section 5.1)     i.
In January 2010, a panel convened by Prospect magazine named       MacKenzie as amongst the 25 public intellectuals, primarily in the       English-speaking world, who had "made the most impact ... on policy ... or       the `public conversation'" on the financial crisis.
Prospect cited       his "many sharp LRB essays unpicking the anthropology of finance."
ii.
On 17 July 2009, BBC Economics Editor Stephanie Flanders commented in       her blog, "Stephanomics": "If you want to read more on the interplay       between theory and practice in this area [the financial crisis], I would       point you in the direction of Gillian Tett's recent book, Fool's Gold &#8212; or       better, perhaps, Donald MacKenzie's superb recent review in the London       Review of Books [item d in section 5.3]."
On 6 May 2013, Flanders also       tweeted in respect to MacKenzie (2006): "Wd still rank it 1 of best crisis       explainers."
iii.
In a speech in Beijing on 8 July 2011, Andrew Haldane, Executive       Director, Financial Stability, Bank of England, and member of the UK's       Financial Policy Committee referred to item e in section 5.3 as "a       brilliant recent account of the role of HFT [High Frequency Trading], in       particular in the context of the Flash Crash [the turmoil in the US       markets in the early afternoon of 6 May 2010]."
Articles in prominent sources drawing on this research       (corroboration: articles cited in this paragraph, all available via       libraries with subscriptions to the FT and Economist)       Gillian Tett of the Financial Times, one of the world's most       prominent financial journalists, has drawn on MacKenzie's work several       times (eg 17 July 2009, p.30; 27 November 2009, p.13; 16 April 2010, p.32;       25 March 2011, p.34).
His work was also prominent in a special report on       financial risk in The Economist (13 February 2010) based primarily       on the New York practitioner/academic symposium, event ii above.
Use of our research in a major US corporate lawsuit (corroboration       source: section 5.2)       The research in MacKenzie (2011), via item h in section 5.3, has been       drawn on by Landesbank Baden-W&#252;rttemberg in a suit against Goldman Sachs       in the Southern District of New York (the prime jurisdiction for corporate       lawsuits in the US).
The suit alleges the misselling by Goldman to the       Landesbank of an ABS CDO.
Reprints and translations of MacKenzie's public dissemination articles       (corroboration sources: section 5.3)       MacKenzie's LRB articles have been reprinted by: the French public       affairs journal Le D&#233;bat and the German magazine, Lettre         International; the artists Simon Goldin and Jakob Senneby in the       booklet accompanying their 2010 Stockholm performance and exhibition,       "Plan for Speculation"; and film-maker Ronny Heireman in the booklet       accompanying his video, "The Residence: A Wager for the Afterlife".
These wider public reprints have also been joined by reprints in       magazines for market practitioners: Markit Magazine and Traders'       magazine (see item e in section 5.3).
Note re testimony: none of those quoted were participants in the process       of impact delivery (although Haldane later gave the keynote address at the       dissemination meeting of MacKenzie and Hardie's ESRC project).
