     If the global community is to meet the UN Secretary General's goal of       providing `Sustainable Energy for All by 2030', then bioenergy &#8212; whether       from natural biomass, bioresidues or purpose- grown biofuels &#8212; will need       to be part of the solution.
PISCES has contributed to that solution;       Molony's research on energy markets in East Africa has helped inform the       improvement of energy delivery and policy in the region.
Collective impact of PISCES (corroboration sources: section 5.1)     Although precise measurement in Global South conditions is very       difficult, PISCES estimates that it has improved clean energy access and       livelihoods via bioenergy for approximately 250,000 people in Kenya,       India, Sri Lanka and Tanzania.
It has improved energy access for ~220,000       people, many of whom were previously reliant on energy-inefficient       three-stone cooking stoves that burn firewood.
The majority of the       beneficiaries are in Tanzania, where UDSM subcontracted the production of       gasifier stoves to Kiwia &amp; Laustsen Company Ltd., which distributed       stoves to 30,000 households in the Arusha region and central regions of       Tanzania.
Assuming an average household size of six members in Tanzania,       the total beneficiaries for this activity are 180,000 individuals.
To this       figure we add 600 people who were involved in the production and       distribution of the gasifier stoves.
Smaller interventions also took place       with `Uhai' and `TERI' stoves in Kenya, and with wood gasifier and ethanol       cook stoves in Sri Lanka, bringing the total number of people with       improved energy access to ~220,000 people.
PISCES has contributed       collectively to: ~30,000 people with reduced smoke-related health       problems; improved and more equitable livelihoods via bioenergy for       350,000 people (benefitting from additional initiatives that build on the       ~220,000 figure); and enhanced adaptive capacity of ~10,000 households in       vulnerable communities.
This final figure refers to the Community-based       Adaptation Programme implemented in Kisumu, Kenya by ACTS, involving the       establishment of woodlots and the piloting of energy-saving stoves.
Molony's research has contributed to these collective outcomes via three       routes: The Kenya Charcoal Policy Handbook; the uptake of       bioresidue gasifier stoves in Tanzania; and the bioenergy Policy Working       Groups in Kenya and Tanzania.
The Kenya Charcoal Policy Handbook (corroboration sources:       section 5.2)     The findings of Molony's baseline socio-economic survey were applied to       the production of this Handbook, which the author (wa Gathui) asked Molony       to edit.
Charcoal regulation is an opaque process in Kenya, and the       imposition of illegal taxes is widespread throughout the charcoal market       chain, which supplies charcoal to 82% of the urban population and the 34%       of rural households.
The Handbook uses simple language to sensitise       farmers, producers, transporters, vendors and buyers on charcoal       regulations.
It has been received well by local stakeholders (farmers,       vendors) and national stakeholders (Ministry of Energy, Ministry of       Forestry and Wildlife) and is being used by local officials (especially in       the Kenya Forest Service) to guide their work.
A simpler Swahili version       was produced and is being disseminated to relevant stakeholders including       farmers, vendors, police officers.
An abridged pocketbook has also been       produced.
Together they have contributed towards the empowerment of       communities relying on charcoal for their livelihoods, and some members       are now able to stand firm against the payment of illegal taxes.
As [text removed for publication] 	  of the Kenya Forestry Research Institute puts it, `vulnerable       charcoal traders at the mercy of ignorant or unscrupulous officials can       now demonstrate to officials their rights to operate freely in the       charcoal business.... while [with the introduction of the handbook some]       officials now know what the law says, and they are better placed to       operate within the law.'
(email, 13 May 2013)     The uptake of bioresidue gasifier stoves (corroboration sources:       section 5.3)     In Tanzania, Molony's research on the biogas value chain informed an       assessment and economic analysis of the bioresidue gasifier market that       contributed to the uptake of bioresidue gasifier stoves in institutions       (such as fish markets) and households.
As the gasifier project leader,       [text removed for publication], puts it: "Molony's research highlighted some of the less       celebrated examples of biogas use in Tanzania ... helping me to understand       how these users overcome some of the problems they encountered.
This was       important in allowing me to suggest to the Government how the bioresidue       gasifier value chain could be made more efficient &#8212; something that is       crucial to supporting the sector at the national level.
The market is now       growing, thereby contributing to reduced fuelwood consumption and       smoke-related health problems."
(email, 14 February 2013)     Molony's contribution to the baseline information on appliances,       feedstock and biocrops was used in the testing of modifiers that informed       the development of delivery models &#8212; and later a market &#8212; for modified       plant oils to operate rural stationary engines.
From the R&amp;D work of       UDSM and Kiwia &amp; Laustsen Co., the gasifier stoves have now entered       the market and have received a grant for production of 30,000 units under       the trade name of `Jiko Bomba'.
Jiko Bomba uses pellets       made of rice husks and jatropha cake, which were identified in Molony's       baseline research with [text removed for publication] at the Department of Mechanical and       Mining Engineering, UDSM.
As [text removed for publication] puts it, "Molony's initial       research contributions on bioenergy feedstocks and appliances in various       regions in Tanzania was crucial in helping the research team to locate       various materials for testing.
Without this research we would not have       been able to identify locally-available materials, narrow down on the rice       husks and jatropha cake, and make the appropriate design modifications to       the Jiko Bomba stove."
(letter, 5 February 2013) The World Bank       has now funded collaboration between ACTS and UDSM to promote the market       development of the stove.
Bioenergy Policy Working Groups in Kenya and Tanzania       (corroboration sources: section 5.4)     Molony worked with Muok (ACTS and PISCES manager) in creating a bioenergy       Policy Working Group (PWG) in Kenya (chaired by the Permanent Secretary at       Kenya's Ministry of Energy, with membership from government, NGOs,       bilateral donors, and business) and a bioenergy PWG in Tanzania (with       membership from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, NGOs and farmers'       associations) with Minja and Mwakaje (UDSM).
PWGs seek to develop a       consultative and participatory policy methodology to discuss policy issues       and guide bioenergy policy statements.
In the most advanced case, members       of the Kenya Policy Working Group were instrumental in the writing of the       country's National Biofuel Policy, approved by the Ministry of Energy.
Muok was tasked with coordinating the draft policy, and asked Molony to       act as reviewer.
Under the new Kenya constitution promulgated in 2011, the       draft Kenya National Biofuel Policy was integrated into the draft Kenya       Energy Policy 2013, to go for approval by the new Parliament when it       reconvenes.
Molony chaired the second (March 2010) Tanzania national       Bioenergy PWG, comprising government policymakers, academics, the private       sector, and NGOs.
Based on Molony's argument that PWGs could have an       important role in helping ensure that gender issues are mainstreamed into       bioenergy policy, representatives with a gender perspective were appointed       to the group.
To date, gender mainstreaming in bioenergy policy has had       limited success in Tanzania &#8212; owing, in part, to constraints that Molony       (2011) discusses.
A significant positive step, however, is the       establishment of a dedicated Gender Working Group (GWG).
Contributions to critical public debate about biofuels       (corroboration sources: section 5.5)     The wider impact of Molony's work on critical public debate is evidenced       by a succession of invitations to him.
For example:     - following publications with Smith (2009, 2010a, 2010b and 2010c),       Molony and he were invited to provide input to the Nuffield Council for       Bioethics report `New Approaches to Biofuels: Ethical Issues'.
Molony,       Smith and PISCES are all cited in the report.
- following the April 2011 publication of the Nuffield Report, Molony was       invited to present at a seminar convened by Practical Action Consulting UK       (13 June 2011).
The seminar was attended by bioenergy policymakers       including DFID, members of the Consortium Advisory Group, and Eco       Ltd/HEDON Household Energy Network.
- Molony was invited to discuss issues in (2010a) in a radio interview       for `The Naked Scientists' entitled `Balancing Biofuels in African       Agriculture' (2 July 2010).
The programme reaches up to 6 million       listeners across the east of England, and has an international following       on the web.
The interview was selected for re-broadcast on the South       African Broadcasting Corp's `Channel Africa'.
Note re testimony: [text removed for publication].
