     Judges in asylum cases require detailed information about conditions in       asylum seekers' countries of origin.
They rely on `country of origin       information' (COI) to inform their decisions about the credibility of       asylum claims and potential risks if applicants are returned home.
Through       the provision of expert evidence, Edinburgh researchers have been a       central part in the decision- making in hundreds of asylum cases.
Researchers have also provided training and advice on the assessment and       use of expert evidence to asylum practitioners.
The research has therefore       impacted on legal practice, shaped the implementation of       immigration and asylum policy, and had an effect on the quality of       the decision-making process, as well as helping to define best         practice.
Informing individual decision-making.
Work by members of the UoA       has played a significant role in individual cases in the immigration and       asylum process.
Members of the UoA have produced reports in over 700       asylum cases (usually of a length between 30 and 60 pages) as well as       giving expert oral evidence at dozens of asylum hearings.
Good, Kelly,       Spencer and Fontein have national reputations as providers of country of       evidence.
Collectively, they are recognised as among the most significant       providers of expert COI in the UK (see corroborating sources 5.1, 5.2).
Good, for example, has been described in a determination by a High Court       judge as `well known' (5.3).
Kelly has been described by a leading asylum       lawyer as an `outstanding, and outstandingly useful, country background       witness', whose reports are `factually unchallenged', and is the `expert       of choice in Palestinian appeals' for asylum lawyers as `his objectivity       and detail are valued by the immigration judiciary' (5.2).
The reports       produced by Edinburgh researchers have helped to decide, given the nature       of asylum cases, on matters of life and death.
A leading asylum solicitor,       who has instructed over 30 reports from Good has written that `I do not       think that one of my clients about whom he has produced these reports has       been removed ...
He has saved many lives .
.The mere fact he has provided       a report can sometimes be enough ... to enable one of my...clients to win       their asylum case' (see corroborating source 5.1).
Evidence provided by Good, Kelly, Fontein and Spencer has frequently been       cited by judges in important High Court cases, reported Tribunal       determinations, and Country Guidance cases (see, for example, 5.3, 5.4).
In 2011, Fontein has also provided expert evidence on Zimbabwe during a       high-profile criminal trial involving witchcraft allegations.
Good also       provides expert evidence for appeals in Canada, USA, Switzerland and       Australia, as well as a generic report on Sri Lanka for the French NGO       CIMADE, which has been extensively used at the Cour National du Droit       d'Asile.
The nature of the judicial decision-making process, revealed by Good and       Kelly's own work, means that expert reports are often not directly cited       in determinations.
However, the fact that they are commissioned in the       first place indicates their impact among lawyers: legal aid requirements       mean that reports cannot be commissioned unless they potentially make a       material difference to the outcome.
Informing professional practice.
Work by members of the UoA has       contributed to the professional practice, knowledge and skills of       decision-makers and those people representing asylum seekers.
In the       highly polarised context of asylum decision-making, Good and Kelly's       research adds depth to understandings of the nature, strengths, and limits       of the various forms of expert evidence available in the asylum process,       understandings which are otherwise often either one-dimensional and       legalistic, or overly politicised.
Amongst anthropologists, Good's work       increased awareness of the importance of expert evidence, and encouraged       many academics to offer their expertise.
Equally importantly, it helped       them understand how to write expert reports without falling into traps       that would lead to them being dismissed by decision-makers as politically       motivated or irrelevant.
Whilst practitioners may not always agree with       Kelly and Good's findings, dissemination of their work has informed or         stimulated practitioner debate, and challenged conventional         wisdom among stakeholders.
Good, Fontein, and Kelly have convened a series of workshops bringing       practitioners and academic together to discuss the challenges and       potentials of the production and assessment of expert evidence.
In March       2009 Good co-convened a workshop on asylum processes attended by 15 senior       judges, lawyers, interpreters, NGO executives, and judicial and       ministerial officials from France and the UK.
Participants reflected       critically and comparatively on their professional activities with a view       to developing `best practice'.
The workshops were described by Head of the       Legal Information Centre at the CNDA (French National Court of Asylum) as       a `rich exchange', and as `excellent' by the Chief Executive of an       immigration law charity (5.9).
In April 2011, Kelly co-convened a workshop       examining the use of evidence in asylum claims, involving over 20       immigration lawyers, clinicians from Freedom from Torture, civil society       campaigners from the Scottish Refugee Council, immigration judges, and       UKBA officials.
Fontein convened a workshop in 2013 involving 12 police       officers, social workers and expert witnesses looking at the professional       challenges involved in producing legal evidence around witchcraft       allegations.
All three workshops provided rare opportunities for       practitioners from different parts of an often antagonistic process to       discuss their mutual concerns.
Kelly was a keynote speaker at a workshop attended by over 60 human       rights practitioners on bridging the gap between research and practice at       Dignity: Danish Institute Against Torture- one of the largest anti-torture       NGOs in the world.
Following this presentation he discussed the       implications of his book This Side of Silence, in a public forum       with practitioners (see 5.6).
In response to this discussion, a senior       anti-torture activist has written about Kelly's 2012 book that `few       contemporary books are more relevant to the prevention of torture' (5.8).
Edinburgh researchers have provided training and guidance for lawyers and       decision-makers involved in the asylum process.
As such they have influenced         professional guidelines or training and the development of         resources to enhance professional practice'.
Good acted as advisor       for the sections on expert witnesses in both editions of the Best Practice       Guide to Asylum Appeals, the practitioners' desk manual (see 5.5).
He has       provided practitioner training sessions for the Immigration Advisory       Service and Freedom from Torture (FfT), was a member of the Reference       Group for the Ministry of Justice's Expert Witness Fees Project, and a       founder member of the Advisory Panel for the Office of the Immigration       Services Commissioner, which accredits providers of immigration advice.
Kelly has also created training material for FfT's induction process for       new employees and volunteers.
Kelly and Good, working with lawyers       suggested by the Immigration Law Practitioners Association, have produced       a widely distributed Best Practice Guide for Expert Witnesses, which,       according to the Chief Executive of a leading asylum organization, is       `regarded as a valuable tool by both experts and those who wish to       instruct them', (5.10).
The Guide is distributed through the Refugee Legal       Group and the Electronic Immigration Network, the leading sources of       information for asylum and immigration practitioners (5.12).
As an       indicator of the esteem with which the guide is held, it is being       submitted as part of the evidence in a UK Supreme Court cases challenging       the Home Office's use of expert evidence (5.2)     Public debate.
Kelly and Good have also contributed to broader       public discussions about difficulties in documenting torture.
For example,       in 2011 Al-Jazeera commissioned an opinion piece from Kelly on the       documentation of torture, which was picked up by the international press       (see 5.7, 5.11), whilst Good spoke in 2013 at a meeting in the House of       Lords on torture in Sri Lanka.
