     If the global community is to meet the UN Secretary General's goal of       providing `Sustainable Energy for All by 2030', then alternative sources       of energy &#8212; whether from natural biomass, purpose-grown biofuels, or       photovoltaic solar technologies &#8212; will be part of the solution.
Smith,       Cross and Pradhan are using the findings from individual and collaborative       research projects to meet the challenge of future energy access in East       Africa and South Asia.
The researchers have provided policymakers in those       countries with new information and approaches that they can apply to       unlock the potential of bioenergy and solar power to improve energy access       and livelihoods in poor communities.
Impact has therefore come through shaping         and influencing policy made by government, quasi-government bodies, NGOs         and private organisations, stimulating public debate, and in       facilitating the direct provision of energy sources.
Supporting Policy.
Research findings have helped shape domestic       and international policy making on bioenergy.
The clearest evidence has       been the central role of the PISCES project, at the invitation of the       Kenyan and Tanzanian governments, in the establishment of       multi-stakeholder policy working groups (for corroboration see 5.1).
Building on research insights into the importance of multiple stakeholder       input for the effectiveness of alternative energy policy (Smith 2010),       PISCES led the creation of a bioenergy Policy Working Groups (PWG) in       Kenya and Tanzania (2009-2012).
In Kenya, for example, the PWG was chaired       by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Energy, with members from       government, NGOs, bilateral donors and business.
A similar process is       underway in Sri Lanka, albeit at an earlier stage.
PWGs seek to develop a       consultative and participatory policy methodology to discuss and guide       bioenergy policy.
Members of the Kenya PWG established by PISCES were       instrumental in the writing of the country's National Biofuel Policy,       approved by the Ministry of Energy.
Under the new Kenya constitution       promulgated in 2011, the draft Kenya National Biofuel Policy was       integrated into the draft Kenya Energy Policy 2013, which is currently       awaiting approval by the new Parliament (5.1).
PISCES involvement led to a       policy formulation process that involved a diversity of stakeholders, in       particular, civil society.
Improved clean energy access.
The above policy interventions have       had an impact on the use of alternative clean energy sources.
Although       precise measurement in Global South conditions is very difficult, PISCES       estimates that it has improved clean energy access and livelihoods via       bioenergy for approximately 180,000 people in Kenya, India, Sri Lanka and       Tanzania.
It did so, for example, by bringing together stakeholders to       facilitate the translation of basic science into marketable technologies       in East Africa.
As a direct result of these forums, training and market       mapping, PISCES has facilitated the distribution and use of 30,000       efficient gassifier stoves.
The figure of 180,000 people is based on the       assumption that each stove serves a household of six people (see 5.3 for       details).
In March 2013, in partnership with the Microloan Foundation, Cross and       Smith were awarded &#163;377,304 by the Scottish Government.
The grant was a       practical recognition of the importance of Cross's insights into the       effective take up of solar energy amongst poor populations.
A significant       slice of the project focuses on supporting `solar entrepreneurs' &#8212; women       who sell photovoltaic panels to provide lighting, phone and battery       charging to improve the lives and livelihoods of 15,000 female clients in       Malawi (5.4).
Informing Practitioners.
Research has directly informed       professional debates and practices through expert contributions to       practitioner-led networks on biofuels and solar photovoltaics.
In 2011, as       a result of the recognition of the importance of his work on science,       technology and development, Smith was appointed as a technology and       development specialist to the board of Practical Action, the leading INGO       working on the role of technology for development and sustainable energy       provision.
Smith's role is to contribute to their notion of `technological       justice' as an advocacy tool, taking advantage of Smith's expertise in       influencing debates around equitable access to technology and thus       expanding their developmental reach.
Meanwhile, in March 2013 Cross was       appointed as a Technical Advisor to the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition       (SVTC), a leading INGO engaged in research and advocacy in the global       solar industry.
His key contribution has been to support SVTC's Solar       Scorecard, an initiative that holds manufacturers and suppliers publically       accountable by monitoring sustainability and social justice issues in       their supply chains.
Research capacity-building programmes and training workshops have created       additional practitioner impact.
According to the Director of Research at       the African Centre of Technology Studies Institute in Nairobi &#8212; the       leading African think tank on science and development &#8212; this work has       `contributed significantly to the capacity building and training       initiatives` of the centre (see 5.5).
Smith has contributed to the       training of 1349 bioenergy development stakeholders in the UK, East Africa       and Sri Lanka (5.11).
As part of this process, small-scale bioenergy       projects supervised by Smith for the UN's Food and Agriculture       Organization (FAO), for example, have led to an influential report which       has provoked practitioner debates about the tensions between small-scale       and large-scale bioenergy provision at the FAO (see 5.6).
Engaging Publics.
Research has broadened public understandings of       science and technology in international development.
It has done so       through challenging existing development practice, raising new questions       about the political economy of technological innovation and global social       entrepreneurship, and by holding business practices up to scrutiny.
In the       UK, Smith drafted a chapter on `Ethical Principles and Biofuels Policy'       for the Nuffield Council's 2010 report, Biofuels: Ethical Issues,       which was the first public report to set out principles on which biofuel       policy should be based (see 5.7).
The reports recommendations have been       strongly reflected in the `Bioenergy principles' set out in the UK       Government's Bioenergy Strategy, published in April 2012 (5.8).
Further       public engagement includes: invited commentaries on the emergence of       biofuels in print, broadcast and online media (Smith), as well as at UK       public festivals of science (Smith); the organization of a public debate       on the ethics of market-based approaches to development at the University       of Oxford in May 2011, bringing together panelists and participants from       DFID, ODI, OXFAM, CARE, Unilever, and The Guardian (Cross); and the launch       of a web-based portal aimed at bringing academic research to       practitioners, http://www.responsiblebop.com       which has registred an average 500 unique user hits per day since June       2011 (Cross) (5.9).
Smith and Cross's research has also had direct impact on public advocacy       around biofuels and solar photovoltaics.
Smith worked with Practical       Action and ActionAid to help establish public awareness of the political       economy of biofuels before it was generally recognized that they might be       socially, politically and environmentally problematic, and has fed into       pressure on the EU to reduce biofuel blending targets (5.2).
In 2011-12       Cross worked with the SVTC and the Dutch Centre for Research on       Multinationals to establish Good Solar, an international network aimed at       bringing together social, labour, and environmental activists to       strengthen regulatory mechanisms in the global photovoltaic supply chain,       which represents one of the first &#8212; if not the first &#8212; attempt to       facilitate civil society networking, information exchange, capacity       building and joint strategy-making at the level of solar supply chains       (5.10).
