     TB is the second leading cause of death from infectious diseases       worldwide, with 95% of deaths occurring in the developing world.
Harper's       research goes to the heart of the practical issues involved in the       implementation of TB control, and its impediments in terms of health       sector fragility, limited resources and vulnerable local populations.
Impacts have been cumulative, and emerge from both an expanding research       agenda, but also from a growing set of practice-based engagements with       policy-makers and practitioners.
Through placing patient centred       approaches at the heart of policy and practice Harper's research       has had impact in the development of resources to enhance professional         practice, in particular by developing desk manuals.
The research has       also influenced planning or management of services through       coordinating the Nepali government's Programme Management Unit, the       central mechanism for the assessment of Nepal's TB programmes.
More       broadly Harper's research has been used by donors and governments to         define best practice.
Desk manuals.
Harper's research directly contributed to the       content of the Tuberculosis Case Management Guideline for Health         Workers and Doctors (Desk Manual), published in Nepal in 2009.
The       manual is the key reference for all health workers dealing with TB in       Nepal and is used in all 4,251 health institutions in the country.
This       impact was facilitated by Harper's coordination of a 2007 review of the       Nepal Tuberculosis Programme on behalf of the International Union Against       Tuberculosis and Lung Disease and the WHO.
Against this background, with       colleagues from Leeds, Harper directly contributed to the writing of the       2009 manual (5.2).
Two key recommendations from Harper's review were       central to the manual.
First, the manual followed a `patient-centred'       approach, taking into account how tuberculosis impacts on people's lives       in diverse and complex ways.
Second, the manual permitted health workers       to adapt supervision and patient support to patients' circumstances.
In       particular, Harper's 2006 JBS piece was directly referenced in the       manual's support of the recommendation that more flexible (rather than       institutional) support be made available to TB patients (5.1).
The former       National Health Policy Advisor for the Department for International       Development in Nepal, described Harper's work on this project as being a       `champion who successfully brought the... voices of thousands of people       with tuberculosis, which were unheard, into the policy framework' (5.2).
Programme Management Unit.
Harper's research has consistently       argued that TB control interventions need to attend to local circumstances       and qualitative evidence, if they aspire to be effective.
In 2008, the       Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM), which channels 82% of       all global financing to TB control, offered support to the Nepal       Government.
One of the conditions of the grant was the creation of       appropriate local structures for implementation and monitoring.
On the       basis of his earlier research into these local conditions, Harper was       seconded as Start-up Coordinator in the Nepal NTP from August to December       2008 at the joint request of the Government of Nepal and the WHO.
The       Programme Management Unit is the central device for assessing the impact       of TB control mechanisms in Nepal.
Harper designed the structure, wrote       the job descriptions, and created the assessment manuals.
He was also       directly involved in planning for the procurement of TB drugs for the       Nepali national TB programme.
The funding released as a consequence of       these new forms of monitoring, eventually totalled over $3.5m, and Harper       received a certificate of appreciation from the Nepal Government in       recognition of his contribution (5.3).
Harper's work with the Programme Management Unit in Nepal, led to him       playing a similar role in India.
In 2009 Harper acted as a consultant with       Grant Management Solutions (GMS) working with the Indian Revised National       TB Control Programme to strengthen their monitoring and evaluation plan,       stressing the importance of qualitative context specific forms of       assessment (5.4).
This work was another prerequisite for the release of a       $90m GFATM grant.
Increasing capacity around qualitative research.
Harper's work has       played a central role in increasing capacity around the use of qualitative       evidence in the assessment of TB prevention strategies, both in Nepal and       more globally.
On one level, this has meant producing qualitative evidence       itself.
For example, Harper conducted an ethnographic survey of TB       services in Pokhara, Nepal for the NGO HERD in 2009.
The survey allowed       more responsive planning for targeted interventions, with stronger links       between public and private sector, in the provision of TB medications and       support.
At another level, Harper has played a significant role providing       training, advice and increasing the professional recognition given to       qualitative research by practitioners.
In 2012, for example, as part of       the Wellcome programme of research, Harper ran a workshop (with Professor       Roger Jeffery) with the NGO HERD on the use of qualitative       research.
Nine organisations participated, and Nepal's first network       for qualitative research into the health sector was set up.
In 2012 Harper       facilitated a workshop in Kathmandu for policy-makers and academics on       ethical review of health related research.
He has also provided       methodological advice for the Transcultural Psychosocial Organisation,       Nepal (TPO) as they develop operational research into pyschopharmaceutical       markets in Nepal (5.10).
More globally, through his role with the       practitioner based International Journal of TB and Lung Disease he       has also raised the profile on qualitative research in assessing the       impact of TB control programmes, and set new guidelines for scientific       standards in qualitative research into TB (5.5).
National and international development policy.
Harper's insights       are widely recognised as important for the development of international       development policy.
He has given talks on TB control to USAID and other       donors in Nepal.
In 2010 Harper participated in workshops developing       policy paper positions on operational research in TB control for the WHO       (5.6), and in implementing new diagnostic technologies for the Gates         Foundation (5.7).
In July 2012 he was invited to present a paper on       the regulation of pharmaceutical marketing at the Logistics Management       Division (LMD) in the Ministry of Health Nepal with participation from       DfID, the German development agency GTZ and the Nepali Department of Drug       Administration (DDA) (5.8).
On the basis of Harper's research, DfID are       currently considering further investment into the Nepal DDA to assist in       the strengthening of their regulatory capacity (5.9).
Public debate.
Harper has also made significant contributions to       public debate about TB control and broader public health issues in Nepal.
He was interviewed for Nepali TV in April 2009, has written comments and       articles in newspapers, and magazines, and has given numerous local       seminars in Nepal with local organisations (e.g., at Martin Chautari, a       forum for public discussion and debate) on all aspects of his research       (5.6).
