     Artisanal and small-scale mining provides livelihoods to an estimated       80-100 million people worldwide.
The governance of such mining is a major       international issue due to growing concerns about transboundary pollution       and health inequality in mining areas, as well as the political       consequences of illegal extraction and livelihood constraints in poorer       countries.
As attempts are made to produce environmentally and       economically sustainable forms of resource extraction in the global south,       it is of crucial importance that the livelihood concerns of small scale       and artisanal miners are not forgotten, not least to ensure the       effectiveness of any form of regulation.
Spiegel's research has had an       impact in increasing the emphasis on artisanal mining in international and       national policy, as well as informing the content of that policy and the       design of effective implementation measures.
Research has also had impact       in developing the capacity of grass roots organization to represent the       interests of artisanal miners.
The relationship between research and       impact has been iterative and continuous, with practical engagement       feeding into research insights, and vice versa.
Research has therefore had       an impact in improved management or conservation of natural resources         and environmental risk, the improved implementation of environmental         policy and regulation and stimulating policy debate.
International treaty negotiations.
Spiegel's research has fed       directly into international negotiations over the regulation of mercury       use.
For example, his research was included in a UNEP report that was       distributed to governments in Africa, Asia and South America during       multilateral talks for an international treaty to curtail mercury       pollution (for corroboration see 5.1).
This case study on artisanal mining       and rural inequality was one of the five studies used during the       negotiation for the Minimata Convention on Mercury.
The Convention was       adopted by over 140 countries in January 2013.
Spiegel's research based       case study showed policymakers how a total ban on mercury could negatively       impact marginal livelihoods and could also be counterproductive by       increasing clandestine mercury use.
Spiegel's case study was therefore a       crucial part of debates that led to the inclusion of a provision in the       convention that allows for the limited use of mercury in the artisanal       gold mining sector (Article 9 of the convention), as well as an       international funding mechanism to support capacity-building and       technology enhancement in developing countries (Article 15) (5.2, 5.4).
It       is widely acknowledged by the United Nations that the treaty measures       adopted will reduce health threats for millions of people worldwide (5.2).
Regional policy strategies.
Spiegel's research is also being used       by national governments to help implement the Minamata Convention, and to       inform governments about what needs to be included in national strategic       planning as part of Convention obligations (5.3, 5.4, 5.5).
Building on       his longstanding relationships advising UNDP (United Nations Development       Programme) and UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme), between 2011       and 2013 he has provided expert advice to the UNEP Global Mercury       Partnerships Advisory Committee which aims to protect human health and the       global environment from mercury.
Most recently he discussed findings from       his research at a UNEP Mercury Policy Forum held in July 2013 in       Edinburgh.
As part of this he advised governmental and international       policymakers, as well as NGOs from Africa, Asia and South America on       community-based approaches for implementing the requirements of the global       treaty.
According to the Co-lead of the Artisanal and Small Scale Mining       Area of the UNEP Global Mercury Partnership `Spiegel's research has       influenced the thinking of governments and donors... providing compelling       arguments for devising new approaches that emphasize capacity-building and       empowerment for mining communities rather than punitive approaches' (5.4).
International policy.
Away from mining, Spiegel's research has       also fed into discussions about the international trade in timber, where       lessons are being learned from the experience of mining regulation.
The EU       is currently developing initiatives to prevent the import of illegally       harvested timber.
The EU launched the Forest Law Enforcement, Governance       and Trade Action Plan in 2008 and contracted the Centre for International       Forestry Research to provide studies on the `formalization' of informal       resource sectors.
In June 2012, Spiegel presented his research to European       Union policymakers in Brussels, drawing on his empirical fieldwork in       Indonesia and Zimbabwe, highlighting the importance of empowering local       institutions and marginalized rural groups during negotiations over       resource rights (5.7).
The report is being used by the EU to inform       negotiations between the EU and other countries in an ongoing policy       process involving potential changes to the resource rights of millions of       forest-dependent people in (mostly tropical) countries that provide       natural resources to Europe (5.7).
National policy implementation.
Spiegel's work has had impact on       policy and organizational capacity in Southern Africa.
Zimbabwe is       currently recovering from a protracted economic crisis, with tens of       thousands of artisanal miners having been arrested during police       crackdowns between 2006 and 2009, affecting women, men and children in       artisanal mining communities.
Spiegel's research helped to inform       processes of policy reform and recovery, giving direct advice to the       Ministry of Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development.
According to       the Zimbabwean Secretary of Woman's Affairs, Gender and Development,       Spiegel's work has `help(ed) our ministry to implement the international       mercury treaty' (5.6).
More specifically, Spiegel's work in this       area helped to shape the government's approach to the development of       community outreach services in rural artisanal gold mining areas,       particularly to support women, who are disproportionately affected by       mercury exposure (5.6).
Local organisation capacity.
Spiegel's research has also helped       regional artisanal miners associations in Zimbabwe.
With 1.5 million       people dependent on artisanal mining in Zimbabwe, improving equity in gold       mining is a major food security and environmental issue.
The Zimbabwe       Artisanal and Small-Scale for Sustainable Mining Council (ZASMC) is the       first national association of its kind in Zimbabwe (officially launched in       2013) and Spiegel's advice helped to build ZASMC strategies for       representing marginalized constituents in the sector (5.8, 5.9).
For       example, ZASMC invited Spiegel to speak at a national multi-stakeholder       forum on mining policy in Harare on February 14, 2013 (5.8).
He presented       research findings in gold mining communities in the Insiza and       Kadoma-Chakari areas to senior government policy-makers, banks, artisanal       miners, multinational companies and NGOs, focusing on regional strategies       for improving environmental management and supporting livelihoods.
His       research was also used by ZASMC in creating outreach strategies with       artisanal miners.
Spiegel travelled with members of different regional       small-scale miners associations in the Insiza, Umzingwani, Kadoma and       Shamva regions to exchange knowledge on how grassroots organizational       strategies can be strengthened and to share experiences with national and       district government officers.
The President of ZASMC has written that       Spiegel has `contributed quite immensely on the revival of small scale       miners in Zimbabwe' (5.9).
As a result of ZASMC campaigns, the Government       of Zimbabwe announced plans in 2013 to decriminalize certain forms of       artisanal mining that were previously criminalized, high licensing fees       that created a formalisation barrier in marginalized mining communities       were lowered in 2013, and safer technologies were promoted (5.10).
