     The beneficiaries of the research have included policy-makers,       participants in public debates on Scottish education, and indirectly       pupils and students, mainly in Scotland.
The research has:             raised awareness of socio-economic inequalities as a policy issue, as         evidenced by their prominence in recent legislation [5.1] as well as in         policy discussions by non-government bodies [5.2]        influenced the design of policy interventions to promote equality and         widen access, as evidenced by current policy emphases on the content and         processes of learning within schools (rather than, say, on the         allocation of pupils to schools), on expanding post-16 opportunities and         on promoting higher education within colleges        informed public debates, influencing critics as well as supporters of         policy, on the basis of the Centre for Educational Sociology's         reputation for rigorous and independent research, gained over several         decades.
All three types of impact are exemplified by the contribution to the       authoritative report by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and       Development (OECD) on Scottish schooling, published in December 2007 and a       central reference point for public debate on Scottish educational policy       throughout the REF period [5.4].
The report has been widely cited in       official documents and government statements, such as HMIE's (Her       Majesty's Inspectorate of Education) influential `stock-taking' overviews       of Scottish education [5.5] and the government's rationale for Curriculum       for Excellence, its major reform of the 3-18 curriculum [5.6].
The report was commissioned by the Scottish education minister to provide       an outside perspective on the performance of Scottish schooling in the       post-devolution era.
Edinburgh researchers Munn, Raffe and Howieson were       the only academic researchers invited to make presentations to the OECD       Review Panel.
Raffe subsequently sent three papers summarising Edinburgh's       research on socio-economic inequalities in education to the panel's       rapporteur, whose reply (from a Dublin hotel) described one paper as "a       real gem" and commented: "I do really wonder why an `outside' view of       Scottish education is really necessary &#8212; as distinct from locking the       authorities up in this hotel with your papers" [5.7].
Of the report's 20 references to independent (non-government) Scottish       research, 17 were to work by the Edinburgh researchers named above [5.8].
Specific features of the research on which the OECD Review Panel drew &#8212;       and which have characterised the Report's impact on policy debates since       2008 &#8212; were the explanations of the relative success of comprehensive       schooling, the evidence relating to the relatively low levels of social       segregation among schools, the reasons why social inequalities in       attainment and progression remained large, and the importance of       institutional legacies in constraining the scope for policy intervention.
The impact of this review on subsequent policy and debate is thus in large       measure an internationally endorsed impact of the research underpinning       this present case study.
The review was the channel through which the       impact was achieved.
University of Edinburgh researchers have continued to engage throughout       the REF period with the debates stimulated by the OECD Review.
In January       2008 Raffe circulated a commentary on the review to all the national and       local policy-makers and senior educationists who had attended the Review's       launch conference.
Paterson and Raffe were invited to discuss the review's       findings by a number of organisations including the Scottish Government       and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.
In addition to specific channels such as the OECD Review, the research       has achieved impact through a vigorous and wide-ranging programme of       public engagement.
Research results from the Centre for Educational       Sociology are summarised in 4-page Briefings which are posted on       the website and sent in hard copy to 500 policy-makers, practitioners and       researchers; the Briefings landing page alone received 1405 hits       during the REF period.
Croxford led the research input to a report by the       Educational Institute of Scotland (Scotland's largest teachers' union) on       Education and Poverty, which was mailed to policy-makers, opinion       leaders and the entire EIS membership (more than 80% of teachers in       Scotland) in advance of the 2011 Scottish election [5.3].
Between 2008 and 2013 University of Edinburgh researchers presented       research findings on socio-economic inequalities in Scottish education to       meetings and events organised by the Institute for Public Policy Research,       the Scottish Government, the Scottish Funding Council (SFC), the Scottish       Qualifications Authority, the Local Authorities Research and Intelligence       Association, the Scottish Council of Independent Schools, the Scottish       Secondary Teachers' Association, the Association of Educational       Development and Improvement Professionals in Scotland, the Scottish Policy       Innovation Forum, the Policy Expo at the Scottish Parliament, Holyrood       Conferences, the National Assembly for Wales and the (UK) National       Equalities Panel.
Engagement was further supported by the researchers' own participation in       policy processes, such as Raffe's membership of the SFC's Access and       Inclusion Committee and Paterson's leading role in the Royal Society of       Edinburgh's influential Education Committee.
Paterson's track record of       research, especially on inequality and opportunity, has earned him the       status of a leading public intellectual in Scottish education.
All five       parties represented in the Scottish Parliament in the 2007-11 session       invited him to comment on their education policy; equality and widening       access were prominent issues in all these discussions.
Within the last       year of the REF period alone, Paterson's work has been mentioned at least       17 times in national newspapers including the Times, Sunday Times,       Scotsman and Herald, as well as in the educational press and several       appearances on BBC1 Scotland, BBC2's Newsnight Scotland and BBC Radio       Scotland.
His most recent contribution to public debates, a discussion of       the role of philanthropy in school education, was commissioned by the       Scottish Government during the REF period and draws on the research       described above [5.10].
