     The impact of the research across and beyond the UK arises from its       distinctive range and blend of outcomes and outputs.
Given the quite       substantial measure of autonomy which university teachers continue to be       able to exercise in matters of curriculum, teaching-learning provision and       approaches to assessment and feedback, they represent a primary target.
They are, however, a difficult group with which to engage, not least       because of the extent to which their professional identities, allegiances       and channels of communication are allied to their chosen discipline or       subject area.
Our impact strategy has therefore been pursued along a       variety of routes, combining generic and discipline-specific       dissemination, and interaction through institutional, national and       international forums.
One fertile pathway to impact stems from the evolution of the influential       ETLQ survey instrument.
A precondition of later impact at national level       was Entwistle's involvement (2002-03) on a sub-committee designing the       National Student Survey (NSS).
His experience of developing the ETLQ and       its predecessor contributed significantly to the selection of NSS items       and the design of its rubric and format [5.1].
This has continued to have       an impact during the REF period, as the NSS has grown in significance in       terms of its capacity to highlight the importance of the student       experience and consequently the need to direct university resources       towards changing teaching practices.
The ETLQ instrument has also been adopted and used by higher education       institutions nationally and internationally.
The inventory was selected       for inclusion in a peer-reviewed teaching resource bank developed for the       Association of Medical Colleges in the USA [5.2].
The University of       Helsinki has adapted versions of the questionnaire to use routinely and       annually with all students as part of their portfolios [5.3].
Departments       are provided with scale scores shown in relation with overall norms, and       use the ETLQ results to introduce and monitor innovations based on the       analyses.
The scale scores are also used in counselling individual       students, and findings from the growing corpus of ETLQ data at Helsinki       are now being promulgated through articles in refereed international       journals [5.4].
In 2013, Universities in Greece and Portugal were       trialling the general use of ETLQ [5.5], while teachers have reported       using the instrument individually, or with colleagues, at universities or       colleges in Alberta, Antwerp, Cape Town, Galway, Lausanne, Granada,       Prague, Punjab and The Hague.
In addition, eighteen lecturers in nine       British universities have reported using ETLQ to monitor students'       perceptions of their teaching.
The ETLQ's growing accessibility on       websites and in publications increases the likelihood of other uses that       have not been reported.
A complementary avenue to impact has focused on the findings as a whole,       disseminated through a book written specifically for practising university       teachers across the subject spectrum (Entwistle, 2009), in tandem with       invited presentations to bodies concerned with improving the quality of       teaching and learning.
For example, Entwistle (2008) was invited to       contribute a plenary paper for a conference organised for the Higher       Education Quality Council of Ontario, with an audience of some 75 invited       academics mainly involved in professional development [5.6].
Another nine       invited presentations and workshops have been provided in UK, Sweden and       Finland between 2008 and 2013.
Drawing on findings from the research, in the period 2008-2013 Hounsell       has given more than 40 keynote and workshop presentations to a combined       total of some 2,500 practitioners and academic managers in the UK, Sweden,       Norway, Denmark, Canada, China and Australia, and to bodies including the       Australian Learning and Teaching Council, the Australian Technology       Universities Network, and Universitas21.
His follow-up research on assessment and feedback has also entailed       pursuing more innovative modes of dissemination that combine reviews of       empirical evidence and conceptual insights with a wealth of illustrative       case-examples from across the disciplinary range that have been sourced       internationally as well as from the UK.
One such instance was the       production in 2007 of a set of four guides for university teachers on       integrative approaches to assessment and feedback [5.7].
Commissioned as       part of the Enhancement Themes initiative by the Quality Assurance Agency       Scotland in partnership with Universities Scotland, the Scottish Funding       Council and the Higher Education Academy, the guides were disseminated to       staff in all Scottish universities, and there has been continuing       subsequent involvement in sector-wide enhancement [5.8] and communication       with middle and senior university managers through the Leadership       Foundation [5.9] throughout the REF period.
A groundbreaking website, Enhancing         Feedback, has been created to provide reviews of over thirty       strategies for generating feedback to students and links these to more       than 200 case-examples from a wide range of subject areas.
Since its       launch in 2010, there have been 27,000 visitors to the website from over       one hundred countries [5.10].
