     The beneficiaries have been policy-makers, providers, learners and other       stakeholders in       education and training in Scotland, the UK and elsewhere, especially in       countries introducing or       considering NQFs.
Currently 142 countries have an NQF, are introducing one       or are considering       doing so.
The research has:            provided analytical tools and conceptual frameworks which have been         used to inform         policy strategy and development;       encouraged greater realism in the aims and objectives of such reforms;         and       supported policy designs and implementation strategies based on a         better understanding         of the processes of qualifications-led change.
Analytical tools developed by the University of Edinburgh for       analysing qualifications-led reforms       have been widely cited in influential policy documents such as the ILO's Introductory         Guide to         NQFs [5.1], the most influential guide for policy-makers available       throughout the REF period.
These tools, and examples of citations, include:            a typology of unified, linked and tracked education/training systems         [5.1]       the distinction between the intrinsic logic of a qualifications reform         and the intrinsic logic of         the system in which it is embedded [5.1]       a typology of communications, reforming and transformational         frameworks [5.1, 5.2, 5.3,         5.4, 5.5]       the analysis of policy breadth, that is the coherence of         qualifications reforms with other         policies which may affect their implementation and impact [5.1, 5.3]       an incremental, contextual model of NQF development [5.4, 5.6, 5.7]       the distinction between outcomes-led and outcomes-referenced         frameworks, which         respectively incorporate radical and pragmatic approaches to the role of         learning outcomes         [5.4, 5.5]       the distinction between policy learning and policy borrowing [5.2,         5.3].
These analytical tools accompany more substantive messages from the       research, including the         need to set realistic aims for qualifications reforms and to         design and implement them in the         light of the change processes they can stimulate.
The impact of       these messages is reflected in       recent developments among NQFs; for example most European NQFs follow an       incremental       model of change, starting as modest communications frameworks but adopting       more reforming       aims over time and in specific sub-frameworks, are coordinated with other       policy measures, and       incorporate a pragmatic aproach to learning outcomes [5.4].
Individual       countries, such as Turkey,       have used the conceptual frameworks arising from the research in       developing their frameworks       [5.8].
The impact of the research is also reflected in the encouragement       from international bodies       (ILO, CEDEFOP and European Training Foundation) for rigorous monitoring       and evaluation to       assess the impact of reforms, and in their support for `policy learning'       rather than `policy borrowing'       approaches to cross-national diffusion.
The impact is strengthened by the       objectivity and       independence of the team's research, especially as most information about       NQFs is provided by       qualifications bodies and agencies with a vested interest in their       diffusion and perceived success.
Within Scotland the research showed that earlier reforms (eg Higher       Still) had extended       opportunities for all learners, but it also revealed their limitations.
It       identified the problems of       applying a common template to diverse qualifications, the difficulties of       constructing a progression       `climbing frame' and the obstacles to achieving `parity of esteem'.
New         Scottish secondary-level         qualifications designed during the REF period apply these lessons,       for example by adopting       desigh principles based on fitness-for-purpose and a higher priority for       progression [5.9].
These impacts have been achieved, in part, through conventional written       and oral dissemination.
The research has informed guides and briefings for international       policy-makers which have been       influential during the REF period (see citations above).
The Centre for       Educational Sociology has       published three Briefings on National Qualifications Frameworks       since 2008, one of which was       posted on a CEDEFOP discussion web site, and a fourth on credit systems.
The researchers have       given invited presentations at meetings and conferences on qualifications       reforms organised by       national and international policy organisations, including the European       Training Foundation       (2008), Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework Partnership (2008),       German Government       (2008), ILO (2009, 2012), CEDEFOP (2009), European Commission (2010, 2011,       2012), BIBB       (2010), SQA (2008, 2010), UK Qualifications Frameworks (2010), German       Government/Asia-       European Meeting (2012), Quality and Qualifications Ireland (2012) and the       National Council on       Education of Chile (2013).
The research has had a multiplier effect as University of Edinburgh staff       have been invited to join       international projects led by policy-making bodies themselves; this has       helped both to disseminate       the Centre for Educational Sociology knowledge base and to add to it.
Allais and Raffe, with       Michael Young (IoE), formed the core academic team and wrote the       conceptual starter papers for       the ILO's influential 16-country study of NQFs (2009-10); Allais wrote its       final report.
Raffe was       international member of the National Qualifications Authority of Ireland's       study of the       implementation and impact of its NQF (2008-09), and participated in a       CEDEFOP study of       Changing Qualifications (2008-10).
Howieson, with Raffe, conducted the       Scottish component of a       BIBB project on credit systems (2009-12).
The impact on Scottish qualifications is further attested by commissions       as consultants for the       Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA).
These have drawn on Centre for       Educational Sociology       research to inform SQA policy in areas including unitisation (2004),       progression (2005), the design       of baccalaureates (2007-8), work-related qualifications (2007) and       upper-secondary qualifications       (2009-10), in all cases drawing on earlier research by the team to inform       policy developments       during the REF period.
Other channels of impact include invitations to comment on drafts of       international policy reports       (eg OECD 2007, ETF 2010, 2011); Raffe's membership of the SQA's       Qualifications Committee       (2003 onwards); being interviewed as `experts' by other research projects       on credit (2009),       transnational qualifications frameworks (2010), the European       Qualifications Framework (2011)       and modularisation (2012); and discussing NQFs with visiting policy-makers       and policy analysts       from Australia, China, Japan, Russia, South Africa and Spain.
John Hart, Associate of the Centre for Educational Sociology and former       SQA official, has       supported impact through his Scottish networks and international       consultancy work.
During the       current REF period this has included presentations or consultancy on NQFs       in Albania, Croatia,       Germany, India, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Macedonia, Poland and Turkey, support       for referencing the       Dutch, Maltese, Scottish and Welsh Frameworks to the European       Qualifications Framework, and       support to NHS Education Scotland on competence-based frameworks.
In       several of these       countries (especially India, Kosovo, Macedonia and Turkey) he has used the       analytical tools in the       development of policy papers and legislation which provide the basis for       the introduction of NQFs.
