     1) Children, teachers and local outdoor learning     Our research has informed policy development by Scotland's Ministers for       Education since 1999 and led to Higgins' appointment (2006-10) to       successive Ministerial Advisory Groups on outdoor learning in Scotland (Outdoor         Connections Advisory Group (2006-2008), Outdoor Learning         Strategic Advisory Group (2008-2010)) which reported on provision       and guided policy.
The reports and curriculum guidance were based on our       research and led to `development officer' appointments at Education       Scotland (ES) (2006 &#8212; continuing), website development and `Curriculum for       Excellence (CfE) through Outdoor Learning' (2010) (5.1) (CfEtOL).
These developments were informed by part-Government-funded research       linking learning outdoors with CfE (Beames, Ross), teachers' approaches to       learning outdoors (Higgins, Nicol, Ross).CfEtOL is the first such national       policy in the UK or elsewhere.
The ES website (5.2) addresses       issues highlighted in the research and the work of the advisory groups.
The `Outdoor Learning: Practical guidance, ideas and support for teachers       and practitioners in Scotland' section of the website uses our conceptual       framework and research (citing Beames, Higgins, Nicol, Ross).
In 2010 ES       instigated a national CPD programme for teachers based on `Outdoor       Journeys'.
Whilst having international relevance it relates specifically       to CfE, and is delivered in nationwide in-service programmes for teachers       (~1000), pre-service training at MHSE (~100 students/year), Singapore,       Ireland, Italy (~100 students).
Christie et al.
(5.3) surveyed schools throughout Scotland and       found that use of primary-school grounds had increased markedly, and       secondary schools indicated an increased desire to develop outdoor       learning since 2006.
This shows that our research on local OE (Section 2       above), support materials and in-service provision (e.g.
Outdoor Journeys)       has had an impact.
In addition, over the past 10 years most Local       Authorities have established `outdoor learning groups', and residential       outdoor centre use has remained stable since our 2006 study despite       widespread budgetary pressures.
* Education Scotland' is the Scottish Government's education     advisory agency.
Until 2011 it was called `Learning and Teaching Scotland'     prior to merger with Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools.
For simplicity all     references here are to `Education Scotland'.
2) Outdoor learning and sustainability education     In 2011 the Scottish Government made a manifesto commitment to explore       `education for sustainable development'/`global citizenship' and, `outdoor       learning' in Scottish schools, and in recognition of our work, Higgins was       appointed chair of the Government's `One Planet Schools Ministerial       Advisory Group'.
The group's `Learning for Sustainability' (LfS) report       (5.4) drew upon our existing research and commissioned literature reviews       (Christie, Higgins).
The report made 31 recommendations which were all       accepted by the Government (March, 2013), including an internationally       rare entitlement to learning for sustainability and outdoor       learning (5.5).
The Government's `Learning for sustainability       implementation group' (Higgins as chair) will implement the       recommendations throughout Scottish schools.
Our research on outdoor learning and sustainability resulted in Ross's       involvement in the revision of the General Teaching Council for         Scotland's `professional standards', which now require teachers to       address `learning for sustainability' and `outdoor learning' in their       practice (5.6).
Higgins, as the Scottish member of a UNESCO network on Reorienting         teacher education to address sustainability, initiated and guided       the development of the UN University `Regional Centre of Expertise in       Education for Sustainable Development for Scotland' (5.7).
This was       approved in December 2012 and, following our research, has a significant       focus on outdoor learning.
The Centre (located at MHSE) provides advice to       Scottish Government and aids delivery of the LfS report recommendations       (5.5).
Based on this research, staff deliver presentations and workshops for       professional and academic audiences throughout the UK and internationally,       extensive week-long CPD for Scottish and European teachers (EU Comenius       programme), and their approaches have been widely adopted by others for       international workshops (over 800 European teachers from 27 countries)       (5.8).
Materials have been translated into Swedish, built into degree       programmes at Linkoping University, University of Bologna, and Ministry of       Education, academic and professional bodies in Singapore (e.g.
Republic       Polytechnic).
Our book `Learning outside the classroom' is the standard       text supporting this work.
A recent UK report for UNESCO highlights the UK significance of the       Scottish policy direction to which, as noted above, we have contributed       (5.9).
Our research for Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) on `Building the         Scottish outdoor access code and responsible behaviour into formal         education and other learning contexts', `The economic impact of         water-related recreation and tourism in the catchment of the River Spey')       and `Sporting Estates and Recreational Land Use in the Highlands and         Islands of Scotland' (ESRC) informed Government access policy       (5.10), (Higgins gave evidence to three Parliamentary committees on the       Land Reform Bill and advised SNH).
