     The HBSC provides a unique data set for investigating why some       health-related trends in children and young people are increasing and       other trends decreasing by facilitating comparisons internationally.
HBSC       data has been used by the WHO Regional Office for Europe to provide a       report on the social determinants of young people's health.
This report       was highly commended by the British Medical Association (5.1).
The       evidence from the HBSC data contributed to the Children's Environment and       Health Action Plan for Europe (CEHAPE) Regional Priority Goal II: "To         prevent and substantially reduce health consequences from accidents and         injuries and pursue a decrease in morbidity from lack of adequate         physical activity by promoting safe, secure and supportive human         settlements for all children."
In relation to physical activity this       resulted in a WHO Europe resource `Young and physically active' which uses       the HBSC data set to provide a rationale for the need to prioritise youth       activity in Europe (5.2; page 4).
The importance of the HBSC data has also       been recognised by UNICEF who used HBSC to inform their thinking on health       inequalities (5.3; Innocent Report Card 9, The Children Left Behind) and       in which the HBSC measure of physical activity was used as a key indicator       of well-being (5.3: see page 14, Innocenti Report Card 9).
CAHRU provided       the statistical results for the analysis of inequality in children's       health for this report.
Both HBSC and PASS were used alongside the Scottish Health Survey to       inform the five year review, undertaken in 2008, of the Scottish Physical       Activity Strategy `Let's Make Scotland More Active' (5.4, page 19 and 20).
The unique longitudinal nature of PASS created a national concern for low       levels of physical activity in adolescent girls and the HBSC data provided       international comparisons.
Other available data were only cross-sectional       which had clear limitations in determining the temporal pattern of PA. As       a result, adolescent girls were singled out in this five year review as a       priority group.
In 2010 the Minister for Sport and the Commonwealth Games       commissioned a "Teenage Girls" summit, which was held in August 2010 at       the University of Edinburgh, and to which Jo Inchley was an invited       expert.
Feedback gathered at the Summit, including information from the       HBSC and PASS data sets, was collated into a final report that was used to       inform recommendations to the Minister (5.5, page 3.)
The PASS report informed the following programmes by providing the       evidence for the kind of activities that girls wanted: Fit for Girls;       Y-Dance; Girls on the Move; Active Travel to School / Primary-Secondary       Transition project; I Bike and `simple steps to success'.
Jo Inchley was invited to contribute to the development and design of Fit       for Girls.
By the end of the Fit for Girls programme 32 local authorities       had taken part in training and committed to delivery of the programme; 344       mainstream schools and 15 schools for pupils with additional support needs       were engaged with the programme; 106 workshops had taken place.
The girls       themselves and PE staff reported increased participation as a result of       the Fit for Girls programme (5.6).
Inchley also advised on the production of a Paths for All resource about       pedometer use for young people `Simple Steps to Success'.
The resource       used the evidence from the PASS report to inform the production of the       programme.
The resource was sent to every primary and secondary school in       Scotland.
On page 19 it is noted that `Child and Adolescent Health         Research Unit (CAHRU) at Edinburgh University: produced the research       that gave rise to this guide.'
(5.7)     On the basis of the reputation of the HBSC and PASS work, Jo Inchley was       invited to be one of five advisors to the Government funded Scottish       Physical Activity Collaboration (SPARColl) from 2006-2011.
Through       SPARColl she advised on the evaluation of physical activity programmes in       young people for NHS Health Scotland and for a knowledge exchange       programme on physical activity in adolescent girls in 2008/2009 (funded by       the Scottish Funding Council).
This programme involved events for       practitioners, policy makers and key academics with a focus on addressing       knowledge gaps and facilitating on-going dialogue between partners.
The       programme highlighted practitioners' need for more evidence regards the       importance of role models in adolescent girls, and the type of role model       that was effective.
This element of the project drew heavily on the work       of CAHRU.
It also identified a need for practitioners to be informed on       how to effectively consult with adolescent girls regards their physical       activity needs.
The outcomes were a set of resources which can be seen in       the Teenactive report.
CAHRU's role was to write the resource associated       with `The Importance of Role Models in Making Adolescent Girls More       Active' (5.8).
