     This research has influenced policy and practice in the UK and       internationally by contributing to       clinical guidelines and through training with health and exercise       professionals working with stroke       survivors.
The Cochrane Review on fitness after stroke: influencing clinical         practice     Cochrane systematic reviews help providers, practitioners and patients       make informed decisions       about health care, and are the most comprehensive, reliable and relevant       source of evidence (The       Cochrane Collaboration http://www.cochrane.org/cochrane-reviews).
The 2012 update of our Cochrane systematic review of fitness training       (Brazzelli et al.
2012) is the       4th most cited Cochrane review about stroke and the 7th most accessed       Cochrane review (2,164       full-text accesses during 2011) about stroke (5.1.
Source: The Cochrane       Library Impact Data       Pack, 2011).
One of the world's leading stroke journals `Stroke', aimed at       a clinical audience,       invited us to write summaries of each review (5.2).
The Cochrane review evidence directly informed clinical practice via the       following National Clinical       Guidelines for stroke:     i) Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) clinical         guideline for management of stroke         patients in Scotland, SIGN 118 (2010) (5.3)     Our review was part of the evidence labelled as 1++ (i.e.
high quality       meta-analyses, systematic       reviews of RCTs, or RCTs with a very low risk of bias).
The evidence       resulted in the following       recommendation:     `Gait-oriented physical fitness training should be offered to all       patients assessed as medically       stable and functionally safe to participate, when the goal of treatment is       to improve functional       ambulation' (SIGN 118; Item 4.2.8 p17)     ii) Royal College of Physicians (RCP) Intercollegiate Stroke Working         Party.
National clinical       guideline for stroke (2012) (5.4)     Our Cochrane reviews (Saunders et al.
2009; Brazzelli et al.
2011) are       cited as evidence to       support the recommendation:     `After stroke, patients should participate in exercise with the aim of       improving aerobic fitness       and/or muscle strength unless there are contraindications.'
(RCP 2012;       Item 6.6 p82-83)     This evidence addresses a `patient-important' outcome (walking) with       large `reach' in terms of       numbers of patients (`all patients').
iii) NICE guideline.
Stroke rehabilitation.
Long-term rehabilitation       after stroke.
Guideline 162 (23rd       May 2013).
The Cochrane review (Brazzelli et al 2012) is cited as evidence       to recommend       exercise training is incorporated into the rehabilitation of stroke       survivors.
(5.5).
iv) Best Practice Guidance for the Development of Exercise after         Stroke Services in Community         Settings" (Best et al 2010, www.exerciseafterstroke.org.uk).
The Scottish Government funded the development of this guidance to       increase Scottish provision       of Exercise after Stroke services.
This guidance cites Saunders et al 2009       as evidence for fitness       training, and to guide the optimum type and frequency of training.
The guidance (http://www.exerciseafterstroke.org.uk/ (5.6)) has been       accessed over 15,000 times       on this website between 2009 and 2013.
50% of clicks on the main page       relate to `information for       professionals, which shows the demand for the guidance is high.
The       guidance is also cited on the       UK Stroke Improvement website:     (http://www.improvement.nhs.uk/stroke/CommunityStrokeResource/CSRLifeafterstroke/CSRLifeafterstrokeexercisepoststroke/tabid/226/Default.aspx).
v) The Cochrane reviews Saunders et al (2009) and Brazzelli et al (2011)       are cited as evidence in       clinical guidance around the world (5.7); for example            Australian National Clinical Guidelines for Stroke Management (2010)       New Zealand Clinical Guidelines for Stroke Management (2010)       Canadian Best Practice Recommendations for Stroke Care (2011-2013)          Informs Training &amp; Knowledge of Practitioners     The research forms key chapters in `Exercise and Fitness Training after       Stroke A handbook for       evidence-based practice' (Eds.
Mead and van Wijck 2012).
The book was       conceived to enable       health professionals to design and deliver safe and effective exercise       programmes for stroke       survivors.
The book outlines the underpinning evidence (including research       by Mead and       Saunders) then describes how to translate this research into practice.
Between November 2012       and July 2013, 652 copies had been sold (5.8).
Informs Training Course for Practitioners`Exercise and           Fitness Training after Stroke'     The research is a key part of the evidence base for the only UK course       for exercise professionals       that has received professional endorsement from SkillsActive (Sector       Skills Council for Active       Leisure, Learning and Well-being): The course is endorsed by UK Stroke       Forum for training,       approved by Chartered Society for Physiotherapists.
It is delivered       commercially in the UK by       LaterLifeTraining (5.9).
By December 2012 over 170 exercise practitioners       were qualified and a       further 50 are in training.
This course is recommend in NHS action plans       as follows:     `NHS Boards, through their stroke MCNs, should continue to work with       leisure industry       representatives to make best use of the new training course [Exercise       After Stroke] to improve       access to exercise and fitness training for people with stroke in their       area.'
"Better Heart Disease and Stroke Care Action Plan" (NHS Scotland,       2009).
(5.10)
