     When the Confucius Institute for Scotland opened in 2007, awareness of       China among the general       public and stakeholders in Scotland's educational and cultural sectors was       limited and there was       also limited infrastructure to support cultural exchange in place.
The transcultural knowledge transfer research focus of both Gentz and       Ward has directly       underpinned significant advances in addressing both problems of       infrastructure and the previous       lack of awareness.
An important collaboration was brokered in 2007 between       the University of       Edinburgh (UoE)/CIS and the Beijing Film Academy (BFA) by Gentz, entitled       `Cinema China 2007'.
Impact has been built from this starting point during the census period.
During the census period, the CIS organised more than 300 China-related       public events (see       http://www.confuciusinstitute.ac.uk/events/) that had an       impact on business, education, culture and       politics in Scotland.
The success of these events was mainly based on the       China-expertise of N       Gentz acquired by her research on Chinese Cultural Studies.
Below, four       examples of the wide       range of activities of the CIS are given to point out the specific       relationship between research and       impact in these particular events.
In 2008, organised by Gentz and rooted in her research on transcultural       knowledge transfer as       well as Ward's insights on Chinese film, CIS coordinated and marketed the       `China Now in       Scotland' festival.
This comprised over 150 events involving more than 25       organisations across       Scotland from business, education, the arts, science and sport, ranging       from Aberdeen City       Council to the Scottish Arts Council (1).
A member of the House of Lords,       a Patron of the Festival,       said: `The Institute's ability to unify the diverse efforts of various       programme partners, coupled with       the impact of the major events they ran, ensured that not only was a       substantial and diverse       audience reached, but several significant sustainable relationships were       also established' (2).
A       former deputy leader of the Labour Party, commenting on the business       panel, stated: `The level of       interest and diversity of businesses at the China Expert Panel was       impressive.
The Institute had       clearly tapped into the SME (Small and Medium Enterprise) sector and       stimulated them to       consider evolving a plan for engagement with China.
It was a most       worthwhile evening' (3).
In 2008 Gentz secured an agreement with Guandong Museum of Art to bring a       substantial       photographic exhibition to Edinburgh's City Art Centre for 10 weeks.
This       was `China: a       Photographic Portrait', and it featured more than 600 images dating from       1951 to 2003.
The         Scotsman (4 July 2008) commented: `Modern China is a place of       immense wealth and absolute       poverty, a fact which has been captured beautifully by this massive,       enthralling exhibition of       hundreds of photographs' (4).
Comments from members of the public included:            `Enlightening and very moving.
Best photographic exhibition I have         ever seen';       `Gave me a feeling how China is like before I go there.
Enjoyable!
';       `Excellent... makes people think...';       `Phenomenal, moving' (5).
Building on these successes, Gentz facilitated the securing of contracts       with the National Academy       of Education Administration, China from 2008-2011.
In 2009, 25 senior       staff from leading Chinese       universities attended a week-long CIS-organised university leadership       programme in Edinburgh.
An Associate Professor at the NAEA commented: `We were delighted to take       part in this exchange       between China and Scotland.
The programme gave us many ideas to take back       to our institutions       in China' (6).
Further groups visited in 2011 and 2012.
That same research underpinned cultural links facilitated with Scottish       schools.
CIS organised the       September 2012 visit of members of Peking University's Chinese Music       Institute to 700 pupils in 5       secondary and 7 primary schools.
70 pupils from three of these joined the       orchestra to play       melodies on metallophones and to sing in Mandarin Chinese.
The Music       Coordinator for Fife       Council commented: `It's hard to credit the impact of this project on the       children and young people       involved and memories of the event will, I am sure, stay with them all for       many years to come.
To       foster such warm and positive relations between young people from both       countries is a marvellous       thing' (7).
The Scottish Government is known to be supportive of the work of the CIS,       both as a catalyst and       facilitator for the sector, which it says helps to create a vibrant       landscape of cross cultural       engagement between Scotland and China (8).
