     The above research underpinned two projects that had a significant impact       on civil society and public sector organisations in Scotland: Exploring Islam 	  and Breaking Barriers.
Exploring Islam (October 2012 &#8212; March 2013)     Islam is the largest minority faith in Scotland and Scottish Police       officers regularly respond to incidents involving Scottish Muslims.
A       consultation by the then Lothian and Borders Police revealed that many       officers felt ignorant of Muslim beliefs and culture and therefore nervous       about their interactions with Scotland's Muslim communities.
Alwaleed was       approached to organise continuing professional development training.
Five       sessions were organised over five months.
Four of the sessions were based       on the research of Unit 27 colleagues (1).
Pierret led officers through the key contemporary Islamic movements and       sectarian divisions within Islam.
His session equipped officers with a       greater understanding of violent and non-violent tendencies within Islam       and the extent to which all affect the UK.
Gorman explored the Arab World       in the 20th Century, offering key insights into the events       leading to the `Arab Spring'.
Gorman encouraged officers to consider the       significance of these events for the global Muslim community and the UK.
Peace guided officers through the history of Islam in Scotland.
He       provided practical understanding of the demographics of Scotland's Muslims       and of the influence of culture on community structures and behavioural       norms.
Nearly 70 officers from the then Lothian and Borders, Strathclyde and       Grampian forces attended each session.
These included high-ranking       officers (chief superintendents and inspectors) and junior officers with       community policing responsibilities.
An official of the then Lothian and       Borders Diversity Unit, said:     `This was a unique opportunity for our officers to hear from experts in       the field of Islamic studies.
Feedback from officers has been extremely       positive and the knowledge gained from the lectures will doubtless help       our officers understand more about the Muslim communities they encounter       and serve' (2).
The impact of the sessions was acknowledged by a then senior Central       Scotland Police official who went on to request further input from       Alwaleed as a member of the Association of Chief Police Officers Scotland       (ACPOS) Religion and Belief Reference Group (3).
The group promotes       engagement between the Scottish Police Service and Scotland's faith       communities.
IMES academic staff were also invited to quality-assure the "Diversity       Booklet" to be distributed to every officer in Scotland (currently 17,500)       in August 2013 (delayed from early 2013 by the reorganisation of police       forces in Scotland).
The booklet offers practical advice on policing       minority communities.
Goddard, Peace and Pierret made `essential'       contributions to the chapter on Islam (pp.32-37), emphasising key       sectarian concerns and cultural nuances.
The quality assurance process was       undertaken in March 2013 (4).
Breaking Barriers (November 2011 &#8212; present)     Breaking Barriers was a two-day residential conference organised       by Alwaleed in partnership with the Church of Scotland.
Based on Goddard's       research on the historical and contemporary collaborations and disputes       between Christians and Muslims, Breaking Barriers brought together       22 young Christians and Muslims for discussions, lectures and workshops       exploring Christian/Muslim relations and mutual misperceptions.
Goddard       led 3 sessions, focussing on, and encouraging participants to engage with,       such concepts as the Holy Trinity, Jihad, and Sharia law and the       historical relationship between the two traditions.
Delegates included the head of the `Brothers' Circle' in Edinburgh (a       Muslim organisation with a membership of more than 200 young men), the       head of `Beyond the Veil' Muslim Women's Group (a support and advocacy       group for Muslim women in Scotland with a membership of more than 50), two       trainee Church of Scotland Ministers and the editor of Fifteen-21,       the UK's fastest-growing magazine for young Muslims with an online       readership in excess of 20,000 (5).
The conference had a profound impact on delegates, providing them with       key knowledge to apply to their life and work.
(6) In an article written       for the Edinburgh Inter-Faith Association's quarterly magazine, a       Christian delegate said: `Of all the interfaith experiences I have had, Breaking         Barriers is one of the most inspiring.
The participants all have       strong religious convictions, and when we get together, we do not       downplay, deny, or ignore our differences.
Instead, we try to understand       each other's beliefs and practices, and make sure that we do not promote       inaccurate stereotypes.'
(7).
The Breaking Barriers conference inspired the 14 Edinburgh-based       delegates to establish a discussion group for young Edinburgh-based       Christians and Muslims (8).
The group met six times between January 2012       and February 2013.
A second day-long Breaking Barriers conference will       take place in November 2013.
As a result of the success of the conference, the Edinburgh Inter-Faith       Association &#8212; founded in 1989 and comprising the capital's 10 faith       communities (http://www.eifa.org.uk/membership/)       &#8212; committed to funding a second Breaking Barriers conference in       November 2013 (7, 9) to be delivered in partnership with Alwaleed.
A       further three Breaking Barriers scriptural reasoning groups will       be established in Glasgow, Dundee and Aberdeen (7).
