       Responding to pressing needs for culturally sensitive translations of Arabic       literature, Booth's       internationally recognized work as translator, researcher, judge/assessor,       and speaker developed       her expertise in facilitating and publicising the labour and outcomes of       translation, through a series       of impact activities:            training and mentoring emerging translators which results in         co-production of translations         and professional training, enhancing the skills of the translators and         adding value to their         work;       through speaking, writing and judging activities, sensitizing editors,         publishers, translators         and readers to the processes which yield culturally sensitive         translations, thus fostering a         more nuanced understanding and more informed public discourse in         relation to a world         region in political transition;       providing new literary translations by new translators, in turn         enhanced by on-going         research, training and public engagement activities, creating and         interpreting cultural         capital for the benefit of a broad readership.
Training     Booth's practice-based research and engagement as a working translator       led her to recognize the       imperative of training emerging translators to be professionally informed,       culturally aware, and       publicly engaged cultural labourers, as well as the imperative of       sensitizing authors, publishers,       and media to translation processes, not just results.
[text       removed for publication] workshop       participant and now UN interpreter, said: `It was very inspiring to learn       from Marilyn Booth that it       was actually good to make a Western reader "work a little" to understand       the target culture in a       translated novel.
Since then I've been more consistent about maintaining       elements of the source       culture, and even the source language (Arabic), in my translations.
It has       worked wonders' (1).
This comment came after an intensive 3-day Arabic translation workshop       funded by the British       Council with the British Centre for Literary Translation (BCLT) and       Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation       Publishing (BQFP), in Doha, March-April 2012.
Booth ran hands-on workshops       on a range of       translation issues, working with Lebanese novelist Jabbour al-Douaihy and       15 participants from a       large applicant pool.
The invitation was renewed for April 2013, with       Booth training 16 participants.
Training will continue in December 2013.
In total, in the period 2009-2013, through workshops, mentoring and       informal training, Booth       trained approximately 80 translators (2, 3).
Indicative of `ripple       effects', the workshop participant (1)       was motivated to run a translation workshop for twelve Egyptian       journalists and editors at the       independent Cairo newspaper al-Masri al-yawm/Egypt Independent,       soliciting Booth's suggestions       on running it.
He reported enthusiastic reception (1).
Invited to be first Arabic mentor of BCLT's mentoring programme, Booth       worked with a recent       Oxford graduate (4) who secured a contract to translate a contemporary       Syrian novel (Cinnamon,       2013).
As Director of the RCUK-funded Centre for the Advanced Study of the       Arab World       (CASAW) Booth secured funding for second and third BCLT Arabic       Mentorships.
Cinnamon,       published by Swallow Editions/Arabia Books (a CASAW-funded intern worked       on publicity and       editing, learning the business of publishing translations), was provided       to 202 public libraries in the       UK as featured (with Booth's participation mentioned) in Publishing         Perspectives (5).
Booth informally mentors aspiring translators who demonstrate promise.
A       now-established       translator said: `Marilyn Booth is one of our foremost literary       translators of Arabic into English.
Not       only is her body of scholarly and translational work extremely impressive,       but she is dedicated to       building and promoting a sense of community and camaraderie among       translators [...] She is a       huge resource for translators, academics and writers' (6).
Sensitizing stakeholders     Booth's widely publicized experience translating global bestseller Girls         of Riyadh for Penguin/Fig       Tree &#8212; and the moral, political, financial and literary issues that this       raised (Booth 2010) &#8212; has       generated public discussion of conditions for literary translation,       reminding translators, publishers       and readers of the complexity of delivering this literature to readers,       and of ways translation must       be thought politically (7, 8).
Links between Booth's research,       translations and public translation       activism are strongly evident in a high-profile report by the European       Platform for Literary       Exchange where she is extensively cited (drawing on her publications and       on extensive interviews       with a project worker undertaken in 2011) (9).
In the 66-page Arabic       section Booth is quoted 20       times.
She spoke at the report's London launch (2/2/2012), attended by 50       publishers, translators,       and readers.
Since 2009 she has spoken at many high profile events:            BQFP/Carnegie Mellon (Doha, Qatar, 5/2010, plenary speech, with         audience of 200 including         translators, publishers and readers);       London Book Fair (5/2012, 120);       Scottish PEN International Women's Day Symposium (Edinburgh, 3/2012,         25).
Readers, students, and translators across the globe approach her       frequently wanting to learn more       about issues addressed in her scholarship; she is prominently featured on       the go-to website for       publishers, translators and readers, `Arabic Lit (in English)' (10).
Booth's impact on translation       dissemination occurs also as judge/assessor for translation prizes and Pen       Translates!
publishers'       grant.
New Literary Translations     Booth co-launched `Accessing Muslim Lives: Translating and Digitalising       Autobiographical Writings       for Teaching and Learning' http://www.accessingmuslimlives.org       (2011) to feature translated       autobiographical writing.
Booth works with recent graduates to produce       texts for the website giving       them publishing credentials.
