     Our impact has been to reanimate the rich traditional heritage of       Scotland by transferring into a contemporary idiom and context music and       song from SSA and the Folk Song Collection.
TAD Website and related educational and performance activities:       Launched in Dec. 2010, the site generates traffic of ca.
7,000 visits per       month, including hits from 98 different countries (http://www.tobarandualchais.co.uk,       for statistics see 5.2).
We have set up a partnership with Education       Scotland (5.1) to provide online teaching material for the Curriculum for       Excellence (the new national schools' curriculum for Scotland).
In       conjunction with Creative Scotland, West has established a programme to       encourage creative use of TAD; this collaboration has engaged the project       with all five national performing arts companies, as well as the       Federation of Scottish Theatres, The Scottish Traditional Music Forum and       The Scottish Literature Forum.
Creative Scotland awarded two Artist in       Residency posts to TAD (from Summer 2012).
At its launch in 2010, the Scottish Cabinet Secretary for Culture and       External Affairs praised how TAD "makes available an enormous amount of       rich material in Gaelic and Scots which will help current and future       generations learn where they come from"       (http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/mobile/uk-scotland-11950440).
Since then, the success of TAD has directly influenced cultural policy       within Scotland.
In 2012 the Scottish Government commissioned TAD to work       with the National Library of Scotland.
The objective is to establish a       National Sound Archive, an undertaking which has helped to create jobs in       the cultural sector.
Announcing the Government's financial pledge of &#163;100k       to this project, the First Minister Alex Salmond emphasised, on 23 July       2012, "the Scottish Government's strong commitment to growing the cultural       economy, and supporting creative activity in every part of Scotland.
Through its work to collect, preserve and provide access to more than       11,500 hours of Scotland's sound heritage, Tobar an Dualchais has       potential to play a key role in our long-term ambitions to create a       National Sound Archive for Scotland.
Today's funding will extend this       excellent work, supporting employment and skills development for the       digitisers, cataloguers, data editors and copyright officers who are       involved &#8212; many of whom are working from some of Scotland's most       economically fragile areas" (http://tinyurl.com/no22mtu).
Broadcasting: During the REF period 2008-13, the Survivals and         Revivals research strand has played a key role in informing the       weekly BBC Radio Scotland programme, Pipeline, which West, author       of, e.g.
"Military Music" and Voicing Scotland, both 2012 (see       REF2), researches, scripts and presents.
This amounts to over 500 hours of       broadcasting since 2003.
Pipeline transmits directly to an average       audience of 50,000 per week, and since 2006 has consistently had the       highest download figures of the entire Radio Scotland output, averaging       around 130,000 online listeners per quarter (http://tinyurl.com/qadxl5p).
The programme was shortlisted in the media category at the 2009 Scots       Traditional Music Awards and was nominated in the Best Music Programme       Category at the 2010 UK Sony Radio Awards.
During the REF period, Pipeline       contributed significantly to the development, understanding and expansion       of piping internationally: the 6-times World Pipe Band Champion has said:       "Here in British Columbia we have a strong but slightly isolated piping       community.
We have relied on Pipeline for the latest piping music       as well as the history of tunes and pipers.
We not only enjoy the program       but we learn from it and use what we learn to promote and develop piping       in our part of the world" (5.3).
Performances, Events and Recordings: Greig-Duncan.
The SSA       archival research strands have enabled a wide variety of performers and       audiences to interact creatively with Scotland's musical heritage.
Bringing together the children of Oyne Primary School in Aberdeenshire and       traditional singer Frieda Morrison (Artist in Residence at C&amp;SS,       2012-13), we created a new drama for primary schools: "Johnny Sangster".
The drama, produced by Morrison, is based on the traditional song from the       Greig-Duncan Collection.
"Johnny Sangster" now features both on a DVD and       on GLOW (the Scottish schools intranet run by Education Scotland), and       includes video diary material concerning the making of the drama (5.4).
Oyne Primary School Head Teacher, Ruth Hassan, noted that "pupils have       just completed an exciting project to promote Scots language and song on       DVD, the aim of which is to support other teachers and their classes to       explore Scots language, songs and culture in a motivating and enjoyable       way" (5.5).
Press coverage also drew attention to the pioneering,       cross-curricular dimension of the project (5.6).
The Greig-Duncan collection also inspires artistic performances and       recordings, e.g.
Shona Donaldson's CD Short Nichts &amp; Lang Kisses       (2011).
The booklet, which includes an introduction by Campbell,       highlights how Donaldson's close engagement with the collection "has       created modern tunes to those songs without melody [...], and integrated       modern lines into the fragmented songs, juxtaposing old source material       with new music and text" (http://www.deveron-arts.com/shona-donaldson/).
In the folksong competitions at the annual "Folk at the Salmon Bothy"       festival in Portsoy, Aberdeenshire, all songs are drawn from Greig-Duncan.
Campbell served as a competition judge in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
A newspaper       report highlighted the competition and its links to the collection,       noting: "The Greig-Duncan collection is an amazing collection of our       North-East singing tradition, and the organisers of the competition can be       well satisfied that they demonstrated that it is part of a truly living       tradition" (5.7).
In June 2013, the Greig-Duncan Online Songs Project went live: 35 songs       from the collection, sung by 16 well-known folksingers, were uploaded to       the C&amp;SS website and to YouTube (5.8).
Press coverage included an STV       interview with Campbell and Lyle, and a broadcast involving Morrison and       Lyle on Janice Forsyth's Culture Caf&#233; programme on BBC Radio Scotland, and       newspaper articles.
By 31 July 2013, the Greig-Duncan website had received       2,205 views &#8212; 1,618 from the UK, with the top 5 international countries       being the USA, New Zealand, Germany, Canada and Spain (5.9).
The website has been innovative by showing how songs from the collection       are performed within the tradition at the modern-day.
In recognition of       this, a newspaper article in The Scotsman (20 July 2013) reported:       "Thanks to the website [...] people all over the world can now access       these YouTube videos of peerless renditions by 16 of Scotland's leading       interpreters of traditional song" (http://tinyurl.com/omxm65l).
Survivals and Revivals.
Between 2008-13 West performed a full       concert repertoire, based on the research findings of the Project, at key       international festivals and venues.
These include William Kennedy Piping       Festival, Northern Ireland 2008; Simon Fraser University, Vancouver,       Canada 2009; Piping Live, Glasgow 2010; Edinburgh International Book       Festival 2010 (with Campbell) and 2012; Pipers' Gathering Festival,       Vermont, USA August 2011; Celtic Arts Concert, and Mastery of Scottish       Arts residential course, Seattle 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Highlighting West's       impact on North American performers, the CEO of the Celtic Arts       Foundation, Seattle, has said: "Dr West brings a depth of knowledge with       him from his research which gives an entirely new perspective to the music       of the bagpipe, and this is helping to fuel a whole new revival over here"       (5.10).
