     The impact of Rogers's research has been to change in a positive way the       self-perception of       French nursing staff in the Rh&#244;ne-Alpes region, and, following on from       this, to inspire       reinvigoration of the design of training programmes for this staff at the       major Teaching Hospital in       Grenoble.
The first stage in creating the impact was engagement with CdS in the       Rh&#244;ne-Alpes region, in       order to analyse and compare the logic and outcomes of hospital reform in       France and in the NHS       (England), and to establish what lessons can be learned from the       comparison.
(Telling       experienced professionals about the nature of their own work is       potentially offensive and counter-       productive; hence the importance of the comparative method and analogy.)
This took place in two       phases:     a) in the major Teaching Hospital in Grenoble (Oct. 2011), where Rogers       took a leading role in the       "Semaine de l'Encadrement", a week-long professional development       conference at the IFCS.
b) at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques (IEP) in Grenoble (April       and Dec. 2011), where Rogers led       seminars within the professional training programme for CdS in the region       (4 groups of 20       participants), in conjunction with the development programmes provided by       the IFCS.
Participants at both sets of seminars were persuaded to see themselves as       policy "translators",       who must understand and appropriate the varying forms of "grammar"       available in order to provide       the most effective translation of centrally formulated policy into local       action.
This was illustrated       through discussion of different modes of appropriating ("translating")       modernisation norms, as well       as the different ways in which "regulation" (economic or social) can be       interpreted.
Rogers drew       attention to the danger of confusion between means and ends in the focus       on the attainment of       quantified targets: the risk of the ethical "wood" becoming obscured by       the "trees" of technocracy.
This risk, which CdS mentioned as a concern, figured prominently in       Rogers's keynote address to       the Semaine de l'Encadrement.
Monika Steffen, Director of the Professional Masters Programme in Public       Health Policy and       Management at the IEP, acknowledged the impact of Rogers's comparative       approach on health       care professionals, stating that "through comparison with changes taking       place elsewhere", they       had gained "insights into the developments taking place within their own       system and work       environment", which "deepened their understanding of the challenges which       they face in their       professional lives" (5.1).
During the Semaine de l'Encadrement, Rogers also created a CdS Forum (in       the form of two       3-hour workshops), inspired by the Modern Matron Forum, which he analysed       in his research on       the NHS (3.2).
The forum afforded CdS a rare opportunity collectively to       confront the causes and       effects of their malaise.
Rogers introduced a text which structured the       discussion; this approach       encouraged intense engagement, as CdS shared their experiences concerning       the problems of       stress, isolation and "estrangement" from the professional nursing body to       which they initially       belonged.
They also discussed how they coped with contradictory pressures       in the workplace       (5.2).
Stage 2 of engagement with healthcare professionals developed out of       these activities.
The       Grenoble IFCS invited Rogers to return to their institution in April 2012,       to contribute to training       programmes for senior nursing staff who were about to move into front-line       management as CdS.
This invitation represented an opportunity to exert influence on the       attitudes and understanding of       CdS before they became enmeshed in the administrative "machine".
Rogers's       contribution to       these programmes was informed by the insights he had gained from "getting       inside" the       organisation.
The Grenoble IFCS is the major training centre for CdS in       the southern part of the       region.
It provides many hospitals with their front-line nursing managers,       who impart the lessons       learned in training at the IFCS to their colleagues within these other       institutions.
In a 3-hour       session with 49 trainee CdS, attended by the Training Officer responsible       for the design of their       training programme, Rogers communicated and demonstrated the potential of       the micro-projects       integrated into their training programmes for building policy-moulding       capacity.
This session has       impacted the conceptualisation of training programmes in the region (5.3).
Building on stage 2, stage 3 began in 2013.
Rogers was invited to return       to the Institute in April       2013, not only to reinforce his insights with a new cohort of 50 CdS       trainees, but also to evaluate       the CdS training programme, as it feeds into the professional practice of       newly-qualified CdS.
Rogers has thus spread the message that professionals throughout the       implementation chain are       not mere objects of policy, but actors, whose policy translations can have       a vital influence on the       conduct of change in healthcare provision.
The following excerpts (anonymous and translated from French), are an       indicative sample of       comments provided by participant trainees after this latest visit:     "Your presentation changed my thinking about the potential for front-line       managers to adapt       quality performance instruments, using them as a means, rather than an       end."
"I found the presentation by Vaughan Rogers particularly interesting and       thank him for helping me       to reflect on my professional role, especially the need for caution with       evaluation mechanisms       which create an image of our work that does not fit with reality."
"I particularly appreciated the instructive comparison with another       country.
This presentation was a       warning, leading me to reflect on the participation of Cadres in the       construction of norms and       indicators, to avoid being subjected to their dictatorial authority"       (5.4).
