     The Northern Lights documentary film project, which obtained &#163;250k in       grant support from Creative Scotland, was launched on 20 March 2012 by       Scottish Minister for Culture, Fiona Hyslop.
The key insight of this       project is that the creation of audio-visual representations can have       transformational effects on the lives of often overlooked and culturally       contested individuals and groups.
Northern Lights seeks to apply this       insight to the whole of Scotland.
Going further than any previous research       project by attempting to democratise the filmmaking process, it invited       members of the public to film their own lives and communities, in any       language.
Northern Lights thus gave everyone in Scotland the opportunity       to participate in the creation of a unique documentary portrait of the       nation in 2012.
Its impact was to alter the self-perceptions of minority groups in       Scotland, and also the mainstream's perception of these groups.
Impact was       two-pronged: it occurred during the creative process and also afterwards,       with the release of the feature film in February 2013.
Participant       responses, both to the project's preparatory workshops (5.3) and on the       project website (http://wearenorthernlights.com/submissions/listen/),       testify to the ongoing impact of the creative process and finished product       on those who got involved.
The project's Facebook and Twitter accounts       evidence the ongoing impact of the film on Scottish audiences (5.1).
The breadth of the impact is evident in the engagement in the project of       many different individuals and social groups.
Working with the Black and       Ethnic Minority Infrastructure for Scotland (5.8) and the Scottish Mental       Health Foundation (5.7), both umbrella groups for hundreds of smaller       local organisations, Higgins enabled widespread participation by designing       a two-day intensive filmmaking workshop, so that interested parties would       know how to make their own films.
He delivered 30 workshops to communities       across Scotland, and 20 two-hour introductory ideas sessions to members of       the general public.
For those unable to attend, he created online       instructional video tutorials (http://wearenorthernlights.com/get-involved/preparing/).
Members of the public were thus enabled to make films about "their       Scotland" on any format, including mobile phones, video cameras and       digital cameras.
They then uploaded their footage to the Northern Lights       website.
The public buy-in to the project was extensive: by the end of the       three-month submission period the project had received over 1,500 video       submissions, generating over 300 hours of footage, clear evidence of the       reach of Higgins's workshops on diverse communities around Scotland,       including youth groups and OAPs, Chest, Heart &amp; Stroke Scotland and       groups with experience of mental health difficulties.
Feedback from the       workshops testifies to a sense of empowerment felt by individuals in       getting hands-on experience of film as a representative medium: "I've       learned a lot about cameras, how to film, what to shoot and what not to       shoot.
I'd love to make more films in the future.
That's the dream" (Jamie       Price &#8212; STUC Workshop, Glasgow, 5.3).
The submitted material was then       edited into a 98-minute documentary.
For those who provided video       submissions, the experience of seeing their own small contribution unified       as part of a final audio-visual portrait generated a further level of       impact, as the recorded video responses and online testimony show.
A       typical example of feedback is: "Thanks to Northern Lights workshop I       discovered how to communicate my world with picture and sound!"
(Soozie       Tarkenter &#8212; Hearing disability, http://wearenorthernlights.com/submissions/listen/).
The positive effects on participants are thus considerable.
Higgins has       helped empower individuals to create their own personal media       representations that in the process have enriched and expanded their life       worlds and imaginations.
This effect is especially important for the often       disadvantaged and marginalised groups the project targeted.
In addition to       the impact of making creative and coherent audio-visual sense of their       lives, these groups have been positively affected by their inclusion in       the project (5.7, 5.8).
It has enabled them literally to see themselves       alongside other members of society and thus experience a social visibility       and recognition that is rare, both in research projects and in wider       society.
This comes across powerfully in their self-description as film       directors: 121 participants list themselves as film directors on the IMDb       wesbite (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2733992/fullcredits?ref_=tt_ql_1).
Beyond the impact of face-to-face encounters, the Northern Lights website       was the main interface for the project.
It provided video-making support,       and submissions could be viewed on the site.
The site received between       2,000 and 3,500 unique visitors per day, with an overall total of 55,000       site visitors in the 3-month submission period (5.4).
The project's       Facebook page and Twitter feed created an online community complementing       the project's offline activities (5.1).
The Facebook page had a weekly       reach of 4,000 people, with over 250,000 people talking about the project.
The Twitter feed had 1,495 followers, with a reach of many more thousands       (5.2).
The public impact of the project can also be measured by the considerable       print and broadcast press coverage it received, including features on the       BBC, STV, Radio Scotland, The Herald, The Sun, and       The Mail on Sunday.
The film was described as capturing "the very       essence of Scotland.
Unmissable" (Evening Times, 14.2.13), "a joy       to watch", conveying "a joyous sense of nationhood", "Scotland as it       perceives itself, with no voices silenced" (Eye for Film, 6.2.13)       (5.5).
Based on viewer and circulation figures, the project reached over 4       million people in Scotland and beyond (5.9)     The Cineworld cinema chain released the film across Scotland &#8212; the first       ever Scottish documentary to receive such distribution.
It has screened in       New York as part of the Scotland-Tartan Week celebrations, and in June and       July 2013 it travelled to rural communities in Scotland with the UK's only       mobile cinema, the Screen Machine.
In total it has received 196 screenings       since its premiere in February 2013.
The Scottish Government Culture       Secretary has said: "Northern Lights has set a standard for cultural       projects &#8212; it's reached out to our diverse communities and inspired them       to think about how they can use culture and creativity &#8212; not only to       promote their local identity but to enhance community engagement" (5.6).
On 16 May 2013 the SNP passed a motion to announce that the Scottish       Parliament considered that Northern Lights, which it described as "an       excellent initiative", "gives a superb range of images of Scotland, [...]       including superb scenery and socially challenging issues, such as drug       problems" (http://tinyurl.com/olzwylf).
On 8 October 2013 BAFTA Scotland nominated Northern Lights for the       Cineworld Audience Award 2013 (5.10).
