     Laura Bradley provided the research input on East German censorship for The         Stasi Are Among         Us, a two-day event at the Glasgow Film Festival (21-22 February       2011) that was conceived and       curated by the University of Edinburgh.
Susan Kemp (UoE Film Studies)       initiated the project and       secured its place in the Festival programme; she then co-organized the       event with Bradley and       Fiona Rintoul (freelance journalist and novelist).
The event included six       screenings of films by the       directors Thomas Heise, Claus L&#246;ser, Hannes Sch&#246;nemann and Rainer Simon,       and readings by       the writers Johannes Jansen and Gabriele St&#246;tzer (5.4).
It was sponsored       by the DEFA-Stiftung, a       German foundation dedicated to the promotion of GDR film (&#8364;3k); the       University of Edinburgh       Knowledge Exchange Fund (&#163;4.3k); Gutter magazine (sponsorship in       kind); and Glasgow Life       (&#163;300).
The findings of Bradley's research were crucial for the way in which the       event was conceptualised,       presented, and run.
These findings demanded that the event should present       a nuanced view of       censorship: the title The Stasi Are Among Us was designed to show       the insidious nature of       censorship and artists' involvement in censorship processes.
Bradley       chaired a discussion with       Sch&#246;nemann and Simon called "Working Creatively Under Dictatorship", and       her research on       GDR censorship and Stasi surveillance enabled her to elicit key       information from the directors and       set their comments in context for a non-specialist audience.
Bradley and       Kemp also published a       20-page pamphlet featuring an introduction by Kemp, a 1,300-word essay by       Bradley on the GDR       authorities' denial of censorship and its impact on control of the       performing arts, and information       prepared by Bradley on the directors' biographies (see 5.4 below).
Bradley       collated material from       the directors' Stasi files for a wall display, and she produced       information sheets on the directors       and the censorship of their films (5.4).
Allison Gardner, the Artistic       Director of the Glasgow Film       Festival, comments that this material was "a level above" what the       Festival would usually provide:       the materials gave the audiences "added ownership" of the event and       "engaged them in a way       that was really important" (5.1).
Without Bradley's research input, the       Glasgow Film Festival would       not have been able to address such a complex topic, in the presence of       directors personally       affected by Stasi surveillance and harassment.
The Glasgow Film Festival sold 350 tickets to sessions at the event       (5.5), and the University's       Stasi Are Among Us website received 1,648 hits (5.6).
The event       attracted new visitors to the Film       Festival and the venue: 56.4% of respondents to audience questionnaires       stated that it was their       first ever visit to the Glasgow Film Festival, and 51.3% said that it was       their first ever visit to the       Centre for Contemporary Arts (5.3).
94.9% said that they had learned more       about GDR culture       and/or censorship from the event (5.3).
Allison Gardner argues that       "giving the audience       something different that stretched them was a good thing" (5.1).
She       explains: "bringing the       research, the filmmakers and the films together for the public gave       another dimension.
It gave       them an insight into a life that [...] was completely different from their       own.
And it brought       everybody together in a communal space where they could share those ideas,       share their lives,       share their stories" (5.1).
She comments that the audience "asked really       engaging questions.
They       thought about the films and obviously knew a little bit about the history,       perhaps from seeing The         Lives of Others at the Glasgow Film Theatre.
But this was something       completely different.
This       was real life, and that was fantastic" (5.1).
Responses to the audience       questionnaire indicate that       viewers were particularly interested in seeing how censorship worked       through human interaction       and how innocuous the criticisms in the films seem now, and in hearing the       directors' personal       accounts of their experiences (5.3).
One respondent wrote: "It's brilliant       to see an event like this at       the Glasgow Film Festival &#8212; a real privilege to get to see these films and       hear from the directors"       (5.3).
As a result of the event's success, Gardner chose "Welcome to       Germany" as the country       focus for the 2012 Festival and invited Kemp to organize a strand entitled       "Weimarvellous" (5.1).
Following the event, Bradley was invited to collaborate with the       Glasgow-based company Theatre       Found on two public events campaigning against censorship of the arts.
She       gave a talk on       theatre censorship at Our Narrowing World, hosted at the Tron       Theatre, Glasgow, during Scottish       Refugee Week (22 June 2011).
Bradley's talk set out the challenges that       theatre poses to       censors, as well as the differences between the censorship of theatre,       film and literature.
It thus       set the context for presentations by the Artistic Director of the Belarus       Free Theatre and a human       rights activist from Iran.
Carrie Newman, the Artistic Director of Theatre       Found, explains that       Bradley's academic input was essential as the company was only just       starting to campaign against       censorship: "coming from a theatre background, we had a real learning       curve [to find out] about       the subject matter" (5.2).
It was important for the company "to have       support from the academic       side to be able to deal with questions which we weren't in a position to       answer [...].
It aided us and       the audience to feel supported" (5.2).
Bradley created a multimedia GDR strand for Theatre Found's three-day       follow-up event on       censorship at the Forest Caf&#233; during the Edinburgh Fringe (9-11 August       2011).
She prepared an       hour-long radio drama on GDR theatre censorship, entitled "To Ban or Not       to Ban" and recorded       by Theatre Found.
The radio drama presented readings from four plays       featured in Bradley's       monograph, accompanied by readings of censorship reports on the plays and       their productions.
Bradley selected and translated this material, and she wrote a commentary       that set the extracts in       context.
Newman explains that this dramatization made the material       accessible to the audience: "it       really came to life [...] because it was being said and performed by       another human being"; "it was       dramatised in a manner whereby an audience could make associations and       connect with it, and       possibly in a more direct way than if they were sitting in the room       reading it" (5.2).
Bradley also       gave a talk entitled "East German Theatre Censorship: The Role of the       Audience" and prepared a       wall display of poems and songs in which GDR artists challenged       censorship.
Newman explains       that "the use of the audio [performances] and the displays really brought       things together: people       were able to contemplate them without feeling rushed, and they really took       the time for it and were       inspired to hear the talk too, so there were different elements that       really added to the experience"       (5.2).
By showing how censorship was dismantled recently in the GDR,       Bradley strengthened the       political argument for combating censorship in other contexts.
This came       out clearly when Bradley       joined Dr John Bates (University of Glasgow) in leading a Q&amp;A session       on film clips of the work of       the Belarus Free Theatre.
On 29 September 2011, Bradley delivered a lecture at the National Library       of Scotland (NLS) on       "The Secret of East German Censorship", in connection with the NLS       exhibition Banned Books.
The lecture explored why the GDR authorities refused to admit that they       practised censorship, and       what implications this denial had for East German writers and theatre       practitioners; it thus       provided a distinctive perspective on censorship that complemented the       exhibition.
The lecture       sold out, with 100 attendees and a waiting list of 20, and the audience       survey gave the lecture the       top rating of 5, i.e.
excellent (5.7).
Bradley wrote a short article on       artistic responses to the East       German ban of the Soviet news digest Sputnik, a publication held       by the NLS.
The article was       published in issue 19 of the NLS magazine Discover (with a print       run of 9,000 copies) to coincide       with the exhibition (5.8).
