     `Beyond Macbeth' brought the malleable, user-sensitive elements of the       Shakespearean text to public consciousness in a manner that encouraged a       wide range of users to interact directly with Shakespeare's work and its       history.
It led directly to a public exhibition held at the NLS between       December 2011 and April 2012.
Final visitor numbers were 26,628 and       achieved truly global reach, with visitors from 21 countries and 4       continents.
The exhibition was followed by an innovative web feature,       `Shakespeare Collected', offering access to early editions, annotations       and scrapbooks, hosted on the National Library's servers from December       2011 onwards.
The major impacts achieved by the project were in presenting       cultural heritage in an innovative, collaborative way; contributing to       professional practice and economic prosperity in the curatorial sector;       and the creation of educational resources.
(Corroborating sources: 5.2,       5.5)     The public benefitted from the innovative presentation of the Library's       under-researched Shakespeare holdings.
The emphasis in the research on       patterns of reception and collection over the centuries underpinned the       structure of both exhibition and web feature: both were able to make an       organising principle of the different approaches of the individual       collectors who brought these collections together.
At the same time, the       focus on the interventionist attitudes of collectors, readers and scholars       to the material form of the Shakespearean text led directly to the       exhibition's inclusion of an interactive zone in which visitors were       encouraged to make their own interventions in Shakespeare's work through       costume design, magnetic poetry and printing-stamp sonnets.
The web       feature similarly included a scrapbooking activity permitting users to       extract and arrange excerpts from or images of Shakespearean texts.
Comments in the visitors book (left by visitors to the exhibition and the       school students who participated in the learning programme) included,       `Really good - like hearing people's ideas &amp; opinions and seeing how       Shakespeare was viewed throughout the centuries'; `I am a Shakespearephile       &amp; think this is a good interactive exhibition - for everyone to try';       `This is fascinating.
A glimpse to tempt a closer look'; `Wonderful and       inventive take on Shakespeare and his collectors'; `Didn't realise there       were so many Scottish connections'; `All the way from California to see       this.
Wonderful!'.
This feedback demonstrates that the exhibition       convincingly articulated the contemporary relevance of Scotland's literary       and cultural history.
The interactive focus also guided the construction       of an e-postcard facility, enabling visitors to the exhibition to assemble       image and text for an e-card that could be sent to a recipient of their       choice - more than 500 such e-cards were sent.
(Corroborating sources:       5.1, 5.2, 5.5, 5.8)     The fact that the project partnership originated with the research meant       that the NLS benefitted directly from the research from the outset.
The       same emphasis on the material form of the Shakespearean word described       above informed the textual street installations, a key element in the       marketing campaign for the exhibition, `The Word on the Street', which won       a Marketing Society Scotland Gold award (arts and culture sector) in 2013       and was also nominated for the 2012 Scottish Creative Awards.
NLS received       &#163;88k of the funding given to the project to cover the costs of designing       and building the exhibition, web feature and learning resources.
NLS also       received a corporate benefit as Vincent had 10% of her time for the       duration of the project bought out to enable her to undertake       bibliographical research.
The library benefitted in developing an       increased understanding of its early modern drama collections as a result       of the research, and of their place in the wider range of its own Scottish       collections and of collections of early modern drama held elsewhere.
The       opening of the exhibition garnered initial media coverage for the NLS with       an advertising-value equivalent of &#163;19k, and prompted a feature article by       Alan Taylor in the Herald on 14 December 2011.
The exhibition was       also cited in the Scottish parliament by Fiona Hyslop, MSP, Cabinet       Secretary for Culture and External Affairs, as a prime example of how `the       National Library ensures that the past is brought to life in a modern       context... [and] its exhibitions and events remind visitors of the       enduring relevance of the collections' (Scottish Parliament Official       Report, 15 March 2012).
(Corroborating sources: 5.3-5.6)     The project had an educational benefit, creating resources for schools       which articulated the contemporary relevance of Scottish literary and       cultural heritage.
It directly informed the creation of online Shakespeare       resources for primary and secondary school students in the NLS's digital       Learning Zone, which invites young users to explore character through       visual representations across the centuries, and to engage interactively       with sonnets by taking them apart, rearranging them, reassembling them by       rhyme pattern, and writing sonnets using randomly generated words.
The web       feature includes a full online catalogue of the temporary exhibition, plus       fully digitised texts of key items and explanatory / contextual apparatus,       as well as bibliographic descriptions of the collections, biographical       information on the collectors and the scrapbook feature.
The Learning Zone       resources were complemented by a programme of school activities that ran       throughout the exhibition period, including workshops delivered at NLS by       the Citizens Theatre, Glasgow, and outreach work in schools throughout       East Lothian.
The project therefore impacted particularly on school-age       users.
543 people engaged in the programme of educational activities       inspired by the research, ranging from primary school pupils to adult       learners and older people.
Feedback comments from school students       included: `I found it very enjoyable and quite exhilarating.
My favourite       parts were thinking up insults and doing the scene about the argument       between Macbeth and his wife.
I will use the insults to vent off my anger       next time I need to'; `Thank you very much for our Shakespeare workshop.
I       was a bit worried about it before I went in because I wasn't a big fan of       Shakespeare, but my views changed over the time.'
(Corroborating sources:       5.7, 5.8)
