     A commitment to enhancing the broader impact of its research was built       into the Stevenson project from its inception.
The impacts described here       all occurred during the process of the project, in a series of activities       accompanying work on the edition that helped members of the public to       develop an enhanced appreciation both of the work of the National Library       of Scotland, and of how textual scholarship can enrich cultural capital.
Between October and December 2011, a public engagement programme, jointly       organized by the NLS and SWINC, mounted a series of three public talks and       workshops at the NLS, presented under the general title What Are You         Reading?.
This directly introduced over 200 members of the public to       the Library's extensive Stevenson holdings, offering the opportunity to       gain hands-on experience of textual scholarship, to appreciate the       changing receptions of this major Scottish author, and to understand the       nature and purposes of the NLS collections.
The three events drew directly       on the Stevenson Edition team's findings and NLS holdings.
The first       offered lectures on the textual history of canonical works such as Hamlet       and Ulysses; the second discussed the value of edited texts for       general readers along with an electronic demonstration of digital editing.
The third event was a group workshop in which live problems generated by       work on the edition were explored in small groups led by members of the       Stevenson editorial team.
Possible solutions were investigated and       participants generated their own mini-editions to take away.
The programme       was booked out with 100 people at each of the first and second events, and       3 groups of 6 attending the workshops.
Participants were mainly       Scottish-based but also came from the rest of the UK, France, Germany,       Asia and the USA.
(Corroborating sources: 5.1, 5.6)     Impact on members of the public is evident in various forms.
Firstly,       participants' understanding of the role and purpose of the NLS was       expanded by enabling them to see the workings behind the public face of       the library.
They were engaged not just, as already interested readers,       with an author's works, but with the obligations involved in the       acquisition and management of the collections of a copyright library, in       particular why the NLS should collect so many different editions of the       same work.
The edition team also brought the public `inside' the process       of its own research, by enabling participants to observe and even try for       themselves the methods of textual scholarship used by the edition.
This       generated a substantially increased appreciation of the vital but often       overlooked role that textual scholarship plays in understanding of       Stevenson's (and other authors') work and significance.
Questionnaire       responses testified to these changed perspectives.
Of 82 respondents to       questionnaires over the 3 events, 46 reported they had a new perspective       on texts and almost half said they now understood how specific examples of       textual scholarship worked.
The interactive element of the final workshops       was particularly valued (`It was very unusual and was very       interesting to have the experience of a workshop with hands-on       experience').
Participants reported changes in personal engagement with       literature, suggesting they had gained, `an awareness of editing processes       and the incentive to consider differences in editions and the consequences       of these differences'; `Definitely sparks curiosity and the desire for       more in depth discussions &amp; thinking.'
(Corroborating source: 5.6)     Beyond the What are you Reading?
events, research for the edition       has also led not only to a significant widening of public access to the       full corpus of Stevenson's writing, but to the engagement of general       readers with questions surrounding the editing, reception and continuing       significance of his works.
This is apparent from media attention during       the early stages of the edition: for example, the decision to regroup the       short stories according to Stevenson's own wishes was covered in The         Observer (24.4.2011) and The Scotsman (27.4.2011).
A       significantly widening body of readers has also been drawn in via the       project's interactive blog that directly engages the public with the       textual editing of Stevenson's works.
Traffic on the blog has increased       dramatically since it was launched in July 2010, from 426 visits in the       first year to over 7k in 2013.
Much of this traffic comes from outside the       academy, and members of the public have been active in themselves       suggesting manuscript readings for the edition and possible sources for       elements of Stevenson's texts.
The project blog has thus created an active       on-going forum for exchange and development, demonstrating how the impacts       of the research are extending well beyond the workshop series.
(Corroborating sources: 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.8)     The project brought significant benefit to the National Library of       Scotland.
The Royal Society of Edinburgh grant covers the costs for both       the digitized archive of NLS Stevenson holdings, and the material costs of       workshop 3 in the What Are You Reading?
series.
That programme       specifically helped the Library to communicate and demonstrate to a wider       audience the value of its work in preserving and presenting Stevenson's       writings, and the importance of its collections of multiple editions of       the same work.
It also offered opportunities for the use of these       resources beyond the professional scholarly community.
This was clearly       appreciated by participants (`A different `take' on the usual book centred       talks'), with two thirds of questionnaire respondents saying they would       definitely attend future NLS events.
The NLS Events Officer confirmed that       the project had introduced new practices in communicating the Library's       mission: `the events have been a huge success ....
It is the Library's       mission to provide access to and promote the remarkable items that we hold       in our collection and this programme of events has done this effectively       through its series of fascinating lectures ... and workshops'.
(Corroborating sources: 5.1, 5.6, 5.7)     The Stevenson project was devised so that its initial impact on       participants of the NLS programme will continue to extend to new,       potentially global communities of readers.
The digitization project will       provide the Library with a valuable upgraded public-access searchable       electronic archive of its Stevenson holdings.
While attracting new users       of the collections, this will also disseminate the project's developing       insights into Stevenson's working practices, readership and significance       during his lifetime.
As this resource grows it will build up a complete       picture of his works' textual history which will be available to all NLS       users.
This extended reach is in keeping with the Stevenson project's       emphasis on enabling general readers to make richer judgments about       literary texts and the significance of their cultural history.
(Corroborating source: 5.5)
