     The insights provided by McCartney's work in Applied Theatre have       produced significant, direct       benefits for an international constituency of disenfranchised or       vulnerable client groups, and       theatre practitioners.
In April 2012 McCartney was invited to conduct a series of workshops with       Rachel's House, a       nationally-recognized prisoner re-entry programme for female ex-offenders       in the State of Ohio,       USA.
Many of the women involved in Rachel's House are extremely       vulnerable, subject to drug       addictions and at risk of homelessness as they re-enter mainstream       society.
Their vulnerability       means that many lead very disordered lives.
Through a series of one-to-one       interviews and       workshop writing exercises McCartney encouraged and instructed the women       in creating a       dramatic narrative using their own lives as material.
Dr Susann Marks, the       Co-director of Rachel's       House confirms that the process validated the women's experiences and       "facilitated constructive       reflection on the challenges facing them."
In a documentary of the       project, one participant       commented that McCartney's unique method of treating life as story created       a safe, creative       environment in which this woman could develop insights into her past       behavior: "She's       [McCartney] a life-saver, really, because she can talk to you and get you       to say things that I would       normally keep inside."
Another participant, who was addicted to crack       cocaine, found that shaping       her life story into a dramatic narrative enabled her to fill in gaps in       her memory due to her drug       use.
Dr Marks commented that McCartney's method thus provided the women       with "a narrative       for how to avoid situations that may contribute to relapse, thus providing       another tool in the       prevention of future recidivism."
(Corroborating sources 5.1, 5.2)     The enabling benefits of McCartney's Applied Theatre process were       complemented by the       previously unavailable opportunity for the prisoners to work with a       professional dramaturge, to       develop new skills, and to participate more fully in public discourse       surrounding the re-entry of ex-       offenders into society.
This aspect of the project has been especially       valuable to the participants:       one remarked that by "tell[ing] my story, maybe [it] will help others";       for another woman,       McCartney's work helped her to see that they were not telling "just one       story, it's many stories as       one".
(Corroborating sources 5.1, 5.2)     The Rachel's House project itself is a further beneficiary of McCartney's       methodology, which       provides them with previously unavailable means to fulfill their mission.
A draft version of a single       play based on the women's experiences was read for the women and staff by       professional actors       in April 2013.
Dr Marks affirmed that this had the "specific effect of       helping staff to reflect on their       own ways of working," particularly for one member of staff who "resolved       to rethink her approach       to sharing in a group setting."
The play has also raised international       awareness of Rachel's       House: the draft was staged as part of the Traverse Theatre's Dream Play       project, during the       2012 Edinburgh Fringe.
Joyce MacMillan, theatre critic for The Scotsman,       called it "one of the key       performances of this year's fringe."
(Corroborating sources: 5.2, 5.3)     The impact of McCartney's work has extended to influencing the use of       Applied Theatre methods       by professional theatre practitioners and educators internationally.
In       October 2011 she returned       to Moscow to train professional playwrights and directors in using her       methods of Applied Theatre       with high-school age students, as part of the Big Break Children's       Festival (jointly funded by       British Council Moscow and Teatre Praktika, a Moscow-based theatre       company).
This 2-day       professional seminar was followed by a 4-day playwriting workshop attended       by 8 teachers and       24 pupils from eight Moscow public schools.
One teacher declared       afterwards that he would       "apply in my professional activities" the strategies introduced by       McCartney.
In 2012 she was       keynote speaker at the Theatre Leaders of the Future Summer School funded       by the Moscow       Ministry of Culture at the Meyerhold Centre, in Moscow, which was attended       by 40 practitioners.
Here McCartney lectured on the importance of Applied Theatre in terms of       both audience       development and personal/social development within communities, and how to       link these two       strands through performance; and a practical session on how to adapt       artistic practice to working       with specific client groups.
She returned again in June 2013 to give the       keynote address to 40       practitioners, as well as a week-long workshop with 20 theatre       administrators and critics, on using       drama with high-school children.
The Head of the Theatre Leaders School       confirmed that       McCartney's work was "ground-breaking in a Russian Theatre context", and       that McCartney       "presented the community of Russian theatre professionals with an entirely       new and innovative       way of working with disenfranchised groups and individuals."
(corroborating sources 5.4, 5.5)
