 The work undertaken by Griffiths et al.
has already had significant impact in informing debate amongst practitioners and volunteers and in redefining best practice in the field.
In addition to the new research (see section 3, publications i, ii, iii, iv), a key element of this project has been consultation and engagement between the academic team and professionals and volunteers on the ground.
The NERC Knowledge Exchange project had the support of all three statutory agencies (Natural England, Countryside Council for Wales and Scottish Natural Heritage) and the main NGO working in this area, Amphibian and Reptile Conservation Trust (ARC Trust), as well as major environmental consultancies that carry out surveys on behalf of developer clients.
As part of the NERC project, four workshops were conducted (one each in Scotland and Wales and two in England) to disseminate the results of the research and obtain input from the professional and voluntary sector (section 5, points A, C, D, E).
Griffiths was subsequently asked to organise a further workshop (in South West England) that was funded externally.
Ninety-one personnel attended these workshops, with stakeholders from all sectors represented (i.e.
government and non-government organisations, consultants, scientists, planners and volunteers).
Feedback questionnaires from the workshops were overwhelmingly positive (e.g.
`Very grateful to the DICE team for sharing emerging best practice') and were used to identify future training needs at a final workshop on 19 December 2012.
This was aimed at professionals engaged with the design and delivery of survey training courses and was attended by a further 16 personnel.
In addition to these stakeholder workshops, the project outputs and updates were presented annually at the Herpetofauna Workers' Meetings from 2010-2013 (c.150-200 delegates per year, drawn from professional, government and voluntary sectors).
Through discussion and dissemination at these events the new protocols have already informed practitioner debate and had a significant impact on survey practice in Britain (see section 5, points A, D, E).
A project report summarising the research and workshop outputs was published in March 2013 (`Survey protocols for the British herpetofauna.
Version 1.0').
It has been widely disseminated to project partners and placed on the ARC Trust website.
This document will be used by the ARC Trust as the key reference document for guidance and consultation (see section 5, points B, C).
The results of the research are also now being adopted as policy guidance provided by the government conservation agencies in Britain (Natural England, Countryside Council for Wales and Scottish Natural Heritage), and subsequently by professional consultants and NGOs involved with survey and monitoring (see section 5, points A, C, D, E for details, relevant quotes from those statements are below).
For example the Countryside Council for Wales (CCW) states: `The results from this project will be used to inform standardised methods which can be applied at a range of scales to inform us better of local site importance and statutory site management as well as providing a better basis for licence application assessments.
The development of further standardised guidance for both CCW staff and other regulatory bodies in Wales (Environment Agency and Forestry Commission) will be of great benefit to our current process of bringing other WAG agencies into line with protected species licensing requirements.'
Jim Foster, Amphibian and Reptile Conservation: `The NERC KE project has also been helpful in developing ARC's research and monitoring agenda.
We work with a range of researchers and students, and the work done under the NERC KE project has prompted us to re-assess which areas are of key interest.'
John McKinnell of Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) states: `The development of better protocols which better assess population size and sustainability is very important to our role.'
Paul Edgar of Natural England states: `The Amphibian and Reptile Survey Protocols produced by DICE have made an immediate, vital and outstanding impact to our work and will greatly improve our monitoring and surveillance efforts for these species.'
Conclusion The impacts of this project are significant, wide-ranging and far-reaching.
The research has already informed debate and improved best practice amongst conservation professionals and volunteers.
The new protocols are being adopted into policy guidance in England, Wales and Scotland.
They will help improve the management and conservation of important amphibian and reptile species; and they also have economic advantages for planners, developers and environmental consultancies who will benefit from the more streamlined and science-based approach to monitoring.
Moreover, the protocols are likely to have a wider impact, for example in informing initiatives such as the National Ecosystem Assessment, and with strong potential for international adoption in future.
