     This project delivered the first full, research-led staging of a       Henrician interlude in the Hall, and was       used by HCP to pilot performance research as part of their curatorial and       interpretative work.
Various hypotheses advanced in Walker's research concerning the       interaction between actors,       audiences and the symbolic geography of the hall were tested in       performance.
As visitors were       able to observe rehearsals as well as performances, the project involved       the public in the benefits       of this collaboration throughout.
AHRC Assessors for one of the project's       follow-on activities (with       Historic Scotland, described below) noted, `The impact plan is a really       wonderful example of how       Universities and non-HEIs can work together to explore central aspects of       our cultural life and       make a real difference to the mediation of a historic building to its       local and national communities.'
(Corroborating sources: 5.1, 5.3, 5.5)     Michael Day, CEO of Historic Royal Palaces (HRP, the parent organization       for HCP),       acknowledged that Staging played "a pivotal role" in motivating       and informing HRP's new research       strategy.
The project has had a lasting impact on the practices of both       HCP and HRP, who have       benefited from the chance to collaborate on research-led performances that       both embodied       collaborative research and piloted new modes of audience and visitor       engagement through       performance.
The collaborations created synergies between the hitherto       separate (and mutually       wary) Curatorial and Interpretative departments: curators gained insights       into how interpretative       staff might inform their own research practice, and interpreters how their       work might both be       informed by and enable performance research.
HCP's initial commitment can       be judged from their       contribution of &#163;105k in kind to Staging.
As Day confirms, the       insights learned `will continue to       inform HRP's planning and policies with respect to the relationship       between research and the       visitor experience', and has been a contributory factor in HRP's decision       to apply, most       immediately, for Independent Research Organization status.
(Corroborating       sources: 5.2, 5.3, 5.5)     The links with HCP and HRP have initiated an ongoing collaboration,       including productions of `A       Little Neck', produced by Betteridge and informed by Walker's research,       and The Rover.
Furthermore, Walker and Betteridge collaborated with Historic Scotland in       a &#163;939k AHRC-funded       research-driven production of Lyndsay's Satire of the Three Estates       at Linlithgow Palace and       Stirling Castle (June 2013), drawing directly on insights gained from       `Staging' and the working       relationships established with HRP.
The transferability of the       performance-research model thus       demonstrates that the project has achieved an enduring and open-ended set       of impacts.
(Corroborating source: 5.4)     The project also had considerable impact on wider public audiences.
Rehearsals were themselves       made part of the visitor experience, with signage and guides' commentary       pointing out that such       performances were part of the ceremonial and cultural life of the Tudor       palace.
Visitors thus gained       a deepened sense of both the historical intellectual and cultural context       of the building, and of its       enduring relevance as a performance space.
Day commented, "Prior to the       success of Staging the         Henrician Court HRP was concerned that engaging in large scale       research projects in public       spaces at Hampton Court would be detrimental to the visitor experience.
Staging         the Henrician         Court demonstrated that this was not the case."
Indeed the project       had "an extremely positive       impact on day visitors."
Additionally, both HCP and its visitors have       benefitted from the contextual       support to HCP's visitor attractions achieved through both the rehearsals       and performances and       through Walker and Betteridge's involvement with HCP's Research Advisory       Panel for the `Henry       VIII 2009' exhibition (Betteridge as Chair), offering expert advice       regarding the events.
(Corroborating sources: 5.2, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7)     The project has achieved extensive reach.
Audiences of 140 HRP       professionals and the public       attended the productions in 2009 and 2010, and thousands of visitors       passed through the Hall       while rehearsals were in progress.
Although it is difficult to quantify       the exact extent of the       rehearsal's impact on visitor figures, Day notes that in 2009 HRP saw an       increase of 43%       (115,287) in visitor numbers, far in excess of their targeted 10%       increase.
Furthermore, the       project's impact has been extended via the successful transformation of       the research into other       media, including films of the performances on the project website,       interviews with researchers and       participants, and a wiki.
The project was highlighted in RCUK's       publication What's in it for Me?
: the         Benefits of Public Engagement for Researchers (p.22), and in the       AHRC's Annual Report and       Accounts for 2010-11 as a case study of good practice in `Supporting the       Cultural Sector', which       noted that, "Staging the...The Play of the Weather       (1532/33)...enabled a public audience to       experience the Great Hall as it once was.
It also allowed the project       team, with the involvement of       the general public, to test academic theories about the management of       space in Henry's court."
(p.7).
(Corroborating sources: 5.1, 5.2, 5.5, 5.8)
