     The Higher is an examination taken by pupils in the fifth or sixth year       of secondary education in Scotland.
In 2012 9550 pupils &#8212; 12 per cent of       the cohort in Scottish schools &#8212; took the history examination (email to       Cameron from HM Inspector, Education Scotland, 14/1/2013) (see 5.1).
In       2009 a compulsory Scottish history module in paper 2 of the examination       was introduced.
Pupils choose from five `topics' each of which is divided       into six `issues'.
Prior to 2009 there was Scottish content embedded in       topics on modern British history and some modules on specific Scottish       topics, including migration and devolution, but they were not compulsory.
There was limited interaction between academic historians and the teaching       profession and the use of scholarly research in the classroom was less       marked.
In the first half of 2009 Devine and Cameron were among the historians       consulted by the teachers tasked with the development of the materials for       teaching the option courses.
Cameron, for example, was consulted by the       history teacher at Jordanhill School, Glasgow, who developed the module on       Scotland and the Great War (5.2).
Professor Dauvit Broun of the University       of Glasgow, the Convener of the Council of the Scottish History Society       (SHS) (5.6), coordinated the links between teachers and academic       historians on the basis that those who had demonstrated the ability to       conduct detailed research and relate it in an accessible way to an       audience beyond the academy would be most useful to classroom teachers.
It       is this characteristic that is central to the impact of the work of Devine       and Cameron in the classroom.
The Chief Examiner for the Scottish       Qualifications Authority, a teacher in a Glasgow school commented: `Tom       Devine's work on The Scottish Nation has proven to be the starting point       for much of the curriculum as well as a much mined source of information       for examinations.
It is an accessible text so has been used for pupils in       researching many of the topics that now come up at extended essay.
Your       own [i.e.
Cameron's] book has also had an influence in developing the       Impact of the Great War topic in that it has been used for setting       [extracts from it have been used as `sources' for exam questions in paper       2] and has excellent concise sections on the impact of the war on society       and politics in Scotland.
I alone have bought 6 books for use in my       department by colleagues and students alike' (correspondence with Cameron,       29/8/2012) (5.3).
The primary research which underpins the books has also       been commented on by teachers.
An Edinburgh teacher wrote to Cameron,       referring to his work and that of Devine: `The authors' use of extensive       primary research is very helpful as Paper 2 is a Source based paper'       (email to Cameron, 13/9/2012) (5.4).
Ongoing links between academic       historians and the teaching profession, and based on the research of the       former, have been developed by the SHS and the Scottish Association of       Teachers of History.
The President of the latter commented: `No longer is       the curriculum set in stone but its evolutionary nature demands that       schools are continually fed up to date research findings.
Furthermore the       search for source material and assessment material is enhanced by the work       of Cameron and Devine' (correspondence with Cameron, 16/9/2012) (5.5 and       5.7).
Further, in the early summer of 2009, Cameron and Devine, along with many       other Scottish historians from a range of institutions, appeared in a       series of video resources (5.8 and 5.9) made available through the       organisation Learning Teaching Scotland (LTS) now merged into a new       national organisation called Education Scotland (5.1).
Teachers have       indicated that they use these materials regularly and that the `talking       heads' have become very familiar to the pupils.
Between November 2009 and       July 2013 the `Great War' page received 3592 unique visitors (generating       9367 page views) whilst the `Migration and Empire' page received 2911       unique visitors (generating 9041 page views) (email to Cameron from the       Online Quality Assurance Analyst, Education Scotland, 7/8/2013).
The       particular value of this material is that it draws out key themes in       published research and makes very specific links to the `issues' which       form the building blocks of each module.
A further aspect of the impact of the research is the citation of the       published works referred to above in textbooks written for teachers and       pupils engaged in the new curriculum, such as John Kerr's Scotland and         the Impact of the Great War, 1914 to 1928 (London, Hodder Gibson,       2010) and Simon Wood's Migration and Empire, 1830 to 1939 (London,       Hodder Gibson, 2011), pp.
96, 106.
These textbooks have been written as       part of a series to help pupils prepare for the examination questions in       these topics.
The entire syllabus is covered in each case and, at the       moment, these textbooks have the field to themselves.
Extracts from the       work of both Cameron and Devine have been used as `sources' for analysis       in the Higher examination paper.
