     In 2002, the African Union (AU) replaced the Organization of African       Unity (OAU) with a mandate to pursue continental unity.
In 2007, the AU       set up the African Union Border Programme (AUBP) on the premise that       international borders were likely to become sites of conflict (especially       over resources such as oil and water) as well as obstacles to integration       unless they were treated as a governance priority.
The AUBP was tasked       with developing the modalities for properly demarcating all of Africa's       borders and for developing strategies for promoting cross-border       cooperation in association with member states and the Regional Economic       Communities.
Prof. A.I.
Asiwaju (University of Lagos), with whom Nugent       had previously collaborated, was appointed to the AUBP steering committee,       and recommended Nugent as an external expert on the basis of his       expertise.
In March 2007, Nugent was invited to participate in an Experts       Meeting in Bamako, and to a subsequent meeting in Djibouti in December.
At       these meetings, Nugent drew on his research findings to underline the       importance of going beyond a top-down approach to cross-border       co-operation and of factoring in local initiatives and perspectives.
He       also highlighted the knowledge deficit that exists with respect to border       regions.
Both of these insights have now been built into the objectives of       AUBP.
i) Making the connection between research and practice     In preparation for the second conference of African Ministers in Charge       of Border Issues, which took place in Addis Ababa 22-25 March 2010, Nugent       was invited with Asiwaju to write the document that dealt with       capacity-building for the AUBP (see 5.1).
It foregrounded the importance       of bringing together research and policy, and insisted on the importance       of identifying centres of excellence for borderlands research in Africa       and beyond.
This document, entitled `Human Resources Development for the       AUBP' was presented by Nugent at the meeting of governmental       representatives and invited experts the day before the full Ministerial       meeting, and was adopted as one of the official documents of the African       Union (5.2).
The document also specified a road-map for 2010-12 and hence       formed part of the operating plan for capacity-building within the AUBP.
Its importance lay partly in tying together the boundary demarcation and       cross-border co-operation dimensions.
However, it also foregrounded the       importance of treating borders research as something other than an       optional extra.
In April 2011, Nugent was invited to participate in the       mid-term review of AUBP.
At this meeting on 3-5 April, identifying centres       of excellence for borderlands research in Africa was underlined as a       priority for the coming years.
Nugent subsequently assisted GIZ (the       German Development Agency) in beginning to map existing centres of       borderlands research in Africa and was asked to help in identifying a       number of centres of excellence which it might support - all with a view       to assisting the work of AUBP (5.8).
The importance of grounded research       for meaningful policy inventions has, therefore, been fully internalized       by AUBP and Nugent has played a significant role in making this happen.
At the same time, Nugent has been engaged in building the networks       necessary for this interaction to occur.
In 2007, Nugent initiated the       formation of the African Borderlands Research Network (ABORNE), which held       its first meeting in Edinburgh and quickly secured network funding from       the European Science Foundation.
It is chaired by Nugent and is run from       the Centre of African Studies at the University of Edinburgh (which is       also directed by Nugent).
Although ABORNE was primarily envisaged as a       network of academic researchers, it welcomed practitioners and expressed       its intention to engage with the policy community.
Subsequently in 2010 a       Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Nugent and the head of Peace and       Security Division of the AU, which outlines specific areas in which ABORNE       can assist the AU in building its own capacity (e.g.
in relation to       building a database of maps and treaties), raising awareness of border       issues and helping to build a responsive research community in Africa       (5.3).
ii) Informing policy on `regional integration from below'     `Regional integration from below' is a concept that has developed since       the 1990s, but its practical implications were never fleshed out to any       great extent.
The research (see 2) has led to outcomes in three areas.
Firstly, it has contributed to the practical debate about sequencing.
The       `Human Resources Development' document (produced by Nugent and Asiwaju)       (5.2) highlighted the importance of balancing a focus on short-term       initiatives, where results can be quickly obtained, with addressing the       need for long-term structural transformations in the way borderlands are       managed.
Secondly, the research has helped to inform the debate about the       importance of supporting the local efforts of border communities and it       has been used to emphasise the point that the erasure of borders might       actually be considered detrimental to the interests of certain border       populations, without compensatory mechanisms in place.
As a result, in       Article 16 of the declaration approved by African Ministers (5.4), they       endorsed the importance of supporting local initiatives.
Examples of local       initiatives subsequently supported by the AUBP have been documented in a       short film (5.5).
The research has also been drawn on to distil some of the lessons of       European integration for African policymakers at a time when the European       Union, the AU and the RECs are seeking to work together more closely.
In       2012 Nugent was contacted by the head of Cross-Border Cooperation at       ECOWAS, who expressed a wish to send a delegation to learn more about the       European experience of cross-border cooperation (5.9).
In Edinburgh (May       2012) Nugent convened the first ever meeting between ECOWAS, the European       Commission and the Association of European Border Regions (AEBR) which has       been at the forefront of promoting cross-border cooperation from below in       Europe (5.10 and 5.11).
A joint statement was drafted by Nugent on behalf       of the participants which was subsequently posted on the AEBR website       (5.6).
The ECOWAS head of Cross-Border Cooperation described this as a       `very fruitful meeting, the results of which will be vigorously pursued by       the ECOWAS Commission' (5.9).
In addition, Nugent set up a meeting between       the ECOWAS delegation and the Republic of Ireland-Northern Ireland       North-South Joint Ministerial Council which was equally successful.
In Oct       2012 Nugent was invited to speak at the European Union Open Day, alongside       the heads of AUBP and AEBR, on the subject of what Africa can learn from       the experience of cross-border cooperation in Europe (5.7).
