     The research activities of the SCDS have:     (i) Shaped new public understanding of the history of Scottish         emigration since the sixteenth-century, leading to wide recognition of         the phenomenon as global in scope.
Since its foundation in 2008 the SCDS has hosted 12 major public events -       mostly in the form of public lectures or multi-contributor debates (linked       to research outlined above) - which have attracted average audiences of       200-300 people.
Questionnaires completed afterwards demonstrated that       fresh ideas and new perspectives had been communicated effectively (an       average of 70 per cent of returned responses) on such themes as: effect of       diaspora on the homeland; Scots and slavery; imperial role of Scots; and       global reach of the Scottish diaspora.
Invitation lectures on the Scottish       diaspora have been given at public events hosted by other institutions       such as the NMS (Dec 2011), the RSE Christmas Lecture (Dec 2011), webcast       by the BBC, the Fife Lectures organised and chaired by former PM Gordon       Brown MP (Dec 2012), the two Edinburgh Festivals of History (Nov 2011       &amp; 2012) and the Edinburgh International Book Festival (August, 2009,       2010, &amp; 2011).
Since 2008 research findings by the above members of       SCDS have generated 144 examples of detailed coverage in the national or       international media.
To The Ends of the Earth (Devine, 2011) has sold over 8,000 copies       in the UK (5,000 in the first four months after publication), was       discussed on Radio 4's Start the Week (Dec 2012), serialised over       5 days in the Scotsman (Aug 2011), reviewed in the Independent,       TLS, Guardian, London Review of Books, THE,       Spectator, New Statesman, Scotland on Sunday, The         Times and Observer, and chosen as a Book of the Year for       2011 by the Spectator, New Statesman, Scottish Review         of Books, Herald, History Scotland Magazine and Scotsman.
First Minister Alex Salmond selected it as his book of the year,       highlighting its ability to `look beneath the myth' and enable `greater       understanding' of the Scottish diaspora (Herald, 27/11/2011).
Extensive media interest in To the Ends of the Earth disseminated       widely the research findings of Devine and colleagues on the global reach       of Scottish migrations, comparisons with the diasporic experience of other       ethnicities, the impact of large-scale emigration on the homeland and the       hitherto neglected and controversial role of Scots in Atlantic slave       economies.
The 2012 award to Devine of both the RSE's Beltane Senior Prize       for Public Engagement (across all disciplines) and the RSE's Inaugural Sir       Walter Scott Senior Prize for Excellence in the Humanities and Creative       Arts, in which `impact' was one criterion in the competition, confirms the       public benefit of his work.
On 8 Aug 2012 the Scottish Parliament passed a       motion congratulating him on the Scott Prize and added that it `believes       this recognises Professor Devine's ability to communicate the fruits of       his recent research to a broad public audience' (Scottish Parliament,       Business Bulletin S4M-03805).
ii) Influenced the development of new Scottish Government policies on         engagement with the global diaspora       In April 2008 the Scottish Government published its International         Framework identifying the Scottish diaspora as a `new priority' for       `strategic development and profile-raising' (http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Publications/2008/04/23150847/2).
Researchers in the SCDS have been extremely well-placed to provide       significant knowledge and expertise to enable both the development and       delivery of this policy aim.
Devine and Delaney drew on their research on       Scottish and Irish mobility respectively when they were invited to advise       the International Networks &amp; Diaspora Unit of the Government on the       key differences between Irish and Scottish diasporic histories; this       consultation was part of the process that led to the first-ever Scottish       Government Diaspora Engagement Plan.
Devine was the keynote speaker at the       debates that took place at the Scottish Diaspora Forum held at the       Scottish Parliament in July 2009, during the first `Year of Homecoming `,       which helped to flesh out the details of the Plan.
His speech highlighted       SCDS findings on the global reach of emigration, comparisons with other       diasporas, effects on both hostlands and homeland, return migration and       the importance of so-called `affinity Scots'.
The support of the Centre       was noted in the acknowledgments in the Plan (see 5.1; 5.2).
A further indication of the impact of research findings on public policy       was the award of over &#163;200k in 2011 by the Scottish Government to SCDS to       build further research capacity, including funds for a doctoral       studentship and three postdoctoral fellowships to work on post-1945       migration history.
It is noteworthy that the Scottish Government decided       to fund advanced contemporary historical research, reflecting the advice       of SCDS that this was the area most in need of urgent attention from       scholars.
Another endorsement and recognition of the SCDS's existing       track-record of achieving high impact was the award of a grant (in 2012)       of &#163;37k for the organisation of a major international conference, `The       Global Migrations of the Scottish People: Issues, Controversies,       Challenges', in partnership with NMS, for Scottish and international       public audiences during the second `Year of Homecoming' in 2014.
The       Diaspora Policy Advisor of the Homecoming &amp; Themed Years Team,       Scottish Government, has commented on the SCDS's ability to underpin       public policy: `The Scottish Government believes the SCDS is a       world-leading centre of excellence in diaspora studies and has continued       to support the work of the Centre to ensure the necessary evidence base is       available to help inform the development and delivery of Scottish       Government diaspora policy' (email correspondence with Delaney, 16/8/2013;       5.3).
iii) Influenced new and revised museum exhibitions and displays on         empire and emigration by advising and reporting on` state of the art'         knowledge and research advances in these fields.
Three workshops aimed at curatorial staff were held in 2009 and 2010;       these were jointly hosted with the NMS and involved over 50 academic and       curatorial staff.
These events informed the thinking of curators preparing       the two new displays on Empire and Emigration in the refurbished Royal       Museum, which was reopened to the public in 2011, so ensuring that       knowledge of current scholarship on Scotland and its diaspora was       represented (5.4).
Moreover Devine acted as the academic `champion' in the       fundraising campaign, `Scotland and the World', to support the NMS during       its recent re-launch following refurbishment.
This included giving a       series of presentations to potential donors in the UK and the USA on how       new SCDS research findings were refreshing the planning of displays.
The       former NMS Director of Development, has confirmed that considerable       financial donations were accrued: `The effect of Professor Devine's       speaking at our events has been remarkable, both in terms of the quality       of response and the degree to which supporters, through gaining a new       perspective and special insights, have gone on to provide substantial       financial support' (email correspondence with Devine, 27/9/2011; 5.5).
SCDS was also a joint-applicant (Ugolini) with the NMS for a successful       bid to the RSE on Scottish diasporic military identities, the fruits of       which will ultimately be reflected in the collections of the Scottish       National War Museum in Edinburgh Castle, part of NMS.
Thus by working so closely with professional curatorial staff at the NMS,       the Centre's findings are now represented in exhibitions such as Industry       and Empire and Scotland: A Changing Nation, whilst academic advice and       review provided by colleagues assisted the creation of the new Twentieth       Century Gallery.
The Director of Collections has commented that `The       relationship with the Scottish Centre for Diaspora Studies has brought       internal and external benefits to National Museums Scotland ... [It]       provides a model as to how the Museum and Edinburgh University can work       together, extending working methods through collaboration and linking       outcomes to public benefit' (email correspondence with Delaney, 13/4/2012;       5.6).
