     (i) Innovations in Museum Collection Practices       The research has involved collaboration with staff in the NMS collections       management, photographic and website divisions in the development of the       digital catalogue/exhibition (see 5.1 and 5.2).
The NMS Director has       stated: `The Turkey Red Project was an important initiative from the       perspective of National Museums Scotland....
It has established a fruitful       approach through which a national museum can successfully collaborate with       a major academic institution to both extend the corpus of knowledge and       create real benefits to the public' (correspondence with Nenadic,       24/7/2013; 5.5).
In the opinion of the NMS Director of Collections the       project `provided tangible output on the web through presentation of the       project which is available to the public and supports the NMS's current       strategy of increasing engagement with past and present design and its       social context'.
Moreover, she has stated that the project has `opened up       possibilities for physical exhibition of material previously regarded as       too difficult to display' because `examples can now be selected with       confidence' for `major permanent displays on Art and Design' that are       currently being planned for 2016 (5.6).
The research has influenced technical collections practices within the       NMS, illustrated by the online blog of the project's NMS photographer       (5.3), which details the challenges of working with the Turkey Red       collection/research on accurate colour representation and digital       cleaning; each sample was photographed with a colour chart, and a strict       colour management work flow was set up to insure the digital processing of       the images would maintain the colour integrity of the original sample.
Indeed, the photographic process itself has revealed detail not apparent       to the naked eye; thus the project has harnessed and developed       photographic technology as an analytical tool as well as sharing these       innovative results with a wide online constituency (see also ii below).
Research on the project was undertaken in collaboration with The National       Archives (TNA), London, in order to match up sets of records in each       institution and provide online catalogue `tags' linking samples in the NMS       Turkey Red collection with Board of Trade Design Register records in TNA.
The Curatorial Research Fellow at TNA has stated: `I am delighted to       celebrate this new web resource by highlighting three significant features       of the research and its dissemination: collaboration in data collection,       identifying tagging as a new way to link museums and archives, and the       benefits of research networks' (5.7).
New initiatives elsewhere further illustrate the impact on collection       practices, including the Society of Dyers and Colourists (SDC), Bradford,       an industry charity dedicated to advancing the science of colour that       holds a collection of nineteenth-century pattern books.
Inspired by the       Turkey Red project, the SDC Colour Experience Manager invited Tuckett in       2011 to assess the contents of one of these patterns books, which was then       digitised to create an online presence to complement the NMS       exhibition/catalogue (5.8).
The project's innovative approach to textile       collections and their display has also garnered international attention.
The Senior Curator of Textiles at the Winterthur Museum of Decorative       Arts, Delaware, USA, has stated that `the combination of traditional       research and oral history that you have used for this project ... provides       a model for research on other collections, including Winterthur's' (letter       to Nenadic, 6/8/2013; 5.9).
The relationship with the Winterthur was       developed through a fellowship held by Tuckett in 2012.
(ii) Enhancing Cultural Confidence in Disadvantaged Communities       From its launch in February 2012 the project blog attracted c. 9,000 page       views from 36 countries.
The official `Colouring the Nation' online       exhibition, hosted by the NMS, attracted c. 12,000 page views in just 3       months from its launch on 23 April until 31 July 2013.
27% of all online       visitors came from Edinburgh but there were also visitors from Sao Paolo,       Spokane, Melbourne, New Delhi, Darwin, Perth (Australia), Bilbao and       Alexandria.
The research was also communicated to local public audiences       via 6 workshops, which generated awareness of movements of textiles and       design across space and time and, for some events, enhanced cultural       confidence in disadvantaged communities.
Participants at two events       engaged with the project through `showing and telling' textile-related       objects and stories, which were incorporated into the project blog.
A       workshop aimed at former Turkey Red employees and descendants was held at       Alexandria (Vale of Leven) Lomond Galleries Shopping Centre on 5 December       2012.
There were c. 50 participants who had been invited, via the project       website, to bring Turkey Red artefacts or stories that enhance       understanding of the industry and its legacy.
Artefacts photographed for       the website included quilts, previously unknown pattern samples, unique       hand tools and printing blocks, wage and pension books, and historic       photographs.
Stories were recorded for 5 former workers, the oldest aged       99.
Newspaper reporting of the project and this event generated a       Parliamentary Motion on 29/10/2012 from local MSP Jackie Baillie, with       support from a further 20 MSPs, to highlight the project's research and       community engagement.
It states `Parliament applauds the Colouring the       Nation Project, which aims to redress the perception of Scotland's       industrial past by drawing attention to Scottish industrial heritage based       on fashionable and colourful textiles' (Scottish Parliament, Business       Bulletin, S4M-04525).
Jackie Baillie and Gemma Doyle MP for West       Dunbartonshire both attended the Alexandria workshop and Ms Baillie       subsequently offered to `sponsor' an exhibition in the MSPs' area at       Holyrood to showcase the research and its impact on cultural confidence in       a disadvantaged community.
Ms Baillie has written: `An exhibition in the       Scottish Parliament reminds us all of the importance of the textile       industry to Scotland's economy...
It is exciting to think of the global       impact that the Vale of Leven and Turkey Red had on textile design that       still resonates today' (email correspondence with Nenadic 18/12/2012).
The       exhibition took place in September 2013.
(iii) Inspiration for Contemporary Design       The research has uncovered the complex design processes that generated       Turkey Red's commercial success.
The website/catalogue/exhibition have       acted as sites for education and inspiration for artists, designers and       textile entrepreneurs, including Charlotte Linton, US-based designer       specialising in high quality scarves who spent summer 2012 in Scotland on       a design fellowship.
Having been told of the Turkey Red project by       curators at Paisley Museum, she approached Nenadic for insights on       nineteenth-century design and for access to the Turkey Red collection,       which was facilitated online.
She has written: `As a designer who works       from both written and image based research, the Colouring the Nation blog       was a joy to discover... this research project is highlighting an area of       Scottish Textile history that has been forgotten and it was fascinating       for me as a textile professional to learn about it from such an accessible       source' (email to Nenadic, 8/1/2013; 5.4).
