     i) Public knowledge and discourse       Listening to Britain appeared in paperback in 2011 and is now       available in Kindle form; to date it       has sold 6,105 copies (2,752 hardback and 3,353 paperback).
As well as       receiving extensive       coverage in the literary press (see 5.1), it was the subject of three       feature articles in the popular       press: Daily Express, '1940: Britain on the Brink', 17 April 2010;       Yorkshire Post, 'Inside our Finest       Hour: the Hopes and Fears of a Nation Fighting for Survival', 19 May 2010;       and Sunday Sun,       'From Spies to Poetry: What Really Worried Us During our Finest Hour', 21       November 2010 (5.2       and 5.3).
It was 'book of the week' in the Mail on Sunday (Craig       Brown, 'On a Whinge and a       Prayer', 16 May 2010).
Addison and Crang gave interviews to BBC Radio 4's 'Today' programme       (approx.
7 million       listeners), BBC Radio Scotland's Kay Adams show, BBC Radio Humberside's       Lara King show,       BBC Radio Sussex and Surrey's Danny Pike show, and BBC Radio Northampton's       John Griff       show, and were interviewed by Radio Free Europe (approx.
20 million       listeners in 21 countries).
The book featured prominently in the BBC History Magazine, the       country's best-selling History       magazine with approximately 70,000 readers.
A co-authored article,       entitled 'In Search of the       Dunkirk Spirit' (May 2011), was published in the magazine to coincide with       the launch of the       paperback edition.
In conjunction with this, Addison and Crang were       interviewed for a BBC History         Magazine podcast (approx.
50,000 downloads of this edition) (5.5).
The Editor of Bodley Head       confirms that 'in terms of publicity and review coverage the book received       the widest possible       exposure'.
(letter to Crang, 20 April 2012) (5.6).
Listening to Britain has significantly contributed to improved       public understanding of the experience       of the 'finest hour'.
Appraisals of the volume in non-academic journals       have invariably highlighted       how the reports challenge conventional wisdom and offer the reader       surprising insights.
The         Tablet, for example, commented that: 'events recorded in this book       seem to have been forgotten       less because they are irrelevant to our historical narrative than because       they flatly contradict it.
It       therefore comes as something of a shock to read that Britain &#8212; a country       one is accustomed to       thinking of as a scourge of wartime fascists and their racism &#8212; was not       immune to moments of       bigotry itself, and in all social strata, as shown by the 13 June report       noting that "evangelical old       ladies in Tunbridge Wells satisfied at bombing of Italian Catholics"'.
(Catherine Nixey, 'Pay Close       Attention', 11 September 2010).
There is also generous testimony from informed independent commentators       to support the       perspicacity of the research.
For example, Len Deighton has described the       volume in the following       terms: 'A gripping and important history book.
The work of Addison and       Crang takes 1940 Britain       to the analyst's couch and provides a corrective to the barrage of       nonsense that has been written       about this time and place.
By eschewing modern memories in favour of       recorded emotions of the       time, they restore the objective balance that the "finest hour" needs so       badly.'
(letter to Crang, 27       August 2010).
This endorsement was subsequently used by the publisher to       publicise the       paperback edition of the book.
The views of the general reader &#8212;       especially those who might have       lived through the period but did not fully appreciate the events unfolding       around them (or that the       government was eavesdropping on them) &#8212; are also apposite here: 'My wife       and I, both in our       eighties, are enjoying this book as much of it is relevant to our young       life.
At the same time, much       of it we were not aware of.
A real eye-opener.'
(reader review posted on       Amazon website, 25 June       2010).
ii) Film-making and commissioning       In 2010 the managing director of Testimony Films, a leading UK independent       film company, read       Listening to Britain and thought that the Home Intelligence reports       relating to the Blitz, and the fact       that the government was eavesdropping on the public during these crucial       months, would make the       basis of an innovative documentary film on the experience of the bombing.
He also believed that       the programme would provide new 'angles' on the Blitz with which very few       members of the       viewing public would be familiar.
As a result, Channel 5 commissioned       Testimony Films to make       the documentary.
Crang was invited, alongside witnesses of the Blitz, to       act as the sole 'expert       talking head' in the hour-long programme and help 'interpret' the morale       reports for the viewers.
Secrets of the Blitz was broadcast on Channel 5 at prime time,       8.00pm-9.00pm, on Thursday 20       January 2011 and attracted an audience of 1.04 million.
The documentary       clearly made an       impression on the critics.
In the words of the Managing Director of       Testimony Films, 'It was pick of       the day in most of the national newspapers including the Telegraph       ("a deeply moving and       important story"), the Daily Mail ("an untold story of great       interest revealed for the first time") and       The Times ("a deeply emotional tale").
It was regarded as one of       the documentary highlights of the       year by Channel 5 and a clip of the programme was shown by them at the       Sheffield International       Documentary Festival [2011]' (letter to Crang, 24 April 2012).
Secrets         of the Blitz was subsequently       acquired by the Discovery Channel and was broadcast across Europe, Africa       and the Middle East       in 2013 (5.7) The media response to the programme is in itself further       evidence of the reach and       significance of the research in shaping public discourse.
Iii) Contemporary policy debates       A further impact relates to the role of Listening to Britain in       informing and influencing policy debate.
In January 2011 the leader of the Green party, Caroline Lucas MP, launched       the party's 'New       Home Front' policy initiative at the Imperial War Museum.
This aimed to       harness the lessons of       Britain's wartime past in order to mobilise the nation &#8212; and convince the       coalition government &#8212; to       confront more vigorously the challenges of climate change, energy       insecurity and scarce       resources.
The centre-piece of this policy initiative was the publication       of a report by Andrew       Simms (fellow, New Economics Foundation) entitled The New Home Front       (5.4).
This explored,       among other things, the ways in which wartime campaigns to cut waste,       encourage energy       conservation, substitute cultural pursuits for material consumption, and       promote a spirit of 'fair       shares for all', enabled the British people to live within their means.
The author drew on the       evidence in Listening to Britain (as well as Bernard Porter's       extensive review in the London Review         of Books) to support his case.
For example, The New Home Front       quoted a pertinent extract from       the Scottish section of the Home Intelligence report of 18 June 1940: 'It       is suggested that       Government should order all private gardens to grow at least 50%       foodstuffs.'
(The New Home         Front, p. 26).
The Green (Living) Review suggested that a       copy of The New Home Front be sent to       every household in Britain.
