     The research led to multiple, interrelated impacts which primarily affect       the making of civil society       and the influencing of public discourse.
In addition, the research has       influenced economic       behaviour, within the tourist industry.
These impacts have been achieved       through a variety of       means, especially in the form of public lectures, workshops and debates,       TV broadcasts, blog       communications, and travel tours.
Some of the research outputs have       additionally been utilised in       the education of British students.
The more specific means by which these       impacts have been       achieved, and the particulars of each impact (as well as the periods in       which these occurred) are       illustrated below in greater detail.
a) civil society and public discourse:     The research has underpinned the dissemination of knowledge and       understanding of ancient       Persia amongst the general public through public lectures and debates in a       variety of fora and on a       number of occasions.
E.g.
at the Edinburgh Iranian Festival (EIF) in 2011       and 2013, Llewellyn-       Jones was invited to give book readings of his recent work, including from       his Ctesias' History of         Persia, followed by Q&amp;A sessions, and of his King and Court       (see 5.1).
The Edinburgh Iranian       Festival is a non-political `space' for exchange on Iran's culture and       history.
The Festival aims `to       introduce the tremendous breadth of Iranian history and culture to adults       and children in Scotland,       and to integrate the two communities [Scottish and Iranian] through a       broad range of interactive       events spanning numerous art-forms' (mission statement EIF: http://www.ediranfest.co.uk/       [http://tinyurl.com/p8qqvc4]).
The second invitation issued to Llewellyn-Jones to speak at the 2013       event, as well as the questionnaires from the public lectures, debates,       and workshops from that       event, document vividly the impact especially on the Iranian community         in Edinburgh and other       members of the local, British public of Llewellyn-Jones' research       on Iran's ancient past: 100%       (= 63) of the returned questionnaires from the 2013 events (i.e.
two       public lectures that attracted       over 200 individuals, and a workshop, all held in February 2013) show that       the participants gained       new knowledge and an enriched understanding of Iran's ancient past.
The       participants emphasised       especially how the events raised their awareness of `cultural differences'       in general and of `the       interface between Ancient Greece and contemporary Persia' in particular.
In addition, Llewellyn-Jones'       focus on the relationship between (ancient) history and (modern) society       has advanced       more generally the target audience's awareness of the role of historical       writing in the making of       modern civil society.
As one participant put it in their lecture       questionnaire: `the lecture [...] gave       me an insight into a different culture and time, whilst raising issues of       relevance to current political       and social arenas.
It was the highlight of the festival, giving historical       depth to the event'.
Another       stated that Llewellyn-Jones' lecturing `has vastly increased my knowledge       of Ancient Persia and       my desire to know more'; whilst a participant who had first-hand       experience of modern Iran `found       (themselves) constantly reflecting on (their) modern day experience with       the land 1977-78 and this       part of its history, evolution and myth'.
(See 5.2 for all quotations.)
Two of the events at the 2013       EIF were hosted by the School of History, Classics and Archaeology on       University premises to       enhance the opportunity for exchange between the local Iranian community       and the academic       community at the University as well as with members of the British public       in general (see also       REF3a).
Llewellyn-Jones's research has also had an impact outwith Britain, most       notably amongst the       Farsi-speaking community within Iran itself.
This is best exemplified by       the filming of Llewellyn-Jones'       2011 events at the EIF through the Iranian TV company KahkeshanTV: the       lectures were       subsequently dubbed into Farsi to enhance their reception amongst the         non-English speaking         Iranian public, and made available for public viewing via YouTube,       with 439 hits by 31 July 2013       (see 5.3).
Following the 2013 events, the Iranian TV company Manoto TV       broadcast an interview       with Llewellyn-Jones on Iranian television.
After the broadcast, one       viewer commented on 4 March       2013 that `many other Iranians have found your work and blog very       interesting like I do':       http://persianthings.wordpress.com/related-links/       The interview, as well as the lectures from the       2013 EIF, have been made available on Persian Things,       Llewellyn-Jones' blog, which was       launched in January 2013 to encourage public debate by a larger audience.
Together with the       original broadcasts, the internet viewings, and regular discussion pieces       that are informed by       Llewellyn-Jones' research into Persia, the blog has led to lively exchange       on ancient Persia:       http://persianthings.wordpress.com/       [http://tinyurl.com/q3g6x3e].
Bloggers         from Britain, Iran, and         other countries have made contributions to the blog communications.
Their comments document       the transformation of popular knowledge and the enrichment of       cross-community exchange       stimulated by Llewellyn-Jones' work and activity.
As one `visiting'       blogger wrote: `Just bumped into       your fantastic blog, I will use a bit of it to teach my ancient historians       &#8212; must buy the book now [...]'       The impact of Llewellyn-Jones' research is also demonstrated in video       footage that combines       information from the public lectures and outreach events, and is directly       accessible through the       blog: http://persianthings.wordpress.com/video/.
A different venue through which Llewellyn-Jones's research has made an       impact on members of         the British public was a London-based summer school, in July 2013       (continued into August), on       ancient Persia.
The summer school allowed Llewellyn-Jones to disseminate       his research to the       public via direct teaching (see 5.4).
The 27 questionnaires document that       the participants all learnt       something new from Llewellyn-Jones' teaching.
In particular, the       participants' comments       demonstrate how their knowledge was changed through       Llewellyn-Jones' work: one stated that `in       King and Court [...] I appreciated the way I could connect history       with documents', another that       they `now feel better able to put the Persian Empire within the context of       ancient history' (see 5.5       for all quotations).
In addition to cross-community exchange in Britain, the research has also       underpinned the direct       contact with Iran's ancient past (and the country's modern inhabitants) by       members of the British         public in Iran.
This has been achieved through the means of travel       tours to the ancient Persian       sites, organised by international tour companies.
Since 2008,       Llewellyn-Jones has guided five       tours to Iran with over 100 participants.
He has acted as the sole       academic tour leader on these       tours.
His research has directly informed the tour programme: it has been       incorporated in the       formal tour schedule through discussion sessions and lectures.
In this       way, Llewellyn-Jones'       research has influenced the associations of the tour participants with       Iran and its ancient past, and       has furthered their cultural enrichment gained from such contacts.
It has       also enhanced the       stimulus derived from such culture contacts for the development of an open       and receptive attitude       towards further exchange and engagement with an Eastern country: as one       participant put it, `The       choice of itinerary was first class and the reason we booked this tour'       (see 5.6).
b) economic prosperity:     The financial income derived from the travel tours described in 4a above       is significant.
The income       benefits directly the travel tour providers.
These are private       companies set up for profit: the tours       are a distinct feature of their business enterprise and (financial)       success.
The delivery and part of       the programme content is directly dependent on the availability and       expertise of the tour leader,       including, as stated above, lectures and discussion sessions that       disseminate Llewellyn-Jones'       research findings to the tour participants.
Since 2008, Llewellyn-Jones       has led five tours for three       different companies, with over 100 guests.
The gross income of these tours       was in excess of       &#163;250K.
Incomes for individual tours range between &#163;15,000 for a tour of       Persian antiquities in       Europe to between &#163;32,000-73,600 for tours of ancient sites in Iran (see       5.6).
Llewellyn-Jones'       research thus assists in the creation of wealth through informing the tour       programme and lecture       schedule of travel tours offered by the tourist industry.
