     HNItaly has been used by scholars of ancient numismatics and the history       of the ancient, classical       world across the globe.
But it has also offered a means of bringing the       research to a wider       audience, thereby achieving multiple impacts in relation to wealth       creation, public service and       public discourse.
The impacts are at times overlapping, especially       concerning public discourse and       public service.
The impacts all occurred (and continue to occur) both in       the UK and internationally,       as specified below.
a) wealth creation:     HNItaly provides coin dealers world-wide with a means to identify       their goods (i.e.
coins from       ancient, pre-Roman Italy).
It is a necessary tool for their professional       activities, providing the       required know-how for marketing, advertising, and, eventually, pricing       their goods: it is the single       most important tool in this process concerning the Greek coinages of       ancient Italy, as evidenced in       coin sale catalogues world-wide.
A good example is the catalogue for       Greek, Roman and       Byzantine coins auctioned in May 2013 (`Auction 72') by Numismatica Ars       Classica NAC AG:       whilst other identification tools were used with regard to individual       coins, HNItaly was used       consistently for all of the Greek coins from Italy that were offered for       auction (`Greek coins' (Italy),       nos.
282-296, pp.
3-13): http://www.arsclassicacoins.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/NAC-72-OK_1-64s.pdf       [http://tinyurl.com/oh6kxan]       Typical examples for the identification of coins according       to HNItaly include a stater from Taras, auctioned by Numismatica Ars       Classica AG (`Auction 72',       16-17 May 2013: i below), or a 25-as gold Etruscan coin, auctioned       by Sincona Coin Auction AG       Z&#252;rich (`Antike Auktion 10', 27 May 2013: ii below):     (i) Stater circa 302-300, AV 8.61 g. TAPA&#931; Veiled head of       Hera r., wearing earring and       necklace; in r. field, dolphin swimming downwards and below neck       truncation, KON.
Rev.
&#916;IO&#931;KOPOI Dioscuri riding l. side by side, the       first crowning his horse; while the second holds       a palm lemniscata from which hangs a wreath.
In exergue, &#931;A. Vlasto       21 (these dies).
Locker       Lampson 14 (this coin).
Weber 548 (this coin).
SNG Lloyd 182 (this coin).
Gulbenkian 37 (these       dies).
AMB 95 (this coin).
Fischer-Bossert G 15c (this coin).
Historia         Numorum Italy 952.
Very       rare.
A wonderful specimen of this intriguing issue of superb style, minor       marks on obverse and       on edge, otherwise good very fine [CHF] 25'000 (see 5.1; no.
287, p. 9).
(ii) 25 asses c. 380/350.
Lion's head to r. with open jaw and protruding       tongue; behind, &#923;X -       X. Rev.
Blank.
1.48 g. Vecchi I 47.36.
Sambon 2.
SNG Copenhagen 36.
SNG       ANS 2.
SNG       Lockett 42.
Historia Numorum Italy 128.
Extremely fine.
[CHF]       4'000 (see 5.2; no.
6, p. 16).
Thus, the research has a direct impact on the market for coins from       ancient Italy by affecting the       activities of dealers and collectors: it allows these users to increase       their earnings through correct       and clear identification of their goods, followed by appropriate marketing       and sale.
The impact       occurred between January 2008 and July 2013 (and is ongoing).
The       locations of sale houses that       employ HNItaly in the UK and oversees document its national and       international reach: e.g.
A. H.       Baldwin and Sons Ltd., in the UK (see 5.3); ArtCoins Roma, in Italy (see       5.4), Numismatica Ars       Classica AG, in Switzerland (see 5.1); etc.
The global reach is further       enhanced through the use of       HNItaly in additional or accompanying online sales and showings, for which       the online portal       NumisBids offers good examples (see 5.5, also 5.3 and 5.4).
b) public service and public discourse:     The impact on public service occurs in two quite different contexts - one       of which (i below) is       directly related to the study of numismatics, the other (ii below)       not at all:     (i) HNItaly has since its publication provided the primary means through       which museums         and other institutions that hold a coin collection train       numismatists (re: ancient Italy) world-       wide.
It is a necessary tool in the `apprenticeship' of current and future       Keepers of Coins in       institutions that hold a Greek coin collection, both in the UK and abroad       (see 5.6).
Moreover,       the knowledge and expertise provided through HNItaly allows the correct       identification of their       holdings.
HNItaly thus also facilitates further study and public display,       which affords in particular       visitors to institutions that hold a Greek coin collection an opportunity       to appreciate the cultural       heritage of ancient Italy.
The significance of HNItaly in the training of numismatists in a museum       context is mirrored by       its importance in the training of numismatists in the academic sector:       the volume has provided       the primary reference work throughout academia internationally for the       training of numismatists       in the study of the Greek coinages of ancient Italy.
This is especially       the case in Italy where the       subject is taught more than anywhere else, but applies generally wherever       numismatics is an       academic subject.
HNItaly also benefits the Italian Archaeological         Service in its identification       of coins from archaeological contexts, especially in the south of Italy       (see 5.7).
In sum, HNItaly has become the single most important textbook in this       sub-field of ancient       numismatics, and is an indispensable training tool in academic settings,       in museum contexts,       and in archaeological service sectors.
The impact is within and across       numerous countries, as       evidenced by the locations of the institutions and services that use       HNItaly, including such       diverse institutions as the British Museum in London, and the       Soprintendenza Salerno-Avellino       (see 5.6 and 5.7).
The impact occurred throughout the period 2008-2013.
(ii) HNItaly has provided the primary reference work for the US         Border Patrol in its effort at       law enforcement concerning the import of ancient coinages into the USA.
On       19 January 2011,       HNItaly has been publicly named in the US Federal Register amongst the       means of       identification for coins potentially subject to illegal import into the       USA.
This was in response to       a Diplomatic Note from the Government of Italy requesting the Designated       List of       archaeological material originating in Italy and representing the       Pre-Classical, Classical, and       Imperial Roman Periods, to be amended so that `import restrictions are       also being imposed on       a new subcategory of objects (coins)'; as a result, `the category entitled       ``Metal'' has been       amended to include the subcategory ``Coins of Italian Types.'''
(Federal       Register 76/12;       19/01/2011, 3012-3): HNItaly is listed as the type catalogue for this       purpose with regard to the       Greek coinages of ancient Italy (see 5.8).
