     The WHO estimates that in 2010, 48.5 million couples worldwide were       unable to have a child.
Many of these seek MAR treatment, some using third       party gametes and/or surrogacy.
The psycho-socio-cultural consequences of       MAR can be enhancing or devastating to quality of life.
Our research       impacts on the prevention of devastating consequences of MAR through       practitioners, policy, and guidelines.
Professor van den Akker's research       and membership of Project Group on Assisted Reproduction (PROGAR) ensures       evidence based practice informs consultations (5.7) to shape future policy       and practice.
Informing policy: Research has informed HFEA policy, through its       Ethics and Law Advisory Committee, and has been included in two decision       papers, one on Intergenerational donation (5.3), and a second on sperm,       egg and embryo donation (5.4).
Publication 3.4 supported the HFEA Ethics       and Law Advisory Committee (2009) and the Sperm, Egg and Embryo donation       Policies (2009).
The research review systematically assessed the type,       quality and implications of the psycho-socio-cultural research carried out       on gamete donations and led to thorough evidence based conclusions on how       future policy should be shaped.
The research syntheses revealed distinct       differences between patient and non patient (known, commercial, volunteer       and potential) donors on demographic characteristics, motives for       donation, and issues relating to disclosure and attitudes towards the       resultant offspring.
Importantly, a significant proportion of oocyte       donors and women from the general population were prepared to donate their       oocytes as identifiable donors, contrary to previously held (but generally       unsubstantiated) beliefs.
Donor group differences highlight the need for       tailored psychosocial evaluation and counselling.
The systematic review       also highlighted the important findings that donors are primarily       motivated to donate gametes because of their personal views relating to       benefits of having a family, and the importance of cultural differences in       willingness to donate, which is currently leading to shortages in gametes       from non-white populations.
The wider donation context was recognised by       the HFEA and a tailored approach to recruitment campaigns was advocated       and implemented (see 5.4), following a public consultation, and a new       policy document which used our research.
National guidelines: van den Akker was appointed to the HFEA's       `one at a time' stakeholder group which aimed to reduce the risks of       multiple pregnancies from MAR via guidelines covering every aspect of       practice: patient education and selection, embryo selection and freezing,       and costs and funding issues.
She has contributed to the development of       these professional guidelines for elective single embryo transfer (eSET)       and the provision of essential information to help clinics introduce eSET       policies.
This has played a key role in reducing the multiple birth rate       by introducing realistic, research based, and achievable targets (5.5),       24% in 2009/10, 20% in 2010/11 and 15% in 2011/12.
The HFEA also       commissioned research to help design effective mechanisms for single       embryo transfer communication in clinical practice, and this is currently       listed on the `One at a Time' stakeholder website.
In the absence of official sources of information for some groups of       donor-conceived people, voluntary linking services such as the Donor       Sibling Registry (DSR) and UK DonorLink (UKDL) have emerged, enabling       donor-conceived offspring, donors and donor siblings to try and identify       each other either through anonymous donor numbers, or DNA testing,       respectively.
Currently, 38,000 members are registered; 1,800 are egg or       sperm donors, the vast majority are donor conceived offspring.
Since the       DSR was established in 2000, more than 9,700 matches have been made       between donor offspring and their donor connections.
Our research       addressing genetic origins and anonymous donations showed that the latter       were detrimental to family building, whereas type of family (single,       heterosexual or homosexual couples) seeking donation has no differential       impact on children's emotional and intellectual development or on their       family relationships (3.1), and informed The Nuffield report on the       Ethical aspects of information sharing (5.6).
Professional training: Two Society for Reproductive and Infant       Psychology (SRIP) funded workshops (2008 and 2012) addressed future       directions of embryo transfers, surrogacy and family building using gamete       donation.
Interdisciplinary (inter)national participant representatives       from Government, patient groups, academics and professionals worked       together to acknowledge the problems and to improve future third party MAR       outcomes.
The representatives' active involvement with our research (3.1,       3.3-3.5 and 3.6) led to the development of new practice-based research,       involving Middlesex University and patient support groups (INUK, UK       DonorLink).
This impacts on tailored services (tracing donor links/genetic       testing) for donor-conceived offspring seeking a more complete identity       (5.1), and highlights the importance of attachments in       non-genetic/non-gestational parenting (5.2).
The Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service (CAFCASS)       cites our research on surrogacy in its Research and Resources Bulletin 10       (5.1) which has been sent to around 400 staff, members of the Judiciary       and HM Courts Service who sign up to it, and placed on the CAFCASS       intranet, to which all staff (over 1000 Family Court Advisors) have       access.
It has informed professional understanding of the processes       involved, and impacted upon Parental Order Reporters' practice in       preparing their case studies for court.
Evidence for this comes from       relevant stakeholders (CAFCASS, lawyers and immigration officials)       requests for involvement at our planned round table workshop (November       2013) to discuss improvements in registrations, for UK and overseas       surrogate babies and 5.1.
Finally, the British Infertility Counselling Association (BICA) confers       accreditation on all UK-based specialist infertility counsellors.
BICA has       used our research (3.6) in their professional training materials, which       are available to all accredited infertility counsellors, thereby informing       practice (5.2).
BICA has developed the first accredited scheme for       infertility counsellors in the World.
