     The research was disseminated through a variety of means, notably in the       form of public lectures and debates, including media broadcasts.
Key       archaeological discoveries were made available to public services,       including museums and local councils.
These forms of dissemination       generated a range of interrelated impacts, primarily in the areas of the       making of civil society and the influencing of public discourse about       contentious contemporary questions such as imperial expansion and rule,       military occupation, citizenship status, immigration and integration.
The       particulars of each impact (as well as the periods in which these       occurred) are illustrated below.
a) civil society:     The tombstone of Lucius Valerius, a veteran of the Second Augustan       Legion, has provided Oxfordshire Council with a means to enhance       citizenship ceremonies.
At the request of Oxford Register Office, Sauer       provided information and a picture of the tombstone after its discovery.
The veteran, who came from northern Italy, retired in conquered territory.
When the tombstone went on display (see b below), BBC News Oxford       announced Lucius as `Oxfordshire's earliest recorded resident': http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-oxfordshire-22873707       [http://tinyurl.com/lrodxql].
The       tombstone of Lucius Valerius documents in effect the earliest known immigrant       to the area of the modern county of Oxfordshire.
The research findings       have subsequently been used to illustrate aspects of immigration and       integration in citizenship ceremonies in Oxfordshire: the findings now       feature in the materials given to thousands of individuals recently         granted British citizenship, thus impacting on their reflection on       British civic status in particular and the making of civil society in       general.
Oxford Register Office commented that `we [the Council] thought       that readers would be impressed by the fact that Lucius Valerius was a new       arrival to the area nearly 2,000 years ago'.
More specifically, the       superintendent registrar of the Oxford Register Office stated in e-mail       correspondence on 8 December 2011 that the materials provided by Sauer       feature in a book `which has been specially written for new citizens' and       `is presented to new citizens who are becoming British at their       citizenship ceremony': the `combination of tradition and diversity [...]',       the Register Office commented, `provides an eloquent testament to the       arrival and experience of people settling and becoming British in       Oxfordshire'.
The Register Office confirmed that they have `received many       positive comments about the book from our new citizens'.
The quantitative impact is documented by the number of citizenship       ceremonies: the superintendent registrar stated that `citizenship       ceremonies are held every week in Oxfordshire and on average about 150       people per month become British in our county [...]' Over the period in       which the materials have been used (from 2009 onwards), the average annual       total was 1,800, i.e.
around 7,000 individuals between 2009 and July 2013       in total: at the time of correspondence (in 2011), the superintendent       registrar confirmed that `the photo will have been seen by about 3,500-       4,000 citizens' (see 5.1 for all quotations).
The discovery of the       tombstone of the veteran of the Second Augustan Legion by Sauer and his       team, providing the only known biography of a person living in the area of       modern Oxfordshire prior to the Middle Ages, has thus had a direct impact       on issues surrounding immigration, integration, and civic status in       modern-day Britain.
b) public discourse:     The key research findings of Sauer's archaeological investigation of the       legionary fortress at Alchester led to a travelling exhibition in       Oxfordshire in 2011.
The County Museum Stores at Standlake displayed some       of the key artefacts from Alchester, including a section of the original       main wooden gatepost that formed part of the early fort defences in AD 44,       and the tombstone of the veteran (see 5.2).
`History exhibition attracts       hundreds' was the headline of the local newspaper (see 5.3).
The       exhibition drew on the enduring fascination of the British public with the       Romans in Britain.
As a consequence of the public interest in the       temporary exhibition, a permanent exhibition has been mounted in Woodstock       at the Oxfordshire Museum, which is open to the public since 20 July 2013       (see also REF3a).
The discussion generated by the finds amongst the       British (local) public is well documented in a popular newspaper article       on the establishment of the permanent display (Bicester Advertiser; 25       November 2010, p. 13 [http://tinyurl.com/onaqxa7]).
As       the success of the travelling exhibition makes clear, the display of the       artefacts in a museum context fostered an engagement with Britain's early       history especially amongst the local population in Oxfordshire,       and with particular regard to the Roman military occupation of the island,       as well as the impact of imperial expansion and rule on Britannia.
Public lectures by Sauer to local archaeology societies in Britain       have further influenced how members of the British public view       their own exposure to historical `borderlines'.
Most notably, after       Sauer's talk to the Falkirk Archaeological and Natural History Society in       December 2012 on the Gorgan and (neighbouring) Tammishe Walls, the       Society's Honorary Secretary wrote to Sauer commenting that `living, as we       do, in the shadow of the Antonine Wall it was good to see the role of an       even larger frontier wall in its empire's history'.
Sauer's research was       described as `illuminating', and the Honorary Secretary commented further       that the Society's members learnt that `climate change and sea level       changing are not a modern phenomenon'.
The lasting impact on the knowledge       of other historical frontier zones by members of the British public is       also documented through the Honorary Secretary's statement that Sauer       delivered an `insight into a neglected region of the Middle East which, as       many said on the night, is an area [where] none of us has any real       knowledge.
We can no longer say that' (see 5.4 for all quotations).
The       findings from both the Roman fortress at Alchester and the Great Wall of       Gorgan were also central to a public debate hosted by the Royal         Archaeological Institute in London on 13 February 2013 titled `The       limits of imperial power: the function of military frontier walls'.
The       entire debate (with David Breeze, an Honorary Professorial Fellow in       Classics at Edinburgh) was subsequently made available for public viewing       on the website of the Royal Archaeological Institute to encourage further       discussion: http://www.royalarchinst.org/lectures       [http://tinyurl.com/nsz3ym5].
The       media broadcast was highly successful.
An official from the Institute       commented on 25 February 2013 that `it was a good idea and beneficial to       put the debate on the web for free', and that the number of hits within       the first 24 hours (`we've had 67 people view this information') `doesn't       sound much but it is for us' (see 5.5).
