     There are three principal areas where Clark's work on the extended mind       hypothesis has generated demonstrable impact.
(i) Technological Developments     Clark was a core part (CI) of an AHRC Speculative Research Grant designed       to apply the extended mind hypothesis as set out in his (2008) work to the       special domain of simple, non-invasive, sensory substitution devices (see       `grants' above).
A spin-off from this project was a range of new sensory       augmentation devices for iPod and iPhones, which are freely available       through iTunes.
(See corroboration [1 a &amp; b]).
Clark's (2008) book also led to his recruitment, in 2011, as scientific       advisor to a game design studio, 'Hide &amp; Seek', which develops iPhone,       Xbox, and Kinect apps that give users a chance to experiment with emerging       technologies, thereby increasing public engagement with, and understanding       of, the sciences.
For example, `Hide &amp; Seek' were interested in       exploring scientific effects relating to sensory augmentation and the       distribution of control, where this interest was embedded within the       philosophical framework set out in Clark (2008).
(See corroboration [2],       [10]).
In 2012 Clark presented the extended mind thesis at a meeting held at the       Pompidou Centre in Paris devoted to the emerging science of the web.
A       second presentation for web developers at the Googleplex (Mountain View,       California) followed in 2013.
Clark's work has already impacted on the       emerging theory of web science, as shown by technical reports such as Paul       Smart's `The Web Extended Mind'.
This report (which develops the notion of       the so-called `real-world web') repeatedly references Clark's ideas, and       makes explicit use of three key criteria for cognitive extension drawn       from Clark (2008) and (2010a).
(See corroboration [3 a, b, c &amp; d],       [11]).
The concept of the extended mind as presented in Clark (2008) has also     impacted on the general area of technical communications research, as     evidenced by the recent report in Technical Communication Quarterly     (`Future Convergences: Technical Communication Research as Cognitive     Science').
This report, written for professionals in technical     communication, begins by citing Clark (2008)f8e7indeed, Clark is the only     author mentioned in the report's abstractf8e7and contains 135 references to     Clark's work on the extended mind hypothesis.
(See corroboration [4]).
(ii) Impact on Public Discourse     Clark presented the technological developments that came about as part of       the AHRC `e-sense' project (see `grants' above) to more than 300       schoolchildren at the `Bright Sparks' event at the Brighton Science       Festival in 2009 (an event which was attended by around 2000 people).
(See       corroboration [5]).
Clark presented the main ideas in Clark (2008) as part of a public       discussion on `Reclaiming the Body' that was held at the How the Light         Gets In festival that formed part of the 2010 Hay-on-Wye       international book festival.
The theme for the How the Light Gets In       festival was `Being Human'.
It was attended by more than 3000 people over       the two weekends of talks, and was widely reported in the mainstream       media.
(See corroboration [6]).
In 2010 Clark was invited to write a blog for the New York Times       based on his (2008) work on the extended mind hypothesis.
This resulted in       a significant and inspectable feedback cycle whereby public responses       appeared on the blog, with replies from Clark (both in the blog and to       individual emailers).
The blog piece, `Out of Our Brains', appeared on the       New York Times `Opinionator' blog in 2010, a blog that is read by       around 500K people.
This blog entry solicited nearly 200 public responses.
(See corroboration [7], [12], [13]).
In 2012 Clark outlined the Cyborg/Extended Mind theme as developed in       Clark (2008) as part of a New Media Scotland InSpace public engagement       event (part of the `Upgrade' series).
(See corroboration [8]).
(iii) Think Tank     There is now an online, Finland-based, `Extended Mind Think Tank' that is       devoted to drawing together the technological, psychological, and       conceptual implications of the extended mind thesis.
The Extended Mind       Think Tank is "a loosely put together informal group of people interested       in figuring out what the extended mind is, and how it could be implemented       and used".
The Think Tank includes, as active members, computer games       developers and the CEOs of several internet companies.
This initiative was       directly influenced by Clark's work on the extended mind, especially Clark       (2008).
(See corroboration [9]).
