     Vierkant has a long-standing track-record of internationally regarded       research on the philosophical implications of recent advances in       neuroscience, particularly with regard to the topics of free will and       moral responsibility (Vierkant 2005; 2007; 2008; 2011; 2012; 2013).
For       many years now Vierkant has been involved in using this research to tackle       misperceptions of the neurosciences in the public sphere, such as they       arise in the media or with regard to public policy and the law.
Since 2007 Vierkant has been extensively involved with the Scottish       Imaging Network (`SINAPSE') project on `Brain Imaging and Society'.
This       project is concerned with the implications that brain imaging has for       society, where this covers such issues as the relationship between       contemporary neuroscience and free will.
In 2010 he was a speaker and       commentator at a major international conference that was hosted as part of       this projectf8e7entitled `Brain Imaging and Society: Law'f8e7which looked       at the legal implications, such as in terms of the scope of an agent's       moral responsibility for her actions, of recent developments in       contemporary neuroscience.
This event was attended by a wide cross-section       of interested parties, including judges, NHS medical directors, and       representatives of the Scottish Parliament's Scottish Future's Forum (an       organisation created by the Scottish Parliament to interface with policy       makers, business, and academia, with a view to formulating long-term       Scottish Government policy).
While Vierkant's research has informed his       contribution to this project, he has also published research that has       directly arisen out of his engagement with the project, such as Vierkant       (2011).
(See corroboration [1 a, b &amp; c]).
In contributing to the SINAPSE project Vierkant came into contact with       the policy officer of the Church of Scotland.
On the basis of Vierkant's       research expertise, he was invited by the policy officer to join their       Society, Religion and Technology working group.
In particular, he was       commissioned by the Church of Scotland to advise them on issues       surrounding the importance of neuroscience for free will and moral       responsibility.
(See corroboration [2], [8]).
Vierkant became a key member of this working group, and also participated       in related activities.
For example, he participated in the organisation of       a Church of Scotland conference on the topic of neuroscience and ethics,       entitled, `It Wasn't Me, It Was My Neurons', which took place in 2011.
Vierkant was asked to write roughly half of the group's report,       `Neurobiology, Free Will and Moral Responsibility'.
Vierkant also helped       formulate the report's recommendations to the Church of Scotland.
In       particular, he played an important role in formulating two specific       recommendations.
First, that the Church of Scotland should recognise that       the implications of contemporary neuroscience for free will and moral       responsibility are more complex than sometimes supposed (in the sense that       contemporary neuroscience on the one hand does not pose any direct       challenge to free will and moral responsibility, but on the other hand       does call for a re-evaluation of traditional philosophical concepts like       autonomy).
Second, that the Church of Scotland should accordingly play an       active and on-going role in exploring these implications.
Vierkant's       contribution to this report drew heavily on his research in this area,       particularly Vierkant (2005; 2007, 2008), but also Vierkant (2011, 2012,       2013).
(See corroboration [3], [4], [8]).
This report was widely disseminated, including being made freely       available on the Church of Scotland's website and informing a widely       available Church of Scotland leaflet on Neurobiology.
It was also       submitted to the Church of Scotland's General Assembly in 2012 where it       was discussed and, crucially, all of its recommendations approved.
For       each report from a working group there is a series of resolutions (known       as `deliverances') for commissioners at the General Assembly to accept,       reject, add to or amend.
During the General Assembly, council and       committee conveners present reports from the working groups to       commissioners for debate.
Decisions agreed become `law' which means that       they determine how the Church of Scotland operates.
It is precisely in       this sense that the recommendations set out in the Society, Religion and       Technology working group's report, substantially authored by Vierkant       (both as a whole, and as regards its recommendations), have now become       part of the Church of Scotland's official policy.
In particular, these       recommendations have been integrated into the Church of Scotland's 2012       `Blue Book', which contains the laws and policies of the Church.
(See       corroboration [5], [6], [7], [8]).
It was the quality of Vierkant's research, and his willingness to engage       with relevant non-academic partners, which led to this work being deemed       relevant to the Church of Scotland's Society, Religion and Technology       working group.
Vierkant's research then informed a significant part of the       report produced by this working group for the Church of Scotland's General       Assembly.
Finally, by approving the recommendations made in this report,       and incorporating these recommendations into the laws and policies of the       Church, Vierkant's research has had an impact on the laws and policies of       a large socially important non-academic body.
