     The importance of the Wode Psalter project is immediately visible in       reactions to the exhibition and related activities such as the concert and       the workshops from informed observers.
The Wode Part Books were `initially the work of Thomas Wode, a monk and       cleric from St Andrews, who was commissioned to produce a series of       harmonisations of psalm tunes for a protestant Scottish Psalter.
Wode was       more ambitious however, and he took it upon himself to gather as much of       the music he then heard being played in Scotland, in the fear that music       from the nation might otherwise be lost to us for ever.
The highly       decorative series of part books, which make up the Wode Collection, has       been scattered across the world for centuries, but the books have recently       been brought back together for a special exhibition at Edinburgh       University.'
Catherine Bott, Early Music Show Blog (5.1).
`Contemporary Scots and others can come to this exhibition and see how       important and central music was to the worship of God and also to society       itself...This is one of the most important exhibitions on Scottish music       for generations.'
James MacMillan, Online Telegraph blog (5.2).
Singing the Reformation Exhibition       The exhibition was held in Edinburgh [6 Aug &#8212; 28 Oct 2011, attendance       4438], displayed all the Partbooks alongside 38 more exhibits illuminating       the world of Reformation Britain.
Travelling exhibitions were taken to       Dundee and Belfast [5-6 Nov 2011, 13-14 Apr 2012, attendance c200].
Visitors expressed their reactions through the Visitors' Book (5.4b below)       [238 comments], questionnaires [163 completed &#8212; 100% liked exhibition],       individual correspondence and social media postings [Facebook, Twitter and       Wordpress].
In the Visitors' Book visitors commented upon the       accessibility: `Extremely well researched and presented.
Very engaging and       accessible even for those with little knowledge on the subject';       `...treating me to a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Singing the         Reformation is a unique and beautiful exhibition, presented in       exquisite detail and full of marvels'.
They admired the       multidisciplinarity; `I learnt a lot as well as got my senses engaged       through the beautiful maps, stitches and manuscripts and the music'; `I       liked the way it crosses over divisions between history, art, music,       history of printing, history of belief, traditions in sewing and so on';       `This treatment in an exhibition works really well: who won't go away       without a different and wider view of the 16th century       Reformation here?'
They also recognised key research themes, such as the       Psalms: `I loved the way psalm singing was seen in its catholic context       and not just the fruit of the Reformation'; `It's great to remember       Scotland's reformation and the impact of the psalms.'
They appreciated       viewing the Partbooks and Scottish heritage: `Such a rare opportunity to       see the collection'; `Fabulous music and an important element of Scottish       life often overlooked.'
`It was a joy to read the original manuscripts in       Scots...I could also make out some of the Gaelic version of the Lord's       Prayer so that was also a great pleasure'.
Accessible to a worldwide       audience, digital images of all 8 Partbooks assembled for the first time       in the exhibition are also available online: Wode Partbooks on       Digital Archive of Medieval Music (5.3).
One complete Partbook can be read       as an e-book (5.3a).
The exhibition booklet provided a research-based commentary upon the       exhibition and was also used independently with c2,000 copies distributed       to educational establishments and groups within UK &amp; Ireland, USA,       Canada and Pakistan: Singing the Reformation (5.4).
An iPhone App was developed providing ten musical items including modern       and Partbook scores and ten images of exhibits.
The App provided easy and       instant access to musical extracts and visual images from the exhibition       and CD in places and to audiences who had no other form of access to this       material e.g.
people who walked in off the street in Dundee or Belfast.
As       well as downloads [c300], the App was also used within the workshops,       travelling exhibitions and psalm-singing events: App still available at       iTunes Store (5.5).
`Wode Collection' Concerts       The main Wode Music Concert filled Saint Giles Cathedral, Royal Mile,       Edinburgh on 20 August 2011 and was listed, as was the exhibition, in       Edinburgh's Fringe Festival.
Both generated media coverage with interviews       and stories appearing on national TV and Scottish, Irish and local radio       and newspapers.
Under Dr Noel O'Regan's direction [Wode Project Team] the       Dunedin Consort &amp; Fretwork performed Wode music live at concerts in       Edinburgh [20 Aug 2011, attendance 310] and Aberdeen [8 Oct 2011,       attendance 280] and recorded a CD [The Wode Collection].
BBC Radio       3's Early Music Show broadcast a programme [58 mins] and podcast       [8 Oct 2011: 2.2 million listeners per week, June 2011] dedicated to the       exhibition and CD: The Wode Collection (5.6).
Wode Partbook Workshops       A series of collaborative events were held involving special interest       groups.
A workshop for eighteen embroiders was held in January 2012.
Two       workshops engaged choirs [Edinburgh and Glasgow Oct &amp; Nov 2011] and       psalm-singing events were held in Dundee and Belfast (Nov 2011 &amp; Apr       2012; c200).
The Rev Eric Sawar in Karachi was supplied with a pdf and       hardcopies of booklets helping him produce an Urdu version for Pakistani       psalm-singers.
Images and assistance were supplied for publications by the       Dunfermline Heritage Trust: Jhone Angus: Monk of Dunfermline and         Scottish Music [with CD] (Dunfermline, 2011) and Marilyn Brown's Scotland's         Lost Gardens: From the Garden of Eden to the Stewart Palaces (RCAHMS       2012).
The Church Service Society collaborated on musical scores and is       involved in the Wode Follow-on project [Making the music of the Wode         Psalter widely accessible AHRC AH/K001809/1]: Church Service Society       website (5.7a).
The Scots Language Centre placed information on their       website about Thomas Wode and Jhone Angus: Scots Language Centre Website       (5.7b).
Collaboration with History teachers created a School Resource Pack       for Scottish History Higher on Age of Reformation, currently with       Education Scotland.
