     Early discussions in project planning involving Edinburgh researchers       established that       research on the religious framings of conflict resolution of project       members was not widely       known, and had not been tested in areas affected by religiously-linked       violence.
It therefore       provided an original and significant theoretical underpinning for an       action research project in       Bosnia-Herzegovina (BiH), a part of the former Yugoslavia which had been       affected by       Christian-Muslim conflict and which was a place where these claims could       be disseminated       and tested, whilst at the same time interacting with those reconciliation       processes.
Surveys were conducted within local communities in Banja Luka, Sarajevo,       Mostar, and       Bugojnon in BiH on factors involved in conflict and reconciliation.
The       survey findings were       subsequently discussed in a focus group: `There were 14 persons present at       the focus group       discussion (13 women, 1 man).
They discussed the findings from the Survey.
Most of them       agreed with the findings of the Survey believing that it is easier to       build trust at the local       level, among "ordinary" people and that there are no problems there.
They       think that the       political elites are to be blamed for the current situation and that       religious communities       should be having a more important role in this process' (5.1).
The action research increased knowledge and understanding of the role of       religious beliefs,       identities and values in exposing and resolving the roots of conflict, and       in peacebuilding,       among religious leaders, school and university teachers and civil society       leaders in       communities affected by conflict.
Sources 5.4 and 5.5 show that these were       understandings       that they were able to put into practice in their own work.
It also       contributed to understanding       of the potential value of engaging religious framings, religious leaders       and religiously-linked       values in peacebuilding and reconstruction among professionals and       non-governmental       organisations working in economic development, mediation and       reconstruction in BiH, and in       Croatia, Serbia and Scotland as evidenced in 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4below.
Interviews with specialists and stakeholders were undertaken in mid-2010       and January       2013, focused on `paths to impact' (identifying key stakeholder       relationships; identifying local       styles of reconciliation work, and differentiating that work from       international patterns and       expectations; identifying topics which had received little academic       treatment and which       appear to divide publics).
Public events and stakeholder meetings focused       on discussing the       findings and their implications and were held in Sarajevo in October 2012       (40 specialists       attended two meetings) and in the four cities of the survey in December       2012 (100       stakeholders attended five meetings, in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar, and       Bugojno, and a       further 25 were interviewed).
The evaluation report of these meetings       undertaken by an       independent research consultant [text removed for publication]       identified the productive role       of the survey in generating new civil society engagements around       truth-telling, reconciliation       and peace-building (5.6) [text removed for publication].
Project impact was particularly strong in terms of generating policy       engagements.
The       project report (3.5) became the major source referenced in the USAID call       for a $3.5m-       $4.5m funding programme entitled New Reconciliation Activity in Bosnia and       Herzegovina.
USAID has confirmed that this report was important in defining the       opportunity motivating the       Call and in clarifying key public trends and challenges.
The grant call       identified the       'opportunity' for `reconciliation activity in Bosnia-Herzegovina' by       reference to this Project's       key findings, and spelt out some of the Project differentiations across       the population:       `Existing negative trends have prompted more people to see the need for a       different way of       doing things.
Enough time has passed, and too much time has passed, for       war-related       traumas to continue to define people.
There is a craving for normalcy,       creating a fertile       opening for peace-building interventions.
The country context is ripe for       reconciliation       interventions' (5.2).
As a result of meeting team members, the mayors of Mostar and Bugojno       declared that they       would now host a further public meeting focused on reconciliation in their       locality, using the       survey material on their locality.
Since their offices are the most       effective local actors       capable of recruiting a cross-section of participants to a neutral space,       this is a significant       pathway to impact.
The meeting at Bugojno was held on 28 November 2012,       and brought       together 31 participants including local religious leaders, politicians,       city officials and others       [text removed for publication].
Journalists including TV were also       there.
The meeting at       Mostar, 18 December 2012, comprised a small group, including mayor, a       leading journalist,       religious leader, university academic [text removed for publication].
A subsequent Konrad Adenauer Stiftung report used the Project findings       and impacts to       suggest: `A glimmer of hope therefore remains that society in Bosnia and       Herzegovina will       grow to become whole again.
But there is still a long way to go where       coming to terms with       the past is concerned' (5.3).
In interviews with the Project's external impact evaluator, a series of       interlocutors affirmed       the value of the study for their work, indicating the intention to use it.
`One interesting thing       that can be specified, for example, is the research that we did last year       in BiH on this issue       in cooperation with the University in Edinburgh.
We are continuing it now       with a larger       sample, and it showed that citizens have expressed a degree of confidence       in the       contribution of religious leaders to the process of reconciliation.'
Professor from University of       Eastern Sarajevo (5.4).
Others gave their views but were unwilling to be quoted on the       constructive impacts of the       project in engaging religious actors in peace and reconciliation: these       include individuals       from the youth initiative KULT; from two prominent research centres       (Analitika and the       Center for Advanced Studies); from leading NGOs in the reconciliation       field (Centre for Non-       Violent Action, Network for Building Peace/Catholic Relief Services, the       Research and       Documentation Centre Sarajevo, and Soul for Europe) and from the       leadership of four       political parties (SDA, PDP, HDZ 1990 and Na&#353;a stranka).
The project also provided significant impetus towards the shaping of two       further initiatives:       Pluralism in Crisis, an IAS-funded interdisciplinary network linking       Scottish and international       specialists, coordinated by the Edinburgh project team, developed models       for pluralism       inspired by early discussions of the project in 2010.
The Edinburgh Peace Initiative was launched in 2012, bringing specialists       and civil society       organisations together in a process focused on local and international       networking.
Project       findings were integrated into the inaugural international conference on       peacebuilding and       civil society.
