     Impact was achieved through two inter-related programmes: the       international study process, and       the Edinburgh 2010 conference at which delegates received the reports of       the study groups and       were drawn into a related plenary process of knowledge co-creation.
The       range of participants       was unprecedented: `No one enterprise can capture in full the diversity of       Christianity today but       the breadth and inclusivity of the Edinburgh 2010 project mark it out as a       very special &#8212; and       almost certainly unparalleled &#8212; event in Christian history.'
Balia and Kim       (5.1).
Two key impacts on church leaders, clergy, development and mission       agencies, and theological       educators can be identified as follows:     1.
A commitment (embodied in the `Common Call' issued by the conference)       to work together in       developing patterns of theological education that transcend traditional       boundaries and       incorporate the contributions of the rapidly proliferating Pentecostal and       new Southern churches,       many of which now have a substantial diasporic presence in the northern       hemisphere.
This       commitment emerged from the study process.
One WCC leader has commented:       `Edinburgh       gave a particular attention to migration as mission returning to the       originally "sending" churches.
The multiplication of migrant or multi-cultural churches challenges not       only European and other       forms of racism, but also our ecclesiology, understanding of ministry and       ministerial formation       and evangelism in postmodern conditions.'
J. Matthey (5.2)     2.
A new understanding of EWMC 1910 as the point at which the dawning       consciousness of       Christianity as a world religion &#8212; with significant leadership,       membership and new organisational       forms in the global South &#8212; first became visible in Europe and North       America.
Heightened       awareness of the Asian role at EWMC 1910 as revealed by Stanley's       monograph (3.4) informed       the numerous and vocal contributions of non-Western Christian leaders to       both the study       process and the conference itself, and gave non-Western delegates to the       2010 conference a       heightened sense that EWMC 1910 was part of their own Christian history,       not merely that of the       Western churches.
Study Process     This was initiated in 2008 bringing together, in an exercise of knowledge       co-creation, academics       and users of academic research.
It included scholars of Christian history       and mission,       international church leaders and lay members, theological educators and       representatives of       ecumenical and mission agencies working together in nine international       study groups       (http://edinburgh2010.org/en/study-themes/main-study-themes.html).
The groups, coordinated       from Edinburgh, met in representative locations on all continents and       studied the themes of 1.
Foundations for mission; 2.
Christian mission among other faiths; 3.
Mission and       postmodernities; 4.
Mission and power; 5.
Forms of missionary engagement;       6.
Theological       education and formation; 7.
Christian communities in contemporary       contexts; 8.
Mission and       unity &#8212; ecclesiology and mission; 9.
Mission spirituality and authentic       discipleship.
The report of       the nine study groups was published as Balia and Kim (5.1).
The most tangible impact discernible to date was achieved by the study       group on Theme 6,       `Theological Education and Formation' which produced a report, Theological         Education in World         Christianity (November 2009), recommending that a global handbook on       theological education       be prepared.
This led to the publication of The Handbook of         Theological Education in World         Christianity, edited by four members of the group, Dietrich Werner,       David Esterline, Namsoon       Kang and Joshva Raja in 2010.
This Handbook is the first attempt       to map and analyse       developments in theological education on a global scale.
The volume, with       contributions from 98       leaders in theological education from around the world, provides a       comprehensive introduction to       the major themes and contexts in the international discourse on       theological education (5.3).
These publications were seminal in the development of the World Council of       Churches' Global       Survey on Theological Education 2011-2013.
This was the first survey of       theological education       ever conducted which covered all branches of Christianity &#8212; Catholic,       Orthodox, mainline       Protestant, and evangelical Protestant (including Pentecostals).
The role       of the Edinburgh 2010       Study Process and conference in this development is referenced in an       `Ecumenical Covenant on       Theological Education' endorsed by the WCC Central Committee in August       2012 which makes       explicit reference both to the 1910 conference and to the 2010 study       process and conference.
In       this way, the study process brought together third sector leaders and       practitioners with academic       providers resulting in a commitment to reflect upon theological education       and set it on a more       inclusive and global trajectory that reflects the radically changing       composition of global       Christianity.
`Edinburgh 2010'     The conference to celebrate the centennial of EWMC 1910 was the       culmination of the       knowledge co-creation process of the study groups.
It also provided a       forum of international       delegates for the dissemination of knowledge and research on Christianity       as a world religion       generated in the CSCNWW/CSWC and in research outputs (3.1-3.5).
The       conference, hosted 2-6       June 2010 by the University of Edinburgh, was attended by 300 delegates       from 200 churches       and Christian organisations, who were members of 115 denominations,       represented 77       nationalities, and 62 mother tongues.
The conference culminated in a public celebration in the Assembly Hall of       the Church of       Scotland (the venue of the 1910 conference) attended by delegates and an       additional 800       members of the public, and web-streamed live (5.4).
The address was given       by the Archbishop       of York, John Sentamu.
Participants included descendants of the Asian       delegates at EWMC       1910, whose contribution had been brought to public attention in Stanley's       book.
Their       contributions attracted particular interest.
One Hong Kong delegate       observed: `It was truly an       exciting and meaningful experience to be present in the 2010 Edinburgh       Conference, particularly       sitting in the same Assembly Hall at the closing celebration where Rev.
Cheng Jing-yi, the       forefather of the Church of Christ in China sat in 1910.
The 2010       Edinburgh Conference has       aroused the urgency for developing a new way of thinking about missiology       and ecumenism ...       the leaders in 1910 braved the challenges and dared to find new ways.
Encouraged by their ...       example, we are also able to start another mile on this road.'
E. S. Y.
So       (5.5) The project       website, and live stream, had more than 344,000 hits, with 79,974 unique       visitors.
