     I am Breathing premiered at the International Documentary Film       Amsterdam Festival in November 2012, where it was nominated for Best       Documentary (5.5); and between that date and up to June 2013, it enjoyed       festival screenings in fourteen countries, winning the Best Documentary       Award at the River Run Festival in the USA, nominated The Best of Hot Docs       in Canada, and for Best Documentary at the Tempo Festival in Sweden.
I am Breathing has also received critical plaudits, praised as one       of the top ten films of 2012 by influential critic Tue Steen M&#252;ller of http://tinyurl.com/qyqpsxq (5.8).
Trevor Johnston of Sight and Sound (5.6) called it 'Genuinely powerful       film-making...an intimate portrait of heartbreaking courage &#8212; a haunting       and inclusive encounter with...time, experience and mortality'.
In       reference to the original intentions of the film, the Hollywood reporter       wrote:     As [Neil Platt] promises very early on, what we get is "a tale of fun         and laughs with a smattering of upset and devastation."
The former gives         way to the latter only in the closing fifteen minutes or so, when the         deterioration in Neil's condition results in his being relocated from         his home to a hospice institution.
His formidable powers of         communication are by this stage ebbing away in a manner that nearly all         viewers will find powerfully harrowing.
'Necessarily tough going, these sequences deliver what are in effect a         series of knockout punches that leave us dazedly counting our blessings.
But so firmly have Neil's particular wishes expressed &#8212; that he wants         the film to promote awareness of MND and encourage fund-raising into the         research of possible cures &#8212; that I am Breathing never feels in any way         intrusive or exploitative.
(5.7)     But the impact of I am Breathing was never intended to be       confined to critical success.
On MND Global Awareness Day in 21st       June 2013 the film was shown at 242 screenings in thirty-four countries       (5.2).
Screenings were organised by people with MND, their relatives and       friends, film-makers, charity workers and activists.
Screenings were held       in an old cinema in Kosovo, the Indian Medical Research Institute in Dehra       Dun, parish halls, a Taoist temple in Beijing, a nightclub in Tallinn, and       a taxi in the Home Counties.
The effects of this screening are partly documented on the I am         Breathing website (www.iambreathing.com) (5.1) (4,107 `likes' since       November 2012) via blog entries by hosts recording the event itself, their       motivations for holding it, or their reactions to the film (5.9).
A       petition launched in June 2013 to screen the film in mainstream cinemas,       with a target of 1000 signatures, collected that many within three days,       and by July 2013 had collected 2300.
Scientists, medics and researchers working with MND reported changes in       the way they found themselves thinking about the disease.
After the       screening at the Euan MacDonald Centre in Edinburgh, which is devoted to       research into the care and cure of MND, one viewer wrote: '...our students       spoke about the motivation it gave them with their studies and the pride       they felt knowing they were in some small way helping to find a cure.'
(5.9)     On 14 June 2013, Neil's wife, Louise Oswald was invited to talk about MND       on ITV's This Morning, bringing awareness of the issue to around       nine million viewers.
(5.3)     Others who saw the film reported being moved to find new ways of raising       funds for MND research.
`Tony' (MND fundraiser and host in the UK) wrote:       `Absolute silence after the film.
It had an amazing effect and I have had       people come forward asking how they can help.'
(5.9)     `Debra' (UK) recorded: `There was not a dry eye in the room after the       event.
Many people came up to me to thank me for sharing the film with       them, and many have said they will help with other events that I do to       raise money for Motor Neurone Disease Association.'
(5.9)     The MNDA has reported the following changes in behaviour.
A Facebook post       on 21st June 2013 &#8212; MND Global Awareness Day &#8212; reached more than 68,000       people, an MNDA social media record; and their website received a 239%       increase in visitors, compared to June 2012.
As a result, more than 1800       people signed the MNDA Charter in Awareness Month.
(5.4)     Sally Light, Association Chief Executive said: 'It [the advertising of       the film] was a unique opportunity to reach out to thousands of people       with no previous knowledge of the disease...Thanks to the film, the       film-makers and, ultimately Neil and his family for sharing their story,       we have spread the word to many thousands of people during our Awareness       Month.'
(5.4)     But particularly notable are the reactions of people with MND, who       recorded that the film had not only helped them to raise awareness about       their condition, but also, that being able to see and share Neil Platt's       experience had lent them a sense of empowerment and community that they       had previously lacked.
Patrick O'Brien tweeted: `Thrilled &amp; inspired       to see these films &amp; heroes shining a light on #ALS / #MND.
@Legacy_film @breathingfilm.
Beautiful!
We r in this 2gether' (5.10) while       Siobhan Rock in Ottawa wrote: `We are thankful that Neil has shared his       personal journey so openly.
It has inspired us.
May it continue to inspire       others around the globe.
It is our hope, that our story, along with Neil's       and others living with this horrible disease, generates the required       awareness leading to the appropriate funding, support and eventually a       cure.'
(5.9)
