 Research on human rights accountability with respect to post-conflict and transitional societies informs EHRAC's programme of litigation before the ECtHR (300 cases, on behalf of 1,100 applicants), including: victims of disappearances, extra-judicial executions, unlawful detention, ill-treatment and other violations of the ECHR (arising predominantly in Chechnya but also in South Ossetia, Nagorno-Karabkh and the North Caucasus).
Sir Nicolas Bratza (the immediate past President of the ECtHR) has commended EHRAC for having done `so much to achieve justice and redress for so many who have been the victims of violations of fundamental human rights' [1, below].
The reach and significance of EHRAC's impact can be measured by: the number of cases won (98) and the quality of the decisions achieved.
Thus, in 96% of the decisions at least one violation of the ECHR was shown.
Impact can also be measured by the extent of financial compensation gained for victims (totalling approximately &#8364;6.5 million), and by the legislative and policy changes which have been effected within the domestic polity as a result of key judgments.
The changes resulting from the judgments achieve a wider and more sustained impact than solely for the victims because: 1) When a government is found in violation of protected rights it is obliged to undertake to change relevant laws, thereby guaranteeing that the fruits of the promised right can be upheld as part of its administrative mechanisms.
2) As the premier court of human rights, the judgments of the ECtHR are cited and used all over the world, not only by other regional human rights courts but also by apex national courts; creating a multiplier effect extending the impact's reach and significance.
3) The perspectives gained by Leach through his direct engagement in litigation are reflected in academic writing which disseminates strategy and good practice when that work is taken up by NGOs and other advocates.
This same work also forms essential material in achieving the training impacts described below.
The following examples of change have been selected to provide a flavour of EHRAC's work: Compensation for victims of Soviet-era repression in Georgia: In Kiladze v. Georgia, EHRAC sought redress over the malfunctioning of Georgian legislation regarding the granting of compensation to victims of Soviet-era repression [2].
The Court identified a `legislative void', which resulted directly in the passing of new legislation in 2011 in order to effect compensation payments (for up to 20,000 people).
(See Communication from Georgian Ministry of Justice to Genevieve Mayer, in French [3].
Reinstatement of judges in Ukraine: In Volkov v Ukraine (2013), EHRAC litigated to challenge the applicant's dismissal from the post of judge of the Supreme Court, and won a judgment that, for the first time, resulted in the ECtHR ordering a government to ensure reinstatement [4].
The judgment's rulings on the unacceptability of politicians' control over the appointment and dismissal of judges (through the High Council of Justice) will require amendments to the Ukrainian Constitution, with the introduction of new legislation to follow.
Capacity-building: EHRAC has trained more than 850 lawyers and activists across the former Soviet Union [5].
This training, derived from the underpinning research, has empowered lawyers and activists, enhancing the quality of their output; it has also fostered strong networks of people dedicated to working in human rights law.
The research on the ECtHR's pilot judgment procedure (PJP)informed and assisted the European Court in developing and codifying standards related to its use.
Upon completion of their research, Leach's team disseminated their findings at a collaborative seminar hosted at the Court in Strasbourg in June 2010.
Participants included: ECtHR judges (Lech Garlicki, Francoise Tulkens), registrars (Fribergh, O'Boyle), and Head of the Department for Execution of Judgments (Mayer), as well as government representatives.
In March 2011, the Court announced the introduction of a new rule (Rule 61 of the Court Rules) to clarify and codify the PJP [6].
Leach's research on the ECtHR's fact-finding processes is cited as a primary source by O'Boyle and Brady (ECtHR Deputy Registrar and Registry Lawyer) in their 2013 article in European Human Rights Law Review on investigatory powers of the European Court of Human Rights [7], in which they discuss how the Court is likely to develop its approach to fact-finding).
In keeping with EHRAC's long-term achievements, prominent end-users who can testify to its impact include practitioners within the legal profession [8], the Registrar of the ECtHR [9]; and the body that oversees the impact of its judgments [10].
