     The Edge of Dreaming: Uptake and critical reception     The high levels of audience participation achieved in the production of The         Edge of Dreaming have       resulted in sustained levels of audience and critical engagement with the       film post-completion and       distribution: three years after its completion it continues to be invited       to screen in new countries.
Building on the rough cut screenings, which drew on ethnographic research       into seventeenth-       century Iroquois American culture, neuroscience and traditional wisdom,       the workshop Dr Hardie       developed public screenings has been described by one audience member,       Kathy White, (5.1) as       a 'completely different paradigm of cinema' during which she was 'drawn       into a participatory role,       actively witnessing and engaging with themes and issues that are both       universal and deeply mine.'
Celebrated by another participant as 'part science lecture and part       conversation and above all       fascinating and hugely therapeutic' (5.1), the film and workshop package       opened the annual       Brainwave Festival at the Rubin Museum of Art in New York in 2010 and ran       for three weeks,       attracting audiences of up to ninety people per session, before an       eighteen-city US tour and       invitations to run the workshop in a further thirteen countries.
As well       as generating print media       coverage in twenty-three countries, it led to a broadcast interview with       Dr Hardie on the CBS news       channel (5.4), bringing neuroscience and Scottish documentary making to a       mainstream audience.
Picking up on the impact of The Edge of Dreaming on audiences,       Festival Director Neasa Ni       Chian&#225;in described it as 'a hugely empowering film' and the 'perfect'       opener to the 5th International       Guth Gafa Documentary Film Festival in &#201;ire, 2010 (5.5).
In the same year,       it was the first Scottish       feature documentary to be selected for international competition in IDFA,       Europe's leading       documentary festival, during which it was Festival Curator Nick       Cunningham's `pick of the day' and       received a five-star review by Tue Steen M&#252;ller, Director of the European       Documentary Network       (1996-2005) (5.6).
In total, it has been screened at festivals in       thirty-one countries, including       Sweden, Italy, and Australia.
Winning a Grand Critics Prize in Kiev, It       has also been translated into       thirteen languages, increasing its accessibility to international       audiences.
Stem Cell Revolutions: Communicating scientific knowledge     In Stem Cell Revolutions, Dr Hardie returned to the participatory       screening method, both during       and after production.
The `roadshow' format that she developed with       Professor Blackburn for this       film built on their own cross-disciplinary collaboration; moving away from       passive reception of       information and bringing the audience into conversation with leading       scientists and clinicians (5.7).
Often as part of a Science Festival, events have been held throughout the       UK (from Orkney to       London), as well as Republic of Ireland (Galway), Germany (Heidelberg),       Czech Republic       (Prague), Japan (Kyoto), Australia (Sydney), and Sweden (Nobel Museum,       Stockholm) (5.8), and       has screened 'in competition' at several international science festivals.
Detailed feedback collated       during production and distribution, including by questionnaire, has       revealed that `lay' audiences       appreciate and engage with specialist material more than previously       understood by television       commissioners, with one contributor saying 'Coming from a non-science       background, the film       encouraged me to reflect more on the role of science within society' and       another commenting that       it was 'very informative but presented in a very accessible way.'
(5.2)     The stem cell documentaries' YouTube channel logs 44,123 viewings of the       shorter documentaries       (5.9) and 68,000 people from 190 countries have downloaded the films from       www.eurostemcell.org, the main       infrastructure for communication between stem cell scientists and       European publics.
Visits to the website were up 35% in 2011, compared to       the same period in       2010, and it now receives over 200,000 visits annually, leading to       Professor Blackburn being       awarded &#8364;0.83m under the 7th Framework Programme of the       European Union to develop it further.
In 2012, Hardie and Blackburn were awarded the University of Edinburgh's       Tam Dalyell Prize for       Collaboration in Public Engagement with Science.
Government briefings in       the UK, Europe and       Japan have reported on the value of the outreach tools and media developed       through the project,       including at the European Parliament in December 2007, chaired by Pia       Locatelli MEP.
(5.10)
