     The impacts of The Secret Lives of Buildings may be summarised as       follows: firstly an appeal to diverse audiences beyond the academy,       secondly, the impact of its insights on the workings of the Invisible       College, and thirdly, as a consequence, its impact on the ruins of St       Peter's Seminary itself.
The Secret Lives of Buildings: uptake     Translated into five languages (Italian, German, Czech, Portuguese,       Chinese),The Secret Lives of Buildings appealed to a diverse set of       readers.
The New York Review of Books commented: 'no matter how familiar       these works [the buildings] may be, he turns the story of each structure       and its subsequent transformations into an informative parable about the       inevitable metamorphoses of the built environment' (5.1).
Jonathan Glancey       wrote in the Guardian: `The author's purpose in telling the stories of       these enchanting and sometimes disturbing buildings is to demonstrate how       each has enjoyed more lives than a cat.'
In 2010, The Secret Lives of Buildings was nominated for The       Guardian First Book Award and the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction.
Published in seven countries, it has sold around 17,000 copies worldwide       (5.10).
Hollis has spoken about the book at more than fifteen literary       festivals (including the Edinburgh International Book Festival) and in       interview with the BBC (World Service, Radio 3 and BBC Scotland), as well       as broadcasters in the US, Ireland and Australia.
The role of The Secret Lives of Buildings in the Invisible         College     The insights of The Secret Lives of Buildings have influenced the       Invisible College network in the following manner.
In 2012, the Invisible       College held three public open days at the seminary, with around fifty       stakeholders from a range of backgrounds &#8212; from international       architectural `fans' to local residents &#8212; attending each one.
Each open day ended with public lectures, featuring speakers from       geographers of ruins (Tim Edensor, Caitlin de Silvey) to the landscape       architect Tilman Latz.
Hollis spoke at the close of the second, in a joint       event with Andy Wightman, the writer, campaigner and researcher on common       land issues.
These lectures were used to set the future of St Peter's in a       wider cultural context; and for Hollis this involved persuading those       stakeholders present to see St Peter's as a dynamic site, like those       described in The Secret Lives of Buildings.
Hollis also contributed to the design and implementation of workshops on       these open days in which participants `acted out' some of the processes of       building alteration described in The Secret Lives of Buildings.
For example, Safe as Houses (June 2012) involved drawing on the       fabric of the building, identifying places of safety amid the ruins, while       The Fortune Tellers (March 2012) involved games in which       participants predicted the future of the site over diverse durations, from       five days to five centuries.
Intended to spark debate, the activities revealed that an historical       understanding of the site might be found in small acts of playful       storytelling, and that St Peter's could follow the same path of       regeneration as its incremental and anarchic dereliction.
The Invisible College and the future of St Peter's Seminary     The most immediate beneficiaries of these activities have been local       residents, who have started to care for, and therefore benefit from, the       landscape around the building.
Along with NVA, they have begun to clear       the forest, replant the vegetable gardens and clear the rhododendrons that       choke the site (5.4).
Vandalism has decreased and activity on site is becoming more accepted.
During the third open day in September 2012, one Cardross resident, Tahira       Naseem, commented: 'Although I enjoy the silence of the area (at         times), the thought that one day it may accommodate more than the         occasional passing soul is a warming one' (5.6).
Testifying to local       interest in, and activity on site, one blogger noted: 'I passed a         couple of women collecting fire wood, they assured me [with] permission.
It turned out one of the woman's mums had worked at the seminary and had         told her of a secret hermit's cave in the grounds' (5.3).
One of the most significant impacts of this has been an attitudinal       change within Historic Scotland, who `Category A' listed the site in       August 1992, but now agree that its value as a national asset is not       predicated upon the restoration of the building to its original state       (5.8).
Having rejected an initial bid by NVA, in early 2012, for funding to       renovate the site, representatives of the Heritage Lottery Fund have since       encouraged NVA to reapply on the basis of what they have seen of the work       of the Invisible College.
To date, along with the Scottish Government and       The Caram Trust, Historic Scotland has awarded NVA &#163;88k to purchase the       site from the Archdiocese of Glasgow and, following a visit by Fiona       Hyslop MSP, Cabinet Secretary for Culture and External Affairs in October       2012, application for further Government funds has been encouraged to       finance future regeneration (5.9).
In total, NVA aims to raise another &#163;4.5 million for the project, with       the results of recent applications known in December 2013 (5.5).
This will       assist in the incremental transformation of St Peter's, started in 2012       and recently given impetus by the purchase of the site, into an Invisible       College `field station' for arts-led interdisciplinary research and public       engagement.
These first steps in the regeneration of St Peters have evidenced the       thesis of The Secret Lives of Buildings: that ruins can be more       than relics of a historic past.
Rather, set in incremental, peopleled       change, they can perform new functions, and in doing so, live again.
