     FOUND (http://foundcollective.com)       are an Edinburgh-based band and art collective founded by Gray's Art       School graduates, Ziggy Campbell, Tommy Perman and Kev Sim, signed to the       seminal label, Chemikal Underground.
FOUND's work with Kirby starts from       LEC laboratory findings and explores their relevance in a world of new       mechanisms for communication, networking, and information storage.
FOUND       ask their audiences: Are we continuing a process of self-domestication?
Augmenting ourselves with new kinds of memory?
Changing the ways       behaviours evolve?
Does the online world, which much of human cultural       behaviour now inhabits, represent a new kind of evolutionary transition       like those we have already been through?
The impacts described below stem from the evolving practices of a       collective of artists.
Unsurprisingly then, this is not a simple linear       story, so for clarity we present the impact categorised by who has       been impacted, and within each category we then provide a narrative of how       one well-defined aspect of the underpinning research has led to a specific       impact.
Artists:     Kirby has been involved with FOUND since 2007, but his collaboration only       began to have significant impact with the creation of Three Pieces       in 2008, and all the artworks described here were created between January       2008 and July 2013.
Initially a significant part of the contribution that       he brought from the experimental work on cultural transmission was       technical: he helped FOUND develop much more sophisticated interactive       artworks&#8212;described below&#8212;by deploying the computational skills and       methodologies developed for laboratory experiments in the LEC.
This       collaboration then led to a further and deeper exchange of ideas, with a       still-continuing discussion around the concepts of cultural evolution and       evolutionary transition that has resulted in FOUND's exploration in the       medium of art of a fundamental research finding of the LEC's work on       language evolution&#8212;the centrality of the relationship between us as a       species and our cultural products.
Thus the LEC's research on language       evolution has led to a fundamental change in the art practices of the       artists who make up the FOUND collective [5.ESW; 5.NMS].
"His [Kirby's]       involvement has had a huge impact ...
I cannot imagine being able to       produce any of our subsequent installations without [it].
... helped us to       conceptualise our work ... examine some very pertinent issues.
... added       an extra level of depth to FOUND's work ... missing before" [5.PER].
Audiences in galleries:     The finding that the nature of social networks affects the way structured       behaviours evolve in populations inspired the creation of Cybraphon       (2009), an autonomous, emotional, robotic band similar to a Victorian       orchestrion.
Cybraphon's emotional state is driven by an obsession       with its own online celebrity and online fans (it is perhaps the only       artwork likely to be emotionally affected by its citation in the REF).
This engages audiences with questions about how the social online world       changes the way we communicate, and explores our perceptions of this new       kind of social networking [5.PRE].
Cybraphon is an enormously       successful and widely-known artwork, which has attracted extensive media       coverage in books, newspapers, magazines, and television [5.PRE].
This       high visibility has in turn given Kirby the chance to explain the       relationship between artwork and research, in public talks alongside       high-profile exhibitions (Edinburgh Art Festival 2009, 2011; Glasgow       International Festival 2010; London Word Festival 2011; De La Warr       Pavilion 2011) [5.NMS], and in interviews such as the Guardian         Professional article of July 2013 [5.PRE].
Amongst other awards       [5.ESW, 5.NMS], Cybraphon won the BAFTA Scotland Best Interactive       award in 2009, the only time a piece of device art has won a BAFTA, and       its national importance was recognised in early 2013 by selection for       display in the permanent collection at the National Museum of Scotland,       the most visited UK museum outside London.
A core hypothesis in the research on the cultural transmission of       language through iterated learning is that central aspects of language as       it currently exists (such as compositionality) are the product of limitations       imposed by the nature of the network in which the system is transmitted.
This hypothesis inspired FOUND's End of Forgetting (2010), which       explores the possibility that the exponential increase in digital storage       capacity might be leading to a new transition, by effectively lifting       limitations on what can be remembered.
Exhibited at the Material Rites       exhibition in Edinburgh and the Royal Society of British Sculptors in       London [5.ESW], End of Forgetting is a device that records sound,       mixing it with sound uploaded by anyone in the world, allowing visitors to       access a seemingly infinite memory.
It asks: how should we live in a world       where the Internet records everything, forgets nothing?
FOUND with Simon       Kirby won the LIST Award for "outstanding contribution to Scottish art" in       2011 against a shortlist including 2011 Turner Prize nominee Karla Black.
The research theme of limitations on human memory and how they may or may       not be overcome found further resonance with the art collective which they       realised as #UNRAVEL (http://www.unravelproject.com,       or http://tinyurl.com/ozylun3),       involving celebrated lyricist Aidan Moffat, which invites visitors to play       records and hear stories from a Narrator's past.
Despite the seemingly       reliable nature of records, the stories change, responding to audience,       environment, and online opinion, conveying the underlying notion that       memory is unreliable and constructed through interaction.
This work       received a &#163;42,000 Creative Scotland Vital Spark award in 2011.
It was       initially shown at Inspace (Edinburgh: Jan-Feb 2012) and the Glasgow       International Festival of Visual Art (April-May 2012).
It was then invited       to the TEDGlobal exhibition (EICC, Edinburgh: June 2012).
The total       audience at exhibitions in 2012 was estimated at around 1000, the 3 online       videos have over 15000 views to date (July 2013) and there was coverage in       print media [5.UNR] and two interviews on BBC Radio Scotland.
Audiences online:     Cybraphon, End of Forgetting, and #UNRAVEL all engage       online audiences, leading to a direct engagement with, and impact on, a       wider public.
This is evidenced by a high volume of tweets from the       public, and Facebook friends of the art works which can be found online.
While we cannot archive tweets, Cybraphon, for example, had over 4000       Facebook friends by July 2013.
Audiences not expecting art:     The evolution of structured behaviour in populations emerging out of       individual pairwise interactions, as studied by the LEC, naturally led to       an art work in which the installation and (unsuspecting) audience formed       just such an interacting population, with unexpected emergent behaviours.
In 2008, FOUND with Kirby were commissioned to build an installation using       musical instruments with small robotic components at the Royal Botanic       Gardens Edinburgh.
Three Pieces reacted to the state of the plants       and movement of visitors, leading to spontaneous and surprising       interactions between audience and artwork, as well as among audience       members [5.PRE]     Non-traditional audiences for science:     The nature of FOUND's artworks means that the collective reaches       audiences quite different to&#8212; and generally much wider than&#8212;those likely       to attend an academic talk or read about science, even "popular" science.
In Glasgow (May 2012) and at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2012, #UNRAVEL       was exhibited as a live robot band on stage.
Audience members engaged by       tweeting opinions, which shaped the music (via an implementation of       automatic sentiment analysis).
FOUND were subsequently invited to the       major art event OFFF, Barcelona 2012 (http://www.offf.ws/2012         or http://tinyurl.com/pc6uzo5), where they presented #UNRAVEL to an       audience of around 2000.
Performances and talks relating to #UNRAVEL had a       total audience over 2,800, and exhibition attendances at least an       additional 1,000 [5.UNR].
