     Sorace established Bilingualism Matters (BM) in 2008 as a       public engagement project to use the results of the research in which she       was engaged, together with other relevant results and her expertise and       standing accrued as a researcher, to combat negative public perceptions of       bilingualism.
The goal of BM is to change attitudes toward       multilingualism in all sectors of society by providing research-based       information in an engaging way.
Working towards this challenging goal, BM's       outreach has had a significant and wide-reaching impact, changing       attitudes in individuals and strongly influencing educationalists, health       professionals and policy-makers, within and beyond the UK [5.STA].
BM       crucially draws on the research described above, but also on the       researchers' knowledge of the whole field; Sorace's reputation as a       research leader has given her the credibility to engage convincingly with       the public, from parents to policymakers.
BM has grown rapidly in the UK and across Europe, with events,       consultations with stakeholders, responses to 800+ requests for advice in       this period and substantial media coverage in British and European       national newspapers, radio, and television [5.MED].
Individuals have       confirmed the effect of BM events on their knowledge of and       attitudes to bilingualism.
A questionnaire sent out in 2012 to 90       individuals representing a wide range of organisations that had hosted a BM       event achieved a 70% response rate.
89% of respondents "learnt things       about bilingualism [they] did not know before", 91% "discussed       bilingualism with colleagues as a result", 87% had become "more aware       [...] bilingualism is a resource", most "changed the way [they] relate to       bilingual children and families", 73% sought information on bilingualism,       80% visited the website [5.QUE].
In what follows we break down the range of impact according to the       targeted constituencies:     Families and teachers     Sorace and others involved in BM have given over 60 talks to       teachers, parents, children, community groups and cultural institutions,       which have raised awareness of the benefits of bilingualism among local       monolingual and immigrant parents.
After a talk to 150 students from 5       Scottish schools, one Head of Modern Languages commented "Having some       solid evidence to support the hunch that the learning of languages is a       good thing can only help the cause of those seeking to promote the       learning and teaching of languages [...] The existence of BM and       its promotion of the research it undertakes seems to me essential"       [5.STA].
In 2010 Sorace was invited to Brussels by the European Commission       to give advice on setting up the Piccolingo campaign promoting       multilingualism.
Later that year, BM organised two events in       Edinburgh with the City of Edinburgh Council, SCILT (Scotland's National       Centre for Languages), Edinburgh Beltane, and consulates [5.DOW].
Sorace       led the Scottish partnership in an EU-funded Lifelong Learning project       that supported children learning a language with their parents; a       follow-up project recently funded by the EU for three years will take the       message to schools and immigrant families.
As part of the University's global strategy, BM and "Edinburgh       City of Learning" also trialled second language learning for pre-school       and primary children in 9 schools, extending their reach to early second       language learners from monolingual families.
Sending students into schools       changed those students' attitudes too.
The whole project was evaluated       very positively by HMIe [5.ECL] and a new project run by BM in       collaboration with official agencies is specifically focused on       introducing Chinese to first year primary school children.
According to       the convenor of the Scotland China Education Network (one of the partners)       "BM [...] makes accessible to practitioners in schools the       importance of early language exposure and learning and the underpinning       research.
This is what we all hope for from the collaboration between       universities and schools [...] of which BM is a shining model"       [5.STA].
Health professionals     If bilingual families are to be encouraged to bring up bilingual       children, it is crucial that they are not discouraged by contrary advice       from health professionals such as paediatricians and speech &amp; language       therapists, who are often unaware of the latest research results on       bilingualism.
In Scotland, BM has provided specific CPD training       for speech therapists (Murray Royal Hospital, Perth, 2009) and the       Scottish Childminding Association (2010), and for paediatricians, midwives       and other health professionals at the hospital of Palmanova del Friuli,       Italy (2013).
Numbers of participants at each event ranged from 20 to 70.
Policy makers and influential organisations     Members of BM have organised over 100 information seminars for       organisations including the European Central Bank, Council of Europe,       European Commission, and ESRC.
These have communicated the benefits of       bilingualism for businesses and the economy.
Sorace has also been       consulted extensively by the Scottish Government.
The Chair of the       Scottish Government's Working Group on Languages recognised the influence       of Sorace's input to the group's recommendations, now being implemented in       the Scottish Government's "1+2" plan to introduce two languages in primary       schools: "We were greatly impressed by [your work on bilingualism and       early language learning], which, together with your own research and other       related research which you pointed us towards, greatly informed the       thinking and work of the group."
[5.EER; 5.STA].
Partnerships in Scotland       between BM and the English as an Additional Language (EAL) Service       of Edinburgh council, and Children in Scotland, have influenced public       policy on language learning, reinforcing the message that the home       languages of immigrant families should be treated as a rich resource; BM       seminars are often integrated in EAL and Children in Scotland's regular       provision for staff in-service training and parent workshops [5.EAL].
Employers     A successful event with the RSA at the Scottish Parliament, targeting the       private sector, led to a high-profile event jointly organised by the Financial         Times and BM in London in February 2013, reported in an       extended article on 14 March 2013 [5.FTI].
Attendees, including       high-ranking personnel from Shell, HSBC, Deloitte, Deutsche Bank and       McKinsey, reported afterwards on the new insights that they had gained       ("presentation and discussions on multilingualism were thought provoking;       particularly in the part this plays in developing people, including       leaders, with more agile brains, rather than simply an ability to speak       particular languages"; "From my point of view it could not have been more       interesting, helpful and topical.
As I explained, I am determined to find       a way of embedding language-learning in the development of young people"       [5.STA].
Regional and global language communities:     BM reaches across Europe via a network of six branches, created       with other people&#8212;proof that BM is a model that inspires.
Branches       operate in Troms&#248;, Norway; Western Isles, Scotland; Thessaloniki, Greece;       Trento, Sardinia and Siena, Italy.
A seventh branch opens in Reading in       December 2013.
Six more are planned for 2014 as a result of the EU/FP7       AThEME grant.
As acknowledged publicly on their websites, BM was       also the acknowledged source of inspiration for the Cambridge Bilingualism       Network and the Ulster Centre for Multilingualism.
Branches coordinate       with BM to provide advice to local communities, including       supporting bilingualism with regional minority languages.
Working together with B&#242;rd na G&#224;idhlig, BM has influenced Gaelic       policy in Scotland by providing the impetus for the Curriculum of       Excellence for Gaelic, a central component of the government's Gaelic       plan; the official report stresses the importance of BM and       Sorace's work on bilingualism in several places ("The research on the       attainment of [Gaelic Medium Education] pupils and the work of Prof.       Antonella Sorace, University of Edinburgh, with local authorities, are       fundamental to the continuing growth of GME and the message of the       benefits of bilingualism", and cites her extensively [5.GRE]; the Director       of Education, Culture and Sport at the Highland Council also recognised       the impact of the research ("The research carried out on bilingualism by       the University of Edinburgh has been enormously helpful for the Highland       Council in supporting [a] strong and positive message about the benefits       of bilingualism through [GME]" [5.STA]).
Sorace's presentations of her research results, together with the work of       the local branch of BM, has also led to notable changes in       Sardinian language policy (e.g.
the setting up of training courses for       Sardinian teachers as preparation for the introduction of Sardinian as a       medium of instruction in bilingual schools) [5.COR].
Increasingly, having become aware of the relevance of the results of the       primary research, institutions are commissioning BM to carry out       further research on their language communities (e.g.
Regione Sardegna;       Scotland China Education Network), a very welcome development.
