     Our work on language resource development has benefitted the speakers of       these languages in several ways.
Orthography development: The most significant impact is due to       Ladd's proposal for improvement of Dinka orthography: Orthographic         reform in Dinka: some general considerations and a proposal (http://www.lel.ed.ac.uk/~bob/orth.posted.pdf),       developed 2010-11.
The orthographic representation of Dinka presents       serious challenges.
The existing system has problems representing tone and       vowel length, and this causes ambiguity and interferes with communication,       affecting education and development.
Consultation with [text removed for       publication], South Sudan, suggested that complicating the writing system       with full-scale markup using diacritics was unacceptable to language       users.
Moreover, any case for change had to acknowledge the lack of a       functioning educational system to implement it.
Ladd's proposal was       pragmatic, based on a central principle: limit change to areas of greatest       confusion.
In March 2011 Ladd's proposal was disseminated to stakeholders including       the Dinka Language Development Association (DILDA), SIL Sudan, and South       Sudan government education officials, with a significant impact on the       debate on orthography development [5.SIL].
Notably, DILDA initially       envisioned a complete disambiguation of lexical and morphological       grammatical contrasts, but have now adopted Ladd's proposals and advocate       a more limited set of modifications [5.DIL].
Child literacy: As is often the case in minority languages,       previous efforts to produce materials for Dinka and Shilluk centered on       Bible translation.
But such translations are not the most useful for       language learners, especially children.
On the basis of our work on       Shilluk and Dinka we have been able to make a contribution towards       improving child literacy in South Sudan, a major challenge for the       society.
In 2009, we published a Shilluk translation of Handa's Hen       [5.MAN], a story set in East Africa, which attracted attention from The         Times [5.TIM] and was mentioned by the author of the original       version [5.HAN].
In 2012 we also published a collection of 30 Dinka       children's songs, known to children, which serve as a bootstrap to       beginning readers.
Both are disseminated by local NGOs, and online through       MantraLingua [5.MAN].
The Dinka Language Development Association (DILDA)       has acknowledged the "direct great contribution" of these books [5.DIL].
Dinka songs: Whilst the Dinka lack a written tradition,       they have a vibrant song culture.
Our research on the language enabled us       to transcribe and analyse songs, supervising the annotation of a large       number by native-speaker collaborators.
The result is a collection       celebrating and documenting Dinka song tradition (collaboration with       Angela Impey, ethnomusicologist at SOAS).
The collection is archived in       the DoBeS archive of the Max Planck Institute of Psycholinguistics and in       Edinburgh DataShare.
It constitutes a permanent record of Dinka song       tradition.
We additionally made a YouTube video, and, most importantly,       created a CD of Dinka songs which, with extensive coverage on BBC3's World       Routes programme, has introduced Dinka music to the world music scene for       the first time.
Thus, in addition to benefits to the language community       (orthography; child literacy) we have impacted a much wider community of       interest [5.BBC].
The letter of thanks from DILDA also mentions the work       on Dinka songs, the underpinning research on tone, the orthography       development work and the children's book, acknowledging the benefits of       "archiving ... songs", and the contribution to "cultural development"       [5.DIL].
Advice: We share with other non-academic users the       expertise on Dinka and related languages that we have gained through our       research.
In a legal arbitration on the status of Abyei at the       international tribunal in The Hague, the legal counsel of South Sudan       consulted Remijsen (6 February 2009 &amp; 9 March 2009) on the meaning of       place names in Abyei on old maps.
Capacity building: Through our research projects on these       languages, we have provided transferable skills in computer use, English,       Dinka, and Shilluk, to people in South Sudan: Dinka assistants trained and       employed on our project are now in South Sudan using these skills to wide       benefit in the community.
We have developed and provided other training,       including teaching at the University of Khartoum and a week-long course on       Dinka grammar for DILDA in Juba.
Evidence of the impact comes from       positive written feedback after a Dinka Cultural Day event where Remijsen       made a presentation to several hundred people about non-academic outputs       of the research.
Staff and students attending the presentation commented       on Remijsen's "wonderful" and "very interesting" work on Dinka, and the       need for "Dinka language to be [taught] in all [states of South Sudan]"       [5.FED].
This enthusiastic response can be attested to by the director of       the British Council in South Sudan, who was also present [5.BRC].
The       Ministry of Education of Central Equatoria State also wrote in       appreciation of Remijsen's work on the Bari language, thanking him for       "tireless help to the development of our Languages especially to train our       students of Secondary Schools and the University..." [5.MOE].
Given the difficult economic environment of South Sudan, obtaining       corroborating evidence of impact from language users is a challenge;       further, the dysfunctional political situation sometimes makes it       difficult to obtain corroboration from official sources.
We offer       additional sources of corroboration to supplement what is available from       the people directly impacted by this research.
