     MU research on how organisations can and are measuring impact has led to       our involvement in a range of programmes that have stimulated the uptake       of social impact measurement and the improvement of existing tools.
These       include:     2000-2007: Building on initial work, we provided consultancy to the       Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and DEFRA relating to the impact of       social enterprise.
An influential piece of MU work on the impact of       enterprise in deprived areas for DTI was used extensively in the design       and initial documents of the Local Enterprise Growth Initiative.
2008-9: We were asked to evaluate the Social Enterprise Investment Fund       (a &#163;100m programme funded by the Department of Health) and research used       to influence policy.
2010-11: There was a growing appetite from organisations to use MU       research themselves, with training being provided to over 200       organisations based on tools developed from the research findings.
More       intensive engagement with Citizen's Advice used the research to       successfully develop their strategies.
2012-13: The work on supporting charities and social ventures to measure       their impact has continued, with development of web based tools and       research being used in a two year Knowledge Transfer Partnership on growth       strategies for a charity, The Holy Cross Centre Trust.
Influencing Policy     The research on Social Return on Investment (initially published as a       Third Sector Research Centre working paper in 2010 and later published as       Arvidson, Lyon, McKay and Moro, 2013) was used to advise a range of       funders and policy managers about the types of impact evaluation tools       that should be promoted and the limitations of these approaches.
The       Social Return on Investment approach had been selected as the single       approach to be promoted by the Cabinet Office's Office of the Third Sector       (later renamed the Office for Civil Society).
MU was on the advisory panel       of the Cabinet Office's Measuring Social Value Project and advised the       Cabinet Office on what approaches are most suitable.
A senior official of       the Office for Civil Society reported: `we found the meeting very useful       and timely in terms of our thinking on the next steps for Social Return on       Investment and how it can feed into the government priorities'.
The       research was quoted in a key document from the Cabinet Office on Social       Investment (1; 2).
Subsequent to the briefing based on this research (Arvidson et al, 2013)       and further studies by DEMOS, there was a policy change that replaced the       emphasis on promoting SROI as a single approach to measuring impact and       recognised the need for a range of approaches.
This research received much       attention in the media with articles in the Guardian online and in the       Third Sector trade press (3; 4).
The briefing paper on the subject was       downloaded over 3,500 times.
It also led to further policy briefings with       the Big Lottery Fund (24/10/2010), Department for International       Development (5/11/2012) and advice given to Big Society Capital       (13/3/2013) (5).
Further research on impact tools and their use by       commissioners was used to brief the Cabinet Office (19/8/2013).
Research       on how charities are using Impact Measurement was also drawn on by the       Greater London Authority/NESTA in setting up Project Oracle - a programme       to build the evidence base on what works in youth policy (6).
Influencing Practice     Results from the study of how organisations measure social impact (Lyon       and Arvidson, 2011) were used to initiate a KTP that developed ways to       support organisations to select an appropriate means to measure their       impact (7).
This resulted in 14 courses run by the KTP partner (The       Guild), attended by over 200 organisations, and 1,064 organisations have       placed orders for the guide.
The research led to MU winning a competitive       contract (&#163;12,000) to develop impact assessment approaches for Citizens       Advice and an address to their AGM.
MU also won a competitive tender       commissioned to develop a website for measuring impact for the Big Lottery       Fund and Plunkett Foundation (8).This targeted many thousands of smaller       organisations and social enterprises.
This research also laid the basis for the Inspiring Impact       programme led by New Philanthropy Capital, which brought together impact       measurement specialists across the UK to discuss forms of shared       measurement.
MU research was quoted extensively in the launch document for       this programme (9).
The research was also used by New Philanthropy Capital       in developing the Data Lab Project and Middlesex University was       subsequently funded to provide further support in setting up units in       different government departments to allow charities to use public sector       administrative data to assess the impact of interventionism (10).
This work has led to a number of other impact assessment studies for       specific organisations that have built on our analysis of impact       measurement approaches and have been used to shape the future direction of       the organisations.
They include: Evaluation of the School for Social       Entrepreneurs programmes (2013-15: &#163;104,000); Evaluation of the New       Philanthropy Capital Data Lab Project (2013-16: &#163;54,000); Right to Request       Programme, commissioned by the SSE and Department of Health (2011:       &#163;5,000); Social Enterprise Investment Fund Evaluation, commissioned by the       Department of Health with Birmingham University, Oxford University and       Shared Intelligence Ltd. (2009-2011; &#163;400,000, with &#163;53,000 to MU);       Evaluation of Innovation Exchange Brokerage Model, for Innovation       Exchange, funded by OTS, Cabinet Office (2009-10; &#163;25,000).
The social impact measurement agenda is currently changing fast with       growing demands from funders and public sector commissioners.
The impact       of the Middlesex University research in this area is expected to grow       considerably with invitations to join new partnerships and policy makers       looking to draw on our work in developing more appropriate approaches to       identifying and reporting the impact of organisations.
