     Drug development, technological advancements and improved living       conditions have had a huge influence on the field of medicine and       healthcare practitioners.
More than ever doctors need critical and       independent thought, empathy and understanding, and the ability to       communicate as they and their patients navigate the multitude of choices       now available from before conception to post-mortem examination.
Incorporating elements of the arts and humanities into the rigorous       discipline that is the study of medicine allows future doctors to gain       insight into the human conditions of illness and suffering, to sharpen       their powers of perception &#8212; of their professionalism and that of others       and of their responsibilities to self, colleagues and patients.
Exposing       them to the arts and literature has been shown to develop their       observational skills, analytical reasoning, empathy and self-reflection.
Over 30 years of research initiated at UoG has led directly to:     &#8212; early recognition by the General Medical Council of the importance of       humanities elements as part of the medical curriculum for `tomorrow's       doctors';     &#8212; recognition by key agencies &#8212; including the Nuffield, Wellcome &#8212; of the       importance of the field and support for its development &#8212; eg, the journal       Medical Humanities was established with support from the British       Medical Association and first edited by Macnaughton to 2010); and the       Association of Medical Humanities was established with Nuffield support in       2002 `to promote the medical humanities in education, healthcare and       research in the UK and Ireland';     &#8212; the establishment of the first Centre of Medical Humanities at Durham       University, with a total of 24 such centres or units worldwide in 2013;     &#8212; thirty of the UK's 32 medical schools now offer medical humanities as       undergraduate modules or as postgraduate degree programmes &#8212; in 2013 the       majority of students in schools of medicine in the UK will have a       humanities component in their curriculum.
All of the above are continuing impacts, which have been ongoing       throughout the census period.
The Special Study Modules first offered by       UoG and advocated by the General Medical Council are now an integral       curricular component, with the importance of medical humanities for       doctors and patients widely recognised.
By 2010 the majority of the       medical schools in the UK had accepted this finding.
Following on from the       success of the pioneering work at UoG and the establishment of the centre       at Durham, the Universities of Aberdeen, St Bartholomew's, Brighton and       Sussex, Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Exeter,       Hull-York Medical School, Keele, King's College London, Leeds, Leicester,       Liverpool, Manchester, Nottingham, Oxford, Plymouth, Sheffield,       Southampton, St Andrews, University College London and Warwick all       subsequently opened Medical Humanities units offering a range of courses       from modules to postgraduate study.
Between them, these institutions       represent about 80% of the undergraduate medical teaching offered in the       UK, meaning that the vast majority now incorporate a medical humanities       element to their teaching.
The NHS Greater Glasgow &amp; Clyde operate the Glasgow Medical       Humanities Unit in collaboration with the University of Glasgow &#8212; it was       the first unit of its kind in Scotland.
In addition to the dedicated       centres, a number of institutions have gone beyond the offering of the       Glasgow-model SSMs to provide intercalated and postgraduate masters'       degrees.
In his capacity as former Chief Medical Officer for the UK and Scotland,       Professor Sir Kenneth Calman writes:     It is relevant to reflect on the impact the studies in Glasgow had on the       wider medical community.
Medical education and practice has always been       based on a broad range of values, and had a strong ethical component.
The       work in Glasgow on the medical humanities provided an important new focus       and impetus for considering medicine from the point of the patient, and in       ensuring that the ethical values were maintained.
The initiative came at       just the right time and [...] began to feature in educational programmes       in ethics, palliative care, discussions on quality of life, care of the       elderly and public health challenges.
Each of these benefitted from       viewing the subject from a different angle, and this had consequences in       clinical practice and patient well-being.
It provided a catalyst for new       thinking and bringing together people from different backgrounds and       interests all focussed on improving patient care.
UoG's Centre for Medical Humanities focuses on the healing environment       and the role of visual arts in improving the experience of patients.
In       2009 funding was obtained from the Scottish Arts Council (now Creative       Scotland) to develop the centre's work with participation by visiting       artists.
The result was the establishment of an SSM entitled `Framework         for healing: the arts, architecture and the doctor's working         environment'.
In 2011 Creative Scotland funded teaching in an SSM on       `Medicine, the arts, and the doctor's way of seeing' and the `Creative       Space' was opened in Glasgow Western Infirmary, a collaboration between       the Medical Humanities Unit and NHS Greater Glasgow &amp; Clyde.
The       Creative Space facilities an exhibition programme and arts events within a       healthcare context, with the aim of bring arts and health practitioners       together in an acute medical context.
As Brazil is seeking to incorporate a humanities strand into its       provision of medical education, Downie was interviewed in late 2012 by a       researcher from the Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo (Paulista School of       Medicine) interested in learning about the development of the UoG model       and the successful implementation of Special Study Modules.
The prolonged       consultation with Downie inspired the Brazilian university to develop       their `Laboratory of Humanities': `...it made our prolonged dreams become       solid research ideas become government sponsored grants.
It also made us       less wary about trying to find reverberating voices [in Brazil] and to       rather develop our own way of configuring this as a new discipline within       Medical Schools in Brazil today.'
The now-established Centre for the       History and Philosophy of the Health Sciences offers postgraduate degrees       and special modules for undergraduates, and an average of 50 participants       each week discussing literature and philosophy in their Laboratory of       Humanities, in much the same way that the original extra-curricular clubs       operated for medical students in Glasgow.
