     In 2008, as a direct result of her research into patient dignity, Lesley       Baillie was approached by the Royal College of Nursing (RCN), the leading       professional body for Nursing in the UK, and invited to be an expert       consultant to its campaign `Dignity at the heart of everything we do'.
The       Director of Nursing and Service Delivery, RCN, has provided a statement to       evidence Baillie's contribution and the reach (410,000 nurses, midwives,       healthcare support workers and students) and impact of the campaign (1)     Drawing on Baillie's research, the RCN commissioned a scoping survey of       the nursing workforce to explore barriers and facilitators to dignified       care.
Baillie devised the survey questions and developed a working       definition of dignity for the survey.
The results of the survey of 2000       RCN members was instrumental in the planning and direction of the campaign       (2).
The dignity definition, published in the survey report (2, page 8) has       led to a clearer understanding nationally of the meaning and scope of       dignity in health care and has been adopted by NHS Trusts and used to       inform dignity policies, for example Royal Lincolnshire Hospitals (3).The       survey results were presented at a national conference to launch the       campaign in 2008, which was attended by over 100 senior nursing       representatives (1).
The campaign featured at the RCN's 2008 Congress       attended by Alan Johnson MP (Secretary of State for Health at the time).
Baillie's team sought clarification from the Minister about when mixed sex       accommodation would be eradicated.
Johnson promised that they would be and       this was widely reported in the press (4).
Following on from this, in       January 2009, Johnson announced that from April 2010, the standard       contract for NHS patients would be same sex accommodation and this policy       has been fully implemented with hospitals having to report any breaches       monthly.
Baillie worked on the campaign resources for the RCN (supported       financially by Smith and Nephew and Help the Aged).
Based on her research,       Baillie led the development of a practice support pack, which comprised a       DVD with facilitator's guide and additional resources e.g.
pocket guides       (5).
In 2008-2009, the packs were distributed widely across the UK, to       nursing teams in both NHS and private healthcare organisations (1).
In       total, 3,746 packs were distributed and a further 1,087 packs were       purchased subsequently by other UK and overseas organisations (1); the       packs remain available to purchase, with supporting resources free to       download (5).
A key feature of the campaign was local launch events where       the RCN's campaign team prepared local campaign leaders to use the       campaign pack with their nursing teams.
As an example, the Supportive Care       Lead Nurse at the Velindre Cancer Centre in South Wales (which provides       specialist cancer services to over 1.5 million people in South East Wales)       attended a local session and took away the practice support pack.
They       found the materials so `powerful' that they formed a Patient Dignity       Group.
The resource prompted them to think more deeply about what dignity       really meant and to feel that, as nurses, they could do something to       improve dignity for their patients (6).
An article in a professional       journal reviewing the campaign reported that the practice support pack was       being used by health and social care practitioners across the UK (7), and       quoted the RCN Dignity Campaign lead reflecting that "anyone with a little       confidence has been able to run a training and development session.
These       sessions are about enabling other people so that they can change their       practice" (7).
The article reports examples from NHS Trusts that had made       improvements as a result of the campaign resources, for example, in the       Isle of Man, staff improved bed curtains so that they maximised privacy       and Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust promoted improvements in staff       interactions with patients (7).
The active campaign finished in 2009 but       the RCN's Dignity section and resources remain on the RCN website (5).
Baillie, together with another consultant, conducted an early stage       evaluation of the campaign in 2009 at seven UK sites, using a multi-method       case study approach (8, 9).
The evaluation indicated that the campaign       resources were well-received with the practice support pack triggering       staff to reflect on their own practice and behaviour, for example,       becoming aware of talking over patients during ward rounds (8, 9).
A       Deputy Chief nurse at one of the NHS Trusts said: `The very clear feedback       that we've had is that it's enabled staff to actually realise and have       more insight into their own practice' (8).
The evaluation found that as a       result of the campaign resources, some changes in practice had already       been made and these related to improvements in privacy, the care       environment and staff interactions with patients and families (8, 9).
Improvements in privacy included: obtaining dressing gowns for patients to       wear over their theatre gowns when walking to theatre, implementing       `do-not-disturb' signs for curtains, taking patients to the bathroom       rather than them using a commode at the bedside, and instigating a policy       to ensure that inpatients attending outpatient appointments were dressed       in their own clothes rather than gowns whenever possible (8, 9).
Care       environment improvements included improving facilities for families in       intensive care, personalising the care home environment, and developing a       private room for breast feeding mothers on a children's ward (9).
Further examples of change as a result of the campaign include, for       example, one large hospital, Guy's and St. Thomas' (GST) which introduced       120 Dignity Champions and adopted a "no interruption" rule (7).
Independent Consultants interviewed staff at the Heart Hospital, London,       who introduced Dignity Champions and a "goody bag" scheme allowing older       patients to bring comfort items from home, they provide patients with hot       drinks throughout the night and wherever possible provided patients with       food and drink of their choice (10).
The Velindre Cancer Centre's Patient Dignity Group was inspired by the       RCN Dignity campaign and has continued to develop (6, 11), indicating the       sustainability of the campaign and its impact on practice.
The Group, now       multi-disciplinary, meets four-monthly and works on continued       improvements.
The group's work led to the Centre being short-listed for       the 2013 Nursing Times Dignity award (12), which they subsequently won.
