     The House of Lords Select Committee on the Constitution (HLCC) is a       cross-party committee that examines all Bills before Parliament for their       constitutional compatibility, reporting to Parliament on the       constitutional impact of legislation.
In 2009, Tomkins was appointed as one of two legal advisers to the HLCC,       and has since drafted reports on over 30 Bills.
On numerous occasions,       these reports have identified matters that have led to significant       legislative amendment by the House of Lords.
Leading examples include the       Health and Social Care Bill (2011-12) and the Justice and Security Bill       (2012-13).
The Health and Social Care Bill (2011-12)     The Health and Social Care Bill sought to amend core aspects of the NHS       Act 2006, which governed the National Health Service in England.
By virtue       of the 2006 Act, the Secretary of State is legally and politically       responsible to Parliament for the NHS in England.
Tomkins highlighted       certain provisions in the Bill which would pose a risk to the Secretary of       State's continuing constitutional responsibility for the NHS.
Two of these       provisions were; the definition of the Secretary of State's       responsibilities (Clause 1) and the introduction of Clinical Commissioning       Groups which would take over some service provision responsibilities       (Clause 1C).
Tomkins advised HLCC that these provisions would risk       diluting the Government's constitutional responsibilities with regard to       the National Health Service.
Following Tomkins' advice, the HLCC reported       (September 2011) that if the Health and Social Care Bill were enacted as       it stood, the chain of constitutional responsibility within the NHS would       be severed.
In November &#8212; December 2011, Tomkins and his fellow legal adviser       represented the HLCC at a series of meetings with Department of Health       officials and First Parliamentary Counsel, at which they discussed the       significant consequences of the Bill.
Tomkins prepared a follow-up report,       which HLCC published in December 2011 [2; 3].
The report proposed       amendments to the Bill which were crucial to ensuring that the Secretary       of State's constitutional responsibilities for the NHS were positioned       beyond legal doubt.
The House of Lords endorsed these amendments and the       amendments to Sections 1 and 1C of the Bill were adopted in the Act.
The follow-up report contains an Appendix (written by Tomkins) which sets       out in authoritative form the HLCC's understanding of the constitutional       conventions of ministerial responsibility to Parliament.
This       understanding formed the basis of HLCC's subsequent work on the       Accountability of Civil Servants, an inquiry undertaken by HLCC in respect       of which Tomkins and Rawlings was a specialist adviser.
Many of the       recommendations contained in the HLCC's final report from this inquiry       were supported by the Government in its response to the report.
The Justice and Security Bill (2012-13)     In Al Rawi v Security Service ([2011] UKSC 34) the UK Supreme       Court ruled that the courts had no inherent power to order that a civil       action may be heard under `closed material procedure' (CMP).
CMP, invented       by statute in 1997, is used in some counter-terrorism contexts: it allows       sensitive material to be used as evidence in litigation without it being       served on the parties.
Instead, it is served on a security-cleared       `special advocate'.
The procedure is highly controversial.
In May 2012, the Government introduced its Justice and Security Bill into       Parliament.
The Bill as introduced incorporated a number of       recommendations which Tomkins (together with Tom Hickman from University       College London) had made in an earlier response, on behalf of the Bingham       Centre for the Rule of Law, to a Green Paper published by the Government       in 2011.
This response had argued that proposals such as advocating for       `closed material procedure' (CMP) to be available generally in civil       litigation were excessive.
The Justice and Security Bill (as introduced)       proposed that CMP be available in civil trials only in the interests of       national security, a crucial recommendation made by Tomkins.
However,       despite being an improvement on the 2011 Green Paper, the Bill remained       problematic.
When it was introduced into the House of Lords, Tomkins examined the Bill       and advised the HLCC.
On the basis of his advice, HLCC published a report       (June 2012) which urged several amendments, including that; (a) any party       to a case (not only the Secretary of State) should be permitted to apply       for a trial to adopt a CMP; (b) the Bill needed to clarify the intended       relationship between CMP and the common law principles of Public Interest       Immunity; (c) Ministers should not be able to extend the availability of       CMP to other proceedings, such as inquests; (d) the Government should be       required to report annually to Parliament on the use of CMP; and (e) the       Bill should be independently reviewed five years after it comes into force       [7].
All of these recommendations were accepted by Parliament and now       appear in the Justice and Security Act 2013.
In both his work for the Bingham Centre and his advice on the Justice and       Security Bill for HLCC Tomkins drew extensively on research first       presented in his articles in the Law Quarterly Review and Current         Legal Problems on the Role of the Court, and Due Process in Law, as       they relate to questions of National Security (see (3) and (4) at Section       3, above).
