     Historic Scotland is responsible for some of the most significant early       Christian monuments in the world, including the Latinus Stone at Whithorn,       perhaps the earliest post-Roman Christian monument in Britain, and the       world-famous collection of Iona, which includes the earliest High Crosses       in the world.
These stone carvings hold some of the only testimony of the       people of this time that still exists, and a large part of our knowledge       of their history comes from interpreting their carvings.
Moreover, sites       of carved stones attract thousands of visitors per year to sometimes       otherwise remote sites, boosting tourism to the areas.
However, many of       the collections managed by Historic Scotland are inaccessible, hidden away       in storage or inadequately displayed, with their potential left untapped.
Forsyth has provided a modern and visitor-friendly vision for displaying       the monuments that is now used by Historic Scotland in its policy for       caring for these artefacts, notably in driving the refurbishment of some       of their most important visitor sites, including Iona Abbey, which       attracts 50,000 visitors per year.
Changes to Historic Scotland's policy on displaying carved stones     Conservation, maintenance and display of all carved stones in Scotland is       governed by Historic Scotland's `Carved           Stones: Scottish Executive Policy and Guidance', published in       2005.
It draws heavily on Historic Scotland's approach &#8212; devised by       Forsyth &#8212; to the stones at Whithorn Priory.
Guidance section 3.5.9-3.5.13       directly reflects Forsyth's research, noting the need for site-specific       interpretation plans and paying particular attention to the relevance of       fragments of stones, as well as to the importance of the full collection       in understanding and interpreting the site.
The work done at Whithorn was       written up by Historic Scotland's Head of Cultural Heritage, who refers       explicitly to Forsyth's influence on the revisions to the display in his       paper `The Evolution of an Interpretative Approach', stating that `this       evolution [in the approach taken] has been significantly influenced by the       involvement of Dr Katherine Forsyth as consultant to the Historic Scotland       project team.'
Implementation of the new policy in specific sites     Historic Scotland used Forsyth's approach in the redevelopment of Iona       Museum in 2013 as well as St Vigeans Museum in 2009 and Whithorn Priory in       2005.
Specific findings about individual monuments and about the       over-arching significance of each collection as a whole underpinned       Forsyth's interpretative plan for each site and formed the basis for the       redisplay strategy and design, including the ordering, grouping and       orientation of monuments, interpretative approach and themes, and content       for panels and labels, written guide-books and audio-guides and heritage       management databases.
Whithorn Priory redisplay     The sculptured stones at Whithorn Priory include the oldest Christian       monuments in Scotland, dating from the 5th to the 12th       centuries.
Whithorn is known as the `cradle of Christianity' within       Scotland, a cultural, political and social centre in the early Christian       Era and for the next thousand years.
The new displays create a more       accessible experience for visitors and locals, enhancing their       understanding of and connection with the people who carved the stones.
As       one reviewer noted:     Early medieval sculpture is notoriously difficult to display with       complete success, as many museums can testify.
For this reviewer the       sensitive handling of the material served to remind me of how significant       and regionally distinctive this assemblage of sculptures is.
It is a more       successful approach for example than the similar lapidarium display at       Margam Abbey, South Wales (CADW) and hopefully bodes well for future       redisplays of Historic Scotland collections in Meigle, St Vigeans and       Iona.
(`Exhibition Review: Whithorn's Medieval Material Culture on       Display', Scottish Archaeological Journal, 2005.)
Forsyth drafted the text for the information boards within the museum       following her work piecing together the damaged stones and reinterpreting       them and provided the new layout plan, as well as advising on locating and       lighting the stones.
Between 2008 and 2012 more than 40,000 people had the       opportunity to view the new displays while visiting the Whithorn Priory       Museum.
The revised display was runner-up in the Museum and Heritage       Awards for Excellence in 2008, beating entries from much more prominent       visitor sites throughout the UK.
Iona Abbey and Museum new display     Iona is one of the most popular tourist sites in Scotland, and has a       collection of stones which are unparalleled in Europe.
The Museum reopened       in May 2013.
Iona regularly receives 150,000 visitors per year, and the       Abbey is one of the key attractions.
The museum's reinterpretation of the       history of Iona now reflects Forsyth's work on identifying the most       significant stones and most notably, her discovery that the layout of the       original stones was intended to mirror that of holy sites, including       Calvary and Christ's burial place in the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem.
The Head of Cultural Heritage for Historic Scotland says: `it has changed       the way we look at Iona.
Its layout is far more significant than we       thought... the four key components of Christ's sacrifice on the cross are       here, because the monks wanted to contemplate the Passion of Christ in       their workshop.'
Forsyth also assisted in piecing together and       reconstructing the major crosses, which are now on display.
Historic       Scotland notes that her report:     was groundbreaking and innovative, rich in evidence-based interpretation,       which was precisely what we required to provide the firm foundation for       the now completed redisplay of the site museum.
That work was completed in       summer 2012, but since then Kate has continued to play a key role as an       adviser to the project on an ad-hoc basis.
Her work has had a direct and       positive impact on most aspects of the project `hardware', including the       new interpretation panels, audio guide, as well as the site museum.
The       museum has attracted plaudits from our visitors, and will successfully       allow people to engage with the evidence of the distant past and thereby       take away a far better understanding.
Figure 1.
Iona Abbey and Museum display
