     The research was supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund through an award       to Professor AV Chadwick, University of Kent that was administered by the       Mary Rose Trust.
The project was specifically targeted to solve an       existing problem in the treatment of waterlogged wood that is described       above.
Eleanor Schofield was appointed as a postdoctoral research       assistant during the period of the award.
As a result of the training she       obtained at the University of Kent, and the progress she made with the       development of new chemical treatments, she subsequently became       Conservation Manager for the Mary Rose Trust, with overall responsibility       for chemistry related conservation.
She has overseen the implementation of       the University of Kent technology to treat numerous salvaged items.
The       figure below shows one of the many gun carriages on display that were       treated using the University of Kent method.
These items would not be on       display if the University of Kent research had not been carried out.
Beneficiaries and Significance of the Conservation of the Mary Rose     The work led by the University of Kent has a local impact on the economy       of Portsmouth and the South East, a national impact in the position of the       Mary Rose within British history, and an international impact on the       conservation and heritage industry.
The restored Mary Rose forms a centrepiece attraction in Portsmouth's       Historic Dockyard: in its new purpose-built museum it is a major visitor       attraction and cultural asset to its region.
The Dockyard attracts around       500,000 visitors a year, approximately 15-20% from overseas and it is       anticipated that these numbers will grow further with the opening of the       Mary Rose (Portsmouth Historic Dockyard Ltd.).
The Mary Rose Trust       received &#163;2m from visitors, in donations and trading income in 2012; it       also has an active learning and outreach programme (Mary Rose Trust Annual       Review 2013).
Kent research enabled the conservation of artefacts, such as         the gun carriages (left) that would otherwise not be on display.
The Mary           Rose project is a lasting legacy to Tudor life that will be         enjoyed for many generations to come.
The uniqueness of the exhibition         (right) prompted historian David Starkey to describe it as the "British         Pompeii"            The preservation of Mary Rose has major historical significance as a       well-preserved example of Tudor history.
Without the preservation of the       artefacts - of which the ship itself if the greatest - it would not be       possible for the museum to tell the full story of this period of history:       "In the original museum less than 10% of the recovered artefacts were on       display.
In the new museum many thousands more artefacts will be displayed       in context, many never seen before.
Preparing all this material has been a       huge task.
The remarkable state of preservation of some of these articles       can be confusing because everything wooden on display in the new museum is       a conserved original.
There are no organic replicas on display."
(Mary       Rose Trust Annual Review 2013).
The impact of the work is also evidenced       by interest from other conservators.
Dr Emma Hocker, a conservator at the       Vasa commented on the research at the University of Kent: "We at the Vasa       Museum are always interested in new treatments to neutralise acids in       wood.
What is intriguing about the University of Kent's method is that it       is not a one-off treatment, but since the nano-particles remain in the       wood, they act as a buffer ready to neutralise any new acidic outbreaks."
