     In order to enhance the impact of this research, Crow, in collaboration       with Maktav, curated an       exhibition of maps, photographs and video displays: Water for a         Capital.
This was held in Istanbul       (8.11.2012-18.2.2013).
This exhibition, sponsored by the Ko&#231; Foundation,       was located in their       research centre in the heart of the modern city (at RCAC on Istiklal       Caddesi, a pedestrianised       street in the centre of the city).
The exhibition aimed to:            create public awareness and improve understanding of the major         monuments of the         Roman and Byzantine water supply systems located both in the forests         west of Istanbul         and also extending throughout the old city;       highlight the application of new technologies for the mapping and         presentation of the         ancient water supply systems;       help to develop a wider understanding of the ancient and medieval         cities and their legacies         within the Ottoman and contemporary city;       stimulate a programme of conservation to ensure the long-term         preservation and display of         the surviving monuments.
Over 200 people attended the exhibition opening.
Alongside the       exhibition, we were able to bring       together planners and administrators from the two regional municipalities       (&#199;atalca and       Arnavutk&#246;y) where the remains of aqueducts and channels are best preserved       (5.1).
While the       final results of these meetings are still not fully realised, we expect       these contacts will significantly       help to underpin the long-term conservation of the key monuments and       archaeological remains.
Specifically, these contacts are already helping us to pursue the       investigation of the economic       benefits of sustainable tourism in these forest zones (5.2, 5.5).
The       exhibition was complemented       by a one-day workshop on its key themes; this was held on 12.11.2012.
It       was attended by 75       individuals, including local academics and conservation professionals as       well as others from the       US and several European countries; students and members of the public also       took part (5.8).
Two key displays revealed the extent of the water supply channels.
One       was printed on the floor       covering: visitors walked across this map to enter the exhibition hall.
In       addition to photographs       and text panels, a four minute video illustrated the progress of the       channels and aqueduct bridges       towards the city.
This was created by Tayfun &#214;ner, designer of the very       successful Byzantium         1200 website; the video display was an engaging element in the       exhibition.
The exhibition       received media coverage in Hurriyet Daily News, Cumhurriyet,       Cornucopia, The Mail on Sunday       and the Times Higher.
It featured in leading popular Turkish       magazines (Atlas and Akt&#252;el         Arkeoloji) and a 5 page coloured article appeared in TURSAB Magazine       of the Association of       Turkish Travel Agencies (5.2).
2593 visitors were recorded in the visitor book (5.6) over the 83 days       the exhibition was open.
The       busiest period was the final three weeks with 702 visitors.
Visits from       student and school groups       including Istanbul, Bilgi and Ko&#231; Universities were not recorded       individually and are estimated to       have brought a further 500 individuals to the exhibition.
In 2013, RCAC employed a consultant, &#350;eyda &#199;etin, to encourage other       European and       international venues to present this exhibition.
An invitation has already       been received from the       Cyprus Institute (Nicosia) and it is proposed to present the exhibition       there in Autumn 2014.
The reach of the research beyond the exhibition can be demonstrated       through publications and       broadcasts on Turkish television and in the press (5.3).
Maktav was       invited to address &#199;atalca       municipal council on the outcomes of our collaborative research; this was       followed by numerous       enquiries from school teachers about the aqueducts in their region.
Crow       has been invited to write       a chapter on the Byzantine water supply for a new bilingual Istanbul         History, to be published by       TDV ISAM (Islam Research Centre)/ ISAM Publishers and Istanbul       Metropolitan City Council       (5.7).
Following a public lecture by Crow at Mainz RGZM (2011), a new cgi image       featuring a main       aqueduct bridge was commissioned for a major new exhibition on Byzantium       at the Schallaburg in       Austria (2012).
The designer Tayfun &#214;ner (http://www.byzantium1200.com/)       went on to       collaborate in this exhibition video and later participated in the RCAC       exhibition.
A measure of the significance of our research on the historic landscapes       near Silivri and the water       supply of Thrace was the invitation in 2011 to contribute to a policy       guide for landscape       management and conservation on behalf of the new Arnavutk&#246;y municipality       in Istanbul (5.4) and       to request Crow's advice on the content and display of a new district       museum at Had&#305;mk&#246;y due to       open in Spring 2014 (5.9).
In this way the research on the water supply and the Thracian landscape       is directly contributing to       the formulation of policies for the provision of water and to enrich       public knowledge and       awareness of the historic landscape and environment in one of Istanbul's       new towns, a key       concern as the city's population is anticipated to grow from 15 to 23m by       2025.
A further initiative is the proposal to include the aqueduct channels and       bridges as part of the new       Trakya'nun Yolu &#8212; Thracian Way, a cultural footpath in development       following the success of the       Lycian Way.
This Way is supported by 04aaatalca Council and       the Turkish Forestry Commission.
In a       separate initiative, this Way is also supported by the Turkish       Ministry of Culture as a component of       a network of new cultural paths right across Turkey; cognate recent       projects include the Evliya         Celebi Way initiated by Dr Caroline Finkel, Hon.
Fellow in       Archaeology at Edinburgh (5.5).
The 120 completed pages of the Visitor Book (5.6) offer a rich source of       corroboration of the       impact of our research via the Exhibition.
Statements include (in       translation):     "I'm living right next to the Alibey dam located next to the arches.
I       knew the aqueducts go       up to the Sultanahmet district, but I never knew where they came from.
My       curiosity       pushed me to visit the aqueducts of Belgrad and look through the tunnels.
I could not find       much information on other resources, until I visited the exhibition       "Waters for a Capital".
Thank you so much to everyone who contributed."
Do&#287;an Irmak 2/1/2013.
"To the Team of Waters for a Capital exhibition, As a personnel of       &#199;atalca Municipality and       with my identity as being a member and a citizen of the district, I would       like to thank you       very much for your diligent and arduous work for organizing such a great       exhibition and to       transfer information about &#199;atalca's historical heritage to future       generations.
I hope this       study will lead to transmit &#199;atalca's historical background to many people       in the future."
Erhan G&#252;zel, Deputy Mayor of &#199;atalca.
One 10-year old child wrote: "I really like this exhibition.
I found the       flow of water really       interesting.
It gives really nice information.
Now I know the old       peninsula really well".
