     Kranioti's research has made an important contribution to the public       understanding of ancient Egyptian culture and life as part of the NMS       exhibition, with significant impact demonstrated through media coverage       and documented visitor responses (5.1).
In addition, as a result of its       translation, via a combination of visual imaging technologies with       photonics technologies, into a product sold by a start-up photonics       engineering company based in Edinburgh (Holoxica), it has also had       significant impacts in the commercial sphere because of the new       opportunities it has opened up for Holoxica to develop innovative new       products based on medical imaging and complex datasets.
Although the Rhind Mummy had been examined 15 years ago using CT, this       was a pre-digital procedure.
The recent Rhind Mummy project involved a       team from CRIC, Edinburgh University, led by van Beek, using a CT scanner       to re-examine the Mummy.
Using their data, Kranioti was able to produce       biomedical imaging of the skeletal remains within the unwrapped mummy       which provided new images for the exhibition display, and enabled her to       advance new insights into this individual's life and death.
As part of The         Fascinating Mummies exhibit, this display provided the key impact       from this research.
During the exhibition, between February and May 2012,       61,170 people visited the display (corroboration via NMS Press Office       5.6).
Two videos (5.3) featuring the imagery made new information on the       mummified individual and the associated artefacts inside their wrappings       accessible; thus by the application of modern image technology it was       possible to provide a new dimension to the exhibition which appealed to       adults and children alike.
The videos and display together demonstrated       the exceptional insights into the lives, diseases, religious rituals and       social structures of a past society that can be achieved through the       application of these technologies to the Rhind Mummy.
Comments in the NMS visitor book (corroboration via NMS Press Office 5.6)       attest the significance of the impact of this research and its application       e.g.
"Amazing interpretation, really clear and concise.
X-ray films add a       new dimension and show archaeology is now very much a science not an art."
"Excellently designed exhibition which was logical and easy to follow.
The section dealing with the advances of technology (x-rays and CT         scans) was especially well done.
It's amazing how the collaboration of         different disciplines can produce discoveries which have been lost for         millennia without invasive techniques being used."
"Amazing.
Very interesting and informative.
Loved the process of the         CT scans so we could actually see what the remains looked like.
Great         stuff."
"Modern technology meets Ancient Egypt.
Fascinating."
An indication of the reach of this research can be estimated from media       interest arising from the exhibit.
Illustrated articles in The         Independent and Scotland on Sunday (14/1/2012; average       circulation of 40,000 for that year) (5.2) included images of the skull       and skeleton that the scans had revealed alongside the wrapped mummy; a       detailed commentary on the findings included quotations from the project       team.
Articles about the exhibition appeared on STV and in BBC History       magazine websites (Historyextra.com) (5.1).
The video material created for the exhibition and made available on the       web (5.3) received 2,494 plays in total.
Kranioti's forensic analysis in       collaboration with the work of Van Beek's CRIC team was featured on       AuntMinnie.com and AuntMinnieEurope.com, (5.4), two highly respected       online daily news publications for radiologists worldwide.
While the exhibition was running, Kranioti presented a public lecture and       workshop on her 3D reconstruction of the Rhind Mummy based on medical       imaging data as part of the Edinburgh International Science Festival 2012.
Participation was limited to 50 and was sold out (5.6) The participants       were enthusiastic and fascinated by the unfolding of the mummy's secrets       with the aid of modern imaging technology as evidenced from the numerous       positive comments in the NMS visitor book (5.6).
An important measure of the reach of the research into the commercial       sphere is the involvement with Holoxica (5.5a and 5.5b) an award-winning       holographic imaging company using cutting edge photonics engineering       technology, which is based in Edinburgh.
Holoxica requested the 3D models       of the Rhind skeleton for the purposes of creating a digital hologram.
Kranioti was able to provide precise data to enhance the modelling of the       face and cranium for use in this hologram.
The hologram is animated       revealing the mummy's skull under the wrappings as one moves clockwise       around it, thus giving a true 3D impression.
The Rhind Mummy was selected       from the hundreds of entries submitted in response to a call by the       Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and has been on display during       2012-2013.
The MIT museum is one of the largest Holography Museums in the       world.
Pursuant to an arrangement with NMS, which owns the rights to the       images of the mummy, three copies of the hologram are available for       purchase via the Holoxica website at a cost of &#163;1,100 + VAT.
The       collaboration on the Rhind Mummy project with Kranioti has enabled       Holoxica to move into the wider medical imaging arena with other museum       pieces and commissioned work by the Anatomy Museum and the Royal College       of Surgeons, Edinburgh, and the work led to Holoxica winning the Nexxus       Scotland Collaboration Award in 2011 (corroboration via factual statement       from Holoxica 5.9).
Following coverage of the Rhind Mummy results, Kranioti received       invitations from the Scottish Radiology Society Junior Forum to address       NHS Junior Doctors and Radiologists (Dundee) and the Edinburgh Radiology       Society (both November 2012) on the value of Medical Imaging Technology in       Forensic Anthropology.
In addition she organised and delivered with       colleagues a further KE event Villains, Victims and Forensic Evidence,       which involved an audience of 80 that included the Friends of the National       Museum of Scotland' and featured a copy of the Rhind Mummy Hologram       developed with Holoxica (5.7).
This work also drew on the Sharp Force       Trauma study.
It was because of the public prominence of her work, that Kranioti was       also invited by the Forensic Unit of the Lothian and Borders Police (now       Police Scotland) to present her associated sharp force trauma project and       the potential wider applications of 3D scan technology in weapon       identification for assault or death cases following sharp force trauma.
This presentation with Donnellan (June 2013), was linked by video       conferencing with Police Forensic Departments in Glasgow, Dundee and       Aberdeen.
Approximately 100 scientific staff attended and were able to ask       questions in real time on the work carried out by Dr Kranioti and her       students.
Feedback from staff was that the talk was illuminating and that       further proposed work would be useful, perhaps in setting up an injuries       database in Scotland (there is currently one based in England) (5.8).
