     The Institute has had a good impact upon, and brought a range of benefits       to, the wider community by influencing government policy, stimulating       debate with research evidence, improving public understanding of urban       issues and challenging some of the conventional wisdom about cities.
EIUA has achieved impact by bridging the worlds of research and decision       makers and influencers; setting national and local policy agendas; making       its work publicly accessible through conferences and the media nationally       and internationally; promoting good practice at local, national and       European level.
Owing to the quality of our research, our Director was       appointed member of the Ministerial Urban Sounding Board designed to give       personal, policy advice to the Minister for Local Government in the period       2004-7.
He was also invited to lead the government's network of research       advisers on cities for the Department of Communities and Local Government       between 2007-10.
Both drew on academics and consultants to provide       independent evidence and analysis of key issues for government urban       policy about urban economic competitiveness, social exclusion and       successful governance.
In both instances this enabled EIUA research       findings to influence the development of government policy in those and       following years and led to sustained investment in the kinds of integrated       urban regeneration programmes advocated by us.
Our Director was also       appointed Specialist Adviser in 2012 to the House of Commons Select       Committee which inquired into the UK government's policies for       regeneration and shaped the well-received but challenging critique of its       regeneration policies arguing the need to go beyond ad hoc localism to a       more strategic approach to regeneration.
The State of English cities report was the basis for much of the urban       policy that emerged from government in the second part of the decade such       as Local Strategic Partnerships, Local and Multi-Area Agreements and City       Regional Pilots and the new emphasis on place quality.
It remains the       authoritative guide to the performance of UK cities and is widely cited       and used by academics and policymakers.
It produced a novel, more accurate       way of defining towns and cities' spatial extent &#8212; primary urban areas       (PUAs) &#8212; which has since been widely used.
(e.g.
in the Centre for Cities       think tank's many publications).
The Compete research encouraged the government to view cities as vital       sources of national economic competitiveness, highlighted the importance       of involving higher education institutions in urban growth policies and       facilitated greater networking between English and European cities.
The       two credit crunch reports generated extensive debate amongst policy makers       and parliamentarians and received widespread publicity in national       conferences and the quality press including the Financial Times which       focused the public debate about the future of urban regeneration in this       country.
Both reports argued for continued investment as a requirement to       secure previous investment which the then Government accepted and took on       board.
This led to instances where the Government, via for example the       Homes and Communities Agency, injected further investment to sustain       stalled urban regeneration schemes in 2009 and 2010.
The CLG report in       particular has been highly cited by academics and policymakers.
The main arguments of our Second Tier Cities in Europe' report about       decentralisation in decision making and deconcentration of public       investment have already been reproduced in a series of policy oriented       reports by national and international think tanks.
The recent 5th Cohesion       Report of the European Commission published in 2010 drew upon its evidence       and analysis about the performance of cities in Europe.
Drawing upon its       second tier cities research, the Institute did analytical work during 2011       for the Deputy Prime Minister and Cabinet Office which underpins the       current government's new urban programme `Unlocking Growth in Cities'.
Both the Cabinet Office and Core Cities group have agreed that our `Second       Tier Cities in Europe' report directly influenced the principles and       policies of the current government through the City Deals initiative       launched in December 2011 and extended in February 2013.
These involve a       major shift in national policy with greater delegation of powers to local       government and new models of public sector investment.
They apply to 28       major English cities &#8212; the twenty two largest and the six most rapidly       growing with a combined population of about 18m.
The Chancellor of the       Exchequer and Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills in       their official response to the Heseltine Review accepted many of his       recommendations, specifically arguing that the evidence in the Institute's       Second Tier Cities report demonstrated that such policies had allowed many       European countries to become more competitive than the UK.
We believe that the influence and impact of our work is demonstrated by       the reception it has received from senior figures in the policy making and       research community and the way in which its arguments, evidence and       analysis have influenced policy decisions by those key figures.
