     BEST expertise has developed world leading technologies with tremendous       international commercial potential and real environmental benefits.
These       provide alternative sustainable energy sources by converting waste into       energy and in the process also diverting waste away from landfill.
Already       there have been two successful patent applications resulting from these       technologies, PCT/GB2012/052052 and PCT/GB2010/050869.
These have also       resulted in &#163;175k in funding for LJMU from licensing agreements, and a       number of partner companies securing &#163;8.85M of funding to enable their       exploitation.
See below for case studies and testimonials.
Inventure Energy PLC     BEST negotiated a license agreement with Inventure Energy PLC of &#163;175k       for the conversion of CO2 emission gases into syngas (carbon monoxide and       hydrogen).
The company has raised a further &#163;850k to build an industrial       scale up process in 2013.
Longma Clean Energy Ltd     The Director of Longma Clean Energy Ltd, one of LJMU's key collaborators       in developing an advanced microwave biodiesel production system said: "...       the process will have an immediate market within the existing biofuels       arena, but more significantly is a key enabling technology for the next       generation of biofuels.
This is an excellent opportunity for the academic       community to apply, for the first time, a highly innovative microwave       plasma system in bio-refining reactions.
The success of such technology       will make the UK SMEs competitive worldwide".
The use of microwaves for biodiesel production was demonstrated by the       industrial partners (grant 2 in [6]) including Longma, Catering Waste and       Xpertrule in 2010-2011 to improve significantly the efficiency of the       process, reducing the time, energy and solvents required.
Furthermore,       during the collaboration with Longma in 2011 it was found that the       microwave system can process a broader range of highly degraded bio-oil       feedstock than conventional systems, resulting in less waste.
The       technology is currently under assessment by an investment group of venture       capitalists in the West Midlands, known as Green Frog in collaboration       with Longma, who have raised &#163;15m to build various industrial systems       (&#163;10M) including LJMU research technology (&#163;5M) at their plant in Hull.
It       is planned that the completed systems to be exported around the world and       could potentially benefit everyone from householders and businesses who       could sell their used oil products for conversion to biodiesel, to farmers       in remote areas who could make their own precious fuel at a fraction of       the cost.
Biofuel Wales Ltd       The Director of Biofuel Wales Ltd and partner in the &#8364;1.05M EU FP7       MICROGRASS project said: "The microwave technology developments meet a key       technological need in the European SME bio-fuel sector and provides SMEs       farmers with a use for their, at present, non-profitable infertile land".
Prior to the development of the microwave system as part of the MICROGRASS       project the only available method (i.e.
steam explosion) to break down       cellulosic biomass (e.g.
lignin), was incredibly energy intensive.
Thus,       the MICROGRASS project has provided an effective, low energy technology       for bioethanol production which could allow the EU to satisfy the growing       demand for biofuels.
Furthermore, it provides this opportunity without       competing with food production.
Biofuel Wales Ltd has raised the amount of       &#163;1.2M to exploit the microwave plasma system at national and international       level, after successfully being granted a patent (GB2492861) to protect       the intellectual property resulting from the work at LJMU.
The company has       also secured the sales of the technology rights to Sofiproteol-France with       an income generation of &#163;1.8M.
Stopford Projects Ltd       The Research and Innovations Manager of Stopford Projects Ltd said:       "...results on the use of microwave plasma have proven the way forward in       delivery of a niche and efficient way of developing a new compact and       mobile gasifier; such capability currently cannot be achieved via       traditional means."
Hence, Stopford is currently working with LJMU       researchers to develop the industrial pre market demonstrator supported by       the TSB to deliver the first microwave plasma gasifier for the treatment       of sludge waste generated for example from Untied Utilities and appointed       the manufacturing company Finning to commission the unit.
This project has       created 7 jobs and safe guarded another 3.
The company is currently       working with the University in commercial and license contract.
Recognition of this benefit led to the work being featured on the BBC One       show Sunday Politics (February 2012) as a prime example of cutting-edge       energy sector development.
