     This research has significant and on-going impacts in furthering the       public and professional understanding of the historical and contemporary       French presence in London.
A key objective of the research has been to       disseminate its insights and knowledge to interested groups, institutions       and the wider public.
Research findings have been shared with cultural       institutions such as museums and archives &#8212; for example, the Museum of       London and the British Library &#8212; with diplomatic services, such as the       French Embassy and Consulate (which admits to gaps in its data concerning       the current London French population), with political bodies such as the       London constituency office of the MP for Northern Europe, (Axelle Lemaire)       and the London Section of the French Socialist Party, with commercial       enterprises such as French Radio London, and through a number of print       media, TV and radio interviews.
French residents in London benefit from the research, not only through       the sharing of a diversity of experiences and the dissemination of       knowledge concerning their presence, but also through the connections made       between these contemporary lives and their historical predecessors.
The       strength of the research convinced the British Library of the need to       class the `London French' as a distinct community fulfilling the criteria       for inclusion in the UK Web Archive.
As a result of these discussions, the       Library actively supported the creation of the `London French' digital       archive which is also a prime case study in how to use research to create       a community web archive that serves the needs of a variety of end-users.
The attitude of openness dates from the very start of the project with       its public launch event at the French Institute in London in July 2010.
It       was attended by 70 representatives of the French Embassy and Consulate,       the French Chamber of Commerce, French professional associations in       London, the British and French media, London museums, galleries and       libraries, as well as interested members of the French community in       London.
The event led directly to a six-part programme series (2011) on French       Radio London on the contemporary French in London and press, TV and radio       interviews (notably with Le Monde, Ouest-France, Le         Journal de Dimanche, Ici Londres, Exapatlive, Le Petit         Journal, TV5, L'Echo).
During the course of the project,       further press interest in its historical aspects has been evident in       solicited interviews and contributions to features for BBC London, France       24, Agence France Press, and La Croix, notably in 2010 (on the 70th       anniversary of de Gaulle's arrival in London during World War Two).
Links       for some of these many media contributions are available, as noted before,       on the impact case study website www.westminster.ac.uk/the-london-french       In October 2011, an engagement workshop at Westminster with the British       Library, the Museum of London, Boughton House Collection, the Huguenot       Society, the French Embassy and French Radio London resulted in       contributions to the book project and to future plans (for events in 2015)       with Boughton House, the V&amp;A and the Museum of London around their       collections of French artefacts with links to the French in London, and       with the Spitalfields Festival and the Huguenot Society.
During this       October 2011 workshop the UK Web Archive and the beginnings of the London       French Special Collection were also shared with the representatives of       those institutions present (as listed above) and with members of the       French community in London, notably those involved in its on-line       presences from businesses (e.g.
Boulle, the London relocation company) to       bloggers (e.g.
Diane Frost's `Travels around my kitchen' blog).
With the research project up and running, the British Academy-funded       series of workshops took place during May 2011-May 2012.
One aim of the       workshops was to facilitate the collaborative working of the book's       contributors; another was wider professional and public dissemination.
The       series concluded with a large public dissemination and knowledge sharing       event in July 2013 with an audience of over 100 people including       representatives of the French Embassy and Consulate in London, the       Alliance Fran&#231;aise, the London constituency office of the French MP for       Northern Europe, the Franco-British Council, French journalists, French       business people, a wide range of French professional associations and       cultural organisations established in London (such as the Rimbaud and       Verlaine Foundation), the organisers of the Bankside Bastille Day Festival       and of the Spitalfields Festival.
There were also representatives of       French charities, churches and the French Hospital, the Museum of London       and the British Library, and many French citizens of London (analysis of       the list of attendees is available on the impact case study website, as       referenced above).
French Radio London attended for on-the-spot interviews       and organised a competition with the book as a prize.
There was follow-up       from France 24, the International New York Times in Paris, L'Echo       and Ici Londres.
Twitter campaigns were run from the Bankside       Bastille Day Festival, by Institute of Historical Research Publications       and by the French Consulate.
The research is now working with collections such as those held by the       Museum of London, linking objects to content from the research around       historical contexts and contemporary cultural ideas, and exploring the       ways in which a migrant community can be represented in museum       collections.
The emphasis remains on the types of contributions this       migrant community has made, and continues to make, to the UK.
Funding is       also being sought for a study into the impact of two new French schools in       London (in Kentish Town, opened in 2011; and in Wembley, opening in 2015).
The community web archive in the UK Web Archive will continue to offer new       depths and dimensions to both the historical and contemporary experiences       of the French in London within the expanding possibilities of digital       Humanities research.
The research has further potential for business       sector/professional associations; for government departments dealing with       urban migration, social inclusion, public engagement with the city,       debates on immigration, and by providing evidence for the on-going       political debate and research in France into French national identity and       into countering the current brain-drain.
These are new ways of using       research originating in the approaches of cultural history for application       in fields more usually associated with the social sciences.
