     A.
Policy Development     The research findings on the importance of interpretive and dialogical       approaches to teaching about religions (contributing to religious,       intercultural and citizenship education) have made an impact on the way       the subject is taught across Europe and North America through informing       policies that shape educational practices, and by providing training and       materials to teachers and teacher trainers to improve their work.
Influence on policy has been achieved through engagement with two major       international bodies: the Council of Europe (with 47 member states and       many observer states) and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in       Europe (OSCE), which has 56 participant states, (most European states plus       the USA and Canada).
The Council of Europe       The interpretive and dialogical approaches       have strongly influenced the development of policy at the Council of       Europe.
The Council of Europe makes policy recommendations through its       Committee of Ministers to the governments of member states for use by       policymakers, educators and civil society.
Jackson was a leading member of       the Council of Europe's first project on teaching religions in public       education across Europe (Religious Dimension of Intercultural Education).
In addition to writing material on interpretive and dialogical approaches       for the project book [i], widely circulated and translated into several       languages, Prof Jackson was also one of the drafters of the Recommendation       to member states (addressed to policy makers, schools and teacher       trainers) on behalf of the Committee of Ministers [ii] advocating the use       of interpretive and dialogical approaches.
The Recommendation is now in       active use in various European countries (see below) where Jackson is       working with educators and policy makers.
Following this Ministerial       Recommendation Professor Jackson was commissioned to be vice-chair of the       expert group concerned with utilising the Recommendation in the member       states to bring about change in policy and practice across Europe [iii].
Jackson has written a book, `Signposts': Teaching about Religions and         Non-religious Worldviews: Towards Policy and Practice in European         States, to be published by the Council of Europe and circulated in       2014 to all 47 member states, and to be followed up by training courses       from the European Wergeland Centre (EWC).
Since 2011 Jackson has been       working with policymakers and educators from member states who are       incorporating ideas from the Recommendation into their national policies.
Publications related to this have appeared in Italy, Ireland, Norway and       Estonia and on the EWC website [eg.iii].
See letter from Head of       Education, Council of Europe [iv].
OSCE Toledo Guiding Principles        The OSCE is the world's largest       security organisation, and includes an Office for Democratic Institutions       and Human Rights dealing with the human dimension of security, including       educational projects intended to promote human rights.
In 2007 the OSCE       produced a policy document on education about religions and beliefs - the       Toledo Guiding Principles on Teaching about Religions and Beliefs,       the first international policy document of its kind [v].
It is designed to       assist educators, legislators, teachers and officials in education       ministries and schools to ensure that teaching about different religions       and beliefs is carried out in a fair and balanced manner.
Jackson was a       leading member of the drafting team and the document's inclusive tone was       strongly influenced by the interpretive and dialogical approaches       developed at Warwick, (e.g.
pp 47, 48, 55 summarise these approaches and       associated REDCo research and refer to publications).
The Principles were       translated into several major languages and distributed across the OSCE       region.
The Toledo Guiding Principles are being used as a standard       setting document by international organisations, policy makers across       Europe and North America, and increasingly in other countries such as       Australia.
They provide the rationale for the United Nations Alliance of       Civilizations website on Education about Religions and Beliefs [vi].
B.
Teacher Training     In addition to policy shaping, Jackson has used the interpretive and       dialogical approaches to influence teacher training in different parts of       Europe and beyond through a variety of major international projects:     Council of Europe       As well as the Handbook from the Religious Dimension of Intercultural Education project that is widely used in       European in-service training of teachers, Warwick research has also been       used in a second Council of Europe initiative, Autobiography of       Intercultural Encounters.
As part of this project, Ipgrave and       Jackson's dialogical and interpretive approaches have been incorporated       into materials for training teachers in intercultural education [vii].
Ipgrave led training courses, using this material, in Sofia in October       2010 for teachers from 23 European countries, and in Strasbourg in June       2011 for trainers from 14 countries.
Subsequently, each trainer organised       a training session for teachers to bring about beneficial change within       their own country.
Feedback from the Sofia seminar suggests that this       includes trainees reflecting on barriers to effective intercultural       communication (such as stereotyping); deeper knowledge and interpretation       of cultural and intercultural issues and improved attendance, positive       attitudes, raised interest, and motivation.
Dr Ipgrave has written an       online intercultural training course to reach more practitioners across       Europe and the Arab nations (piloted by the Council of Europe, Summer       2013).
The European Wergeland Centre       The European Wergeland Centre is a       Europe-wide resource centre for values educators established in 2009 and       co-sponsored by the Council of Europe and the Norwegian Government.
Material on the EC Framework 6 REDCo Project, incorporating developments       in the interpretive approach, has been widely used in Europe on courses       for teachers organised by the European Wergeland Centre [iii].
These       include courses for teachers from Scandinavia, southern Europe and western       Europe.
Articles on using the interpretive approach in practice are       distributed freely to stakeholders via the EWC website, with over 500       hits.
Tony Blair Faith Foundation (TBFF)       The interpretive and dialogical       methodologies have influenced the Tony Blair Faith Foundation's Face to       Faith programme, involving young people in schools from countries engaging       in dialogue through video-conferencing.
Members of the WRERU team were       commissioned to conduct annual evaluations of the Face to Faith Programme       2009-13, including observation of interchanges and interviews with       teachers and pupils on site in Palestine, India, Lebanon, Italy, Jordan,       and the UK.
These reports have influenced the conduct of future practice       by the Foundation.
The TBFF uses Ipgrave's research on dialogue to monitor       the quality of the programme.
Ipgrave has also made presentations (at TBFF       in London) for international teachers involved in the Face to Faith       programme (see letter from CEO, TBFF [viii]).
C. International Recognition: The William Rainey Harper Award     In recognition of the impact of his and WRERU's research Professor       Jackson has been awarded the prestigious William Rainey Harper Award from       the Religious Education Association (USA).
"The William Rainey Harper         Award was named after the first President of the University of         Chicago...It is given to outstanding leaders whose work in other fields         has had profound impact upon religious education".
Professor Jackson       becomes only the 12th recipient of the international award since its       launch in 1975, and he joins the ranks of Marshall McLuhan, Margaret Mead       and Paulo Freire.
The award will be formally presented in Boston in       November 2013.
[ix]
