     The CIN model/process that was developed during the research project can       have significant impact in stimulating effective intercultural       communication because it questions the very assumptions that producers and       consumers from different cultures bring to what constitutes `information'.
These questions address the surface notions of neutrality and efficiency       that are normally anchored within a deeper, but ultimately       mono-dimensional code/conduit metaphor of language/ideology of       communication.
Gallery `interpretation' and educational/marketing       `information' are both re-orientated as part of the `cultural navigation'       process developed, which positions each communicative act within a       carefully articulated response to audience and context.
This is       fundamental to the CIN model which is emphatically not about the       translation of texts, but precisely about the production and consumption       of information across cultures.
The research that informs the CIN model       now cuts across aspects of translation studies, intercultural studies, and       applied language studies together with tourism studies (including tourism       and intercultural exchange), museum studies and cultural policy.
Put       simply, no-one in the gallery and museum sector (and indeed beyond) thinks       about audiences in this way.
After hearing the findings of the pilot project and focus group research,       all of the marketing and communications directors of the institutions       involved in the first engagement meeting in November 2006 (Tate Britain,       National Gallery, V&amp;A, Westminster Abbey Museum, National Portrait       Gallery and British Museum) were receptive to the idea of improving the       quality of their information and of increasing their knowledge of how best       to support their international visitors with effective communication that       meets their cultural and linguistic expectations.
Discussion also       generated other areas of improvement, such as reorganising information for       home visitors and developing the institutions' websites.
At the request of       National Gallery's Director of Communications, Kelly also gave an invited       address to the ALVA Annual Conference, Blenheim Palace, June 2007 (this is       the Association of Leading Visitor Attractions whose members represent       visitor attractions with over 1 million visitors a year, from Blackpool       Pleasure Beach to UK historic houses and stately homes).
The purpose of the AHRC-funded workshops (July-December 2007) was       primarily to redesign partner museums'/galleries' information leaflets.
The research moved the issue of material targeted at the international       audience up the partner institutions' priority list.
Each institution       (Tate Britain, British Museum, V&amp;A, National Portrait Gallery,       National Gallery and Museum of London) worked with a member of the Project       Team to produce a culturally-informed, `high-value' leaflet in one       language: (from a choice of Arabic; Spanish; French; German; Chinese;       Russian).
The test material produced in the course of the workshops was       also much more positively received by international visitors on whom it       was trialled than was the original museum-produced material used in the       initial focus groups; if the information provided is targeted and       culturally-aware, visitors feel more comfortable, enjoy themselves more       and the overall experience is more positive.
The National Gallery in       particular made changes to its strategy on the provision of information       for its international visitors as a result of the project noting that:       "despite the fact that preliminary research [by the pilot study] showed       that the quality of its general information guides for international       visitors already exceeds that of other leading UK museums and galleries,       further research revealed a range of areas for radical improvement".
Following participation in the workshop series, the National Gallery       identified "provision of high-quality, culturally-informed and       audience-targeted information as a priority area for development in the       current climate of an increasingly competitive global cultural tourism       market" (quote from a further 2008 funding application).
The National       Gallery also noted that, for its international audiences, the research       allowed it to plan more culturally-specific resources &#8212; including       guidebooks, audio guides, printed material and online information &#8212; of       varying breadth and depth for first-time visitors and for more deeply       engaged users.
It enabled the Gallery to think about helping people       prepare for their visits more effectively, to engage with the collection       more during their visit and to continue their engagement after the visit.
The Gallery further highlighted that the project was of benefit not only       to international audiences, but also to the student community, to those in       UK and globally who study culture in an international context, and to       domestic multicultural audiences.
At the final workshop (December 2007), a wider range of marketing and       communications professionals from across the UK visitor sector were       invited to share the research findings and to comment on them.
These new       participants were from the following institutions: the Royal Academy, the       National Maritime Museum, Historic Royal Palaces, Roman Baths (Bath),       National History Museum, Fitzwilliam Museum (Cambridge), and National       Museums of Scotland.
Looking towards the future, the research has further potential for       wide-ranging impacts throughout the UK gallery and museum sector, and       arguably throughout the UK tourism sector &#8212; anywhere, in fact, where       presenting information in a straightforward and culturally-appropriate way       is a key determinant of the visitor experience.
There is also potential       for replication across areas and other sectors whose needs and business       are international and inter/multicultural in scope.
