     Professor Fray first had the ideas for exploiting the       hydrometallurgical results and adapting them for oxygen generation in 2001       (ie before the assessment period for research in the REF).
It wasn't until       2003, when in discussion with Melvin Vinton, it was decided to       form a company, InotecAMD Ltd [i] (references in Section 5), to       initially design an oxygen-distribution system, funded by a Smart Award.
In 2005, the Dept of Materials Science &amp; Metallurgy at UCAM funded a       one-year research project (&#163;100k) to develop the oxygen-generation system.
This device was a success and was patented by the University in 2005 and,       subsequently, licensed to InotecAMD Ltd on 27 July 2009, with an       effective date of 1 January 2008.
From 1 January 2008 to 31 July 2013,       [text removed for publication]     This allowed the oxygen-generation system to be industrialized and the       oxygen-distribution system to be perfected.
Natrox&#8482; is the first device that can successfully         deliver oxygen, almost indefinitely if the batteries are kept recharged,         to patients without interfering with their lifestyle.
Over 200 Natrox&#8482; units have been made with many being used for random         controlled trials at three hospitals in Prague.
The remainder have       been used for trials in the UK and sent to agents/distributors in the UK,       USA, France, Singapore, Malaysia, Turkey and Dubai.
Figure 2.
The oxygen generator and circular pad in close-up (on the left), and positioned on the leg of a mannequin (right).
The oxygen is evenly distributed over the wound by the pad and the large spaces in the pad allow the escape of exudate.
Health impacts     To check the viability of the Natrox&#8482; device, trials were       performed at the end of 2009 at a Tissue Viability Clinic in Eastbourne,       which dramatically showed the efficacy of such a device with 10 patients       who had been referred to the clinic by the NHS as not treatable; 8 showed       considerable improvement after six weeks treatment [iv].
A bonus not       originally considered was that the pain, experienced by the patients, also       decreased considerably when oxygen was fed to their wounds [iv].
Further         successful trials have been carried out at Doncaster Royal Infirmary       on hard-to-heal wounds as the result of surgery.
An evaluation of oxygen       therapy was undertaken on a range of complex surgical wounds, which       included post-mastectomy wounds which had dehisced (ie opened) following       surgery.
It was found that, after about six weeks treatment with oxygen,       the wounds improved dramatically and conventional treatment could then be       applied to procure a complete recovery.
It was concluded that this therapy       was successful, both in promoting healing and improving the quality of       life in a group of anxious patients [v].
In early 2012, the Natrox&#8482;       system was subjected to a safety study at the FNKV Hospital in Prague on       ten patients with non-healing leg ulcers and all patients showed       considerable shrinkage of their ulcers.
In June 2012, InotecAMD Ltd received a CE mark         for the oxygen-delivery system giving all the regulatory approvals for         sales in the EU.
In July 2012, the US FDA awarded the 510(k) approval         for the Natrox&#8482; system meaning that Natrox&#8482;         can be sold in the US [vi].
At present, a random controlled trial is being performed in Prague on ~60       patients so that the treatment can be sold to the NHS.
In November 2013,       Doncaster &amp; Bassetlaw hospitals will embark on a 12-month trial       studying non-healing surgical wounds and breast reconstruction [v].
Overall, about 80 patients have been successfully treated, ie healed,         with a considerable decrease in their suffering, coupled with an         increase in their general wellbeing.
Impacts on public policy and services     About 2 million patients in the European Union suffer from non-healing       ulcers, and the annual cost of treating these is estimated to be 10       billion Euros.
The clinical trials provide hard evidence that the use of Natrox&#8482;       would decrease the number of patients and shorten treatment times.
Natrox&#8482;       has opened up possibilities for more cost-effective healthcare, with       better outcomes.
Secondly, the rationale for the trials at Doncaster &amp;       Bassetlaw hospitals is to study oxygen as an anti-microbial treatment, as       many patients have increased resistance to antibiotics [v].
The use of       oxygen instead of antibiotics for treating infected wounds would again       improve both outcomes and the cost-effectiveness of the service.
Economic impacts     As well as cost savings to national budgets, the manufacture and supply       of Natrox&#8482; devices will generate employment and income for the UK.
In 2013, the company employed a part-time CEO, a full-time Chief Technical       Officer and three other part-time staff.
In addition, much of the       equipment, circuitry, oxygen-distribution pad and units are manufactured,       under subcontract, in the UK.
The random controlled trial is being       organized by UK-based SME Wound Market Consulting       (www.woundmarketconsulting.com).
Sales of Natrox&#8482; devices have       commenced in the Far East, and distributors in UK and France are       organizing trials, prior to sales.
Virtually all the investment of [text       removed for publication] 	  increase the rate of production, to       investigate a wider range of applications for the device such as treatment       of other types of ulcers, burns and surgical wounds, and to employ more       technical and sales personnel.
