     The final evaluation report was disseminated through the CWSS and formed the     basis for     considering shipping and safety in the Wadden Sea during the Trilateral       Government Conference on the Protection of the Wadden Sea at Sylt.
The       research findings wereconsidered by Ministers from Germany, Denmark and       the Netherlands and informed the resulting Ministerial Council       Declaration, known as The Sylt Declaration.
The Declaration agreed to address issues identified within the SSU       recommendations, with the exception of those pertaining to extending the       PSSA (Recommendations 1 and 6).
It instructed the Wadden Sea Board, to       progress implementation of the recommendations with the relevant       authorities and to develop a vision on the impact of shipping and ship's       safety on the Wadden Sea PSSA.
The resulting appointment of a Shipping       Task Group by the Wadden Sea Board represents a major impact of the       research, since for the first time participants from the Waterways and       Shipping Directorate North-West and North were to be included.
The Task       Group organized, in cooperation with the CWSS, a workshop to present the       PSSA evaluation study and discuss the results with representatives from       national competent authorities and key stakeholders.
This Trilateral Workshop, `Particularly Sensitive Sea Area (PSSA) Wadden       Sea: Towards a Vision for the Wadden Sea PSSA' took place in Hamburg in       May 2011, with 34 delegates representing the competent authorities in the       fields of maritime shipping and nature conservation, maritime shipping       companies, harbour authorities, nature conservation organizations and       recreational boating.
Members of the maritime research team presented       their findings and the Evaluation Report was published on the Task Group       website.
The meeting agreed that awareness enhancing and data alignment of       shipping and environment were priority areas , and theseare currently       being progressed the development of a `Vision' for the Wadden Sea PSSA as       a first step..
In addition to the impact of the research and subsequent developments       with regard to the Wadden Sea, the research results have had wider       dissemination and fed into the broader context of seafarer awareness.
Research team member Nickie Butt presented the findings relating to       education and training at the World Ocean Council, Sustainable Ocean       Summit in Belfast in June 2010.
