     Despite the vast amount of empirical data available, the underpinning       fundamental research (Section 2) on atomic mechanisms was essential for       the design of steel compositions and heat treatments to achieve the       desired nanostructure without other undesirable reactions, as a function       of many variables.
The key invention enabled the heat-treatment time at       the required low temperature to be brought within practical limits for       large-scale manufacture, as incorporated in the patent documents.
We now       have the world's first bulk nanostructured metal, produced without       deformation, rapid heat-treatments or expensive solutes, and which can be       large in all three dimensions.
The structure has the highest reported       density of interfaces in a bulk material, responsible demonstrably for the       properties achieved.
DSTL found that when perforated (Fig.
2), the steel has a ballistic       resistance exceeding that of well-established armour materials.
Drilling       and hole-punching prior to heat-treatment results in an ultra-hard       perforated plate.
The challenging technology by Tata Steel uses a       novel technique related to CNC punch tooling to achieve punching with       holes of diameter equal to or smaller than the gauge, while maintaining       the flatness of the plate.
The new armour is fully protected by a patent       granted to the Secretary of State for Defence in which UCAM has a share in       royalties; supporting patent applications have been made worldwide.
The       patents are licensed to Tata Steel (Europe) who have developed the       production technology to where [text removed for publication].
The       product, PAVISE&#8482; Ultra High-Hardness Perforated Armour Steel,       is attracting approvals and initial orders from France, Germany, USA and       India, in addition to the MOD (press release of 03/09/2013, Section 5).
Production is based at Port Talbot.
The steel as a perforated strike face       is one of the best metallic armours ever produced.
[text removed for       publication]      Fig.
2.
Perforated Super Bainite armour&#8224;      The initial focus is on UK armoured-vehicle programmes, extending to       Indian programmes, mainland Europe and the significant US market.
The       perforated sheet is one of 7 forms intended for manufacture under Tata         Steel's licensing agreement with DSTL's technology-transfer partner       Ploughshare Innovations.&#8224;     The Minister for Defence Equipment, Support and Technology, Mr Peter       Luff, said [i]: "This cutting-edge UK invention and the manufacturing       agreement mean that the UK now has its own onshore supply of       high-performance armour steel.
Super Bainite has both military and       civilian applications, providing Tata Steel with important export       opportunities.
The application of new, battle-winning technologies is what       gives our troops the edge.
This demonstrates, once again, that investing       in research and development, in partnership with industry, means that our       troops can have the latest innovations in front line equipment."
Production of the specialist armour-steel, and the successful development       of the downstream processing technology by UCAM scientists working with Tata         Steel, fulfils the UK MoD Defence Technology Strategy set out by       Lord Drayson in 2006.
UCAM research has enabled the Ministry of Defence to       re-establish sovereign production of armour steel for the first time in       more than two decades.
It is applicable in composite armour systems       enhanced with a perforated ultra-hard armour strike face, to resist potent       ballistic threats.
The new armour has stimulated interest in high-carbon steel production       within Tata Steel that had suffered serious technical problems in       the past, as steel production capability was lost in the UK.
The       technology developed within Tata Steel for the continuous       manufacture of Super Bainite at an integrated factory, is directly         responsible for the reintroduction to the UK of the manufacture of         high-carbon steels.
There is demand in Europe for up to 400k tonnes       per annum for items including springs, bearing cages and hand tools, where       hard and thin sheets are required.
The reintroduction also supported Tata         Steel processes in Spain, [text removed for publication]     Towards expanding applications, new work has been funded by the MOD,       revisiting that done at UCAM [FG Caballero, HKDH Bhadeshia, KJA Mawella,       DG Jones &amp; P Brown, Mater Sci Technol 17 (2001) 512].
Tata Steel now has teams looking at additional applications, e.g.
in highly-profitable wear-resistant plates for the mining industries.
Main types of impact     Economic &#8212; Performance of existing business improved       through new products &amp; processes (Tata Steel production of       armour steel for worldwide market); A new business sector or activity         has been created (reintroduction of UK manufacture of high-carbon       steels); Performance improved through highly skilled people taking up         specialist roles that draw on their research (Many UCAM-trained       people now working at Tata Steel).
Public policy &amp; services &#8212; Risks to the security of nation         states reduced (The MOD has access to high-performance       cost-effective armour, improving safety and performance of security       personnel; and UK sovereignty is protected by restoring indigenous       manufacture).
Society &#8212; Research has contributed to community regeneration       (inward investment into Tata Steel plant, safeguarding and       creation of jobs in Port Talbot, S Wales).
