     (a) Technology transfer to Thomas Swan &amp; Co Ltd     Windle's underpinning research, involving modification to synthesis       routes, was vital in that it overcame existing problems with scale-up,       where the planar substrate carpet process was ineffective.
Windle's work       led to higher-temperature synthesis routes, the use of powdered substrates       as a catalyst bearer, and the production of the transition-metal catalysts       in-situ from the thermal decomposition of their salts.
During the REF       impact period, following UCAM's transfer of IP to Thomas Swan, the       company sells worldwide and has become Europe's leading manufacturer of       single-wall CNTs, specializing in high-quality, mainly single-wall       material (the Elicarb&#174; CNT product range, Fig.
2), in particular       for the energy-storage and advanced-electronics sectors.
The patent       licensing and transfer of research outputs to Thomas Swan led to a       strategic shift for the company to set up their Advanced Materials       Division.
[text removed for publication].
User companies have benefited       from a supply of materials with consistent and reproducible properties as       a result of Thomas Swan's development of the technology during       these early stages of adoption of CNT technologies by industry.
[text       removed for publication]      Figure 2.
Carbon nanotube product from the Thomas Swan Elicarb&#174; range.
(b) The fibre invention and technology transfer     Windle's research which led to the new process for spinning fibre,       consisting wholly of CNTs, directly from the CVD reactor zone has resulted       in three patents licensed so far (PCT/GB04/002969, PCT/GB2008/001473,       PCT/GB2011/050798) with others more recently filed.
The head patent, which       describes the new process, was invented by Windle, Kinloch and Li (then       all at DMSM).
The fourth inventor was Mr S Cash, a visitor from the       sponsor Thomas Swan present at the brainstorming session which       created the new idea.
The mechanism of technology transfer has been through a spin-out company       Q-Flo Ltd. Windle is both a Founder and a Director, and UCAM is a       significant share-holder.
The role of this company is to market the IP       worldwide with the objective of establishing an international business to       manufacture and exploit the radically new type of carbon fibre.
UCAM, as       owner of the patents, has licensed these to Q-Flo, which has       achieved its first major success through partnership with Plasan Ltd       to form a joint-venture company, TorTech Nano Fiber Ltd. Plasan is       an Israel-based company making protective armour, with plants in the US       and in France.
TorTech was created in 2010 to develop, manufacture       and scale-up the process to the point where as a disruptive technology it       can challenge the existing world leaders: carbon, aramid (Kevlar)       and UHMW polyethylene (Dyneema).
Not limiting its interests to the       mechanical properties of the fibre, TorTech is trying to develop       the fibre for electrical conductivity as it seeks a product that will       replace copper and aluminium in electrical cables and wires.
A parallel       study has shown equal promise for the fibre's thermal conductivity which,       measured to be greater than 1200 W/m.K, is far beyond silver, especially       impressive given the far lower density of the CNT fibre.
[text removed for publication].
Main types of impact     Economic &#8212; Performance of existing business improved       through new products &amp; processes (Thomas Swan, establishing a       new Advanced Materials Division, with new CNT-based product range); Spin-out         business created (Q-Flo, with joint venture TorTech,       bringing benefits for businesses and investors); Business sector         adopted new or significantly changed technology or process (Plasan,       through TorTech for armour production); Performance improved         through highly skilled people taking up specialist roles that draw on         their research (eg two members of Windle's group joined the new       Advanced Materials Division in Thomas Swan: Dr M Motta in 2008 and       Dr K Paton in 2010); Licensing income for UCAM.
Public policy &amp; services &#8212; Risks to the security of nation         states reduced (Plasan lightweight CNT-based armour for       vehicles, improving safety and performance of security personnel).
Society &#8212; Research has contributed to community regeneration       (Thomas Swan investment, safeguarding and creating jobs in Co       Durham).
