     Impact on the Creative Industries:     The publication of Thomas Burke's Dark Chinoiserie (2009) led       directly to an invitation to discuss the history of the Chinese community       in Limehouse at the Museum of London Docklands (July 2009).
The success of       this public lecture led to further engagements (such as contributions to       `Making History' [BBC Radio 4] and dialogues with the Literary London       Reading Group), which in turn generated additional involvement with the       creative industries.
Dr Witchard collaborated with theatre writer and       producer James Yeatman on the play Limehouse Nights (staged       May-June 2010, Kandinsky Company, Limehouse, London) sourcing historical       documents and ensuring the historical accuracy of the play's       representation of the Limehouse Chinese.
The play was extensively and       positively reviewed (e.g.
in the Guardian and Time Out).
Yeatman later commented that the "lecture given by Anne Witchard [along       with her] fascinating book about Thomas Burke ... gave me a huge amount of       information on representations of the Chinese in theatrical productions at       the time.
[For example,] it's thanks to her that we've found the songs       that you see at the beginning and end of the show" (interview, DimSum).
The Lao She book and China in Britain events also had a direct       impact upon the writing of a further play, The Fu Manchu Complex,       by the British-Singaporean actor Daniel York, staged at the Ovalhouse       Theatre, London in October 2013.
As the author confirms (email       correspondence), "Anne's book ... was an immensely helpful research tool       as its detail about the period was on aspects not covered ... in other       publications ... providing essential insights into the period.
...
The       curious duology of prejudice/patronisation coupled with enormous       Orientalism on both sides [recounted in Witchard's book] synthesized my       approach to my material to a huge extent and is the basis of several other       ideas I'm working on at present".
Witchard also contributed to the extra materials on the DVD release of a       series of the British television drama Dr Who (Dr Who         Revisitations 1, BBC 2010; in Amazon's top 100 film and TV sales).
In her filmed discussion of the episode "The Talons of Weng-Chiang",       included in two DVD special mini-features entitled "Victoriana and       Chinoiserie" and "Limehouse", Witchard contextualised the show's depiction       of Victorian Chinese communities in London in the light of the Yellow       Peril iconography of the late nineteenth century.
The publication of Lao She in London (2012) led to Witchard being       invited to discuss Lao She's significance as a modernist writer in China       at various literary locations and festivals (in Shanghai, 2012; Hong Kong,       2013; Beijing, 2013).
In turn, the exposure of Witchard's work in China       led to an international collaboration on a stage adaptation of Lao She's       short story, `Ding', which was performed at the Beijing Bookworm Festival       (2013, venue sold out for the first time in the Festival's history).
As a       result of bringing Lao She to international attention through her       research, Witchard inspired the publisher Penguin to reprint Lao She's       Limehouse novel, Mr Ma and Son (published 2013).
Each of these       contributions to theatre, television and publishing changed the       performance and practice of these industries.
An unknown text has been       brought to light and published by a major international publisher       (Penguin) and new representations and interpretations of British-Chinese       culture have advanced knowledge and understanding for wide public       audiences (BBC and theatre companies).
Impact on Multicultural Society:     The publication of both Thomas Burke's Dark Chinoiserie and Lao         She In London, as well as the AHRC Network Grant and its related       activities, provided Witchard with opportunities to affect the awareness       of diverse audiences, communities, and organisations with regard to the       representations of China and the Chinese in Western culture.
As a direct       result of this academic research and its subsequent AHRC-supported       engagement events, which brought together filmmakers, actors, designers       and creative writers along with academics, Witchard advanced British and       Chinese cultural understanding in the context of multicultural Britain in       the UK, Europe and Asia.
This has been extended further through podcasting       of talks and conversations with the likes of novelist Xiaolu Guo and actor       David Yip on the open access website for the AHRC project (http://translatingchina.info/).
Through a series of public lectures and discussions at the Brick Lane       Bookshop (2012), the Literary London Reading Group (2012) and the Sohemian       Society (2013), as well as print and radio interviews (e.g.
for ChinaFile       and Resonance FM), Witchard further offered London's communities new       understandings of the history of Chinese communities in London and so       directly increased awareness of the representations of Asia and its people       in Britain both historically and in the contemporary world.
In a broader       European context, Witchard spoke with a public audience at the Brussels       Museum (Mus&#233;es d'Extr&#234;me-Orient, Pavillion Chinois, October 2010) to       reveal further the attitudes of Imperialist European powers towards the       East during the late nineteenth century, making a significant contribution       to this constituency's awareness of the global reach of Sino-phobic       discourse.
In China itself, in interviews with the Beijinger Magazine       (Beijing, 2013) and Shanghai Time Out (Shanghai, 2013), as well as       Radio Television Hong Kong, Witchard presented, to transnational       audiences, Western representations of Chinese people and cultures,       expanding the sensibilities of this new constituency for her work (as the       many blog posts and email responses to her interviews signify).
Impact on British-Chinese Political Relations:     All of Witchard's publications from 2007, but especially those published       in 2007 and 2011, which dealt with representational paradigms and       transnational modernism, contributed to the successful AHRC Network Grant       application in 2011.
As one of the participants from the British East       Asian Artists Group confirmed (email correspondence), the engagement       events subsequently organised by Witchard gave "leading East Asian actors       and directors opportunities to speak and listen to each other and gain an       idea of where we were as an under-represented ethnic group and what needed       to be done to raise our profile.
... [S]everal collaborations have been       borne from these discussions that are ongoing as we speak".
The AHRC       Network and its events, led by Witchard, constructed, on this basis, a       number of pathways to impact which, in turn, developed into a series of       advisory roles and civic contributions for Witchard herself that engaged       with political interest groups and organisations with a remit for       British-Asian cultural exchange.
For example, Witchard's research was       employed by the British East Asian Artists Group and Equity's Minority       Ethnic Members Committee (via a Network event in 2012) to articulate the       need for diversity action in the employment and representation of Asian       peoples in theatre and on screen.
Witchard's contribution to engagement in the political relations between       Asia and Britain also extended to China through her engagement with the       British Council (in Beijing in 2012-13), the Royal Asiatic Society (in       Souzhou and Shanghai, 2012-13) and the Meridian Society (in London, April       2013), each of whom have a remit to promote `soft power' relationships       between China and the UK.
In this way, Witchard's presentations to these       organisations aided them in better understanding changing cultural       relations and so to develop actively their own strategies for political       engagement with Chinese partners.
