     Many people are unaware of the challenges they may face when working in       culturally unfamiliar contexts, as well as of the key competencies needed       to handle them.
So they need help in (a) understanding the challenges, (b)       understanding what competencies are needed, and (c) learning how to       develop such competencies for themselves and/or in others.
In order to       improve intercultural communication skills, we have developed a range of       online resources and training events which draw on the insights described       in section 2.
Our Global People website provides explanatory pages, authentic examples       of competencies in interaction, video clips, presentations, and pdfs to       download.
Since the launch of the website near the beginning of 2009, we       have had over 211,000 page views.
As illustrated in the chart, interest       has been well maintained over the period.
There have been over 22,290       downloads of intercultural resources during this period, and our reach has       been extensive in that every month there are visitors from every continent       except Antarctica, and they range from 38 to 59 different countries, with       a monthly average of over 50 different countries.
In addition to the web       resources, we have shared these insights with a range of professions       through workshops and presentations at events in many parts of the world,       including London (on several occasions), Warwick, Bristol, Beijing,       Konstanz, Aarhus and Tokyo.
Taken together, the web resources and the training events have had an       impact on a range of beneficiaries, in three main areas:     a.
Impact on Organisational Strategy and Initiatives     An increasing number of organisations and commercial companies are       recognising the importance of developing `global skills' among their       workforce, yet they are often unsure how to achieve this.
Our research has       helped a number of organisations in developing a strategy for this.
Examples are as follows:     British Council Japan: Around 2010 the Japanese government       launched a new growth strategy which placed a major focus on the       development of `global human capital'.
Key components of this are       nurturing people with cross-cultural understanding, diversity in thinking       and global leadership skills.
The British Council in Japan wished to       respond to this initiative and in 2011 commissioned Spencer-Oatey and       colleagues to develop Global TIES (Training in Intercultural       Effectiveness).
This online course has been very well received by       university students, company employees and education administrators in       Japan.
[i] The British Council produced a video about Global Ties in which       teachers and students comment on the high quality and usefulness of the       course.
[ii] Audi Akademie and Changan Automobiles: These two       automobile companies became aware (through presentations and via the       website) of the team's expertise in intercultural competence, and       requested help in analysing the intercultural communication challenges       their staff are facing.
They are now paying for three postgraduate       researchers to help them identify the nature of these challenges and start       implementing strategies to address them.
[iii]     b.
Impact on the development of university students' and         professionals' intercultural skills     Many university staff worldwide have referenced the Global People       resources for their students and some have reported to us the benefits       their students have gained.
For example, every year over 250 engineering       undergraduates in Belgium (Katholieke Universiteit Leuven) take a       compulsory course in intercultural communication which includes studying       the Global People resources.
In a recent feedback questionnaire, 63% of       them reported that studying the Global People resources had helped them to       understand the range of skills and personal qualities needed to handle       intercultural situations effectively (i.e.
impact on knowledge).
[iv] A       number of professionals have also reported benefits from using our       training materials.
For example, a team from the University of Northampton       used the Global People resources when working on a Connect project with a       university in Shaoguan, China, in 2009.
They commented that "As a result,       we were able to plan a three day workshop in Shaoguan which was       tremendously successful.
I really do believe that anybody involved in       collaborations would benefit from this resource.
Many thanks."
[v]       Japanese university students and professionals who have taken the Global       TIES programme have similarly been positive about the impact.
For example,       one company employee commented "I now understand the importance of       observing the behaviour and actions of others and putting them into       cultural context using the various frameworks introduced in the e-learning       materials."
[i]     c. Impact on Training Courses     Others have used our resources in their own training/development       materials.
For example, parts have been included in two of the British       Council's `Connecting Classrooms' courses, with over 550 teachers in 15       different countries completing these courses between June 2012 &#8212; March       2013.
[vi] Similarly, the UK Council for International Student Affairs       (UKCISA) has included them in their online training course "New to       International."
[vii] Links to the Global People resources have also been       included on numerous websites, including several HE Academy subject       centres [viii], and utilised by intercultural trainers and consultants       worldwide [ix].
John Knagg, Senior Adviser Learning &amp; Teaching, The       British Council, commented as follows in 2009: "Warwick University's       "Global People" website and resources make a substantial contribution to       thinking and practice in the area of intercultural working.
As a       professional in international cultural relations, I will be referring       partners that we work with, both in UK and overseas, to this site."
[v]
