     The BHF was set up to improve the quality of history teaching in schools       and to maximise       history's contribution to community cohesion, cultural literacy, the       enjoyment and preservation of       the historic environment and the public understanding of the modern world.
The BHF seeks to do       this by engagement in public debate, lobbying for change, and undertaking       active research to       develop new ways of teaching, assessing and examining.
The BHF has disseminated its research findings via consultative       conferences, which have       attracted leading policy-makers and practitioner figures in the history       education field, including Sir       David Cannadine, Director of the Institute for Historical Research; the       historian Chris Skidmore       MP, jointly (with the historian Tristram Hunt MP) vice-chair of the       All-Party Parliamentary Group       on Archives and History; Tim Oates, of Cambridge Assessment and chair of       the Expert Panel       advising the Secretary of State on the National Curriculum Review (see       reference 1); and the       Chief HMI for History (see reference 2).
The first such conference, held       in London in October       2010, was organised jointly with Cambridge Assessment, one of the UK's       largest examination       boards.
The second was held at Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge in       January 2012.
Furthermore, a workshop for teachers held at ARU in June 2012 was attended       by a senior civil       servant from the Department for Education, responsible for drafting the       revisions to the National       Curriculum for history.
The BHF has also been invited to conferences,       seminars and meetings       about school history organised by other groups, including the Historical       Association, the Prince's       Teaching Institute, the H10 Group, the Raphael Samuel History Centre, the       Institute of Ideas, the       London Institute of Education and the influential Curriculum for Cohesion       group.
As noted and referenced above, the BHF has been commissioned to produce a       number of       research reports for the Schools Minister including Better History for         All (2012) and Better History       (2013), which by their very nature were a means by which BHF research was       disseminated to       beneficiaries.
Dr Lang has also regularly provided expert advice drawing       on the findings of BHF       research at meetings of parliamentary and government policy-makers       developing the new       National Curriculum.
He has spoken at four ministerial round table       meetings with the Secretary of       State for Education and has had three individual meetings with the Schools       Minister.
He has also       had four individual meetings with senior civil servants and advisers, with       other such meetings       planned.
In July 2012 he gave evidence to the All Party Parliamentary       group for Archives and       History, which examined the current state of History provision in schools,       and to ask the question       of whether History should be made compulsory for all pupils, up to the age       of 16.
Its report on       history teaching came out in December 2012, quoting Dr Lang's evidence       (reference 3).
It will be clear, therefore, that the BHF's public impact has been       extensive, through its high-profile       contribution to popular national debate about the importance of history in       school teaching.
The       national media have reported and critiqued the BHF's findings and       recommendations.
For       example, website hits in the national press quoting Sean Lang numbered       78,440 for The Daily         Telegraph, in an article by Graham Paton on `School-children forced       to drop History at 14', on       14.October 2010, (reference 4), and 1,973,411 hits for The Guardian       website on 12 January,       2011, where Lang was quoted in an article by Jessica Shepherd entitled       `History Lessons will       become a thing of the past, teachers warn Michael Gove' (reference       5).There were also extensive       mentions in the London Review of Books (17 March 2011, reference       6).
In total, articles on web       sites have received an estimated 6.5 million hits, whilst local and       national newspaper readership       is over 1.4 million.
The BHF's research has even featured on BBC Radio 4's       popular Thought for         the Day (19 January 2011) in a talk by Abdul Hakim Murad, a regular       contributor to the       programme.
The Parliamentary Group report referenced above was also       reported in the press as       well as to both Houses of Parliament.
The BHF's impact extends far into the political and policy-making world,       and has had a major       influence on the new National Curriculum for history, which was presented       to Parliament in       September 2013 and will be taught in around 25,000 schools to 8.2 million       pupils in England.
The       initial draft of the revised National Curriculum in history was published       for consultation in February       2013 and attracted very negative comments from all quarters, including the       BHF (see the official       report on the consultation, reference 7).
The revised proposals, published       in July 2013, which       were much more positively received, were significantly influenced by BHF       research and       conclusions (reference 8).
The BHF's influence is also evident from the       detail in the government's       response to the consultation (reference 9), which emphasised how the       revised curriculum       `retained a core focus on the teaching of Britain and its relationship       with the world within a clear       chronological framework.'
Similarly, the new National Curriculum for       history (reference 10)       demonstrates the influence of BHF, for example in linking the importance       of history to       understanding `the diversity of societies and relationships between       different groups, as well as       [pupils'] own identity and the challenges of their time'; highlighting the       importance of gaining       `historical knowledge by placing [pupil's] growing knowledge into       different contexts', different       approaches to history, and different timescales; and the value of       `establishing clear narratives       within and across the periods studied.
