     The impact of Baker's work from the late 1990s and 2000s has been most       significantly registered between the middle of the last decade and the       present.
Emerging from his extensive knowledge of Indian Ocean creoles,       the research resulting from the Languages of London Project (1998-99) &#8212; on       the languages spoken by London schoolchildren &#8212; and published in the       collection Multilingual Capital (2000) led to a range of academic,       public, and policy-related speaking engagements.
Very positively received       by the field of applied linguistics (see citations in Section 3), Baker's       research reached beyond academia and became a significant resource for       multicultural groups such as the Runnymede Trust as well as for government       bodies.
(See, for example, the then Secretary of State for Education and       Skills Jacqui Smith's answer to a parliamentary question, January 30 2006,       on language teaching in London, recorded in Hansard, that cites "the       survey undertaken in 2000 by Philip Baker").
Baker was also centrally       involved in public events such as the Greater London Authority's       International Mother Tongue Day, which the then-mayor Ken Livingstone       opened in 2006 with a reference to the conclusions of Baker's research as       demonstrating that "London's diversity remains one of its greatest       strengths, [which] makes it an attractive location for global business".
("International Mother Tongue Day is very relevant to our city ... where       300 languages are spoken"; See `Notes to Editors' in the GLA's press       release at: http://www.london.gov.uk       in section 5 below.)
Since 2008 the research has achieved considerable       impact in government education policy, NGO initiatives and practices, and       in higher education teaching.
Impact on Policy:     The data-gathering methods and insights of Baker's research on the       variety of languages spoken in London's schools has been of direct benefit       to the Department for Education (formerly the DCSF), to Primary Care       Trusts, and to local London borough councils.
For example, Baker's initial       findings inspired, and his methodology provided guidance for, the language       component of the Annual School Census, which asked questions about       language use for the first time in 2008.
Ruth Lupton (LSE) has observed       that "it became clear when I became Director of the London Education       Research Unit at IOE that there was an appetite for more up to date data       and an opportunity to update Baker and Eversley's work with the inclusion       of a language question for the first time in the School Census in 2008."
Thereafter questions of language use entered the decennial Census of       Population (2011), carried out by the Office for National Statistics on       behalf of the British Government.
Lupton further noted the importance of Baker's work in this regard when       stating that Multilingual Capital "inspired our work ... and was       immensely useful to us in developing language classification... used by       the ONS in considering how to classify the language data arising from the       2011 census" (see Institute of Education correspondence on Baker's       research &#8212; 1 below, as well as IoE Working Paper, June 2010 at: http://repec.ioe.ac.uk/REPEc/pdf/qsswp1012.pdf).
These new additions to the census, and how to classify the responses, drew       on Baker's language catalogue in Multilingual Capital.
Baker's       study of the languages of London has therefore had a methodological impact       on policy (how to gather data) as well as expanding the range and       significance of the data gathered.
These innovations have enabled the       Department for Education, as well as local borough councils, to make more       informed policy decisions on diversity, translation resources, and       training within the state sector.
Additionally, the data gathered in the 2011 Census has been used to       inform the National Health Service of likely language requirements amongst       Primary Care Trust communities and users and to determine the resources       required in particular geographical areas of London.
This is evidenced in       the UPTAP research document, funded by the ESRC, July 2010, which starts       out from "the ordering of languages in 1999 from Baker and Eversley       (2000)", and which, drawing on this work, also notes the ways in which       "language data can potentially offer a finer-grained understanding than       has to date been available through the collection of ethnic categories",       and thus insight into "who is living in London and their socio-economic       circumstances, and how these are changing over time".
Impact on NGOs:     Beyond governmental organisations, Baker's research has been beneficial       to various NGOs and their communities of users.
Data on the languages of       London has been exploited by, for example, the Runnymede Trust-funded       asylum and refugee organisation (ICAR) to support their engagements with       policymakers on issues of cultural diversity and racial equality.
In       addition, Baker's research provides a foundation for the policy-focussed       interventions of the Centre for Analysis of Social Exclusion, the       Migration Observatory, and the Bilingualism and Literacies Education       Network.
For example, the Migration Observatory employ Baker's research in       their "policy primer" on London (see 7 below).
The Bilingualism and       Literacies Education Network use the research to underpin their       educational work on linguistic diversity in London.
Multilingual         Capital has also provided underpinning research for the work of the       London SIG (Special Interest Group) Bilingualism in providing resources       for speech and language therapists working with children and families from       diverse communities (see 9 and 10 below).
To cite another example, Baker's       research was also used by Euro-Islam.info &#8212; a network of researchers and       scholars, sponsored by CNRS France and Harvard University, who conduct       comparative research on Islam and Muslims in the West and disseminate key       information to politicians, media, and the public &#8212; for their primer on       `Islam in London' (http://www.euro-islam.info/country-profiles/city-profiles/london/).
The Euro-Islam.info website hosts over 50,000 unique visitors each month.
Impact on HE Education:     Baker's research has from the outset made a significant contribution to       teacher training and medical education.
For example, the University of       East London uses Baker's work in its teacher education at both       undergraduate and postgraduate levels as a starting point for student       investigations of diverse language use in London.
Raymonde Sneddon of East       London's Cass School of Education has confirmed that Multilingual         Capital "became the starting point for all sessions on the issue [of       multilingualism] ... for courses at undergraduate, PGCE and MA level" (see       2 below).
In medical education, too, Baker's work is a cornerstone of       clinical medical training programmes on culture and diversity.
At       University College London, for example, Multilingual Capital is a       key text on the BSc in Medical Education and plays an important role in       revealing London's multiculturalism to medical students (see 3 below).
