     The routes to impact detailed in this case study have been facilitated by       Cunningham's and Mays's       involvement in the Faculty's Institute for Modern and Contemporary       Culture, which was established       in 2008 to act as a focal point for collaboration with outside cultural       institutions, facilitating various       cross-disciplinary projects and public events programmes, and which       maintains its own       blog/website (http://instituteformodern.co.uk).
Transferring Knowledge to New Visual Media Creative Industries:     Cunningham's research on urban cultural theory has been translated with       significant success into       contributions to both public discourse and architectural, new media and       urbanist professional       activities.
Engagements with diverse public audiences internationally,       combined with the       transference of complex research into publicly-accessible forms       &amp;mdash: such as, for example, his public       talk on cities as part of the `Big Ideas' pub philosophy series in London       (March 2012), and       participation in the BBC Radio 4 documentary `Philosophy in the Streets'       (May 2008) &amp;mdash: has       enabled Cunningham to exert influence on discussions concerning the       challenges faced by       contemporary urban society.
Benefits to public and professional       understanding in this area have       been realised through, for example, invitations to disseminate his       research as part of the       Architectural Association's Landscape Urbanism public lecture series       (March 2009) as well as to       contribute more broadly to the AA's City Cultures project.
The wider       significance and reach of       Cunningham's research in this field is further evidenced in contributions       to sold-out events at the       Royal Academy of Arts' Architecture and Urban Forum (May 2012, May 2010;       both of which are       available as podcasts via itunes) and internationally to the Circulo des       Bellas Artes in Madrid (May       2008: public lecture subsequently translated into Spanish for a wider       audience).
Together public       engagements such as these (of which these are just a sample) have extended       the quality of       evidence and theoretical frameworks available to a collection of diverse       organisations and       audiences.
Early instances of public dissemination of Cunningham's work led to an       invitation to speak at the       first international Media Architecture conference held at Central Saint       Martins College of Arts and       Design (2007), which was instrumental in bringing together for the first       time the principal players in       facade systems &#8212; property developers, architecture practices and       researchers &#8212; from across the       world.
As a result of this event, Cunningham met Peter Cornwell, Director       of new media company       BLIP Creative (www.blipcreative.com),       and, as a consequence, has been able to work in closer       collaboration with a new media industry partner to transfer the insights       of his research into direct       benefit to their work since 2008.
BLIP, based nearby to Westminster in       Soho, London, create LED       display technologies for the commercial and arts sectors, with clients       including Sony, Samsung       and the European Commission.
Peter Cornwell has commented (email       correspondence) that       Cunningham's "research has been instrumental in thinking through the       radical distributed facade       display systems that we have taken to market during the last five years",       and hence directly       contributed to BLIP's "departure from the trajectory in which the company       had developed the       moving image display technologies used" before 2008.
Cunningham's informal consultancy relationship with BLIP between 2008 and       2009 led, in turn, to       the IMCC's participation in `The International Distributed Display       Initiative' based on technology       developed by BLIP.
This allowed Cunningham, in collaboration with new       media artist Alison       Craighead (http://www.thomson-craighead.net/),       to facilitate the installation in 2011 of a public LED       installation in the window of Westminster's Wells Street building (see       http://www.blipcreative.com/blog.html),       which allows for the creation of user-generated content via       a `user-friendly' online interface designed by BLIP.
The network links       together state-of-the-art       screens at Westminster and Princeton University, which can be remotely       accessed to upload and       modify works on each by viewing webcam imagery online, with temporary       screens in various public       venues installed by BLIP.
A concern for impact has been key to this       project both in realising the       creative potential (for short text as well as visual content) generated by       the public nature of the       screens and in contributing to ongoing theoretical reflection upon the       potential uses of public       display media valuable to the commercial and artistic work of BLIP.
As       correspondence with       Cornwell confirms, Cunningham's work on the cultural questions raised by       the uses of "distributed       media in public space" informed, in this way, the design process for a       number of "high profile       installation projects" undertaken by BLIP from 2010 to the present,       including the LED installation       built for the European Commission at the Justus Lipsius Building in       Brussels with the artist Daniel       Canogar, which was the centre-piece of the Spanish presidency of the EU       (2010).
Such research       impact has led, in turn, to further invitations for Cunningham to present       his work in this area to       other public and professional audiences, such as an invitation to       participate in a panel on `Curating       Urban Screens' at the 2011 LOOP Contemporary Video Art Fair in Barcelona,       attended by various       international video artists and curators.
Cunningham's research findings       have also generated       further benefit through the transfer of his knowledge to urban planning       education in connected       fields, as indicated by the inclusion of his publications on key reading       lists for courses at, for       example, the Architectural Association and University of Toronto, Canada.
Supporting and Informing Creative Practice and Heritage in Visual         Media Art:     Complementing Cunningham's research focus on new media, the new knowledge       generated by       Mays's research has helped to preserve and present the cultural heritage       of visual media       internationally.
In addition, it has made a significant contribution to       informing and supporting       contemporary creative practices, especially for a new generation of       younger artists.
Specifically,       Mays's underpinning research on the intersections of nineteenth and       twentieth-century image and       text, combined with the AHRC Research Network grant he was awarded,       provided knowledge and       funding for a series of impact pathway activities that brought together       literary, visual, and cultural       critics with contemporary artists and specialists in the field of visual       technologies.
The findings of       this project were publicised and disseminated widely, including, for       example, via Mays's November       2009 presentation to RADA (also podcast on youtube and the AHRC website).
These activities led       to a collaboration with the Magic Lantern Society, which has a world-wide       membership comprising       collectors, enthusiasts, film-makers, magicians, performers, scientists       and archival organisations       from over 30 different countries, whose interests cover a variety of       'lost' forms of visual media and       optical diversions (http://www.magiclantern.org.uk/).
The Head of the MLS, Mervyn Heard,       attended the Network events and subsequently asked Mays to collaborate in       co-organising a       series of six public lectures on `optical magic' entitled `Professor       Pepper's Ghost' (Nov 2009-Feb       2010) held in Westminster's Regent Street building, and sponsored by the       IMCC.
The series was,       for example, listed in the London Time Out `Things to Do' section       and attended by 80-100 people       per lecture, with a significant non-academic audience reflective of the       Magic Lantern Society's       membership.
Such collaboration evidences significant success in       re-presenting British visual media       heritage to a new generation of creative stakeholders, both amateur and       professional.
For       example, the curator of the Photographers' Gallery, London, Johanna       Empson, who was invited to       attend the AHRC project events, noted that her involvement led to "further       collaboration [with `an       exciting group' of photographers] ... at a time when digital photography       and the web are quickly       changing notions of the vernacular."
The impact of this collaboration was further enhanced by Mays's       organisation with the Magic       Lantern Society of a public conference entitled `Old Media / New Work:       Obsolete Technologies and       Contemporary Art' (May 2010), again hosted by the IMCC.
The conference was       attended by c.80       people, and was specifically designed to provide a platform for       interaction and engagement       between non-academic specialists and young contemporary visual (and audio)       artists, so as to       engender forms of collaboration that would extend the impact of Mays's       research activities in this       area.
The event focused on artists working with or around `lost' visual       media practices, in order to       show, discuss, and explore such work in the context of its contemporary       relevance and future       possibilities, and was further disseminated through the online research       project `Archiving Cultures',       established by Mays in 2010 (http://archivingcultures.org/).
Mays's research was also of direct       benefit in furthering impact-yielding connections with a younger,       contemporary art audience, as       well as directly benefiting the Magic Lantern Society in widening its       scope to include twenty-first-century       artistic engagements with `obsolete' visual media.
Articulating the reach       of Mays's work       into new artistic practice, the multimedia artist Madi Boyd called the       events "extremely beneficial to       the progression of my work" and particularly "helped me to form my       thinking about and approach to       a project I am involved in with London Zoo [as well as] a project as part       of an Olympic legacy bid."
Additionally, the curator of the IMT Gallery, London, Mark Jackson,       highlighted the significance of       Mays's activities for professional gallery exhibitions: "I found the       conference has had an important       effect on the future programme of the IMT Gallery by providing a forum to       test ideas and help       support practices and debates that concern me as a curator."
