     By reconstructing full-sized versions of miniature terracotta masks from       museum collections       around the world, the Masks for Menander project gained significant       insight on the tradition and       practice of an ancient performance style.
This insight simultaneously       enabled theatre to recover       the acting style and cultural significance of a lost European mask theatre       tradition, and museums       to develop access and information to a wider public audience.
Therefore,       the unique outcome of       this project is how Masks for Menander linked curatorial and       performance traditions, redefining the relationship between two       distinctive cultural practices.
Figure 1: Reconstruction of         Greek comic mask,         Kelvingrove Art Gallery and         Museum            Rediscovering lost, ancient theatre traditions       The Masks for Menander project, led by Moignard, shed light on the       traditions and practices of an era in theatre that heavily influenced       subsequent Roman playwrights Terence and Plautus and is considered       the source of a European comic tradition.
Elements of Greek `New       Comedy' remain visible in modern drama, particularly the focus on       relationships and personalities, which was a departure from the Old       Comedy emphasis on politics and public affairs.
Working in collaboration       with the Scottish Mask and Puppet Centre and Italian theatre company       VeneziaINscena, University of Glasgow researchers Moignard and Williams       sought to recover the       acting style and cultural significance of New Comedy.
They highlighted the       influence of this lost       European mask theatre tradition by research in the studio with experienced       mask professionals,       training of drama students, public performances and other events.
Mask theatre is a unique combination of body movement and the visual       stimuli of the masks, which       are sculpted to appear to change with the facial expressions or movements       of the actor wearing       them.
Scaling the masks up from miniature artefacts to life-sized models       using rapid prototype       techniques allowed theatre professionals, together with the researchers,       to focus on and work with       the theatrical properties of the masks.
While the initial performances fall outside the eligible timeframe for       impact, they were an important       element of practice-based research and served to enhance the researchers'       and practitioners'       awareness of the proficiency of acting in antiquity, paving the way for       subsequent impact.
Since       2008, the exploration and demonstration of masks in ancient and       contemporary theatre, including       in collaborative projects with mask theatre professionals, has continued.
VeneziaINscena       established the International Centre for the Study and Use of Masks       (Centro Internazionale della       Maschera) in 2005 (after collaborating with the Masks for Menander       project).
Since then, they have       continued to incorporate the mask reproductions in their work, offering       workshops in Greek drama       to train actors in the use of masks in the theatre, which draw on the       research findings of the       project.
The Centre collaborated with the Accademia Teatrale Veneta to       hold an intensive month-long       workshop in July 2008 on the Greek masks.
The Director of the Scottish Mask and Puppet Centre describes the impact       of this collaboration:       For the first time since the 4th century AD, the project has uncovered the       relationship       between the terracotta miniatures and the actual theatre masks.
The       reconstruction process       using 3D imaging and scanning has enabled life-sized reconstructions to be       made with sub-millimetre       accuracy of the originals.
The small helmeted miniatures were the key to       unlocking       the lost theatre masks of Menander.
The New Comedy Masks of Menander       Project under the       direction of Professor Moignard brought together art historian, Dr Richard       Williams, mask-maker       Malcolm Knight [Scottish Mask and Puppet Centre] and theatre director       Adriano       Iurissevich [VeneziaINscena] in a unique collaboration.
The repercussions       of this       collaboration are still ongoing in the lives of all whom took part.
In 2013, the mask reproductions were included in the BBC 2 programme Who Were           The Greeks?
(first broadcast 27 June 2013) and the original shells and moulds now       adorn the external facade of       the Scottish Mask and Puppet Centre in Glasgow, recast in stone.
Improving study and management of objects in museum collections &amp;         exhibitions       A tangible legacy of the Masks for Menander project lies in the evolution       of the work at the       University of Glasgow on the masks themselves as antiquities.
This work is       providing insight into       ancient theatre to a wider public audience.
More than 2,000 mask artefacts       survive in collections       across Europe.
Using rapid prototyping technology, Moignard and Williams       3D-scanned around       fifty of the ancient masks preserved in the Kelvingrove, Ashmolean and       Fitzwilliam Museums, the       Shefton Museum, Newcastle, and the Museo Aeoliano Lipari,       Italy.
Using 3D printing, they then successfully created both       artefact-size replicas and enlarged matrices for life-size       wearable masks which reproduced the original forms without       the mediation of a modern sculptor.
The project made a       significant contribution to the major `Expressions' display in the       Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum on its reopening in 2006       after a three-year refurbishment closure.
The exhibit &#8212; a       permanent display to date &#8212; uses both a selection of the     original terracottas and the masks derived from them.
Moignard and Williams worked closely with the museum     curators to help develop informative and current labelling for the display     which refers to the findings     of the Masks project.
As part of the Expressions display, which is centrally     located in Kelvingrove     (2nd most visited       UK museum outside of London in 2012), the exhibit is seen by more than     1.03     million visitors each year.
Figure 2: 'Expressions', Kelvingrove       Art Gallery and Museum           Between October 2007 and February 2008, some of the mask reproductions       were featured in In         Scaena (On Stage), an exhibition       at the Coliseum in Rome, with the exhibition catalogue       containing photographs of three masks.
In the UK, Behind the Mask,       an exhibition using the Masks       for Menander alongside masks from other cultures, curated by Williams in       collaboration with       Malcolm Knight of the Scottish Mask and Puppet Centre, toured The Ark       (Dublin, 2008), Tunbridge       Wells Museum (2009), Hackney Museum (2010), Summerlee Museum (Glasgow,       2010) and       Cannon Hall (Barnsley, 2011).
3D-printed replicas were displayed together       with full-size masks       and a video installation of performance.
