     The underpinning research (Kuppen et al., 2011; 2013) provided the       theoretical basis for the       development of Tune Time which has now been formally adopted in       two Year 1 classrooms since       Autumn 2012.
There were four stages from inception of research to the       provision of the Tune Time       programme: 1. basic developmental research on auditory processing and       phonological awareness;       2. development and testing of new tools to enhance early literacy; 3.       testing interventions in the       classroom; 4. adoption of Tune Time by teachers of Year 1       children.
Impact of the Tune Time intervention on literacy has been       assessed in applied, classroom settings       in Bedford, funded by the Harpur Trust.
There are three conditions: the Tune         Time Music group       where the Tune Time rhymes are delivered as songs with strong       tunes, the Tune Time Spoken       group where the rhymes are delivered as poems but also use actions and       strong rhythmic beat and       the No Supplementary Programme group (essentially a control group)       where children receive no       extra programme in addition to their normal synthetic phonics programmes.
Materials feature       rhyming couplets and use high frequency and regular words as appropriate       for the Year 1       classroom.
When performed as songs, Tune Time uses strong tunes       with prominent beat.
Action       is used in both Tune Time groups to underline key words and to aid       comprehension of new       vocabulary.
The Tune Time songs are based on common Year 1       cross-curricular topics and thus       promote integrated classroom learning.
The development and implementation of the Tune Time intervention       has been entirely driven by       Kuppen, based on the underpinning research described above.
Children in       the Tune Time literacy       programme make more progress in phonological awareness (the ability to       identify and manipulate       the sounds in language &#8212; the strongest predictor of reading outcomes) than       children who were in       standard synthetic phonics programmes alone.
Additionally, children in the       Tune Time Spoken       programme with the weakest pre-intervention literacy skills show a       disproportionately better level of       improvement than children with initially stronger skills, indicating that       Tune Time is particularly       beneficial for those children who struggle with language acquisition.
Inclusion of pre- and post-tests       of phonological awareness provides a measure of progress across the school       term so that       continued effectiveness of the intervention is monitored.
Through       follow-up interviews, Tune Time       was judged to be both enjoyable and effective by teachers and students.
The primary non-       academic beneficiaries are children (stronger literacy skills) and       teachers (improved pedagogical       practice and outcomes).
We have shown that standard literacy learning for Year 1 classrooms can       be improved through the       addition of the Tune Time programme.
The combined approach       provides a more effective method       for promoting literacy and closing the ability gap between children with       weaker and stronger skills.
As a marker of the effectiveness of the Tune Time programme (over       and above standard synthetic       phonics teaching), we have received funding to deliver the programme in 10       schools in Bedford in       2014, and we have received declarations of interest from 40 schools in       total.
It has already been       adopted as a classroom programme by Shackleton School in Bedford and the       Head Teacher has       confirmed that it has had a positive impact in the two classes in which it       has been implemented       (see sources to corroborate impact).
The Education Endowment Foundation       and Nuffield       Foundation have invited applications for further funding with the goal of       making Tune Time       available to all UK Year 1 classrooms.
