     The research has had wide ranging impact across the creative and cultural       education sector, bringing benefits to students, teachers, policy-makers,       education providers, and the wider economy.
These impacts were achieved by       providing robust evidence for decision-makers, enabling arts organisations       to win further funding, and through the provision of improved teacher       training courses.
DaDA Review     Impact on Government Policy      The most significant impact that emerged from this research was the use       of our research to inform and influence policy on the creative and       cultural education sector.
At the outset, closure was a viable option for       the scheme due to changes in and support for the sector since the scheme's       inception in 1999: the DfE needed advice on the potential impact of this       course of action.
Our recommendations were communicated directly to       Ministers at a seminar in January 2010.
The pivotal point in the review       recommendation, `that the DaDA Awards continue to be allocated at similar       levels and numbers until alternative arrangements are in place in order to       minimise what key employers see as a serious threat to the performing arts       sector', prompted the government to continue funding the DaDA Scheme until       the next comprehensive spending review.
Subsequently, the new       administration has also accepted the findings and agreed to continue the       scheme.
Recommendations from the Review were particularly influential on       Government, and the future direction of the DaDA Scheme.
Most notably, the       Review recommended that the scheme should target students who could not       otherwise afford to undertake the training, which led to an emphasis on       equality of opportunity and access in the Scheme, including implementing       the recommendation that access courses should be provided for students       with disabilities.
The key recommendations of CEDAR's Review were later       incorporated into the Henley Review of Cultural Education, commissioned by       DfE and DCMS [i] and endorsed in the Secretary of State for Education's       Response [ii].This Review investigated support for cultural and creative       education, and as a result the Government introduced many new initiatives       to improve dance and drama teaching, e.g.
the creation of Drama UK, a       quality assurance and standards authority for vocational drama courses at       leading conservatoires.
As a result of his expertise and research into the       DaDA Scheme, Neelands was appointed as an independent Director of Drama       UK.
Moreover, Drama UK uses the methodology developed from the Report to       underpin its ranking of drama schools [iii].
Impact on the Economy and Performing Arts Sector     Through its cogent argument for the continuation of the DaDA scheme, the       Review secured an investment of &#163;14m per annum, benefiting performing arts       students, the national economy, and the providers of creative and cultural       education.
If our research had failed to convince the government to       continue funding DaDA there would have been substantial negative       consequences for the sector.
The Scheme provides a significant proportion       of the talent required by the performing arts industry which has a GVA of       &#163;4.45b nationally and &#163;1.6b to the London economy.
Leading industry       figures including Arlene Phillips, Sir Cameron Mackintosh, Bill Kenwright       and Andr&#233; Ptaszynski, Chief Executive of Lord Lloyd-Weber's Really Useful       Group interviewed for the Review emphasised the importance of DaDA to       their own and other businesses.
In the employers' view, there would be a       potentially catastrophic effect on the performing arts industry if the       DaDA Scheme was closed before the establishment of any alternative means       of ensuring a continuous supply of high quality performers to the       industry.
The research also highlighted the financial dependence of many       training providers on the DaDA funding and was able to demonstrate that       withdrawal of funding would lead to fees at a level that only the very       rich could afford, the reduction of teaching hours, larger teaching       groups, less qualified professional trainers and in some cases possible       closure.
This would then impact on the intensity and quality of training       across the sector that provides much of the talent the industry depends on       [iii-vi].
LPN Review     Our research has had a significant impact on the provision of creative       and cultural education by providing the RSC with the necessary evidence to       lobby for further financial support.
The successful &#163;320k bid (2012) by       the RSC to the Paul Hamlyn Foundation for a new three year funding       programme for the LPN was based upon our research [vii, viii].
This       funding has established a new network linking 120 schools and 10 local       theatres and encourages active and theatre based approaches to the       teaching of Shakespeare.
The impact of the LPN on teachers' approaches       indicates a highly positive experience for teachers, as expressed by a       Lead Teacher; "It was the best quality training I have ever had in 25       years of teaching.
The expertise of the RSC supported by Warwick has been       second to none."
[viii,ix] In order to continue the impact of the       research, Neelands is now a member of the RSC Education Advisory Board and       advises on the RSC's on-going research and evaluation programme.
Impact on teacher training provision     The significance of the Warwick PGCE and the LPN was supported by a       review by Thompson et al.
[x].
A major impact on training provision was       the launch of the Teaching Shakespeare programme in 2012; a       ground-breaking partnership between the RSC and the University of Warwick       that evolved out of the commission's research findings.
By offering online       and residential courses, our findings were fed into the pedagogical       approach of the new courses and resources.
The programme offers an MA and       a PG Award in Teaching Shakespeare to teachers and actors.
Since       its launch in September 2012, 55 students have enrolled on Teaching         Shakespeare courses and 150 site licenses have been sold to schools.
60 teachers and 18 theatre practitioners will be funded to complete the PG       Award, leading to direct and indirect benefits to 72,000 pupils.
These       courses are having an international impact on teaching practice with       students from Europe, Asia, Australia and North America enrolled on the       online qualification and summer intensive courses in Stratford Upon Avon.
In 2013 Neelands ran a five day intensive course in Singapore attended by       representatives from the Ministry of Education and Teaching         Shakespeare was a finalist at the Bett Awards for technology in       education, considered to be the most prestigious within the education       sector, in recognition of the quality of the programme.
Impact on pupils     The research has impacted upon pupils directly, through involvement in       the LPN and indirectly by benefitting from the innovative pedagogical       techniques taught to teachers on the Teaching Shakespeare       programme.
The commission's student survey, completed by over 1000 pupils       in 2007 and then again in 2009, demonstrated a significant change in       attitudes towards Shakespeare as a result of the LPN.
There was an       increase in pupils believing Shakespeare to be fun and they were less       likely to say that Shakespeare was difficult to understand [15].
Resulting       from the commission, pedagogical frameworks for teachers were developed       which had demonstrated a highly positive effect upon pupil confidence and       active learning.
The RSC Shakespeare Toolkit has now been placed       by the DfE in every secondary school in England and acknowledges the       influence of Neelands and Winston [xi].
