     Aldgate and Rose were seconded from the OU and played a major role from       2006-10 in helping the Scottish government to develop and implement the       new rights-based, multi-agency framework for all family and children's       services, Getting It Right for Every Child (Scottish Government       2013).
This has been described by the Minister for Children and Early       Years, Adam Ingram, as `the golden thread that knits together all our       services' (Scottish Government, 2010).
Aldgate and Rose assisted in developing the framework in a Pathfinder in       the Highlands region, writing the guide to implementation.
The framework       and national practice model developed and refined by the Pathfinder were       implemented across Scotland from 2008, culminating in national       legislation, as part of the Children and Young People Bill.
This is       designed to consolidate Getting It Right for Every Child within       legislation and will become law in 2014.
As part of national implementation, Aldgate and Rose led on writing the Guide         to Getting It Right for Every Child (Scottish Government, 2008),       which set out the core components, values and the national practice model       itself.
The model was explained further in eight practice briefings       developed by Aldgate and Rose.
Its application to risk assessment within       child protection practice was then set out in a paper (Aldgate and Rose,       2008) which informed the National Child Protection Guidance.
The early       implementation of the framework and practice in the Highlands was       evaluated by Stradling, MacNeil and Berry from Edinburgh University       (Scottish Government, 2009), who acknowledged the contribution of Aldgate       and Rose to its success.
Since then, interest has also been shown by other countries in this       radical whole system approach, as well as its underpinning practice model       and tools.
In Padua, Italy, the Ministerio del Lavaro e delle Politche       Sociali has used the framework in a practice guide (Guida Operativa)       for child welfare workers.
Aldgate's research on kinship care led to kinship care being recognised       in its own right by the Scottish Government.
The National Fostering         and Kinship Care Strategy, published in 2006, took up the study's       recommendation that government support be central to its development.
The       ensuing implementation paper confirmed the commitment of the Scottish       Government to meet the needs of kinship carers, as recommended.
The       study's recommendations for kinship carer allowances were implemented in       Section 110 of the Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act 2007, which       created powers to make provision for such payments.
This has been taken       forward in Part VIII, regulation 33, of the Looked After Children       (Scotland) Regulations 2009 (see Guidance on Looked After Children         (Scotland) Regulations 2009 and The Adoption and Children (Scotland)       Act 2007) (http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Publications/2010/06/01094202/0).
Regarding the work in Wales, the report based on Rose's study into the       role of serious case reviews in the Welsh context argued for a radical       overhaul of the system.
It has had significant influence on the       development of a national policy and practice framework.
In her statement       to the Welsh National Assembly on 20 October 2009, the Deputy Minister for       Social Services, Gwenda Thomas, welcomed the report and called for       specific proposals on how to implement its ideas.
In January 2010, Rose       was commissioned to develop detailed proposals and guidance building on       the study's findings.
A whole systems approach to learning in child       protection was applied to the model design, underpinned by an agreed set       of principles, drawing from evidence of systems of review in different       disciplines, adult learning theory, and building on existing good practice       and resources available in Wales.
The emphasis was on creating a culture       of multi-agency learning.
The development process, led by Rose, was highly       collaborative, with the active engagement of policy officials and       professionals from different disciplines across Wales.
Following a process       of feedback and model refinement, new statutory regulations were laid and       statutory guidance issued in December 2012 for national implementation       from 1 January 2013 (CSSIW, 2012).
