     The inclusive research approach in learning disability, pioneered and       developed at the OU, is part of the wider advocacy and resistance movement       in learning disability.
By working with people with learning disabilities       as `expert witnesses' and co-producers of knowledge, we have enabled the       development of new skills that are transferable beyond the research       context for building independence and self-esteem.
In this way, our       research has not only empowered people with learning disabilities to own       and control their stories, but it has enabled them to make changes in       their lives.
For example, Central England People First, a self-advocacy       group, describe how a member was given the confidence to engage with the       NHS National Institute for Health and Care Excellence's Public Involvement       Programme.
In addition they commented:` Being part of SHLD helped us meet       and develop partnerships with other groups, and understand how to write       funding bids, like the bid to the Heritage Lottery Fund (Your Heritage       Programme, &#163;50,000, Central England People First Ltd) which we won with       help from SHLD to write our own history.'
Other people with learning disabilities, who are also members of the SHLD       group, have been inspired to undertake projects to uncover previously       unknown histories, such as that conducted by People First Carlisle       Research Group (part of Cumbria People First), who were awarded a Heritage       Lottery Fund grant (&#163;50,000) to undertake a `Keeping Wartime Memories       Alive' heritage project, with the aim of gathering testimonies about the       experiences of learning disabled people during the Second World War.
People with learning disabilities participating in OU projects have gone       on to develop national and international profiles as advocates and       campaigners.
For example, Mabel Cooper, one of the participants in       Atkinson's `Life histories' project, became a regular conference       contributor and achieved an Honorary Degree from The Open University in       2010 for her contribution to giving people with learning disabilities a       voice.
Mabel sadly died earlier this year, but her advocate Jane Abraham       has written to us stating that:     `Because of her involvement in the OU research, Mabel Cooper grew in       self-confidence and in the ability to pass the skills she had gained onto       others.
Over this period she regularly talked to trainee Social Workers       about her life story ... Mabel also led the training for a group of       self-advocates to help them tell their life stories and went with them       into two primary schools to talk to children.
Her story, and the way she       told it, inspired others to tell their stories and to write a play.
Mabel       also joined the Board of Trustees for Walsingham, a housing and support       provider working across the UK'.
The SHLD's research has had other notable impacts on practice.
For       example, Ledger's research empowered people with learning disabilities to       shape how their care is delivered.
Tenants of learning disability housing       provider Yarrow took pictures of their local area and places key to their       personal history.
Using multi-media, photographs were superimposed onto       local maps to create life journey maps.
These helped the tenants to share       with staff life story information that was previously missing.
Having       demonstrated the importance of life story maps to person-centred care, the       findings of the work were incorporated into Yarrow's Business Plan and       practice.
Lindy Shufflebotham, Deputy Chief Executive at Yarrow, wrote to       us saying: `Sue's research supported Yarrow's ongoing commitment to the       provision of very flexible responses and respite/short break support,       developing models with the capacity to respond very quickly in       crisis-periods, when Sue's research highlighted people are especially       vulnerable to a move out of area.
Influenced by the research, the       importance of life story work and documenting key relationships is covered       as part of our staff induction programme.'
The SHLD's research has also influenced policy.
In November 2012,       following the serious case review into the abuse of patients with learning       disabilities at the Winterbourne View hospital, we submitted three       examples of good practice to the Department of Health's consultation `What         does good look like?
These were:            The SHLD's annual Inclusive Conferences, where people with learning         disabilities come together with academics, practitioners and         policy-makers to network, disseminate research findings and share         personal experiences;       Life journey maps, based on Ledger's research;       Mabel Cooper's schools project, in which she visited primary schools         to tell her life story in order to inform attitudes about learning         disability among young people.
These have since been selected for inclusion in the Department of       Health's `Good Practice Project', providing a powerful endorsement of the       OU's work and its ability to influence policy and practice.
The DH's Good         Practice Report will be circulated to commissioners and providers       nationally as part of the Joint Improvement Programme.
