     The group's research has made tangible improvements in wellbeing, health       and quality of life, by progressing the design, development and       implementation of products, services and policy guidelines.
The research       has also supported companies and organisations to unlock new markets and       strengthen the quality of products and services in the assisted living       sector which worldwide has over 1.5 billion consumers.
Examples of the       main categories of impact are described below.
Economic Impact: Since 2007 the group's research expertise has       supported over 197 companies and organisations to deliver 141 products and       9 services [A].
These companies have been assisted in expanding into new       markets and successfully launching products, and have thereby also       increased employment.
While the research has focussed on health and       assistive living products and services, the Group's expertise in obtaining       hard to collect information has been recognised more widely.
For example,       the Group provided Human Factors consultancy to Unilever [4], [a], one of       the world's largest consumer goods companies.
The research contributed to       the design of a global strategy for crisis prevention and response to       ensure the health and wellbeing of the Unilever business, customers and       employees.
The `crisis toolkit' has been used internationally to guide       teams in situations as diverse as disaster recovery (e.g.
the recent       flooding in Thailand) and in crisis management that could damage       Unilever's global reputation.
Unilever has provided follow-on funding for       further research and consultancy.
The Group and staff at the HDTI have worked with entrepreneur Ian Jones       to develop a series of innovative walking aids and accessories.
New       materials and manufacturing processes were used to create a comfortable       and stylish walking stick handle, crutch handle and a flexible ferrule.
The innovative walking aid, developed for Abianco Holdings Ltd has since       sold 1,000 units to the US and Germany.
Abianco Holdings Ltd is now       planning production of 100,000 units which will deliver further economic       impact as a result of the job creation in the companies employed during       the prototype manufacturing phase [c].
Similarly the Group used its research techniques and models [5] to       user-test a new adaptable underwear range for Adaptawear.
Feedback from       the usability trial found that the product gave the wearer a greater sense       of independence which had significant impact on the health and well-being       of arthritis sufferers and their carers.
By July 2013 Adaptawear had sold       1,000 of its unique and adaptable brassieres in to this specialist market.
The success of this product contributed in turn to the trade sale of       Adaptawear to the Senior Clothing Company Ltd.
While most of the Group's work has resulted in the design, testing and       launch of products, the group has also achieved an economic impact by       providing evidence that a proposed concept will not work with the       intended user group.
Nick Keight of TC Keight stated "they had used the       group to test a concept which did not work as expected [...] the company       saved &#163;50,000 in manufacturing costs by stopping the intended production       of the product" [d].
Biomechanical ergonomics research has supported companies to evidence       their products' contributions to health and wellbeing [e].
The Group's       research is referenced in Vauxhall's international marketing campaign as       evidence of the advantages of the company's technology over standard car       doors: this is indicative of commercial impact.
For example, Shippen       conducted testing on the FlexDoors, which looked at the effects of lifting       an object in and out of the rear seats.
He found that, compared with       previous models, the FlexDoors reduced back muscle load by up to 58% and       leaning and twisting angles by up to 48%.
Vauxhall has used this evidence       in its international marketing campaign.
The Meriva brochure (2013 Models Edition 2) states that one of the       benefits of the FlexDoors is that they are `easier on the back'       and `far kinder on your back' and cites the research done in the       Department of Industrial Design at Coventry to support these statements.
In addition, Vauxhall released a press release in 2010 about the       advantages of the FlexDoors based on Shippen's research.
The car       is marketed on its appeal to families and the older generation.
Martin       Lays, Head of Brands at Vauxhall, stated "... that more grandparents       rather than parents are buying this car, which ... could be a reflection       of the number of grandparents who are childminders" [e].
Health impacts: The Group's research was the first to explore       parental views on consent practices with respect to the expanded newborn       screening programme in the UK.
The exploration of parental needs and       resulting re-design of health information contributed to a national pilot       expansion of service delivery in relation to newborn screening.
The       guidelines produced were adopted by the national newborn screening service       [D], [2].
There has been a higher than 99% uptake of the screening tests       at the six initial centres (Great Ormond Street Hospital, Guy's St       Thomas's, Birmingham Children's Hospital, Central Manchester Foundation       Trust, Sheffield Hospital and Leeds Hospital).
This indicates that the       redesigned information for parents is effective and appropriate.
Professor       Bonham, Clinical Director of Diagnostics, Pharmacy &amp; Genetics, Newborn       Screening Project estimates that, by the end of the project, 750,000       new-born babies will have been screened [b].
Eight true positive results       for screened conditions have been detected so far during the roll-out.
This early detection of a condition has enabled treatment to be started on       the child immediately.
The Group was subsequently contracted to explore       the impact of screening results on parents; follow-on funding of &#163;250,000       has been secured from the National Screening Committee to continue the       project until March 2014.
The Group' s health design research supports over 15 NHS Trusts,       including Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Heartlands       and University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS, to research and       develop user-centred products, services and guidelines [A].
In 2008, the       University signed a collaboration agreement with NHS Innovations South       West to facilitate research transfer between the institutions these too.
The Group is a partner in the Department of Health-funded Devices for       Dignity Healthcare Technology Co-operative, focusing on the design,       development and evaluation of devices to address unmet clinical needs.
DevicesforDignity (www.devicesfordignity.org.uk)       is a national resource capable of getting new technologies into practice       more quickly, thus improving healthcare quality and well-being for       patients.
The project supports five core NHS Trusts.
Since its inception       in 2008 the Group has been an academic partner (alongside the University         of Cambridge and the University         of Sheffield) offering user-centred design expertise.
A further four       years' funding was awarded in 2013.
The relationship has led to the awards       of two joint grants for multi-disciplinary design teams to develop       products for urinary incontinence.
This work has since been taken up by a       leading manufacturer of continence products to support the Urology       industry and facilitate advising NHS Trusts about patient choice.
The Group also work on the "Warm Neighbourhood" programme which has       resulted in the "Warm Neighbourhoods&#174;" (http://ifocus-dallas.com/pub/),       "AroundMe&#8482;" service and devices developed with the Advanced       Digital Institute.
This has recently been adopted by a "national channel       partner" for distribution to 10,000 homes in the UK to remotely monitor       elderly residents in their home.
Impact on User Engagement in Policy Making: The Group's research       has addressed the Government's requirement for more user-engagement in       policy making by developing VoiceYourView and MyCare applications.
VoiceYourView (http://tinyurl.com/ptwmhv8)       developed technology which allows people to express their perceptions of       safety in public spaces by capturing spontaneous comments from members of       the public.
These comments can be used to improve the safety of public       space designs.
VoiceYourView was mentioned in Parliament in the context of       discussing software and the digital economy.
MyCare (http://tinyurl.com/nosvxrv)       is an innovative, usable and reliable patient record system which can be       used in both day to day medical consultations but also in emergency       situations.
MyCare was cited in Parliament as an example of an approach       similar to the NHS Spine Service but which could be implemented with less       financial investment.
(http://systems.hscic.gov.uk/spine).
The Group's unique research expertise has also been recognised by the       European Commission, DG SANCO who contracted the team to develop a       European Code of Practice for Telehealth Care.
The draft Code has been       tested in six EU countries (Belgium, Bulgaria, Hungary, Italy, Slovenia       and the United Kingdom).
The European Commission confirmed that the code       the Group developed will provide the framework to guide telehealth service       providers in all 27 member states of the European Union.
The code can be       found at http://www.epractice.eu/en/library/5364841     Conclusion: The Group brings together interdisciplinary research       expertise, in combination with the specialist staff and facilities of the       HDTI, to tackle health design issues from a user-centred design       perspective.
This has enabled companies to develop new products and       services which improve the health and wellbeing of the population with       long-term health conditions, which is growing in numbers.
In addition, the       Group's research has delivered economic impact to companies and health       organisation by designing, creating and testing new products and services       which address this growing market.
The Group's research expertise has       developed EU-wide guidelines which have a policy dimension.
