     Clague employs research methods and evidence to demonstrate both the       positive and negative       impacts of faith responses to health and development.
This demonstration       is crucial to advancing       the dialogue between faith service providers and the international       agencies responsible for       overseeing the achievement of key development targets such as the       Millennium Development       Goals (MDGs).
In 2000 the MDGs were established and agreed to by 189       member states in the       UN.
Two of these universally recognised objectives for addressing specific       global needs have not       been met: MDG 5 (improving maternal health) and MDG 6 (combating HIV/AIDS,       malaria and       other diseases).
Clague's research has been used to:     1. bridge the secular/faith-based divide in the international         HIV/AIDS response through activities       within the following organisations.
- Joint Learning Initiative (JLI).
Religious drivers of the       HIV/AIDS pandemic have undermined       the positive contributions to tackling HIV made by faith communities,       meaning that these       contributions have been overlooked, under-researched, and as a consequence       under-funded.
To address this research deficit, the UN is working with representatives       from faith-based       organisations and relevant researchers including Clague, through the JLI,       to map the       nature and extent of faith community responses, in order to develop a       reliable evidence base       of the role and impact of faith-based interventions in relation to HIV and       maternal health.
Clague is co-chair of the HIV/AIDS and Maternal Health learning hub of the       JLI, and was       instrumental in driving the data-gathering and evidence-based research to       examine the link       between faith, maternal health and HIV/AIDS development work.
The JLI and       the evidence       base it continues to compile, through the learning hub co-chaired by       Clague, is an important       channel for faith-based organisations to communicate their impact more       effectively to those       overseeing the global HIV and maternal health response.
The United Nations       Population       Fund (UNFPA) published the JLI         report on maternal health and HIV while JLI research       findings have been disseminated to the major donor agencies USAID (the       United States       Agency for International Development) and DFID (the UK Department for       International       Development).
There have been a number of meetings between DFID's Civil Society team,       USAID and the       JLI project team, in which the agencies expressed an interest in JLI       findings concerning the       role of faith-based organisations in global health, since this information       is unavailable       elsewhere.
USAID and DFID have shown their recognition of the value of the       emerging       evidence base established by JLI in a number of ways.
For example, USAID       proposed that       another JLI learning hub be established, focusing on maternal and child       health; and Clague       has been invited to deliver two seminars at DFID in London and East       Kilbride to promote       faith literacy among staff, including senior civil servants and ministers       (although these are       scheduled to take place in November 2013, outwith the eligible timeframe).
A Senior Advisor for the UNFPA writes:       Faith beliefs and practices &#8212; such as those concerning sensitive issues       such as gender       equality, sexual and reproductive health and HIV &#8212; continue to shape       critical behaviours       that have a profound impact upon health.
Clague's engagement in this field       is helping to       promote dialogue within the Catholic Church on such difficult topics.
It       is also helping non-religious       and global inter-governmental bodies, such as UNFPA: (i) better understand       the       diversity of approaches that exist within Catholicism; and, (ii) identify       the synergies and       key differences between Catholic values and teachings, as well as the       human rights that       underpin much of UN policy on these issues.
- Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance.
In November 2011 Clague was       consultant to the Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance of the World       Council of Churches during their `closed-door' workshop       discussions on Theology, Human Rights and the HIV Response.
Clague's input was       described by the HIV and AIDS Campaign Coordinator as `a vital part' of       this ongoing       Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance project.
Religious leaders, representatives       from UNFPA and       UNAIDS (the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS), and people living       with HIV met       in Geneva to promote debate and research into the (often sensitive) human       rights issues       relating to HIV, with a view to overcoming ideological barriers and       facilitating dialogue       between faith communities and non-religious agencies.
This event, along       with the next       session to be held in Manila (November 2013), will lead to a forthcoming       World Council of       Churches publication on human rights and HIV.
The Alliance's work on which       Clague is       advising is focused on Christian approaches to gender and to sexual and       reproductive health       rights, aiming to identify areas of agreement and contention in the run up       to ICPD Beyond         2014 (the official UN review of successes and failures in the 20       years since the first       International Conference on Population and Development).
The aim of the       publication is to       better understand and address Christian ambivalence concerning       international rights norms.
In May 2011 Clague was approached by the Partnerships Advisor at UNAIDS       to provide advisory       input for the drafting of the plenary speech delivered by Michel Sidib&#233;       (Head of UNAIDS) to the       Vatican AIDS Conference, ensuring that details in the speech were accurate       and its language       appropriate to its audience.
2. inform the Catholic response to HIV/AIDS by advising       policy-makers in key decision-making       contexts.
Since 2000 Clague has been a member of the HIV/AIDS Advisory       Group of CAFOD.
In this capacity she has helped to drive the discussion of Catholic       approaches to HIV prevention       within the Church.
The Director of CAFOD describes Clague's contribution       to dialogue on this       subject in the wider Catholic faith community as `tremendous'.
On 25 July       2010 Clague co-organised       an international seminar on HIV with Gillian Paterson (Co-founder and       Coordinator at       HARC, The HIV, AIDS and Religion Collaborative).
This brought together 75       Catholic ethicists       in Trento, Italy to foster international collaboration on HIV-related       research, and resulted in the       formation of a Catholic HIV Network under the auspices of Catholic         Theological Ethics in the World Church.
As well as empowering Catholic responses to HIV on the ground, Clague's       expertise is       influencing approaches at episcopal level.
Through the Caritas         in Veritate Foundation Clague       offers advice on Catholic social teaching to the Holy See in Geneva for       its interventions at the       UN Human Rights Council.
The Foundation is one of the official channels by       which the Catholic       Church engages with the UN.
On 27 June 2011 Clague was invited to speak at       a Directors'       Meeting of CIDSE, an international alliance of Catholic development       agencies, on tackling       sensitive issues in Catholic identity and international development.
The       current president of       CIDSE has noted their appreciation of Clague's contribution, which helped       the alliance       redefine our understanding of gender and reproductive health ethics at a       CIDSE Directors'       Meeting in Ghent in 2011 [....] [Clague's] approach, research and       expertise &#8212; and       engagement through CAFOD, CIDSE and the JLI &#8212; clearly in my opinion has       influenced       the wider Catholic and FBO world, improving its understanding and       effectiveness.
Clague delivered a lecture on `HIV and the theology of sin' to 90       London-based Christian HIV       practitioners at the AIDS: A Sign of the Times conference,       sponsored by CAFOD and       Progressio (14 November 2009).
She has also delivered in-service training       on HIV prevention to       clergy and practitioners for CAFOD (attended by local and overseas       partners).
These included       the following workshops: A rights-based approach: compatible with and         challenging to Catholic         Social Teaching?
(29 May 2009; 53 attending); Faith and HIV: how         Catholic theology might         better serve the needs of the Church and its faith-based organisations         in tackling the pandemic       (21 June 2010; 62 attending); Pope Benedict's Comments on HIV         Prevention (10 December       2010; 87 attending); and, Working with Contentious Key Populations         affected by HIV (22 July       2011; 50 attending.
Clague delivered a similar in-service day for 30       Scottish Catholic       International Aid Fund staff on `Catholic social teaching and HIV' on 28       September 2011.
