     As a result of the CRaIVE collaboration (5.6), two unique high fidelity       training simulators for       interventional radiology and cardiology procedures have been deployed, one       of which was       awarded a European Medical prize in 2009 for its "innovative use of       computer graphics in a       complex system that is already far advanced towards clinical use" (5.7).
Related work is on-going       to utilise mass market hardware such as tablet computers (5.10, 5.11).
The       Bangor team have       taken the lead role in exploitation activities.
Optimisation work carried       out on interventional       procedures such as angioplasty also provides unique data that can be       exploited in the next steps       of the training simulator after the catheter has been deployed.
These       activities contributed directly       to a &#163;1.2 million grant award in 2011 from the Wales Government that has       established an       Advanced Medical Imaging and Visualization unit (March 2011), led by John,       with a remit to work       in direct collaboration with the NHS delivering added value to everyday       practice in hospitals       through the use of visual computing technologies (5.3).
The VCath App       (5.11) and an electric       wheelchair driving simulator (5.4) are two examples of simulation outputs       from the unit at Bangor.
The simulators provide an objective assessment of task performance and       the Bangor team       contributed to novel metrics that provide, arguably, the first       opportunities for validated proficiency       assessments in interventional radiology needle access.
The simulators have       been rigorously       validated by our psychology collaborators (5.8, 5.9) after full ethical       approval was obtained.
These       content, face and construct validity, and skills transfer studies show       that training on a virtual patient       does provide a demonstrable improvement of users' performance.
In training       a simulated       percutaneous nephrostomy (an image guided needle puncture), results from       53 participants       showed that 78% of participants had indicated that the design was       realistic, with content validity       being rated averagely for all critical task steps; 83% of participants       found the simulator a useful       model for training skills for nephrostomy.
In training the Seldinger       Technique, results from the 28       participants who completed the simulated procedure, lend support for the       simulator's face validity       (82% agrees the simulator would be effective for learning basic skills and       86% believes it would be       useful in learning how to use equipment).
In addition, results from 26       radiology registrars who       completed four trials on the simulator, showed that on average,       participants' performance improved       on all metrics over four trials on all metrics used to assess performance.
The cost of hardware       components used in the this work is modest, totalling under &#163;10,000 for       each high fidelity       simulator, including haptics interfaces, offering an affordable solution       to skills acquisition within a       credentialing organisation's curriculum, as well as for simulation       training centres and hospitals'       training programmes.
We have also been collaborating with neurosurgeons to produce a low       fidelity training application       for deployment on the iPad computer tablet platform (5.1, 5.2, 5.11).
The       Bangor team have       implemented a tool for learning the ventricular catheterisation procedure,       which involves inserting a       cannula into the ventricles within the brain so that fluid can be drained.
The VCath App is the       world's first example of an interactive procedure training tool to be made       available on an iPad       using a virtual patient and a finger gesture interface.
The App passed       Apple's quality assurance       checks at the first attempt and is available for free download on the       iTunes store.
Over 6,500       downloads world-wide occurred since its launch in October 2012, and the       current average is over       400 downloads per month, demonstrating far reaching dissemination.
Further       funding from       NISCHR has been awarded for a validation study of VCath.
Many other       training tools for targeting       tasks such as for nephrolithotomy (removal of kidney stones) can be       similarly delivered and we are       leading the way forward in this area.
License agreements with companies operating in the surgical simulation       marketplace have been       discussed, and are on-going, e.g., an evaluation agreement is in place       with G-coder Systems AB       of Sweden who market surgical training interfaces (5.5).
However, more       direct deployment in the       short term has been based on a public domain model.
Advanced Practice       Courses using the       interventional simulators are being planned since the start of 2013 with       the indicated approval of       the British Society of Interventional Radiologists and road shows have       been organised in which the       training simulators are made available free of charge with support from       the Bangor team.
The next       road show event will be held at Ysbyty Gwynedd in January 2014.
