     Cinpoe&#351;' research took her to the archives of the Craiova National       Theatre, one of Romania's most       distinguished theatres, whose ground-breaking work was facilitated, under       communism, by its       geographical distance from Bucharest and frequent, politically-motivated       transfer of Romania's       most radical and imaginative theatre makers away from Bucharest to a less       `visible' location.
In       2008, Cinpoe&#351; began ongoing professional collaboration with the Theatre's       then Director, actor       Emil Boroghin&#259;, who is also Director of the William Shakespeare oundation       and organiser of the       International Craiova Shakespeare Festival which brings together theatre       makers, critics and       Shakespeare productions from across the world.
Strongly public-facing,       with an extensive local as       well as international following, each Festival attracts audiences of       around 35,000, hosting some 20       productions, 15 workshops, several exhibitions and book launches, and an       extensive community       programme.
Active participants include school children and students,       actors, directors, and critics.
It is funded by the Romanian Ministry of Culture, the Craiova Municipal       Council, the General       Council of Bucharest, the Romanian Cultural Institute and the Romania       Theatre Union, and others.
Despite encouragement to relocate the William Shakespeare Foundation to       Bucharest, Boroghin&#259;       has chosen to remain in Craiova, building the Foundation and Festival and       creating an associated       Shakespeare Centre.
To promote interchange between theatre makers, the       theatre-going public       and academics, Cinpoe&#351; has forged links between the Centre, the Festival,       the University of       Craiova and the European Shakespeare Research Association.
(The latter       formalised in 2011       when the estival became the alternating venue for ESRA's `Shakespeare in       Performance       Seminar').
In 2008 Boroghin&#259; had expressed interest in Cinpoe&#351;'s research and       forthcoming book, noting his       aspiration to dedicate a Craiova Shakespeare Festival entirely to Hamlet.
Hamlet, in Romania,       occupies a particularly `charged' position, with its history of co-option       for propagandist purposes of       the state: since the fall of communism, there have been few home-grown       productions of it, and       none in the past three years.
Simultaneously, Cinpoe&#351; had begun working       with George Volceanov       on new Shakespeare translations into Romanian: translations were urgently       needed that were fit       for the purposes of staging Shakespeare; there was a moral and       political imperative to correct the       many mistranslations that had occurred under communism and upon which       public and cultural       understanding of them still rested; translations were needed that were       `true' to the language and       theatre tradition of Shakespeare and capable of introducing the public of       Romania to the `shock' of       Shakespeare's thought and language.
Cinpoe&#351; undertook to provide       introductions to some of the       plays, beginning with Hamlet, and Volceanov to bring together       translators with a common sense of       project (some of whom, ground-breakingly, were writers and theatre       directors themselves).
Introductions were to be written for a general public, providing brief       synopses of each play, locating       them historically and providing a context of their histories in world       criticism and in Romanian       translation and performance.
Cinpoe&#351; brought these two projects (new translations and the estival)       together as part of a joint       effort to update and open up the dialogue on Shakespeare in Romania.
In       2010 (the two-       hundredth anniversary of Hamlet in Romania) the Festival was       unprecedentedly given over to a       single play and focussed on consideration of translation alongside       performance - through a two-       day conference, `Worldwide Hamlet', launch of the first two       volumes of Volceanov's new, Complete         Works (with 150 copies of the new Hamlet translation sold in       the course of the Festival) and       launch of Cinpoe&#351;'s book, Shakespeare's Hamlet in Romania: 1778 and         2008.
A Study in         Translation, Performance and Cultural Adaptation.
The conference       (involving 25 speakers) was the       estival's first to be open to all Hamlet aficionados (the       interested public, professional and amateur       theatre makers, archivists, translators, critics and scholars), while       simultaneously to give voice, at       home, to Romanian academics long since known internationally for their       work in Shakespeare       Studies.
It attracted 350 participants.
The 200 people attending Cinpoe&#351;'s       book launch included       members of the general public, publishers, journalists, dramaturgs,       translators of Shakespeare,       actors, directors and staff of the National Theatre of Craiova.
The Hamlet of the Complete Works comprised translations       of all three 17th century versions, only       otherwise provided by the recent Arden edition in English.
Cinpoe&#351; saw the       new translation as       providing an authoritative text for use in schools with the equivalent of       A-level students, in drama       schools, and in professional contexts as well as in universities (where       she envisaged their       becoming key texts for translation studies).
Her introduction was the       first occasion upon which she       had drawn on the outcomes of her research for the purposes of writing a       text in Romanian - an       unforeseen consequence of the sense of moral and political project that       had stimulated her       collaboration with Volceanov.
The Hamlet translation was one of       five shortlisted titles for the       Romanian Writers Association Book of the Year award in 2010 - the first       time that a translation       had been put forward for the prize.
The 2010 Hamlet-dedicated Festival was instrumental to       development of broader projects.
One       result was that, in 2012, the ESRA/Festival two-day conference,       `Shakespeare and Performing       Places' occurred with `open doors', its debates expanded to include       Shakespeare in education, in       prison, and in Manga books and to consider the spaces that professional,       amateur and school       productions inhabit and transform.
Cinpoe&#351;'s close collaboration with       Profs Michael Dobson       (Director of the Shakespeare Institute), Boika Sokolova (Notre Dame in       London) and Lawrence       Guntner (Poznan University) ensured the event's success, which has since       become a regular       Festival attraction.
The 2014 Festival will host a four-day conference, `Everyman's Studies',       open to all Shakespeare       makers (actors and directors professional and amateur, teachers,       translators, critics and       academics).
The Complete Works translations project (due from       completion in 2016) has entered       a new phase: in 2012 the five published translations and their companion       introductions were not       only acknowledged as the space for dialogue in action between stage,       philological and academic       practice, but also as seminal to extending dialogue to wider learning,       reading and theatre-going       communities in Romania.
Cinpoe&#351;'s continuing involvement as an advisor had       supported the       development of subsequent introductions (Titus Andronicus, Measure for         Measure and The         Comedy of Errors) and the participation of growing numbers of       translators, poets, actors and       scholars in their realisation.
