     IMPACT AT THE LEGO GROUP: The LEGO Group is one of the world's       leading toy and digital media producers, specialising in construction       products and digital services based around the LEGO System.
In 2007,       Gauntlett was approached by Cecilia Weckstr&#246;m, then Head of Consumer       Insight &amp; Experience Innovation within the LEGO Group (now Head of       LEGO.com), to help restart the LEGO Learning Institute, a programme of       collaboration with university academics.
Thus began an ongoing programme       of research, led by Gauntlett and Weckstr&#246;m, based around annual projects       with externally-published reports (listed in section 5), written with       colleagues at the Universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, and MIT.
In 2013       the LEGO Learning Institute became part of the LEGO Foundation, receiving       considerable new investment.
(See         http://www.legofoundation.com/en-us/research-and-learning/academic-nework/).
These projects, in particular the 2010, 2011 and 2012 reports, with       Gauntlett as lead author, have involved discussion of digital platforms       which would enable users to play, learn, and share material online.
A key       question for LEGO concerns how hands-on building with LEGO bricks can be       combined with digital tools or games to enrich the experience in an       intelligent way, which goes beyond merely replacing physical play with an       on-screen simulation.
The reports have discussed the ways in which       creativity and learning can be fostered, and sought to identify the       combinations of human relationships, and physical / technological tools,       which can help to unlock the creative potential of children and adults.
In addition to building this knowledge within the company, there have       been more immediate impacts.
The work on systematic creativity made       explicit the value of the interconnecting system which had always been       implicit at the heart of the LEGO System, and so this understanding was       included within a training pack given to all new employees at the LEGO       Group headquarters in Denmark, communicated via a LEGO Serious Play       building exercise devised by Gauntlett and Weckstr&#246;m. This pack has been       used by every new LEGO employee in Denmark since 2009.
The study `Systematic Creativity in the Digital Realm' argued that whilst       LEGO already had digital applications which could turn on-screen designs       into physical products, an innovative ambition would be to do it the other       way around, so that LEGO bricks could act as an interface for digital       devices &#8212; in other words, use LEGO bricks to make things happen on screen.
This contributed to inspiration for the team who developed LEGO Life         of George, a commercial product released in 2011 which brought       together physical bricks and an iPhone/Android game in this way.
The game       sets tasks, which has to be physically built and then scanned back into       the phone with its camera.
The product was shortlisted for `e-Connected       Toy of the Year' in the Toy of the Year 2013 awards, the primary awards       event for toys and games in the USA (http://www.toyawards.org).
It has sold many thousands of copies (disaggregated sales figure not       released, but the LEGO Group is the third largest toy manufacturer in the       world in terms of sales, with 2012 profits being DKK 7,522 million (&#163;848       million UK) before tax [source: LEGO Group Annual Report 2012]).
In 2010, Gauntlett also worked with LEGO Education to turn the       consultancy process, LEGO Serious Play, into a set of principles and       materials that could be offered free as an `open source' package on the       LEGO website.
This work was done collaboratively between Gauntlett and       Anna-Sophie Trolle Terkelsen, Concept Developer, LEGO Education, and led       to the materials being made available for download from September 2010.
Corroboration: "Professor Gauntlett's research helped us to       develop new ideas for connecting the digital and physical realms with LEGO       tools.
His work has been central to a number of LEGO reports exploring       creativity, play and learning in the 21st century.
This thinking feeds       into strategy at the very top of our organization, and has made a       difference at several levels."
&#8212; Cecilia Weckstr&#246;m, Head of LEGO.com, The       LEGO Group, Denmark     IMPACT AT THE BBC: The AHRC &amp; BBC Pilot Knowledge Exchange       Programme project, mentioned above, meant that University of Westminster       researchers could work alongside BBC producers and apply learnings from       our existing academic research in the context of the BBC's development of       a virtual world for children called Adventure Rock.
Amongst other findings, the researchers were able to identify eight       orientations to Adventure Rock &#8212; simplified archetypes       representing the different ways in which children engaged with this world       &#8212; such as `Self-stampers', who wanted to make their mark on the world       through self-expression; `Social climbers', who were interested in       ranking, and wanted to be visibly doing better than other players; and       `Nurturers', who wanted to care for characters in the environment.
The impact was that these archetypes were enthusiastically taken up by       executives in BBC Children's, 2008-10, who used them when discussing new       ideas for digital games, platforms and other commissions.
They would       consider whether proposed new products would appeal to the different       archetypes, and how the emphasis could be changed so that the different       kinds of digital users could be appealed to equally.
"The research... identified a set of useful `archetypes' of kinds of       child player...
The research gave us this valuable tool for thinking about       potential projects [and] helped us to think more deeply about how and why       we should implement interactive experiences for children, and we would       welcome further opportunities for collaboration."
&#8212; Rachel Bardill,       formerly Interactive Executive, BBC Children's; now Executive Producer,       CBeebies Interactive.
IMPACT AT S4C: S4C, the Welsh-language public service broadcaster       based in Cardiff, functions as a publisher-broadcaster, commissioning TV       programmes from small production companies across Wales.
Its role in       maintaining the Welsh language gives it a distinctive cultural mission.
As a consequence of interest in his publication Making is Connecting,       Gauntlett was invited to have a sequence of meetings and interactions with       S4C's New Media Forum, a committee which had been charged with developing       S4C's digital future.
Meeting the Forum and the acting Chief Executive at       S4C, Gauntlett made proposals about the role that everyday people in Wales       could play in building the range and diversity of Welsh-language media.
He       argued that S4C's corporate aims were too narrow and outdated, being based       only on the transmission and reception of television programmes, and       proposed instead a three-part list of aims for S4C:            To educate, inform, and entertain the Welsh people, in both         established and innovative ways;       To cultivate the creative capacity of Welsh-language producers and         makers of all ages and abilities;       To celebrate the culture, traditions and imagination of Wales.
This text was adopted and proposed in the strategy report produced by the       New Media Forum over the summer, 2011, and delivered to S4C's governing       Authority and Management Team on 20 September 2011.
The report       incorporated Gauntlett's further suggestions building on this theme: that       the company should do much more to support non-professional Welsh-language       media content wherever it was to be in found &#8212; primarily, video and audio       made by enthusiasts and shared on online platforms &#8212; so that the Welsh       language could be supported by communities of people making and sharing       their own media.
The report was published in November 2011.
In October 2012, S4C published a new statement of corporate aims and       values, which was directly influenced by Gauntlett's research and the       subsequent dialogue.
The new publication stated that the organisation's       role was to `nurture and celebrate creativity in the Welsh language' -       mirroring the specific vision and language proposed by Gauntlett (and in       sharp contrast to the previous aims, which only concerned making a certain       number of Welsh-language broadcasts).
Extract from letter of corroboration: "I wish to acknowledge the       vital contribution that was made to the work of the New Media Forum by       Prof. Gauntlett.
The work of the New Media Forum was one aspect a process       of renewal that has been taking place inside S4C over the past three       years, and I am personally very grateful to Prof. Gauntlett for his       extremely valuable contribution to this process" - Dyfrig Jones, Chair,       S4C New Media Forum (2010-11).
CONTRIBUTION TO PUBLIC UNDERSTANDING: Gauntlett's talks about his       book Making is Connecting around the UK in 2011 were attended by       over 700 people, mostly non-academics.
He also discussed the book on BBC       Radio 4's Thinking Allowed.
The book was featured in the       high-street magazines Marie Claire, Making, and Psychologies.
Gauntlett's videos on YouTube about research on digital transformations,       produced since 2008, have been viewed over 150,000 times.
He has been a keynote speaker at industry and public events, such as Innovation         in Mind (Lund, Sweden, 2012) and the World Maker Faire, New York       (2013) as well as the headline speaker at the first European Maker Faire       in Rome (2013).
The 2013 Italian translation of Making is Connecting       attracted coverage in Italian magazines and newspapers, with the research       said by commentators to speak to the craft traditions of Italy, and offer       a solution to economic problems.
Gauntlett's work on creative methods (2007, 2008) has been used to       facilitate public engagement events.
Examples include the Lego Landscape       of Ideas at Reboot Britain, 2009, where 700 participants from business,       government, and the third sector, were invited to build metaphors of their       vision of a better society; and at the World Learning Environments       Conference, 2009, where 300 delegates built models representing the spirit       of an ideal learning environment.
