     Impact on Alternative Fuels Car Design and Technology: Microcab       research has influenced policy decisions related to hybrid hydrogen and       electric vehicles in the UK, Europe and South Africa.
In the UK, the       government allocated &#163;400 million to deliver programmes intended to place       the UK at the global forefront of ultra low carbon vehicle development,       demonstration, manufacture and use, under the DfT's `Transport Carbon       Reduction Delivery Plan' March 2010.
Microcab was chosen as a key delivery       partner in this programme, with an allocation of &#163;2.4m.
This supported the       design, development, trialling and evaluation of Microcab vehicles in real       world environments.
Research findings have had significant impact on       transport policy in terms of realising the potential of hydrogen and       electric vehicles as a viable element of the transport mix; and this has       happened earlier than predicted by the Office for Low Emissions Vehicles       (OLEV) in its technology roadmap 2010, where H2 vehicle deployment was       initially planned for 2020.
Microcab released ten Series 2 vehicles to the       general public for hire purchase in July 2013, two years ahead of the       major companies and seven years ahead of the initial technology roadmap.
The collaborations mentioned above have helped to progress the project to       a point where Microcabs are being built and sold to end-users; however,       new partnerships with Lotus, which constructs the chassis, will make       future mass production options for Microcabs more realistic.
The next       phase will thus see a shift to a focus on production methods, tools and       manufacturing techniques required for low cost mass production, rather       than low volume production by OEMs.
Environmental Impact: Microcab addresses the need to increase the       uptake of low carbon vehicles and to improve urban air quality.
To achieve       this result Microcab has collaborated with a wide range of industrial       partners.
Transport represents 23% of global CO2 emissions (OECD,       International Transport Forum, 2010).
Microcab makes a substantial       contribution to road transport design in that it is the only example in       the UK of hydrogen vehicle production with full EU Type approval.
Worldwide it is the only example of a hydrogen vehicle that has been       developed on a budget under &#163;3 million and has been designed for urban use       only (to benefit from reduced size, weight and range); it is the first to       use a 3 kW Fuel Cell &#8212; compared to a 90 kw fuel cell on the Mercedes B       class.
To date 16 vehicles have been produced and evaluated.
It is       particularly timely in the European context where the prediction       emphasises, first, a transport ecology favouring electric vehicles, and       subsequently a hydrogen based ecology where fuel cell vehicles become       crucial to improving urban air quality.
Economic Impacts: Microcab has two UK-based spin-out companies       (Coventry, Aberdeen) which employ four people.
It has also collaborated       with Lotus and Westfield to develop new electric vehicle products.
The       research enabled Horizon to enter the transport market, by testing its       fuel cells in vehicles for the first time.
Horizon is a global company       with operations in 65 countries; providing fuel cells for small devices       such as laptops.
Ben Todd, from Horizon Fuel Cell, stated that "... the       collaboration with Microcab was a unique opportunity, as the company       represent the only small fuel cell vehicle in the world.
The work with       Microcab enabled Horizon to package a product which is now being sold       internationally, representing impact through new product development...".
The work with Microcab resulted in job creation whereby Horizon was able       to double its workforce from five to ten, which Todd stated could not have       been achieved without Microcab.
The Microcab research team also helped to       facilitate on-going work and secure further funding of &#163;150,000 for       Horizon to develop a new project which will be aimed at the American       market.
The impacts resulting from this relationship include new product       development contributing to economic prosperity through job creation, and       contribution to an improved business model for Horizon Fuel Cell through       the creation of new networks and markets.
Other economic impacts include benefits to RDM Ltd, which developed real       time data loggers for the Microcab and other Electric Vehicles in the       CABLED project, which enabled RDM to develop this technology for the mass       market.
Further, Air Products' fuel station at Coventry strategically       links three cities in the Midlands with hydrogen infrastructure.
Ian       Williamson, President of the European Hydrogen Association, said of the       Microcab infrastructure project "this will prove to be a vital step       towards the creation of a low carbon hydrogen transport infrastructure for       the UK".
Jostins is now researching the development of a supply chain for       hydrogen transport under the European `Mu Tool' project.
This includes       using microwave composites for low energy body systems, to provide a low       cost solution to the manufacture of fuel cell vehicles.
This work is being       undertaken in collaboration with: TWI Ltd (UK), Neosid Pemetzrieder GmbH       &amp; Co KG (Germany), Sampa&#351; Nanoteknoloji Ara&#351;trima Geli&#351;time Ve       Pazarlama Limited (Turkey), Johnson Controls GmbH (Germany), Loiretech SAS       (France).
Impact on Policy: The presence of Microcabs on the streets in       Coventry, Birmingham, Brussels and other cities has helped to change       perceptions, so that governments are now seriously considering the       viability of a hydrogen economy.
For example, in Scotland the government       has taken a decision, based on evidence of the Microcab Trials in Coventry       and Birmingham in 2012, to deploy hydrogen vehicles in Scotland as a means       of optimising storage of wind generated energy.
Jostins has also       been invited onto the Hydrogen South Africa Board (HySA) which has       purchased a MicroCab to act as a demonstrator platform for the development       of hydrogen fuel cells in South Africa.
The Microcab research has been       recognised at the European policy level in visits of ministers, including       the Director General of DG Enterprise and Industry, Daniel Calleja and       Malcolm Harbour, West Midlands Conservative MEP.
Locally the Microcab       project overcame initial speculation and concern about having a hydrogen       fuel station and vehicles within a populated residential area.
Coventry       and Birmingham City Council have used the research to assess the social,       environmental and economic impacts of deploying low carbon vehicles and       infrastructure.
The EU directive for cities to improve air quality or face       fines makes this particularly important [a-k].
Recognition and Awards: Through the period of the design and       development Microcab has been nominated for a number of awards which       recognise the design innovation and contribution to alternative fuels       research and development.
These include:                                2002:           DTI Smart Award                             2004:           EAST (Environmental And Sustainable Technology) magazine, Industry             Green Investment Award runner-up                             2005:           EAST Vehicle innovation award                             2006:           Microcab was runner-up in Lloyds TSB EAST Green Investment Awards                             2006:           Shell Springboard finalist                             2008:           Runner-up in the International Oxygen Award, category: "Technology             and Innovation:             Sustainable Transport&#8221; competing against Volvo, Primagaz, Hondo and             Scania.
2010:           City of London Guild, Microcab winner of the environment award                             2010:           Worshipful Company of Carmen, City of London Environmental Award                             2012:           Microcab is nominated for the Cond&#233; Nast Traveller Award for             Innovation &amp; Design                          Conclusion       Jostins' research on Microcab has delivered design, technological,       economic and policy benefits within the UK, Europe and internationally.
The unique approach has delivered production versions of small economical       hydrogen-fuelled cars several years ahead of larger competitors.
In doing       so it has delivered economic benefits to a number of organisations by       enabling them to diversify into this new market.
In addition, the research       has had an impact on local, national and international policy, with       respect to the adoption of hydrogen-fuelled cars and supporting       infrastructure.
