     4.1 IMPACT ON HOUSE OF LORDS SELECT COMMITTEE ON COMMUNICATIONS As       Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Select Committee on       Communications Inquiries on The Future of Investigative Journalism       (Aug. 2011-Feb. 2012), on The British Film and Television Industries       (Feb. 2009-Jan. 2010) and The Ownership of the News (July       2007-June 2008) Steven Barnett has applied his research expertise on media       ethics and journalism, public service broadcasting and regulation, and       media ownership respectively to advise on the scope of each inquiry; on       the Call for Evidence and suitable witnesses for oral evidence sessions;       on the agenda and appropriate questions to be followed at each session;       and, crucially, on the final drafting and recommendations contained in the       final reports.
Through his presence at all oral hearings and closed       meetings of the committee, and through his liaison with the respective       chairmen and committee clerks, Barnett ensured that the results of his own       and others' research informed the select committee reports and therefore       the parliamentary and public debates which followed.
More specifically,       for the "Investigative Journalism" Inquiry chaired by Lord       Inglewood, Barnett ensured that his own work on journalism's contribution       to democracy and the need for a positive regulatory framework to sustain       broadcast journalism was an integral part of the final report and thus       influenced subsequent debates on how to deal with the decline in       traditional business models of journalism.
For "The British Film and         Television Industries", chaired by Lord Fowler, Barnett informed the       report's narrative and recommendations by ensuring that it drew attention       to shortfalls in original content investment and potential policy       initiatives for renewal.
For "The Ownership of News" Inquiry,       chaired by Lord Fowler, Barnett ensured that the inquiry's remit was not       restricted to an examination of news output when examining the effect of       concentrated ownership; and that the inquiry's recommendations embraced       the news obligations of commercial terrestrial broadcasters and the       importance of maintaining impartiality requirements.
4.2 IMPACT AT THE BBC Drawing on her publications and expertise as       the BBC's Official Historian since 2003 Jean Seaton has provided advice on       many occasions to the BBC Trust, the Director General's Office and BBC       productions as a consultant, primarily on the history of policy issues in       order to enhance institutional memory and help guide decision-making: for       example on the historical role of women in broadcasting for the recent       Dame Janet Smith Review (2012-13) of the Jimmy Savile years.
In 2009       Seaton intervened in the controversy about whether the BBC should       publicise a DEC (Disasters and Emergencies Committee) appeal for Gaza.
Neither the BBC nor the DEC understood the origins of the appeal       mechanisms and the accurate historical record provided by Seaton confirmed       and gave a basis to the BBC's final position that the Gaza appeal was       essentially political and therefore not permissible.
The historical       documents to support this position were checked and posted on the BBC       website.
Drawing on her expertise as a historian, the BBC has asked her       for evidence on licence fee and Charter negotiations, ceremonies, BBC       structural changes, the closing down of services, appointing a director       general, salaries and the history of political relationships with       governments.
She has provided historical and institutional background for       many programmes including the creation of Broadcasting House, the role of       women for Radio 4's Women's Hour, the impact of Rough Justice,       the role of the female voice in broadcasting and the origins of Desert         Island Discs.
As an expert on the BBC's past she has sat on working       parties for the World Service, BBC Radio, and the BBC's Northern Ireland       History Advisory Board.
She has become a trusted `interlocutor' between       the BBC in Northern Ireland and the Centre on a range of issues.
When the       abolition of a central post (The Head of Nations and Regions) exposed the       BBC in Northern Ireland, she wrote to the BBC Trust Chair, Chris Patten,       alerting him to the problem and he consulted with the region.
She       contributed to an internal BBC seminar on the issue, and set up a round       table (funded by the Centre for British Politics and the Politics       Association) on Fragile Politics in the Age of Austerity that       enhanced public understanding of the issues.
4.3 IMPACT AT THE LEVESON INQUIRY Barnett's expertise in       journalism, regulation and media ethics led to a call to appear twice       before the Leveson Inquiry into the Culture, Practice and Ethics of the       Press in November 2011 and July 2012.
In addition, on 12 October 2011 he       was one of only two academics invited to speak at one of the opening       Leveson seminars on `Supporting a free press and high standards &#8212;         approaches to regulation'.
Through his oral evidence, and through       four separate written submissions, he provided evidence of his research on       attitudes towards the public interest, on the benefits of positive       regulatory structures, of the impact of media ownership on editorial       content, and of the policy implications of his research.
At Barnett's       second appearance, he was asked by Lord Justice Leveson to draft some high       level principles and a draft statute on plurality.
Leveson's final       proposals for independent self-regulation drew heavily on the model put       forward by the Media Standards Trust Report A Free and Accountable         Media: Reform of Press Self-regulation (July 2012).
Barnett was a       key and active member of the Review Group, advising the MST on the report,       helping to develop its recommendations, drawing on his research on       journalism and regulation.
4.4 IMPACT AT OFCOM Through a commissioned research paper       (published by the Reuters Institute) and through a series of seminars       (referenced above), Barnett has informed the policy thinking and       recommendations of Ofcom, ensuring both that their approach to amending       local media ownership rules includes appropriate understanding of the       democratic and cultural role of local media, and that they take into       account new ideas and approaches to measuring plurality in their advice to       the Secretary of State.
