     British universities have world-class reputations and are crucial to our       social and economic future, as the single greatest producers of original       intellectual property: our researchers constitute 3.3% of global research       and produce 8% of academic journal articles globally (Arcadia 2010).
However, this strong position is being endangered by current academic       publishing models.
It is imperative to rethink academic publishing,       particularly with regard to the arts, humanities and social sciences in       the digital age, and it is here that Hall's research has had the       most impact.
Impact on Policy: Hall's setting up and running of an Open       Access publishing company was expressly conceived to impact on a wider       international publishing industry and policy-orientated audience.
This has       been achieved, with impact indicators including substantial citing of OHP       by Dr Fay Bound Alberti, Senior Policy Adviser to the Arcadia Group, in       `Democratic Access to Academic Knowledge', a briefing paper delivered to       Downing Street, 23 June, 2010, supported by YouGov (http://tinyurl.com/22qd7py).
This paper calls for 'partnerships between universities and organisations       like the Open Humanities Press'; and for government legislation that       'makes it mandatory for UK Research Councils to support platforms for the       publication of completed theses, articles and monographs'.
Hall has influenced the placing of open access on the policy       agenda, evidenced, for example, in the Intellectual Property Office report       on Academic Knowledge, Open Access and Democracy, to which, as a leading       creator, user and distributor of academic knowledge, Hall is a       signatory and contributor (http://tinyurl.com/oho3wt3).
Hall was a named signatory to the Hargreaves report on `Academic       Knowledge, Open Access and Democracy', submitted to government by Arcadia,       which is working with David Willetts, Minister of State for Universities       and Science, to explore alternative publishing models such as that       pioneered by OHP.
Hall was also one of 60 senior academics invited to sign a public       statement for the French newspaper Le Monde under the title `Who       is afraid of open access?
', calling for the rapid establishment of Open       Access (http://tinyurl.com/c8pd4bu).
Impact on Academic Publishing: Hall's contribution to       impact in academic publishing can be seen from the reviews of his books.
For example, Penny Holliday, 'New Media: Digitize This Book!
The Politics       of New Media', MC Reviews, 23 April, 2008 [a], `The title alone of       Digitize this Book!
conveys something of the energy and sense of       urgency infusing Gary Hall's text on why and how open access       publishing is of great benefit to the humanities, and in particular       cultural studies.
As Peter Singer is to philosophy, and Tim Flannery is to       the environment, Gary Hall is to open access publishing...'.
Eileen Joy, Co-director of Punctum Books, an open-access,       print-on-demand independent publishers for books and journals stated that       "OHP, along with re-press (based in Melbourne) have been the two biggest       influences upon how Punctum Books has conceptualised its publishing and       business frameworks" [b].
Christine L. Borgman &#8212; `Book Review: Digitize This Book!
by Gary Hall,       University of Minnesota Press, 2008', Technology and Culture, 25       June, 2009, says `Gary Hall's manifesto is provocative and timely,       if not as timeless as Abbie Hoffman's Steal This Book, to which Hall's       title presumably refers.
The book is an extended argument for open access,       specifically for the OA model of depositing academic research and       scholarship in online archives or repositories (he uses the latter two       terms synonymously).
OA arose first in the sciences, out of a need for       speed and breadth of dissemination that was not being met by traditional       publishing channels.
Humanities publishing in general, and cultural       studies in particular (the central focus of Hall's work and the       repository he founded), have different concerns than the sciences.
His       argument that the academic gift economy is more central to the humanities       than to the sciences is among the strengths of this book.
He claims that       "another university is possible," in which all scholarly products are       available freely (i.e., free of cost to the reader) and are permanently       accessible...'.
[c].
OHP is widely recognised as leading to change in the way arts and       humanities research is published.
For example, Ted Striphas, Indiana       University, stated `For cultural studies, the most exciting open access       developments are the new Open Humanities Press initiative, which brings       together seven peer-reviewed online critical and cultural theory journals,       and the Cultural Studies Electronic Archive, which is an online research       repository.
Both were co-founded by the field's own publishing visionary,       Gary Hall' [d].
Similarly Stephen Greenblatt, Harvard University,       indicated `Making scholarly work available without charge on the internet       has offered hope for the natural sciences and now offers hope in the       humanities' [e].
J. Hillis Miller, UC Irvine, proposed: `This project       [OHP] is an admirable response to the current crisis in scholarly       publishing and to the rapid shift from print media to electronic media'       [f].
Fibreculture journal published its first issue in 2003.
Andrew Murphie, Editor of Fibreculture stated that "the journal       would not have lasted without joining the OHP in 2006.
Membership in OHP       has allowed the journal to think through its strategic direction and       create projects which were a radical departure from common practices ..       when they, and others in the field, look to what they need to be doing to       be cutting edge, they look to Hall" [g].
Hall's       contribution to European and International Academic Publishing can be       evidenced in several of ways.
For example, the Open Access Publishing in       European Networks (OAPEN) report on Models for eBooks in the Humanities       and Social Sciences used OHP as a case study (http://tinyurl.com/phrg4sf).
In July 2010, OAPEN cited OHP in its Best Practices and Recommendations       Report, (http://tinyurl.com/ptb85mw).
Eelco Ferweda, Director of OAPEN stated "Hall was an       inspiration and example to other presses" [h].
Similarly, Hall was part of the Alliance for Networking Visual       Culture (ANVC) meeting with Press Partners, September 8-9, 2011, at       University of Southern California.
The meeting followed the receipt of US       $3 million from the Mellon Foundation for OHP to form strategic       partnerships with three University presses &#8212; MIT, California, Duke.
In       June 2013, the Mellon Foundation awarded Alliance for Networking Visual       Culture a two-year implementation grant (2013-2015), to form a digital       publishing institute with the aforementioned presses, five archives (Shoah       Foundation, the Getty, Critical Commons, Hemispheric Institute's Digital       Video Library (HIDVL), and the Internet Archive), and several humanities       research centres (Duke, Michigan, University of Washington, Illinois,       University of California, Shoah, Occidental, Claremont Colleges,       Hemispheric Institute, the Getty, and Rice.).
Hall has played a       key role in the creation of the ANVC.
He was particularly active in the       planning stages, helping to identify goals for the organisation, potential       partners and workflows for grants.
The OHP is an active member of the       Alliance.
With Leuphana University, L&#252;neburg, Germany, Hall is also       supporting an EU-funded `hybrid publishing' project to establish an Open       Access press, through an `open publishing consortium' to pool and develop       open source technology solutions for scholarly publishing.
Impact on Cultural Life: Hall's research impact and reach is       evidenced by viewing figures, web hits, popular media interviews and       direct support for open access to cultural objects.
Statistics include       4,000+ readers of Culture Machine per month, 3,555 visitors and       11,294 Living Books about Life project page views in just four days after       its October 2011 launch.
An open lecture given by Hall was the       second most downloaded podcast on iTunesU in June 2009 and has since been       viewed 10,000 times.
An audio-video text co-authored by Hall was       number 15 on the top iTunesU most downloaded philosophy charts and has       been viewed 39,000 times.
Hall's research significance is       evidenced by the interest generated among a wider international public,       publishing industry and policy-orientated audience.
A full day at       Transmediale international arts festival in Berlin, 2013 was dedicated to       the agenda set by his work concerning Open Access and the University, with       Hall and his PhD student each being the focus of an hour- long       session.
The ground-breaking LiviBL project has changed the way that books are       viewed.
Tara McPherson, University of Southern California, states: `It is       no hyperbole to say that this series will help us rethink everything we       think we know about academic publishing.
It points to a future that is       interdisciplinary, open access, and expansive.'
Similarly, Nicholas       Mirzoeff, New York University, says: `This remarkable series transforms       the humble Reader into a living form, while breaking down the conceptual       barrier between the humanities and the sciences in a time when scholars       and activists of all kinds have taken the understanding of life to be       central.
Brilliant in its simplicity and concept, this series is a leap       towards an exciting new future'.
Published Interviews with Hall include, Victor Gaspar for Canal       22 TV, Mexico, 11 January, 2010; Seyma Akkoyunlu, for Zaman Daily         Newspaper, Turkey 26 March, 2010; and Dr Rebecca Pool, science and       technology journalist, for `Open to Debate', Research           Information, April/May 2010.
Digitize This Book!
has       been extensively reviewed, including in the popular science journal Nature.
An interview with Hall was published by Tracey Caldwell as `OA in       the Humanities Badlands', Information World Review, 4 June, 2008       and The Chronicle of Higher Education featured OHP twice (Jennifer       Howard, `New Open-Access Humanities Press Makes Its Debut': Wednesday, May       7, 2008; Jennifer Howard, `The Wired Campus: New Open-Access Monograph       Series Is Announced', August 7, 2009).
Hall's research was also       featured and substantially cited in Matthew Reisz, `"Giving It Away": A       Textbook Argument', Times Higher Education cover story on open       access, 12-18 November, 2009, pp.37-39.
Conclusion: Hall's research has achieved impact by challenging       traditional models of publishing in arts and humanities.
His focus on Open       Access publishing and free access to all is driving forward the policy       debate at the highest level worldwide.
His formation of the Open       Humanities Press and innovation in terms of research into the definition       of `the book' is being used as a template for politicians, funders,       University presses and other academics to follow.
