     The archive is highly successful and has established a productive       collaboration between researchers at the University and Siobhan Davies       Dance.
From 1 September 2009 to 31 August 2010 the archive received 42,959       visits from 9,797 unique visitors, with 22.44% of new visitors.
There were       121,774 page views.
The vast majority of users are UK-based (40,797       visits) but use is worldwide; many are staff and students from higher       education institutions.
User numbers far outstrip audience numbers for       live dance performances, thereby increasing public engagement with dance.
Importantly, the archive has enabled British contemporary dance to be       exported internationally in a new way.
Link Analysis using LexiURL       Searcher showed that the 20 domains linking to RePlay were from six       different second or top-level domains within the educational, commercial       and non-profit organisation spheres.
Archive Link       http://www.siobhandaviesreplay.com/     The Siobhan Davies RePlay home page provides access to the media objects       and textual information stored in the archive.
The main image on the home       page is currently a video of a rehearsal.
This and normally unseen notes,       photographs and other material can now be accessed worldwide via the       Internet.
The Archives Steering Group provided additional links into the creative       industries, ensuring that the archive is disseminated to a broad       constituency.
The project, and the research which has flowed from it, have       been influential in developing other digital archiving projects in dance       and performance within and beyond the UK.
Economic Impact: Has been achieved by transferring skills and       insight into the creative, digital and cultural sectors.
High-level skills       and expertise have been developed by University staff; and members of       Siobhan Davies Dance have applied their own new knowledge to the       development of new dance events, performances and distribution methods.
The skills exchange between both institutions has led to consultancy       opportunities including training of external organisations in addressing       repository developments; and providing intelligence for related projects,       some in collaboration with overseas partners.
The difficulties of digitally archiving dance have required the research       team and technology partners to overcome many complex issues: these       experiences have uniquely equipped them to support more traditional       archiving with innovative technologies and approaches.
Ian Mottashed of       Cambridge Imaging Systems confirmed that working on the Siobhan Davies       RePlay archive contributed to the company's growth as a business because       it allowed it to extend the technology and the complexity of media objects       the company's system was able to store and present.
It then was able to       extend its products to the benefit of other customers and attract new       sales.
This represents strong evidence of impact on economic prosperity       and is an example of contribution to innovation and entrepreneurial       activity within the private sector.
The Routledge Performance Archive has been a very successful venture, and       further demonstrates Whatley's research influence on practice       within private enterprise.
Talia Rodgers of Routledge stated that "Whatley       was instrumental in the early stages of development of the Archive.
Without Whatley's help and advice the project would have been much       harder to get off the ground, and that Whatley provided concrete       suggestions on how to move the project forward".
This Archive has since       undergone 300 trials in various University libraries worldwide and has       sold subscriptions to Universities in Europe and the USA.
As a consequence       of the impact of her research Whatley was invited to become a       consultant to the project.
http://www.routledgeperformancearchive.com/      The Routledge Performance Archive has a distinguished International         Board of Consultants and Advisors including: Sarah Whatley,       Coventry University; Maggie B. Gale, University of Manchester; Toni Sant,       University of Hull; Sara Jane Bailes, University of Sussex; Kate Dorney,       Victoria &amp; Albert Museum, London; Barbara Hodgdon, University of       Michigan; Peter Hulton, Arts Archives, University of Exeter; Ezra LeBank,       California State University; Tobin Nellhaus, Yale University; Lisa Peck,       University of Sussex and Varndean College; Peta Tait, La Trobe University;       Jon McKenzie, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Frank Hentschker, City       University of New York and Royd Climenhaga, The New School for Liberal       Arts, New York.
Impact on IPR Practice and Policy: As a consequence of problems       encountered during research, significant work has been undertaken by Whatley's       team in the areas of IP, copyright and licences for distributing       performing arts audio visual material online.
These processes have       assisted others working with content which is collectively `authored', or       when content owners cannot be easily traced, by providing information and       models of good practice.
Arike Oke of the Rambert Dance Company cites the       Siobhan Davies archive as the driver that put Rambert on the road to       digitising its own collection.
This represents evidence of impact on       cultural life and is also an example of how the RePlay archive has in a       non-linear way contributed to economic prosperity and innovation.
Whatley's       collaboration with lawyers on copyright and IPR in relation to performance       has led to a major AHRC grant &#163;500k to extend this research into the field       of dance and disability (`In/visible Difference; Dance, Disability and the       Law').
Impact on Cultural Life: The archive has developed audiences and       made dance more accessible and easier to understand.
It has enabled       British contemporary dance to be exported internationally in a new way.
The research has influenced national and international organisations: Arts       Council England (ACE) notes that the archive influenced the strategic       development of ACE's own web-based project, "The Space", in       partnership with the BBC.
Janet Archer, formerly Director of Dance at ACE,       has said that "the Siobhan Davies RePlay archive is an exciting way of       ensuring that a wider group of people have access to Siobhan Davies' work,       both in terms of its heritage and present practice.
The RePlay archive was       an innovative and pioneering project that has had real impact in terms of       preserving cultural knowledge.
The idea of making art forms more digitally       available was inspired by the RePlay archive".
This represents evidence of       impact on cultural life as well as an example of how the archive has       influenced practice within an influential national development agency.
Kate Dorney from the V&amp;A stated that the archive has influenced       curating and archiving at the Victoria and Albert Museum, which recommends       the archive widely and whose staff use it as a resource themselves.
Similarly, Brooke Kellaway at the Walker Arts Centre, Minneapolis, US       USA, has sought expert advice and consultancy from Whatley to       support the development of the company's performance catalogue `Living       Collection'.
"Sarah was absolutely brilliant.
I think this project is       incredible and one of the better examples of archiving performance".
Whatley's       support of the Walker Arts Centre's repository is evidence of providing       expert advice to a museum/art centre (in terms of influencing innovation)       that indirectly has implications for impact on cultural life.
Whatley was invited in 2008 to be an International Associate for a       pan-European research cluster: Inside Movement Knowledge.
She is a       participant in the International Education Workgroup of Motion Bank, the       German-based Forsythe Company project to create digital dance scores.
Freya Vass-Rhee stated that when drawing up a vision for an archive for       the Forsythe Company, one of the first places that Vass-Rhee and her       colleagues looked was the Siobhan Davies RePlay archive.
The RePlay       archive has played a crucial role in the Forsythe Company's efforts to       create a larger archive with an open public interface.
Vass-Rhee believes       that an archive of the calibre of Siobhan Davies RePlay is an extremely       valuable resource to have in the global dance community.
In her role as an       academic, Vass-Rhee recommends the archive to her students both for the       quality of its content as well as for its exemplary archive structure.
Impact on Education: A 2010 impact study revealed that most users       employ RePlay to support teaching, learning and research activity at both       higher education and school level.
This is also reflected in the decision       to include Davies's work at GCSE and A Level.
Sarah Jackson (Chief A Level       examiner) has said that the archive site has become fundamental to       teaching; it not only underpins the study of a particular area of the       A-level specification but contributes towards developing the students'       ability to conduct their own research and help them think for themselves.
Conclusion: Whatley's research in close collaboration with leading       British choreographer Siobhan Davies resulted in the development of the       world's first digital dance archive Siobhan Davies RePlay.
This has       created impact by extending the concept of an archive to include ephemeral       objects and allowing wider access to hard-to-reach material associated       with dance performance.
This has resulted in direct economic impact for       one of the technology partners and in the development of new commercial       products for a range of other organisations.
By helping to solve the IPR       and copyright issues associated with group works and objects where the       owner cannot be traced, the research is impacting on IPR and copyright       practice and policy.
The research and the archive have extended the       cultural and educational impact and reach of UK contemporary dance.
