     Meyer-Sahling has worked in close collaboration both with international       organisations &#8212; in       particular, the SIGMA (Support for Improvement in Governance and       Management) programme of       the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) &#8212; and       with national       governments in Central and Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans.
As a result, his work has been widely disseminated both through the       publication of two SIGMA       papers and their circulation, and through presentations and reports to       government representatives.
The research has gone on to change approaches to international civil       service reform, and inspire       further similar studies in other areas of public administration reform.
Dissemination     Meyer-Sahling was invited to present his research at the SIGMA       headquarters in Paris.
SIGMA       provides advice for accession states on behalf of the European Commission.
It further conducts       annual assessments of public administration reform that are incorporated       into the European       Commission's annual monitoring reports on the progress of accession states       towards EU       membership.
As a result of the presentation, SIGMA requested European       Commission funding for       a study of the sustainability of civil service reforms in the new member       states of Central and       Eastern Europe.
Meyer-Sahling was appointed project leader with full       responsibility over the       design, coordination and implementation of the project.
The project       covered eight countries and       had a budget of 178,000 Euros.
The research collaboration led to the publication of SIGMA Paper Nr.
44 in May 2009.
[source 2]       The findings were widely disseminated, directly and indirectly, and well       beyond SIGMA and DG       Enlargement and DG Administration (now DG Human Resources) of the European       Commission.
Meyer-Sahling presented the research first at the 2nd SIGMA       Networking Seminar in Paris in       November 2008 to senior officials from SIGMA, the European Commission,         Central and         Eastern European and Western Balkan states.
After publication, the       report was presented at       additional events organised by DG Employment and Social Affairs of the       European Commission in       November 2009, SIGMA in March 2010, the European Institute of Public       Administration in       Maastricht in May 2010, and in November 2010 at the opening ceremony of       the Regional School of       Public Administration (ReSPA) in Danilovgrad/Montenegro.
[5]     The report was translated into several languages such as       Romanian, Macedonian and       Slovenian.
It has been widely cited in non-academic literature, for instance, by the       UNDP, the World Bank,         the Bertelsmann Foundation and the Agency for Public Management of the         Government of         Norway.
[6]     The work's impact on SIGMA and European Commission     1) Changed approaches to public administration reform by       demonstrating and legitimizing the       importance of conducting systematic, evidence-based evaluations       that were externally driven       by the EU.
Bob Bonwitt, Director of the SIGMA programme from 1992-2012,       writes that the       report `helped us to rethink the evidence base of what we were doing and       forced us to address       ideas that had been taken for granted.
[...] the study produced such       interesting results that       similar studies were carried out in other areas of public administration       reform'.
[1]     2) Inspired further studies, three of which Meyer-Sahling was       directly involved in.
They include       a report on the political, economic, social and international determinants       of civil service reform,       a SIGMA Policy Brief on `Can Civil Service Reforms Last?
', and a major       study on the       professionalization of the civil service in the Western Balkans, which       included all seven       Western Balkan states and had a budget of 175,000 Euros.
The project led       to the publication         of SIGMA Paper Nr 48 in September 2012.
[3] The preliminary findings       were presented at a       SIGMA staff meeting in November 2011, at a dedicated workshop to senior       officials of the       Government of Montenegro and at the 2013 ReSPA Annual Conference.
The       conference was       attended by ministers of public administration and senior policy-makers       from the Western       Balkans, the European Commission and other international organisations.
[8]       According to       Francisco Cardona, SIGMA's principal official for civil service reform       since the late 1990s, `the       study on the Western Balkans is progressively acquiring importance as a       reference document       in training sessions, conferences and meetings on public administration       reform in the       concerned regions'.
[1]     3) Plays a critical role in the development of ReSPA as a       regional centre for public       administration reform and development, in particular, the upgrading of its       Network in Human       Resource Management.
The Commission official responsible for the SIGMA and       ReSPA file at       DG Enlargement, writes `the kind of actions that [Meyer-Sahling] has       carried out [...] is very       much in line with what we [i.e.
DG Enlargement] are currently looking for       in terms of providing       evidence-based assessments, concrete and clear actions and assure a       continuous monitoring       of improvements under a realistic and customised approach'.
Specifically       with regard to the       development of ReSPA as a regional centre for public administration       reform, she goes on that       [Meyer-Sahling] will `play a critical role in upgrading the ReSPA Network       in Human Resource       Management'.
[1]     4) Contributed to a change of strategy towards a holistic,       context-sensitive approach to public       administration reform in accession states.
Bonwitt explains that `the       findings caused a shift of       our priorities [...] we changed the priorities of some of the system       components and worked       more on the political economy of civil service reform'.
Moreover, `we       presented the result to the       EC [i.e.
European Commission], which then commissioned the Balkan study       and accepted that       their approach to reform in the Balkans needed to be reconsidered'.
[1]     5) Influenced operations of SIGMA and the European Commission.
Bonwitt and Cardona       write that `[t]he studies caused some changes in our [i.e.
SIGMA's]       assessment methodology'       and `SIGMA used the findings for annual assessments of individual       countries'.
[1] The       European Commission refers to the study on the professionalization of the       Western Balkans in       the specification and justification of project fiches that advertise EU       funded aid and assistance       projects in the area of good governance.
Influence in the national arena of Lithuania     Following the presentation of SIGMA Paper Nr 44, the Government of         Lithuania requested a         separate study on the Modernisation of the Lithuanian Civil Service.
[4]       The study, prepared       together with Prof Vitalis Nakrosis from Vilnius University, was presented       in February 2010 in the       Lithuanian Parliament in a session organised by the Committee for the       State Administration and       Local Government.
[7] After the conference, Parliament passed a         Resolution, which has       become an important reference point for civil service reform in       Lithuania.
[10] The studies,       presentations and an academic article that was published after the       conference generated public       debate over the course of civil service reform in the Lithuanian media.
[9]     Most importantly, the Government of Lithuania followed the studies'       recommendations for       the development of a new reform strategy and the amendment of civil         service regulations.
According to the Deputy Head of the Civil Service, `the study by       Meyer-Sahling and Nakrosis was       extremely useful for the staff of the Civil Service Department.
We used       the report for the analysis of       the civil service systems and for making proposals for the improvement of       its legal regulation.
[...]       For instance, we have implemented the recommendations concerning the       tenure of heads of       institutions, which came into force in 2011 and the centralised selection       of civil servants, which will       come into force on 1 July 2013.
[T]he recommendation linking civil service       training and       competency management is being implemented in the context of a project       funded by the European       Social Fund'.
[1]     The findings and recommendations have been incorporated in the final       report of the Sunset       Commission of the Lithuanian Government.
Most recently, the Government       used the studies in a       press release in order to justify the appointment of the new Head of the       Lithuanian Civil Service in       February 2013.
Wider dissemination in the post-communist world and China     The Government of Lithuania used the findings in international       co-collaborations across the entire       post-communist world and China.
The Deputy Head of the Lithuanian Civil       Service writes that       `[a]fter the publication of the 2009 SIGMA Report, responsible officials       from the Balkan and Eastern       Neighbourhood Countries (...) expressed their wish to familiarise       themselves with the Lithuanian       experience.
The Civil Service Department was visited by Delegations from       Ukraine, Serbia,       Moldova, China, Albania, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kirgizstan, Tajikistan and       Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We always based our presentations on the conclusions of report prepared         by Prof Meyer-Sahling'.
[1]
