     The group's research on community cohesion has made a considerable       impact.
For example, the       Local Government Association report (LGA) [4] on immigration was part of       the LGA submission to       the House of Commons Select Committee on Migration [a].
This resulted in       the setting up of the       Migration Impact Fund of &#163;250 million per annum.
Farnell's       research [3] led to the Church Urban       Fund report Churches in Action (with a foreword from the then       Archbishop of Canterbury) that       underpinned the new &#163;5 million Near Neighbours programme.
These two       projects show how       cohesion research was used by various agencies to address the impact of       migration.
These       projects establish the context for Beider's JRF research that has       had rapid, far reaching and       significant impact following its launch in November 2011 [5].
The report       was viewed 5,270 times       after publication, downloaded 1,150 times and the summary downloaded an       additional 825 times       from the JRF website.
This puts the report and the summary in the top ten       downloaded documents       from the Foundation's Website during 2012.
Impact on creativity, culture and society       The report "White working class communities" [5] has caused public       and stakeholder debate       because the research has challenged conventional wisdom.
Following       publication of the report,       Beider was interviewed live on Radio 5Live, Radio WM, Radio       Coventry and Warwickshire, Capital       Radio, BRMB and Three Counties Radio.
The report was also covered in the       BBC Today       Programme (28 November 2011) and BBC TV Breakfast News.
The report led to       considerable       comment in the media including feature articles in the Independent       and the Daily Mail [b] and       coverage in the Telegraph, The Times and the Huffington         Post [c] and many more national and       regional outlets.
Beider's research and the report continued to generate press       coverage and stimulate debate       beyond the initial launch event.
For example, on the BBC Today       programme (4 January 2012),       Mark Easton, the BBC Home Affairs Editor, spoke about the need to heed the       findings from the       report in the context of discussion of race relations.
Similarly, an       article in the Guardian on 19 April       2012 used the report to explore race, housing and a changing society.
The       debate was extended       through social media, where it has been significantly commented upon and       shared.
Over 1000       Tweets were sent about the report including comments from Phillip Blond       (Respublica think tank       and influential conservative thinker), Steve Hilton (formerly strategic       advisor to Prime Minister       Cameron) and Quentin Letts (Conservative journalist for the Daily Mail).
The report continues to       stimulate debate nearly two years after publication amongst politicians,       journalists, activists,       housing professionals, social workers, political commentators and the       general public.
The contribution of the report and the underpinning research was       highlighted in a confidential       independent evaluation in 2012 for JRF.
This found that it is "...the         single most commonly         referenced report ... One reason that this report may have been         memorable and resonant with         journalists is that it confounds usual expectations that white-working         class communities, rather         than ethnic minority groups, suffer from social exclusion.
The report         was considered to be         surprising, challenged assumptions, and was clearly of great interest to         a wide range of reporters         and broadcasters ..." [d].
Impact on public policy       Policy debate has been stimulated and informed by research evidence of       disconnection and       isolation in white working class communities.
Beider has been       being requested to deliver       workshops and private briefings on the findings to politicians, policy       makers, funders and think       tanks.
For example, Beider delivered a `teach in' to more than 20       JRF Senior Managers on 20       June 2012 to discuss the policy implications of his research.
This group       is responsible for framing       strategy for JRF and for peer-reviewing research proposals.
Bana Gora,       Programme Manager at       JRF stated "...the event had provoked new thinking within JRF staff and       stimulated debate within       the organisation".
She went on to say "... the research had an influence       on the Foundation's       Poverty and Ethnicity programme (budget &#163;1.3 million 2011-2015) and the       Westminster briefing in       2012" [e].
The latter was organised by JRF, the Runnymede Trust and the       All Party Parliamentary       Group on Immigration on 5 July 2012.This reached across MPs and think       tanks from all parties to       discuss practical implications of the research.
Attendees included MPs who       led on equalities and       cohesion portfolios as well as staff from think tanks such as British         Futures and the Equality         Development Foundation.
Beider was subsequently invited by Kate Green MP (Stretford and       Urmston/Shadow Minister of       State for Equalities) to discuss the implications of this research at a       local political level [f].
She       organised a workshop with community activists in her constituency       specifically to share findings       and develop new ways to connect with low-income, white communities.
This       took place on 14       September 2012 with more than 50 people attending including residents,       activists and local       stakeholders.
As a result, Green has bid with Beider to the JRF       for funding to look at ways to       engage disenfranchised white working class communities.
On the basis of       the research, Green is       also using new ways to engage with white working class residents in her       constituency and       improving their political representation.
Following the July 2012 Westminster briefing, Beider was invited       by Chris Williamson MP (Derby       North/former Shadow Minister for Communities and Local Government) to       draft the Cohesion and       Integration consultation report that is being used to shape Labour Party       policy in the run up to the       2015 General Election.
The document, Citizenship, Cohesion and         Integration, which names Beider       as a co-author, was published in December 2012.
It was made available to       all Labour Party MPs,       their staff and Labour councillors across the UK prior to being published       on the YourBritain Labour       Party website [g].
This has been discussed at five regional consultation       meetings in 2013 attended       by over 150 political activists.
The document is currently with the Leader       of the Labour Party for       further elaboration prior to incorporation in the manifesto.
Almost two years after the launch of the JRF report, Beider's       research continues to inform and       stimulate political debate.
For example, it was cited in a House of       Commons briefing on housing       entitlements and EU migrants discussed in mid-2013 [h].
Impact on practitioners and professional services       The report challenges conventional wisdom and generates debate among       professionals.
For       example, the report is available on the website of the British Association       of Social Workers (BASW)       [i].
The BASW is the largest professional association for social work in       the UK and promotes the       best possible social work services for all people who may need them,       while also securing the well-       being of social workers.
Similarly, Beider published an article on       the 8 June 2012 in Inside Housing       based on his research, which is evidence of an on-going debate among       housing professionals [j].
Inside Housing is the leading weekly magazine for housing       professionals in the UK.
It has a weekly       circulation of 25,512 with a total readership estimated to be more than       80,000.
The research has stimulated debate and extended its reach       internationally.
Beider has been       regularly invited to speak about his research at practitioner-led events       in the United States.
For       example, Beider was invited to speak at a practitioners' seminar       convened by the University of       Illinois in Chicago (UIC) on 24 January 2013 [k].
This was attended by 25       people including the       Executive Directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago (a grant-making       foundation whose goal is to       increase opportunities for less advantaged people and communities in the       metropolitan area) and       the Wieboldt Foundation (funder of activities that empower local       neighborhoods), and a       representative of Erie House (Chicago-based organization that works to       strengthen low-income,       primarily Latino, families through skill-building, access to critical       resources, advocacy and       collaborative action).
Beider's research was the basis of an international policy       workshop convened on 29-31 July 2013       in New York City [l].
The workshop included participants drawn from       Citizens Housing and       Planning Council (a not-for-profit organisation established in 1937       offering practical solutions to       people in New York who are in housing need and disadvantaged), JRF and the       Open Society       Foundation.
Beider's research has also influenced the       establishment of an international project on       the views of majority communities funded by the Open Society Foundation.
The impact of the       research in the United States shows the considerable reach of a UK-based       project and its       applicability in different contexts where the majority population may feel       disenfranchised.
Conclusion       Beider`s research has had impact by being cited in public and       parliamentary debate among       stakeholders and through discussion in social, national and international       press and media.
In       addition, the research has influenced the direction of funding       priorities/programmes of major grant       awarding bodies and charities.
