     Art is such a contested area in our culture that the term is extremely       difficult to define.
Developments in art since the early 20th century have made the issue       particularly problematic.
Matravers' work on the subject rejects the view that institutional       definitions excuse the art world       from having to engage in reasoned discourse, making his work of interest       to members of the public       who engage with art and used by people within the art world.
He       contributes to the public discourse       on the definition of art by presenting his view in a way that is       deliberately accessible to an audience       outside the world of philosophy.
Matravers has contributed to the PhilosophyBites podcasts, recorded by       David Edmonds and Nigel       Warburton.
The podcasts consist of 10 to 15 minute talks with a       philosopher deemed to be an       expert on some particular topic, with a view to engaging an audience       outside academia.
Matravers'       podcast has proved very popular with users of the website: the interview       has been downloaded       87,748 times (September 2013 figure).
In comparison, the average number of       unique visitors of       podcasts from OU platforms is around 1000.
The podcast has been used in       various educational       contexts (for example, on a wiki at Middle Tennessee State University and       an Academy in       Argentina) and is discussed in various blogs (for example, The         Wondering Kiwi and The Chaotic         Semiotic).
Furthermore, the transcript of the talk was one of 25 published in       PhilosophyBites (OUP, 2010).
This book aims to bring interviews with leading philosophers to a general       audience: to date, it has       sold more than 12,000 copies.
In a review in The Guardian, the       book was described as `an       excellent sampler of key philosophical issues'.
Matravers has also published an introduction to the philosophy of art,       including a discussion of his       views on the definition of art, which is aimed at the general public and,       specifically, at interested       members of the art world (The Philosophy of Art: An Introduction with         Eight Examples, Acumen,       2013).
The book is carried by art gallery bookshops; Tate Modern, for       example.
Although it is too       early to get meaningful sales figures, the book has already led to       invitations to give talks on the       book: first, to the Oxford University Continuing Education Department and       second, to students at       Hills Road VIth Form College.
Matravers' discussions with the artist Alana Jelinek (artist in residence       at the Museum of       Archaeology and Anthropology in Cambridge) have contributed directly to       her work.
In particular,       he worked with her on a conceptual art piece, `Not praising, burying', in       which ten academics and       artists painted pots and discussed the nature and value of art.
The event       was held in the       Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge on 2 November 2012.
The work was performed       in private,       although a record of it is publicly available (problematising the ontology       of artworks being part of       the point of the work).
A follow up discussion took place on 8 November in       front of a public       audience of about 40 people.
Jelinek has said that:     "This is Not Art: activism and other not-art' (2013) [her book] and the       artworks, `Not       Praising, Burying' (2012) and `The Field' (2009-ongoing) in particular       have been an attempt       to introduce the ideas of Derek Matravers to the contemporary art world       and engage with       them critically within that context.'
Matravers has been invited to continue this in a paper to be published in       the fine art journal, The         Journal of Visual Arts Practice.
