     Chappell's engagement with a diverse range of non-academic and academic       audiences has       resulted in his research influencing and challenging healthcare       professionals in the NHS to       providing the impetus for an interdisciplinary approach to religious       studies in Latin America.
As Director of the OU Ethics Centre, he seeks out opportunities to       challenge and expand thinking       about ethics, both in the UK and internationally.
For example, he has       presented his research on       ethics without moral theory in talks given at the Keble College conference       for schoolteachers (June       2013), the Heythrop College conference on ethics and philosophy for Key       Stage 5 students       (January 2013), and the Pinner Philosophical Group (September 2011).
These       presentations have       made a difference to the outlook, thinking, and action of all sorts of       individuals.
Audience       comments made to him in person have included, `That was a revelation',       `Made me look at things       completely differently', and `I'd never seen it that way before'.
Chappell has research links with the Ian Ramsey Centre for Science and       Religion (IRC) in Oxford.
He gave a keynote address at the IRC's public conference in Mexico       (November 2011), El       Congr&#233;so Panamericana Ciencia y Religi&#243;n, held at La Universidad       Panamericana; his topic was       `Varieties of knowledge', including personal knowledge.
The IRC credits       him with influence in the       way the conference was organised, and the impact that it had on       Latin-American academics and       members of the public: `...one of the large teams that attended the Mexico       conference in 2011       (Universidad Austral, Argentina) gained experience and expertise.
As a       direct result, they have just       secured $0.3m of funding for a project of their own.'
The project will take an interdisciplinary approach to the study of       science, religion, and philosophy       and will have an anticipated direct effect on tens of universities in       Latin America, and an indirect       effect on many thousands of people.
As well as benefits to higher       education and research, the       project will create a collection of popular science books `to foster a       more informed debate in society       and will develop open-access websites in Spanish to provide qualified       information and updates on       interdisciplinary topics'.
Chappell has been an invited speaker at public conferences at the       Catholic Institute of Sydney       (`Knowledge of persons', September 2012) and the University of Notre Dame,       Sydney (`Persons,       humans, and the principle of charity', July 2013).
One audience-member at       both these events who       reports that Chappell's thinking has made a difference to the way he does       his job is the       Headmaster of Wollemi High School, New South Wales.
He says: `[the] school       [is] known for its       character education initiatives and for the close parenting support we       provide ... in these times       when the stability of marriages and the bond between parents and children       are so challenged, I       believe it is very important to show the link between dedication and       personal fulfilment.
Chappell's       work provides a platform for me to do this.'
Chappell has also presented his research about personhood in NHS and       other healthcare       contexts.
In June 2009 he presented the research that became `On the Very       Idea of Criteria for       Personhood' (Chappell 2011a) in a `Grand Round' talk at Northampton       General Hospital; this drew       a very positive response from an audience of several hundred healthcare       professionals.
This       presentation was part of a continuing working relationship between       Chappell and a consultant       paediatrician at Northampton General Hospital, who said of the talk:       `Professor Chappell used the       lecture not only to demonstrate the necessity of having a meaningful       philosophical structure to       underpin how one lives one's life, but also particularly within the       challenging context of health care,       of making decisions and living with the decisions you have to make.'
Over the last five years Chappell and this paediatrician have cooperated       on a number of projects.
The consultant is the author of several dramas on medical themes, on which       Chappell has worked       as an informal ethical advisor.
They have also worked closely together on       a case with a severely       disabled and terminally ill boy and his parents, who were under the       consultant's care up to the       child's peaceful death in 2011.
This offered, in delicate circumstances,       an opportunity to observe       how far Chappell's ideas of personhood work in practice.
