     Haas and Burnham's research has underpinned the       development of equipment which delivers       treatments for rare skin cancers and optimises the targeting of treatments       to kill cancer cells within       the body by minimising collateral damage to healthy cells caused by the       breathing of the patient       during treatment.
In addition, Haas has created a phantom and       associated evaluation       methodologies which have been used to validate the potential for the use       of control methodologies       to focus the targeting of radiotherapy treatment in commercially available       clinical systems.
Health impacts and impact on clinical technologies       The health and clinical technologies impacts stem from research to develop       and evaluate the       clinical use of control theory and its application to develop niche cancer       treatment machines.
The Total Skin Electron Betatron Unit (TSEBU), was jointly developed by       Coventry University and       the University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW), between 1997 and       2004 has treated       with positive clinical outcomes 29 (including 15 between 2008 and 2013)       patients suffering from       rare forms of skin cancer such as Mycosis Fungoides or Sezary syndrome.
Haas       and Burnham       provided a vital contribution to the TSEBU design and with their student       implemented the control       system on an industrial controller.
The device proved effective and the       initial simulation study led to       the current clinical machine.
Adrian Wilson, Director of Clinical Physics,       University Hospitals       Coventry and Warwickshire stated `Undoubtedly the Coventry TSEBU         facility has been a great         success to many patients in the UK ... the impact of the treatment on         the patient is phenomenal' ...         a great success to many patients in the UK.&#180; Coventry University `turned         it from an idea to         something that was real, it has created a unique device ... a tool         in our armoury' [a].
The anthropomorphic thorax phantom was designed jointly with UHCW and its       control system       implemented by Haas, PhD and MRes students under joint supervision       with UHCW was one of the       first applications of LabVIEW to control a 4 axis medical device using low       cost hardware.
The       research "demonstrated that one can produce an anatomically accurate       phantom with anatomically       realistic movements to help quantify advantages and disadvantages of       different approaches to       delivering radiotherapy".
The phantom was used extensively during the       evaluation of the couch       motion compensation system developed during the MAESTRO project.
"Elekta decided to work with Coventry University to improve our         knowledge of control systems, and         to apply additional academic know-how to our development.
Following the         KTP, the Synergy         product was released onto to the radiotherapy market with widespread         acclaim."
John Allen, Chief       Engineer, Oncology Systems Technology, Elekta [b].
The model predictive       control system       implemented on the Elekta Precise Table&#8482; demonstrated that this particular       idea was feasible.
The original TCS/KTP with Coventry University had a positive influence on       the future direction of       Elekta's business.
The former TCS/KTP associate supervised by Haas       has become an expert in       the control systems part of Elekta's product and a key player in the       development of the Agility       multileaf collimator, a new cancer treatment product which `enables         significantly faster and more         precise target-guided treatment for patients' Kevin Brown, Global VP       Scientific Research, Elekta       [c].
The research expertise gained through the MAESTRO project led UZ Brussels       to ask Haas to       advise on methods to evaluate the tracking ability of the VERO from       Brainlab/Mitsubishi       http://www.vero-sbrt.com/ [6], see       Figures 2b,c.
The VERO stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)       is a niche cancer treatment machine that is able to deliver high dosage to       the tumour thanks to its       ability to track the tumour motion thereby reducing the impact of       radiation on healthy tissues.
Wohlgemuth (Project Manager, Brainlab) said "Tests with the MAESTRO         Phantom were performed         at an early stage provided a starting point for deciding on focus of         further development.
These         tests especially were helpful for the development of dedicated imaging         procedures and implant         detection for dynamic tracking" [d].
The VERO platform       characterisation experiments were       published in a journal paper co-authored by staff from UZ Brussels,       Brainlab and Haas.
Wohlgemuth noted that these cited publications were used for the       validation of real-time tumour       tracking.
This validation was required to "release tumour tracking for       clinical use".
Wohlgemuth       added that the system has been in clinical use since 2011.
Currently there       are ten VERO       installations worldwide with five more installations in progress.
The VERO       based in Brussels has       treated 15 patients since 2011.
Figure 2: Evaluating the performance of motion tracking and compensation exploited by UZ Brussels, Belgium and Brainlab, Germany to assess and subsequently deploy clinically the VERO.
Impact on practitioners and professional services stems from the       introduction of control tools       and research methods to radiotherapy practitioners and changed the view of       commercial       companies about the value of working with universities.
John Mills,       Radiotherapy Manager,       University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire indicated that "Haas       brought a broader and much       more open approach to the Radiotherapy Department at the hospital which       had traditionally been       very academic and gave a boost to the research culture in the Hospital"       [e].
Adrian Wilson       highlighted that Haas' primary contribution in terms of changing       practices within UHCW was "the       introduction of a kind of 'rigour' of looking at how one can control       things, putting the problem into a       framework and then mathematically describing the control" [a].
Kevin Brown       stated that computer       simulations such as MATLAB/Simulink have increased together with the       applications of control       theory at Elekta and that the experience with the collaborative research       project with Haas led to       Elekta becoming more comfortable with collaborative approaches with       universities.
