     The Unemployment Insurance Project, of which the underpinning research       described above was a significant component, made valuable contributions       to the process of China modernising its social security system.
In       particular, the research report recommended a programme of       capacity-building at local government level combined with greater       investment in technology and Management Information Systems.
These       recommendations were implemented by the UIP, resulting in improved UI       services for the unemployed populations in six pilot cities across two of       China's largest provinces.
From 1986, but particularly from 1997, central government unemployment       policies in China had focused on assisting the urban registered unemployed       and so-called `laid-off employees' through unemployment insurance,       re-employment service centres and employment (or re-employment) services       such as training and job-search assistance.
Drawing on the UK's experience of social security reform, the DfID       project evaluated these programmes and outlined ways in which they might       be improved.
The research conducted by Duckett and her colleagues fed into       new policies and models for unemployment insurance programmes in the six       pilot cities.
These research findings were shared with Chinese central and       local government officials in May 2005, through a Policy Brief and through       workshops held in Shenyang and Chengdu in 2004, entitled `Patterns of         Disadvantage in the Labour Market and Long-term Unemployment'.
The research recommended that unemployment insurance (UI) departments       should have responsibility for collecting UI contributions, and UI work       should be tied into performance management frameworks and civil service       systems of performance monitoring.
Overall performance should be improved       through the development of more effective performance management systems       together with recruitment and promotion measures through the reformed       civil service system.
The redesigned management and information systems currently in place for       unemployment insurance programmes and services which link unemployment       benefits, job search and training were a direct result of the DfID project       findings.
The research in the six pilot cities had highlighted the fact that local       capacity to gather data on unemployment was limited, and recommended that       assistance with capital investment in technology could facilitate an       improvement in these areas.
Consequently, DfID worked to support greater       investment in IT and information systems and assisted in the creation of       more advanced management systems.
The new systems meant that staff in       China's Ministry of Labour &amp; Social Security could link up information       on unemployment benefits with job searches and training in order to       provide a more targeted form of assistance to those in need.
Additionally, the research had identified that at local levels there was       a lack of capacity required to successfully implement unemployment       insurance programmes.
In response to this finding, the wider DfID project       provided capacity development assistance to local government agencies in       order to enhance their ability to identify and support those in need of       assistance.
The improvements to unemployment insurance and employment service systems       introduced in pilot cities are now directly benefiting the unemployed       people of Sichuan and Liaoning and improving the skills of the local       staff.
Thanks to improvements in capacity, IT and MIS in local       departments, these provinces are now better able to collect UI       contributions and data on those unemployed, ensuring a greater equality of       access and service provision.
The research impact has the potential to benefit a vast number of people.
When the project was completed, the Chinese Government reported that the       UI programmes had already benefitted 25,000 people.
And the       newly-established systems continue to deliver benefits directly in the       pilot cities beyond the end of the project and have also influenced UI       system reforms adopted in other localities in the following years.
The       Director General of the Institute of International Labour and Social       Security within the Chinese Ministry of Human Resources and Social       Security commented in 2013 that the research programme had benefitted       significant numbers of unemployed people well beyond 2008 and continued to       have a great deal of impact through the influence of the pilots spreading       to other parts of China.
Because of the Ministry's reform scheme in the area of unemployment       insurance, the British Council believes that this project continues to       influence and benefit the people in China and that it will do so well into       the future.
As noted above, these conclusions have been echoed by the       Director General of the Institute of International Labour and Social       Security within the Chinese Ministry of Human Resources and Social       Security, who has been involved with the UIP since its inception.
