     A.
Improved management and care regimes offered by           clinicians in the UK and overseas:     Our research provides evidence of higher levels of sight-threatening       diabetic eye changes in patients of South Asian origin compared to       Caucasians.
Furthermore, we highlighted several lifestyle and `non       clinical factors' that contribute to these higher levels of       sight-threatening eye disease in South Asians.
Asians showed low levels of       awareness of the need for good control of diabetes: poor lifestyle       management; language problems; lack of awareness of the importance of       attending diabetic screening appointments.
Dissemination of specific and relevant research results to senior       diabetic healthcare consultants in Pakistan, East Africa and the UK has       increased the awareness of the various `non-clinical' factors that       influence sight-threatening diabetic complications in patients of South       Asian origin.
In Pakistan, the research has led to recommendations by the South Asian       Federation of Endocrine Societies [1] to clinicians offering diabetic care       in various clinics and hospitals in Karachi.
These recommendations have       led to enhanced care management delivered to patients (July 2013).
The       research has also informed the management of diabetic patients in Bugando       Medical Centre (Mwanza Tanzania), a teaching hospital for the western       zones of Tanzania [2] (June 2013).
Serving a population of 13 million       people, the Centre is a referral centre for tertiary specialist care for       six regions, including Mwanza, Mara, Kagera, Shinyanga, Tabora and Kigoma.
In addition, a primary care centre in Mwanza (Tanzania), which has       recently set up a new diabetic clinic, uses our research findings to       impress upon their patients the importance of attending regular clinics,       eating a balanced and nutritious diet, and adhering to prescribed       medication (May 2013).
In the UK, consultant ophthalmologists [3] (June 2013) and general       practitioners [4] (June 2013) working in areas with relatively large       populations of South Asian descent (and where national statistics       highlight that blindness due to diabetes is high) have employed specific       components of our research to enhance the care they provide to their       patients.
For example, the strategy to involve community elders and seek       their support in overcoming language barriers has resulted in improved       patient engagement which will lead to improved eye-health.
B.
Increasing awareness through commissioned reports           leading to improved care in thecommunity:     Our research provided the underpinning data for commissioned reports that       have led directly to community-based Eye Health Engagement Projects:     (a) RNIB-commissioned report entitled "A review of evidence to         evaluate effectiveness of intervention strategies to address         inequalities in health care" [5].
Using our research it highlights       the barriers that affect access by ethnic minority patients to primary and       secondary eye-care across the UK, and suggests strategies to reduce this       inequality.
(b) Public Health Action Support Team (PHAST) "Eye Care in the UK:         Epidemiology, Intervention and Ethnicity" [6] is part of a wider Eye       Care Needs Assessment for NHS Tower Hamlets (and reported by the RNIB).
The report highlights the increased prevalence of eye problems in patients       of South Asian origin.
It evaluates the effectiveness of current       strategies employed to reduce inequalities in eye-health in ethnic       minorities, and proposes remedial measures including targeted screening       and holistic assessments.
These reports led directly to the development of community-based Eye       Health Engagement Projects in Glasgow [7] (2012) and Bradford [8] (2012)       which have significantly high populations of diabetic patients of South       Asian origin.
These projects have been supported by substantial investment       from the RNIB (&#163;300,000 for the Glasgow project, and &#163;100,000 for the       Bradford project).
The Bradford project also received funding from the       Innovation, Excellence and Strategic Development Fund (IESD) from the       Department of Health.
The Eye Health Engagement Projects employ a series of strategic       interventions which address some of the main findings of our research.
More specifically they are designed to increase: (a) healthcare uptake,       treatment and compliance; (b) the uptake of eye examinations and diabetic       retinopathy screening; (c) the understanding of the need for eye       examinations; (d) the understanding of eye health and its relationship to       diabetes; (e) community engagement and raising awareness via eye-health       champions.
The Glasgow community-based project, which has targeted the Pakistani       population, has focused on raising the awareness and understanding of       diabetic eye health.
This has involved making sure that health       professionals provide consistent information, and that this information is       shared with the community via eye-health volunteers and champions.
In       Bradford, the community project has involved various strategies, including       the use of SMS `text' reminders from doctors' surgeries, telephone       reminders by a bilingual person, improved community education and       awareness programmes via community and religious groups, and the use of a       `personal folder' to support self care.
The folder, trialled on 500       people, is designed to help individuals keep appointments, set       goals/targets and manage their medication regime effectively.
Further impact is evidenced via the RNIB who have been approached by care       commissioning groups (in Bradford City and Bradford District) who wish to       promote and support the use of the `self care personal folder' initiative       more widely [8].
It is anticipated that further clinical outcomes will       arise as these projects mature.
C. Raising the understanding, at government level, of           factors that affect the health of two million South Asians living in           the UK:     Our research informed a significant joint report written by Diabetes UK       and the South Asian Health Foundation [9] that was launched at a       Parliamentary reception hosted by Keith Vaz, MP (June 2009) to raise the       awareness of the specific health risks facing South Asians.
The report       recommended priorities for future interventions and research in diabetes       and its complications in patients of South Asian origin, resulting in a       number of projects, commissioned by the Diabetic UK to address these.
D. Informing healthcare commissioners:     Our research informed a PCT Health Equality Audit which made       recommendations (Southampton, Hampshire, Isle of Wight, Portsmouth City)       for healthcare commissioners to target health inequalities in ethnic       minorities [10] (2010).
The audit explored whether healthcare services and       other resources are distributed equitably to meet the health needs of       different ethnic groups.
The report identified factors that predict who is       most at risk of diabetic retinopathy and those who were less able to       access diabetic retinal screening.
It recommended policies and procedures       to reduce the inequality in health in ethnic minority patients, resulting       in greater commissioner awareness of how to improve access for patient       groups who are not currently being served effectively, and for whom the       clinical prognosis has historically been particularly poor.
These       recommendations were presented to healthcare commissioners and planners in       Southampton City (February 2012).
As a result, the Public Health       Information team (Southampton City, February 2012) recommended that data       across the different GP practices should be analysed and compared to the       average for the City, in order to highlight any potential differences and       identify any inconsistencies between need and service access.
