     Impacts on production and industry       Results were presented to Technical Directors of all major supermarkets in       2008, and as a result a       number (e.g.
Waitrose, Marks &amp; Spencer) used the findings as an evidence-base         to modify         sourcing policy and production chains to account for complex       relationships between food       production and GHGE2,8.
For example, Marks &amp; Spencer's then       Technical Director (now retired)       highlighted that: "involvement with such a proactive programme has       influenced how a company       such as Marks &amp; Spencer approaches crop and product development.
[...]       For example, work on       water resources in the lifecycle analysis of food crop production has made       us rethink our approach       to developing crops in North Africa"8.
RELU highlighted the       project as an exemplary case study for       researchers linking to industry bodies6.
This research created a spin-out company (Footprints for Food - F4F) in       2009.
The activity to date       of F4F identifies the major hotspots of energy waste and has calculated       GHGE for commercial       clients on over 200 horticultural products and production pathways       worldwide.
This continues to       feed directly into the practices of major producers, distributors and       supermarkets, catalysing policy       changes and measures to reduce carbon footprints and improve food         production efficiency1,2.
Specific examples of impact of the Bangor research and consequent F4F       activity include changes       in policy implemented by G's Fresh, the UK's largest fruit and vegetable       production and distribution       company (yearly turnover &#163;350M)1.
For example, in 2008/9 G's       developed its salad onion       production in Senegal with transport by ship to replace air-freight supply       from Mexico and Egypt.
This reduced GHGE by nearly 8000 kg CO /tonne of produce (over 90%)1.
In collaboration with       2 Marks &amp; Spencer, G's introduced a new plastic grocery jar       for 18 products in 2010, that the         Bangor methodology shows to reduce GHGE by 50% compared with       traditional glass jars.
As a       further impact, informed by the Bangor carbon footprinting model, in 2011       G's improved storage       efficiency by their UK onion growers: this has already delivered       reductions of up to 10% in carbon       emissions for numerous growers.
The Bangor carbon footprint analysis has       also increased the       focus on waste reduction and recycling which has resulted in a reduction       of landfill waste of over       15%.
Combined, these and other measures resulting from the Bangor research       and carbon       footprinting analyses provided the catalyst for, and made a major         contribution to, G's         progress towards a target of 30% reduction in GHGE by 2020, through       improving production       efficiency and sustainable, low-carbon product sourcing and transport1.
The benefit of this research perceived by its commercial beneficiaries is       indicated by their       investment in further Bangor research: (1) G's funded a Bangor PhD       (2010-2013) investigating       GHGE reduction and enhancing economic and environmental sustainability1.
(2) Waitrose       Supermarkets have funded since 2008 Bangor research and extension of       carbon footprinting into       glasshouse crops, air freight legumes and tropical fruit.
Evaluation of a       total of 50 fruit, vegetable       and horticultural products by F4F has led to reductions in the carbon         footprint of Waitrose and         its suppliers2.
In 2010, Waitrose disseminated the       research findings to its entire supply base, e.g.
through specific meetings with growers, suppliers and Waitrose managers,       with presentations by       Bangor scientists and F4F to adapt methods of crop production and handling       to minimise GHGE.
The research also provided evidence to justify long-term investments         in environmental         improvements made by Waitrose, such as changing refrigerant gases       used to chill products2.
Impacts on the process of policy development       Bangor's research was presented to the Welsh Assembly Government9       (2010) and the House of       Commons3 (2012), and was part of the RELU response to the Defra       discussion paper on shaping       the nature of England10 (2010).
Findings on the use of food       miles and the implications of carbon       labelling for sustainable and ethical aspects of food sourcing were       highlighted as future challenges       to reduce the UK's footprint and formed part of the policy         recommendations presented in these       documents3,9,10.
Because of the relevance of the research,       since 2008 GEJ was further invited by       NGO's to write documentation that informed policy, including Fairtrade       International, the       Horticultural Development Society, International Institute for       Environment and Development and       Food Ethics Council (e.g.
ref.
6).
GEJ was invited to co-author the UK       National Ecosystem       Assessment 2011, that underlies many of the recommendations being used by       Defra and adopted       in the Natural Environment White Paper5, and commissioned for       several World Bank publications in       2010 with recommendations on how to make emerging carbon labelling schemes       fairer for       developing countries4.
As a direct impact of the research and       its findings, since 2008 he joined       several Defra committees, including the Food Policy Council, the Fruit and       Vegetable Task Force       and the Rural Climate Change Forum.
Impacts on consumer awareness and debate       The research was broadly disseminated to the public, e.g.
through regular       RELU briefing papers,       media coverage (e.g.
by BBC, Channel 4 and national newspapers), and       because of its       significance for a range of policy-, industry- and public stakeholders,       since 2008 GEJ was invited to       speak on various radio shows (e.g.
on New Zealand radio, Mar 200911),       at conferences (e.g.
at       Food Security and Environmental Change, 2008 and The Nutrition Society,       2009) and debates       (e.g.
RELU's "Power &amp; Responsibility-Who decides?
You decide"),       creating enhanced media and       public understanding of issues surrounding calculation and use of carbon       footprints of food.
RELU       also promoted the project as one of its major achievements in its       publications both for stakeholders       and the general public7,8.
