     Dr Radulescu's work on Arthurian legends and her analyses of Malory's       text have influenced public understanding and education on medieval       literature and its relevance to the modern literary experience.
Groups       affected by her research include the international audience of the       National Geographic TV Channel, local communities in Wales and the wider       public in the UK.
Significant impact has been achieved through substantial       contributions of her expertise and research to, for example, the following       key activities:     1.
Impact on public engagement and understanding of legends &amp;         English literature through national media     Known for their expertise in Arthurian studies, Radulescu (and Field) at       Bangor have been contacted by, and worked with, numerous programmes as       advisors and contributors over the years.
Dr Radulescu has been consulted       on a number of radio programmes in relation to the Arthurian legend.
For       example, Radulescu has often been consulted on topics such as Tennyson,       medieval literature, and pilgrimage for BBC radio programmes (eg.
`The         Idylls of the King', aired July 12th 2009 and       rebroadcasted July 7th 2013).
In 2011 she was contacted by the       National Geographic TV Channel with an invitation to contribute to the new       planned series `The Ancient X- files' [5.3].
This internationally       acclaimed series (the first series was aired successfully in the UK and       internationally in 2009/10) consists in documentaries based on uncovering       evidence about artefacts and events in the past which remain unresolved.
The contributors to the series are academics known for their expertise in       the field directly relevant to the episode.
The documentary that Dr       Radulescu was invited to contribute to was `Sword in the Stone'; it       explored the origins and development of the legendary weapon associated by       tradition with King Arthur.
Dr Radulescu was both one of the main       contributors to the research content of the programme, and the presenter       of the storyline, thus directly participating in the dissemination of       information to the wider public.
The documentary, aired on the National       Geographic TV channel in July 2012 [5.4], also led to articles in the       Welsh press and an interview on BBC Radio Wales, on the Roy Noble show (12       July 2012) [5.5].
Through this program, Radulescu's expertise directly       reached an audience of millions in the UK and abroad.
The episode       continues to be viewed and shared on YouTube, further evidencing the       ongoing significance of Radulescu's contribution to public education on       Arthurian legends.
2.
Impact on the preservation and presentation of cultural heritage     In 2010 the Royal Shakespeare Company produced the first-ever successful       staging of Malory's Morte Darthur.
Written by Mike Poulton, the       celebrated author of the sell-out RSC touring adaptation of Chaucer's Canterbury         Tales, this new production was the result of Gregory Doran's       commission of the work based on Malory's text.
The RSC Malory show was       sold out for the whole summer season within weeks, with the audience       experience being enhanced through a week-long series of public events       organised by the RSC culminating at the end of that week (27 June 2010)       with an event open to the public titled `Authoring Arthur' [5.6].
This       event was conceived as a panel discussion starting from the Arthurian       legend, and more specifically Malory's version of it, that was written and       re-written in the medieval period and beyond.
The only three members of       the panel discussion for this event were Mike Poulton, the script writer,       Dr Raluca Radulescu, the academic expert on Malory and the context in       which he wrote his story, and Gillian Bradshaw, author of popular novels       loosely based on Arthurian legends.
The event was sold out &#8212; 81 members of       the general public were involved in the discussion, which included topics       such as Malory's life and contemporaries, but also issues related to       editions, both scholarly and popular, of his work, through the centuries.
According to the RSC, Radulescu's "knowledge and insight were         fundamental in achieving the purpose of the event, which was for         audiences to consider and appreciate the text and its dramatisation in         new ways, and to understand the enormous, unique significance Arthurian         literature has in British culture.
Dr Radulescu's authority on the         subject and the reputation Bangor University has as a centre for         Arthurian studies, ensured the quality of the event" [5.1].
The       intensity of these discussions left a deep understanding of the context in       which the Arthurian legend was written with the public and a lasting       impact of Radulescu's expertise on the knowledge of this audience.
3.
Impact on the quality of tourist experience, economic prosperity         and creative practice     In 2011 Dr Radulescu's research led to a collaborative project with the       local tourist attraction `King Arthur's Labyrinth', based at Corris,       Powis, and her role as consultant on the development of materials       (critical as well as creative, in the form of short stories) to be used       with audiences ranging from school children to adults.
The impact of this       collaboration is important: King Arthur's Labyrinth receives 40,000       visitors annually; the attraction includes an audio-visual journey       underground, a `bardic journey' overground, an exhibition, and a bookshop,       in which publications relevant to the Arthurian legend (from popular       retellings of the legends to popular studies of the origins of King       Arthur) are sold.
All of these aspects of the exhibition have been       significantly enhanced with the materials developed based on Radulescu's       advice including a timeline of developments in the Arthurian legend and       market research on children's and young adults' literature which could be       sold in the bookshop.
In addition Dr Radulescu's work inspired the writing       of a series of short stories on the Arthurian legend for a young adult       audience before 31 July 2013; these will be printed and sold through the       bookshop at this tourist attraction [5.2].
Following from these activities, Radulescu was invited, in January 2013,       to give an in-depth and intimate guided literary tour of North Wales on       the topic of medieval Arthurian literature.
The event took place on 14       September 2013.
The deep impression the tour made on the select audience       is clear from interest and requests for further reading and enthusiastic       comments afterwards.
4.
Impact on higher education and the scholarly community     Demonstrating the importance of her work for the content of higher       education throughout the UK, Dr Radulescu's monograph (3.1) has been       adopted on reading lists at undergraduate and postgraduate level at       Universities throughout the UK, (e.g.
Universities of Cambridge,       Birmingham, Manchester, Durham, Liverpool) [5.7], thereby extending the       reach of the impact of her work significantly to a national higher       education audience.
