     Context:       To maximise impact, from the outset critical elements of this research       were developed in conjunction with policymakers and practitioners.
Molyneux and his team were involved in the design and production of a       variety of studies, including projects, consultancies and advisory work       that helped advance policymakers' insights in the aforementioned areas.
Examples of these interactions include projects for the World Bank on the       integration of financial services (1997-1998), a study for the European       Commission on examining the competitive impact of the Single Market       Programme in Financial Services (between 2002 and 2004) and, more       recently, the analysis of bank competition, consolidation and efficiency       for the European Commission (2002-2004), the European Central Bank (2002       and 2008), and the Italian Banking Association (2009-2011), as well as       on-going research with FUNCAS (Spanish Savings Banks Foundation).
Pathways to impact:       Molyneux's research team aims to influence and inform policy formulation       surrounding the debate about bank monopoly behaviour through       methodological approaches that model competition, efficiency and risk.
Its       pathways to impact since 2008 are the following routes (as exemplified       under "selected users and beneficiaries" below):            Highly cited work disseminated widely and replicated within policy         papers of central banks and international financial organizations [b4,           b5, b6 and b8].
Attendees to presentations and workshops show an interest in adopting         and becoming users of the methodology [b1 and b3].
Users liaise with Molyneux's team, who act in an advisory capacity to         help develop and implement ideas [b1, b3 and b7].
Users build, develop and utilise modelling and methodological         approaches based on Molyneux and his teams work to inform public policy         on banking sector competition, efficiency and risk issues in their         region / country / continent [b3 and b5]; which, in turn,         further disseminates the research findings [b8].
Dissemination:       Users of the research by Molyneux and his team since 2008 include a wide       range of commercial and public organisations.
The research has been       disseminated in seminar presentations, workshops and through advisory       work.
The latter includes: AB Bank, Riga (May 2008); International       Monetary Fund, Geneva (June 2008); EVLI (Bank), Helsinki, (August 2008);       University College Dublin / Central Bank of Ireland, Dublin (May, 2009);       Italian Banking Association, Rome (September 2009, January 2010, October,       2010); Italian Leasing Association, Milan (September 2010); Banque       Centrale du Luxembourg &amp; STATEC, Luxembourg (March 2011); Unicredit,       Bologne, (April, 2011); Bank of England, London (November, 2011); European       Central Bank, Frankfurt, (January 2012); FUNCAS (Spanish Savings Banks       Foundation), Madrid (January 2012); Unicredit, Bologne, (April, 2011); and       the Welsh Government, Cardiff (May, 2012).
Selected users and beneficiaries:       Italian Banking Association, Rome (2008, 2009, 2010) Project commissioned       by IstEin (Istituto Einaudi, established in July 2008 by the Italian       Banking Association) and directed by Roberto Violi (Senior Director at the       Bank of Italy) [b1 and b2].
The aim of the project was to       examine banking competition in Europe while "aim[ing] at improving       knowledge of this phenomenon, both in terms of methodology and in terms of       quantitative measurements" [b1].
The research outcomes were       directed towards the Italian banking community as well as the Bank of       Italy and other European regulators.
Molyneux and his team attended a       range of workshops (September 2009, January 2010, October, 2010) with       research and operational colleagues from the Bank of Italy, the Italian       Banking Association as well as employees from the main banks including       Unicredit.
Molyneux helped co-ordinate workshops and work programmes       undertaken by academics and policymakers on aspects of competition in       European banking using methodological approaches stemming from a1, a2       and a3.
This work examined market power aspects of banking systems       using structural and non-structural indicators as well as interactions       between competition, risk and efficiency [b2], some of which       appeared subsequently as a European Central Bank study [a6].
The       significance and reach of the impact of this and Molyneux's earlier       research has been to inform the policy debate on bank competition       (including product pricing and access to finance).
This impact is also       evidenced in policy documents from the Bank of Canada [b5],       European Central Bank [b6], Welsh Government [b7] and       African Development Bank [b8].
FUNCAS (Fundaci&#243;n de las Cajas de Ahorros) / Spanish Savings Banks         Foundation       The research of Molyneux's team has been used by FUNCAS since 2008 to       evaluate industry structure and competition, risk and efficiency linkages       in banking.
Some of the work has been pan- European (as is the case of the       work linked to a2, a4, and a6) and some has focused on       Spain, which, in turn "has been of major importance to study the evolution       of banking markets" [b4] in that country.
Furthermore, in 2009       Molyneux completed a FUNCAS sponsored project on "Size Revisited in       European Banking" where bank efficiency, value creation and ownership were       analyzed and presented to regional savings banks in Alicante (June, 2008),       Malaga (February 2009), Granada (May 2010), Valencia (November 2010),       Santiago de Compostella (February 2011) and Santander (May, 2012).
The       impact of the workshops and the policy advice was to help regional banks       in the adoption and use in their decision making of the analytical       approaches developed by Molyneux and his collaborators.
Other work by Molyneux's team during the 2008-2013 period aimed at       comparing the performance of commercial, savings and co-operative banks.
Here the focus was on ownership features emanating from research       highlighted in [a2] and confirmed by [b3].
Ongoing research       with FUNCAS is investigating ways in which savings banks can boost their       efficiency without impacting adversely on risk.
Molyneux's team work       worked closely with staff at individual banks to assist them in       incorporating the methodological innovations into their decision-making       processes.
In addition to annual workshops and advisory work, Molyneux       disseminates the results of his team's research to staff at savings banks       through regular contributions to FUNCA's annual Papeles de la Econom&#237;a         Espa&#241;ola publication (in Spanish).
Welsh Government's Access to Finance Review       In 2013 Molyneux was invited to be a member of the advisory group       reviewing whether High Street banks are meeting the financing needs of       Welsh SME's, and the difficulties in gauging whether the competitive       environment is promoting or inhibiting credit availability in the country.
One aspect of this review notes the difficulties in measuring competition       in banking (based on a1 and a6) and thus confirms the impact of       this research in informing policy [b7].
International Organisations and Central Banks       During the 2008 to 2013, the research of Molyneux's team on non-structural       measures of banking sector competition, efficiency and risk has been cited       by an extensive array of influential policy documents of international       financial organizations as diverse as the Group of 20 (G20) [b4]       and the African Development Bank [b8].
This is further       corroboration of the impact of Molyneux's research on policy formulation       at the international level.
