     The pathways to impact of Schaeck's research involved user-groups from       the outset and the findings were disseminated through presentations at       central banks, by authoring publications of national and international       financial organisations, and by engaging the general public through       national and international media.
In short, the research led to a       transformation in the policy debate at several central banks and has       received global media coverage.
Theme 1: Banking competition     To involve users from the design stage of the research, Schaeck held a       visiting appointment at the International Monetary Fund (2008), Lamfalussy       Fellowship at the European Central Bank (2008), and a consulting contract       also at the European Central Bank (2011) [see b1].
Schaeck disseminated this research through presentations to, and       discussions with, staff at central banks, namely: the Financial Stability       Department of the Bank of England (2010), the Deutsche Bundesbank (2010       and 2011); and the U.S Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (2011 and       2012).
Early versions of this work led to Schaeck being invited to be a       panellist in the G20 OECD Workshop "The New Financial Landscape" (Paris,       2011), presenting his work alongside IMF Deputy Director and ministers of       finance and governors of central banks from several countries.
The key       findings led to Schaeck and collaborators establishing a new indicator of       competition for the banking industry [as detailed in a1 and a2],       which is now used by among others the Deutsche Bundesbank and the European       Central Bank, to gauge the level of competition in local banking markets       [see b2].
The research results also featured prominently in       discussions between the IMF and the Association of German Banks.
Indeed,       the Association used Schaeck's research to argue for policies to increase       competition in the domestic banking market.
The substantial impact on policy debate is reflected in the findings of       Schaeck's research being cited in several issues of the IMF's `Global       Financial Stability Report' [b3 andb7], as well as the       OECD's `Report on Competition: Issues in Banking' (2011).
The ideas put       forward by Schaeck also feature prominently in the UK's Independent       Commission on Banking (the so-called Vickers Report on structural reform       to the UK system, 2011), recommendations of which are being incorporated       into the UK Banking Act 2013 [b4].
This evidence highlights the       wide-ranging influence that Schaeck's work has had on policy formulation       in the area of banking competition in central banks and various       international financial organisations [b3, b6 and b10].
Theme 2: Corporate governance in banking     Schaeck's research on executive board composition initiated an         international debate and heightened the general public's awareness       of the potential destabilising influence of various policy proposals.
This       was particularly the case relating to reforms advocating female board       quotas, a topic that has been discussed intensely in Europe and elsewhere.
Indeed, the European Commission abandoned the idea of a mandatory board       quota and Schaeck's research received significant attention in this       debate, particularly in Germany, as illustrated by its use by the Minister       for Labour and Social Affairs, the President and Vice-President of the       Deutsche Bundesbank who debated the role of board quotas in April 2012 in       response to the media attention triggered by Schaeck's research.
This       research also features in supplementary documents put forward by interest       groups lobbying against the introduction of female board quotas to a       German parliamentary enquiry on the introduction of mandatory board quotas       in bank governance.
Global media attention over Schaeck's research dealing with role of       female board members and the effectives of boards to control senior       managers is evidenced in Handelsblatt (Front page, 28 January       2010), Wirtschaftswoche (28 January 2010), Financial Times       (27 March 2012),The Guardian (27 March 2012), The Telegraph,       ITV News (27 and 28 March 2012), BBC News (27 March 2012), CNBC       (27 March 2012), Forbes (28 and 29 March 2012), Financial Times         Deutschland (27 March 2012), The Australian (28 March 2012),         The Globe and Mail (5 April 2012), and other newspapers in Spain,       Switzerland, Poland, and in several countries in Latin America.
Theme 3: Banking regulation and economic stability     Between 2008 and 2013, Schaeck disseminated his work on the link between       regulation and economic stability [a4], through presentations and       discussions with staff at the European Central Bank (2009, 2010), the Bank       of England (2009, 2010 and 2011), and the Deutsche Bundesbank (2010, 2011,       2012, and 2013) [b6 and b9].
The findings of this research       were disseminated widely through citations within policy documents of       central banks [b7], deposit insurance agencies and other regulatory       bodies [b3, b4 and b5].
The discussions with bank supervisors and economists aimed to inform       policymaking and operational work around the intervention of distressed       financial institutions.
In particular, the study on the regulation of       interest rate risk was presented to the full Board of the Deutsche       Bundesbank at its meeting of May 2013.
The German central bank has used       this research in its internal deliberations to evaluate and anticipate       potentially unintended consequences of regulatory behaviour [b2].
The further impact of this research is evidenced by it having heightened       the policy debate on the unintended consequences of regulatory enforcement       actions in distressed banks, having stimulated discourse on the design of       bank bailout packages, and having resulted in the better deployment of       resources in the resolution of distressed banks [b3 and b6].
Other signs of impact include Schaeck being appointed as a consultant       (2011 to 2012) for the design of the inaugural issue of the World Bank's       Global Financial Development Report [b3].
His work on bank       bailouts and the role of the state in financial systems influenced       directly Chapter 4 of this new flagship publication.
Research on the       unintended effects of bank recapitalizations in the U.S., also had an       impact on the general public's knowledge on these issues, as Schaeck was       interviewed on this topic by the Rolling Stone Magazine in January       2013.
