     Impact on policy debates     The research findings have influenced contributions to policy formulation       and access to justice       debates (e.g., following research presentations by Sarah Nason at the       Legal Services Research       Centre conference (Oxford 2012 /Public Law Project London Conference       (2012)).
The research       findings were presented at a time of consultation and debate about       possible changes to judicial       review and legal aid.
The work provided empirical data, which assisted in       informing the debate and       responses to consultation exercises [5.1 &amp;, 5.2].
The research has also assisted the work of the Public Law Project (PLP)       (a non-Governmental       Organisation in the field of access to justice in public law).
PLP's       Research Director confirmed that       the research has been of great interest to the PLP specifically for its       unique and original analysis of       the operation of the regional Centres and its addition to the evidence       base of empirical data       regarding judicial review generally which PLP has been collecting for many       years.
The importance       of the data was proved when PLP were able to analyse and respond to recent       government       proposals to reform judicial review on the basis of empirical data rather       than general comment       [5.2].
The research has provided an on-going critical assessment of the       regionalisation project, in       particular adding to a base of knowledge about inconsistency of judicial       decision-making in the       Administrative Court especially at the permission stage [5.1 &amp; 5.10].
Impact within Her Majesty's Courts' and Tribunals' Service HMCTS     The research has impacted upon the case for maintaining and expanding the       regionalisation of       public law, particularly when other local courts (such as magistrates'       courts) were being closed due       to austerity measures [5.4].
In Wales the research has influenced the development of initiatives to       increase the number of       specialist practitioners and to broaden access to public law legal       services and remedies,       specifically by providing evidence of the lack of specialist legal       providers in Wales [5.6].
As a result       of the research the Administrative Court Lawyer for the Welsh &amp;       Western Circuits has begun to       arrange bi-annual, Administrative Court Office led training events [5.5].
In the Midlands the research has helped the Birmingham Administrative       Court put into place       measures to increase its share of the total caseload outside London and to       improve the efficiency       of the service it provides.
The Administrative Court lawyer for the       Midlands has used the findings to       consider whether changes need to be made to increase the regional share of       the workload and       whether it is possible for the court to influence the region of issue.
E.g., it has been possible to see       the relatively low number of solicitors in the region issuing claims and       to target measures to attract       them.
The research has also highlighted possibilities to provide an       improved quality of service       which in turn may result in an increase in usage of the regional       Administrative Court Centres [5.1 &amp;       5.5].
Impact on National assembly for Wales and Welsh Assembly Government     The research findings relating to public law in Wales formed part of       written and oral evidence to the       Welsh Assembly Constitutional and Legislative Affairs Committee.
The       findings in relation to       access to justice, legal institutions, and the legal profession were cited       in the Committee's       December 2012 Report as informing the its understanding of what       institutions are needed to fully       establish a separate jurisdiction and on procedural changes necessary to       ensure currently       established Welsh institutions are sufficiently supported (para 33,       conclusions 1 &#8212; 4 (separate       jurisdiction for Wales) para 92 recommendation 2 (amendment to Civil       Procedure Rules) para 142       (legal education and qualification issues) [5.7].
The language used by       Sarah Nason in giving her       evidence to the Committee (that the Welsh jurisdiction question is one of       "degrees and       development") was adopted by the Committee's Chair in his response to the       Welsh Government's       launch of its own further consultation (in plenary 27 March 2012),       pertaining to the idea that a       Welsh jurisdiction would develop by degrees rather than as a singular       event (or even series of       events) and depends significantly on the establishment of separate legal       institutions (notably       separate courts) [5.7].
The research findings about the need to develop public law legal service       specialisation in Wales       were supported by recommendations made in a 2013 Welsh Government report The         Future of         Legal Services in Wales (July 2013).
Impact on the Judiciary:     The Lord Chief Justice for England and Wales has noted in his Birkenhead         Lecture to the       members of Grays Inn (21 October 2013) (paras 40 and 41 especially) that       the research discloses       the differential development of the public law bar outside London and that       this disparity requires       urgent rectification [5.6].
Both the present Lord Chief Justice and       President of the Queen's Bench       Division have drawn on the research findings in keeping up to date with       the variable Administrative       Court caseload (views expressed in a meeting with Sarah Nason at the RCJ       October 2013) [5.6].
Other members of the judiciary have noted that following the research they       are better informed in       dealing with cases in the regions [5.1].
Impact on legal services providers:     The research has contributed to awareness of public law outside London       and the need for London-based       advisers to take advantage of the regional Courts.
It has contributed to       the growing       realisation of the need for those based in London to serve other nations       and regions better.
That       has reflected itself in a greater awareness of the need to travel outside       London for the purpose of       giving advice to clients or for court hearings [5.1].
As part of the       research two CPD workshops       were held (Llandudno and Cardiff) in November 2010.
The participants       included local authority       representatives, practitioners, and court staff.
The findings were       considered by the Administrative       Court User Group in Wales and presented in the minutes of one of its       meetings (June 2012),       solicitors present agreed to action the recommendation to develop measures       ensuring they instruct       local counsel wherever possible [5.8].
Impact on legal aid provision/access to justice for unrepresented         litigants     Early findings from the research formed part of Bangor Law School's       submission to the House of       Commons Welsh Affairs Committee (April 2009) considering closure of the       Legal Services       Commission Office in Cardiff.
The findings were cited in the Committee's       Report (para 28) and       influenced the Committee's recommendation for an urgent reconsideration of       the plans to close the       Cardiff office [5.9].
The research finding that current legal aid policies       in relation to public law may       be disproportionately damaging to regional service providers have been       made known to the new       Legal Aid Board and will be taken into account when new legal aid       contracts are awarded [5.3].
