     The LHV study conducted jointly by TRL and Heriot-Watt formed the basis       of the government's decision in 2008 to reject all but one of the seven       LHV options considered.
On the basis of the research, only the so-called       `longer semi-trailer' (LST) option was considered to merit further       investigation.
The DfT then commissioned another more detailed       investigation of this option (by WSP consultants) on which Prof McKinnon       and Dr Palmer were engaged as advisers having modelled the impact of the       LST option in the earlier LHV study[S3].
This new study confirmed that       there would be significant net economic and environmental benefits in       increasing the maximum length of articulated lorries from 16.5 to 18.75       metres.
In 2011 the UK government launched a ten year trial of LSTs,       licensing up to 1000 for use on UK roads.
The EC amended its proposal to apply the 4 metre trailer height limit       uniformly across the EU and decided instead to give individual countries       the right to continue running trailers with heights greater than 4 metres.
The LRC research is likely to have influenced this decision by alerting EC       officials to the fact that the 4 metre limit would have a       disproportionate, and negative, impact on the UK road haulage industry and       providing UK government officials and trade bodies with important evidence       for their lobbying activities.
The LRC was the first organisation to       quantify the potential economic and environmental costs likely to arise       from the imposition in the UK of an EU-wide 4 metre height limit on road       trailers (McKinnon, 2010).
This highlighted the fact that the UK was       unusual within the EU in having height clearances of up to 5 metres over       most of its road network, permitting the operation of double-deck / high       cube vehicles.
Use of these vehicles permits greater consolidation of       loads, particularly of lower density materials, reducing the number of       trips, vehicle-kms, energy use and emissions.
The LRC paper received       significant media coverage in the Scottish press (e.g the Herald and       Scotsman), the trade press (e.g.
Commercial Motor [S7] and Motor       Transport) and radio (e.g.
Radio Scotland).
The Department for Transport and Freight Transport Association [S4] used       the results of the LRC analysis in documentation that they prepared       opposing the imposition of the 4 metre height limit on British road       haulage operations.
Copies of the LRC paper were also circulated to senior       staff in the EU's transport directorate (DG Move).
The LRC paper was       extensively cited in a House of Commons debate on the subject on the 18th       January 2011 led by the MP for Mid-Derbyshire.
In her introductory speech       she stated that, `People might think that a reduction of 90 cm will not         make much difference, but, as the excellent report by Professor Alan         McKinnon, "Britain without Double-deck Lorries", demonstrates, this         proposal will have a massive impact on Britain's haulage industry.'
Subsequent lobbying by the UK government and industry resulted in the EC       reconsidering its proposal to apply the 4 metre trailer height limit       uniformly across the EU and giving individual countries the right to opt       out of the proposed regulation.
The LRC research is likely to have       influenced this decision by alerting EC officials to the fact that the 4       metre limit would have a disproportionate, and negative, impact on the UK       road haulage industry and providing UK government officials and trade       bodies with important evidence for their lobbying activities.
