     Our research on CO2 emissions from freight transport has       impacted on government policy and industrial practices in three ways:     1.
Measurement of CO2 emissions from freight transport:     1.1 Macro-level:       The underpinning research formed the basis of a report written by Prof       McKinnon in 2007 for the Commission for Integrated Transport (CfIT) on `CO2       emissions from freight transport in the UK'.
This was the first study to       carbon footprint the UK freight transport system and construct       decarbonisation scenarios for the freight sector.
In the course of this       work, it was discovered that the figures quoted for CO2       emissions from road freight transport in several government publications       were much higher those calculated using data from the government's own       `Continuing Survey of Road Goods Transport' (CSRGT).
This was acknowledged       in CfIT's summary report on Transport and Climate Change: `trend emission       figures for lorries and vans can vary by a factor of 3' (p.24).
As part of       the EPSRC-funded Green Logistics project, McKinnon and Piecyk (2009a) then       reviewed the various data sets, approaches and methodologies in an effort       to explain why the discrepancies has arisen.
They recommended that in       future empirical data derived from the CSRGT, rather than laboratory test       data, be used to carbon footprint road freight operations.
The method used       by AEA Technology to compile CO2 data for road freight       transport for the National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory (http://naei.defra.gov.uk/       ) was subsequently changed to incorporate CSRGT data and the CO2       estimates for road freight revised downwards by a factor of three.
This       indicated that the decarbonisation of the road freight sector would be       less difficult than originally thought and not require the introduction of       stringent policy measures.
1.2 Micro-level:       Our research on the comparison of the carbon footprints of online and       conventional retailing is quoted by Amazon.com http://www.amazon.com/b/ref=gw_m_b_corpres?ie=UTF8&amp;node=13786321       and the UK online retailer Scotts of Stow as evidence that online       retailing is better for the environment.
The results of our research on       the practicality and benefit of product-level carbon auditing of supply       chains has been used internally by companies such as Procter and Gamble       [S2] and Diageo to support their argument that they should not be       compelled by retailers or legislators to put carbon labels on all their       products.
We were also invited by the European Council for the Chemical       Industry (Cefic) [S2] to provide their member companies with guidance on       how to measure CO2 emissions from their transport operations.
http://www.cefic.org/Industry-support/Transport--logistics/Best-Practice-Guidelines1/General-Guidelines-/       The report that we prepared for them (McKinnon and Piecyk, 2010) included       industry-specific carbon intensity values for all the main freight       transport modes and these are now widely used by chemical companies.
Our       report also formed the basis of a manual that Cefic prepared giving member       companies guidance on how to calculate their freight-related CO2       emissions (Cefic, 2010).
These guidelines are now applied by many large       European chemical companies.
2.
Forecasting future trends in CO2 emissions from road         freight transport     The `freight decarbonisation' framework and model have been used by the       Dept for Transport (DfT), Dept of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) and the       Committee on Climate Change (CCC) to forecast future trends in CO2       emissions from freight transport and map pathways for their reduction.
In       its 2008 policy document on `Delivering a Sustainable Transport System: A       Logistics Perspective' the DfT outlined the results of a Delphi survey       which we conducted to forecast business-as-usual freight-related CO2       trends up to 2020 (p.36).
These results were subsequently reported in       Piecyk and McKinnon (2010).
We also used the freight decarbonisation model       to determine how the UK road freight system would have to change to meet       the CO2 reduction target enshrined in the 2008 Climate Change       Act (80% reduction by 2050 against a 1990 base line) (McKinnon and Piecyk,       2009b).
This study became an integral part of DECC's `2050 Pathways       Analysis' as acknowledged its July 2010 report: `For domestic freight       transport activity the levels have been based on DfT baseline projections,       rolled out to future years, combined with similar work undertaken by       Heriot-Watt University' (p.69).
Both our 2020 forecasts and 2050 scenario       analysis were used by the CCC in the derivation of its Fourth Carbon       Budget as acknowledged on page 188 of its 2010 report[S10] Committee on       Climate Change (2010) http://www.theccc.org.uk/reports/fourth-carbon-budget       `Fourth Carbon Budget Report.'
This built on an earlier paper that Prof       McKinnon prepared for the CCC on the future trend in CO2 emissions       from freight transport.
http://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/building-a-low-carbon-economy-the-uks-contribution-to-tackling-climate-change-2/       This advice was incorporated into the CCC's first report entitled       `Building a Low Carbon Economy' (2008).
3.
Reducing CO2 Emissions from Freight Transport     In 2010 the Freight Transport Association (FTA) (representing 12,000       users and providers of logistics services in the UK) established a       Logistics Carbon Reduction Scheme (LCRS) to help and encourage member       companies to cut their freight-related CO2 emissions.
With the       support of an EPSRC `Pathways to Impact Award (PIA)', we have closely       worked with the FTA to adapt our freight decarbonisation model to the       needs of the LCRS.
A version of the model was used to derive a target for       reducing the carbon intensity of freight transport between 2010 and 2015.
This target was declared in the 1st annual report of the LCRS and       subsequently endorsed by the UK government.
To the best of our knowledge       this is the world's first industry-government target for cutting the       carbon intensity of freight transport.
Scheme members collectively       committed to an 8 per cent reduction in the carbon intensity of freight       operations by 2015 compared to 2010.
We have also converted our original       spread sheet model into a software tool that companies can use to       determine how they can meet this target.
This `carbon intervention       modelling tool', which was developed in association with the FTA [S5] and       DfT, can be downloaded free-of-charge from the FTA website and is being       widely used by LCRS and over 85 companies to assess the potential savings       in CO2 emissions from applying a range of 38 measures to their       freight transport operations covering 61,000 commercial vehicles.
Most of       these measures reduce the distance travelled and / or fuel consumed,       thereby cutting costs as well as carbon emissions.
