     Delays, lacking or inaccurate delivery information can be extremely       costly as the consequence could be production down-time for manufacturers       or processing companies.
Transit times affect the cash-to-cash cycle for       most companies.
Long transit times means later payment and negatively       affects the cash flow.
Cash is tied up in inventory in-transit that could       otherwise have been employed elsewhere, contributing to further revenue       generation [1].
This project resulted in savings of &#163;260k from a reduction in ocean       transport costs through the introduction of supplier tendering and       pro-active performance management.
It also resulted in savings from a       reduction in inventory holding costs, made possible by a key CALM       web-based tool that aids the evaluation of transport options based on       transport cost, transit time and customer payment terms and thereby       predicts the `real' cost of transport.
Use of this tool resulted in       savings of &#163;732k during the period.
[S1] Due to the benefits demonstrated       by the project, it was recognised for its excellence at the Knowledge       transfer Partnership Annual Awards in 2010.
The project won the Award for       Engineering Excellence and Regional Winner Scotland, recognition that it       was central to the company's continued expansion over the period.
Cost savings resulted through production efficiencies resulting from       improvements in the accuracy of receiving and despatch information.
It is       estimated that these savings amount to &#163;340k.
The project has also already       had a positive impact on sales for the reasons described in the Sales       Turnover section.
In the final year of the project, the company estimated       that existing customers purchased a higher proportion of their material       requirements from CA as a result of more reliable deliveries and       visibility of packing lists for in-transit material.
This amounted to       0.75% sales in 2007 and 4% of sales for 2008/9 which yielded &#163;771k in       profit.
The total impact on profit therefore, from savings and increased       sales, during the project's lifetime was &#163;2,102k.
[S1]Two logistics       co-ordinators were recruited (one in USA and one in UK) as the       implementation progressed.
The main impacts of the research were in increasing the overall       capability of CA to manage its logistics processes on a global basis,       which include:     - Ability to objectively select and manage the performance of national       and international transport providers and drive improvements in the       accuracy and timeliness of transport information, and service delivered by       those providers, that has led to a reduction in transportation times of at       least 15%     - Planning and management of UK and US domestic and international       transport bringing logistics management to the heart of the CA group's       operational planning     - End-to-end visibility of inventory     - Ability to evaluate the `real' cost of transportation, taking transit       time, transport cost and customer payment terms into account, reducing       costs and improving cash flow     - Provision of critical transport cost and delivery information to the       commercial team, influencing commercial decisions     - Ability to add greater value to customers by providing real time       shipment tracking and inventory information providing real competitive       advantage     - Better cost control cost and service levels in US domestic transport     The relationship resulted in the development of a dedicated transport       function, transport procedures and an innovative integrated IT system &#8212;       CALM &#8212; to control logistics management.
Logistics management has moved       from being an activity with the potential to constrain growth to a highly       structured and organised function.
It was central to the company's       continued expansion over the period of the KTP and provides a real       competitive strength, managed from the company's UK headquarters that were       pivotal in its continuing global expansion.
It gave the company much       greater control over a key activity which represents its 3rd highest cost.
The company expanded three-fold over the period of the project, and       continues to grow globally as part of the PCC group that bought the       company.
In addition to bringing greater transparency and efficiency in       the movement of goods, the system tools provide valuable information to       the commercial team that has a direct impact on commercial decision       making.
As well as these benefits to the company, a major deliverable was the       development of a transport purchasing framework for SMEs [2] which has       been generally available to SMEs to support the implementation of a       similar strategy in other business sectors.
