 The FJP has had significant impacts in three major areas: policy debates on the value of judicial diversity; broader critical debate and reflection on the contribution of a feminist approach to judicial decision-making; and teaching and learning in higher education and beyond.
a) Impact on policy debates on the value of judicial diversity The FJP has had a clear impact in policy debates regarding the value of judicial diversity.
In evidence to a House of Lords Constitution Committee's inquiry into the Judicial Appointment Process (November 2011), Lady Hale noted, despite having been initially `quite sceptical' as to whether a more diverse judiciary would make a difference to the outcome of cases, that the `very interesting' Feminist Judgments collection demonstrated that it might do so, telling Committee members that the best answer she could give on this question was: `go and read that book' (source 2).
In its March 2012 report on Judicial Appointments, the House of Lords Constitution Committee cited Feminist Judgments as evidence for the proposition that `[a] more diverse judiciary can bring different perspectives to bear on the development of the law and to the concept of justice itself' (source 2), which in turn supported its conclusion that `a more diverse judiciary would not undermine the quality of our judges and would increase public trust and confidence in the judiciary', and its recommendations for a series of measures to improve the diversity of the judiciary.
b) Impact on critical debate and reflection on feminism and judging In her Foreword to Feminist Judgments, Lady Hale observed that `lawyers and judges...have so much to learn from reading this book'.
In a subsequent public lecture she observed that the book provides `objective evidence' that a feminist perspective can make a difference `not only on so- called "women's issues", but on the whole range of legal issues which may come before the courts' (source 3).
Other judges similarly report that the FJP has influenced their thinking: for example, an Australian judge wrote that it `has inspired and will challenge me here also' (source 6).
The eminent, recently retired Court of Appeal judge, Sir Stephen Sedley, wrote in a review that the `highly original' exercise of the FJP provided a `rich illustration' of the utility of taking seriously a feminist approach to difficult legal cases (source 7).
A conference held in May 2011, `Feminist Judgments: Next Steps', also saw a number of judges debating the implications of the project, including Sir Terence Etherton (Court of Appeal), Dame Laura Cox (High Court), Siobhan McGrath (Senior President of Residential Property Tribunals) and Catriona Jarvis (Upper Tribunal, Immigration and Asylum Chamber).
Prominent legal practitioners participating in the debate at the same conference included Vera Baird QC, Catherine Briddick (Senior Legal Officer, Rights of Women), and Amelia Nice (barrister, Great James Street Chambers).
In October 2011, the Interlaw Diversity Forum (an LGBT networks initiative) organised an evening seminar on the FJP at Norton Rose LLP which was attended by over 100 professionals from city law firms, accounting firms, banks, and regulatory bodies.
The event was very enthusiastically received and generated excellent feedback (source 6), as well as two articles in The Lawyer magazine (source 4).
Feminist Judgments was favourably discussed in the Law Society Gazette (by the prominent legal commentator Joshua Rozenberg) and the Equal Opportunities Review (source 4) and in a number of legal Blogs, including the UK Human Rights Blog, Human Rights in Ireland, Lords of the Blog: Life and Work in the House of Lords, Pink Tape Blog (a blog concerning life at the family law bar) and SLAW (Canada) (source 4).
The FJP has also been relied on by NGOs in their work on women's equality before the law.
The Women's Resource Centre contacted Hunter in connection with the FJP and asked her to contribute to the CEDAW shadow report for the UK on equality before the law (source 6).
The shadow report describes the FJP as demonstrating `best practice' in promoting judicial diversity and urges that the project be supported and emulated (source 5).
This report will be considered alongside the UK government's report by the UN CEDAW Committee in late 2013.
UNIFEM (now UN Women) also consulted Hunter on the issue of gender and judging in the context of preparation of the latest edition of their biennial publication Progress of the World's Women, and cited her article `Can Feminist Judges Make a Difference?'
in the 2011-12 report (source 5).
An article in the Guardian Online by Erika Rackley stimulated a lively public discussion about feminism and judging and was re-tweeted or shared on Facebook over 100 times (source 4).
BBC R4 `Woman's Hour' featured discussion of the FJP in December 2010 in an item in which Clare McGlynn debated the merits of feminist judging with Baroness Ruth Deech, and again in May 2011, when Erika Rackley joined a discussion on `Is Justice Influenced by Gender?'.
The Pod Academy, an independent platform for broadcasts on academic research which `aims to inform public debate and uncover intriguing and challenging new ideas' commissioned a podcast on the FJP which incorporates comments by Lady Hale from the Norton Rose seminar, and interviews with Hunter and Rosemary Auchmuty (Reading) by barrister and novelist Elizabeth Woodcraft (source 4).
c) Impact on teaching and students The results of the FJP have been used in teaching in over 20 universities in the UK, France, South Africa and Australia in this REF period, on compulsory and optional LLB modules, LLM programmes and other M-Level courses (e.g.
MSc in Socio-Legal Studies, MSc in Healthcare Ethics).
The reach of this impact is not confined to specialist law and gender modules but extends to a far broader range of subjects, reflecting the diversity of legal cases tackled in the judgments (e.g.
Criminal Law, Statutory Interpretation, Civil Liberties, Jurisprudence, Law and Commercial Relationships, Family Law).
In these modules, the feminist judgments variously demonstrate to students how feminist ideas may be implemented in legal practice, provoke students to think critically about judicial decision-making, and illustrate different possibilities for the development of legal doctrine (source 1).
Further funding was obtained by two project participants (including Carr, Kent) from the UK Centre for Legal Education to develop teaching materials based on the FJP, and these are available through the FJP website, and have in turn generated teaching-related publications including a special issue of The Law Teacher (46(3) 2012).
The impact of the FJP in teaching has also extended as far as the A-level school curriculum, with Hunter invited by the Managing Editor of Sociology Review (`The flagship magazine for A-level Sociology') to contribute an article on the FJP aimed at A-level students (source 8).
