     The research provided the original observation that food protein       functionality can be enhanced by control of denaturation, aggregation and       glycation during heat treatment.
Protein modification could be controlled       in real time during processing using a relatively inexpensive light       scattering geometry.
The understanding of underlying structural protein       modifications translated this laboratory observation into technology for       deployment in industrial food manufacturing conditions.
Market Research       commissioned by the University and Scottish Enterprise identified an       opportunity for a new company delivering in-process real time monitoring       technology for thermal processing of proteins conducted by food ingredient       manufacturers.
This technology offers efficient quality control procedures       for industrial manufacturing of food proteins with improved functional       properties.
Historically, quality control methods for denaturated food       proteins were complex, expensive and time consuming and not possible to       conduct in factory processing conditions in real time.
The novel       ingredients are used as fat replacers in yoghurt and cheese and cakes and       to replace E-numbers.
Rival technologies exist to create fat replacers       from whey and egg white proteins using expensive microparticulation       machinery, but are owned by non-UK companies with resulting products       imported and sold at a high price.
Through Nandi, this technology offers       food ingredient companies a tool to improve the functionality of their       protein ingredients and to deliver products with standardised, reliable       quality.
Obesity is a major challenge facing the health of the UK population,       blamed on combination of diet and lifestyle.
Yet consumers have been       resistant to reduced fat foods on grounds of "mouth feel", taste and       suspicions of E numbers.
Proteins such as egg and whey protein with       enhanced functionality offer improved sensory properties compared to       starch based fat replacers.
Many commercially available bakery products       contain emulsifiers and foaming ingredients with E-numbers which could be       replaced by proteins with enhanced functionality.
Also, in "mature"       markets, such as Western Europe, the trend for "clean label" foods       containing fewer E-numbers is growing.
The market opportunity in the UK       for the application of novel protein products to deliver new ambient       stable-foamed food products is in excess of &#163;100 million, and novel       ingredients that act as fat mimetics is a significant technology platform       with a market excess of &#163;400 million in the UK alone.
Currently the UK and       European market for protein based fat replacers is dominated by one or two       large dairy companies and is limited to whey protein.
Small to medium size       cheese manufacturing companies, which reflect the trend towards consumer       preferences for "local" products cannot afford to implement facilities to       add value to whey protein and it is either sold as a commodity product or       processed as waste.
The commodity whey protein EU market is approximately       300 million Euros.
The technology developed by Nandi Proteins offers the       possibility of processing this whey stream to a higher value product.
Nandi Proteins expects to be able to access 10% of this whey market within       the next five years.
In forming Nandi, Scottish Enterprise, with venture capital company Sigma       Technology Management Ltd provided development funding and the business       and technical support required to form business partnerships and provide       proof of principle to food ingredient companies.
Heriot-Watt University       provided commercialisation support via Research and Enterprise Services,       use of bench scale processing and analytical equipment in the School of       Life Sciences in addition to funding salaries of core staff.
The       analytical support was important as the company could not have funded       equipment purchase.
The physico-chemical modifications of new food       ingredients and associated functionality in food applications require       corroboration by sophisticated analytical equipment and methods, important       in building customer confidence in the technology.
Nandi Proteins Ltd. employs 3 people (two at PhD level) and will create a       4th (PhD level) position in 2013/2014.
The employees demonstrate the use       of the monitoring technology and to work alongside customers to prove the       principle of enhanced ingredient functionality in food.
Nandi's business       model is to license the technology to customers and not to manufacture its       own products.
The first fat replacement product was launched by Friesland       Campina DMV in the Netherlands.
[S2] DMV has produced protein using Nandi       technology on a commercial scale and has marketed this as Hiprotal 60.
The       product was sold into the dairy and formulated meat products market within       Europe.
Sales of 200 tonnes per annum are claimed over a production period       of 2007-2011.
Hiprotal 60 sold at &#163;6 per kilo which equates to approximate       sales of &#163;6M over the five year production period.
In addition, Friesland       has incorporated Hiprotal 60 as fat replacer in products such as a low fat       yoghurt drink Dutch Lady, sold widely in Malaysia.
The rights to Hiprotal       60 product manufacture and sales were transferred in 2012 to Rovita GmbH,       a German ingredient manufacturing company which sells and markets the whey       products as Roviprod 60.
Nandi also has contracts with Premier Foods, the UK's largest food       company.
Nandi's latest patent application was acquired by Tate &amp; Lyle       Investments on behalf of Tate &amp; Lyle Food ingredients in December       2012, and is a central part of their food development strategy.
The       agreement grants Tate &amp; Lyle an exclusive worldwide licence for the       technology for food and beverage use while Nandi Proteins Ltd retains the       rights to develop the technology for other applications such as       pharmaceutical.
Tate &amp; Lyle are responsible for developing and in due       course commercialising the technology including its manufacturing,       applications development, sales and marketing.
This has brought a high       level of investment to Nandi Proteins (&#163;3M).
While tied by confidentiality       agreements that prevent disclosure of details, Nandi is working toward a       license agreement with a major food producer in November 2013, with the       launch of a major product line in January 2014.
A Senior Executive of       Nandi Proteins is clear that "Without the research carried out by       Heriot-Watt University, Nandi Proteins would not have been created.
Nandi       sells its products to end use companies and because of this, companies can       apply the technology to reduce fat and "clean label" products such as       yoghurt and milk based drinks, making them more attractive to consumers"       [S1]
