     NiTech Solutions Ltd was spun off from Heriot-Watt University in Dec       2004, aided by a SMART       award from Scottish Enterprise, with plug-flow crystallisation and       reaction as the key technologies       for chemical, pharmaceutical and food industries.
A second SMART award on       continuous       crystallisation supported Dr Anting Liao, Xiongwei Ni's ex-PhD student       from HWU, to be employed       at NiTech to carry out the designed trials.
Excellent results were       generated; for example,       consistent crystal morphology/size distribution/enhanced yield,       significantly reduced process time       and waste, and elimination of the use of milling machines.
An example of       the impact of the       technology is the continuous crystallisation of one of the AstraZeneca's       blockbuster drug       ingredients.
In their operation in traditional crystallisers, it takes 9       hours and 40 minutes for the       crystallisation step; the filtration rate is poor because of uneven sizes       of crystals generated due to       the difficulties, identified above, of controlling the crystallisation       environment.
In order to obtain the       required size a milling machine is used as one of the key downstream unit       operations.
When       applying NiTech continuous crystallising technology, the overall process       was shown to take only 12       minutes with uniform sizes, enhanced filtration rates (which eliminate the       use of the milling       machine) and significant savings in capital and operational costs (see ref       [6] above).
Another leading example is the production of a biopharmaceutical drug in       Genzyme (now Sanofi).
In less than two years from conception in 2005, full production was       commissioned at the Haverhill       site in April 2007 after successful trials and design at NiTech as well as       the certification of the       process by the FDA.
NiTech technology was used to launch production of a       new active       pharmaceutical ingredient (API) via a three-phase reaction on the scale of       multi-hundred tons p.a.
with a value of multi-&#163;100M p.a.
The reaction is approximately 40 times       faster than a batch       process, with good flexibility to control throughput.
The reactor was able       to fit into a small footprint       in an existing building, avoiding the traditional alternative of two large       pressure reactors and a new       building.
There was a resultant saving of several million pounds in       capital expenditure and       approximately four times faster construction.
Simplicity of operation and       reduced maintenance       costs have been sustained.
Product quality is higher, with the ability to       continuously monitor and       control the reaction leading to a zero reject rate for this reaction step,       all contributing to a       competitive commercial advantage.
Quoting a Senior Manager of Genzyme:     "This is believed to be the largest scale continuous manufacturing         plant for a patented API in the         world.
Importantly, we were able to supply the market many months         earlier than would have been         the case with conventional batch processing.
This was one of the best         investment decisions that I         have made! "
[text removed for publication]     NiTech has filed key patents on continuous crystallisation, worked with a       large number of chemical,       food and pharmaceutical companies on continuous crystallisation, including       seven out of the top       ten global pharma giants and two out of the top three global food       companies on edible oils.
It has       received investments over &#163;3M and employed more than 16 people.
Following discussions between NiTech, GSK, and members of the ScotCHEM       research pooling       and Chemical Sciences Scotland industry-academia collaborative initiatives       on how to further       exploit this technology, a joint demonstration project was established in       mid-2009.
GSK provided       `model' crystallisation process and materials.
Outstanding results were       obtained in these trials.
It       was seen as an opportunity for Scotland to take the lead in meeting the       challenges facing chemical       manufacturing globally.
This led to continuous crystallisation being the       platform technology in the       GSK-led Continuous Manufacture and Crystallisation (CMAC) consortium.
CMAC       was established       in 2010 with &#163;1M cash injection and &#163;1M in kind each from GSK,       AstraZeneca and Novartis as the       tier-one members, plus &#163;250k from tier two members including Fujifilm,       Genzyme, Croda,       Syngenta, Evonik, NiTech itself and others.
In 2010/11, NiTech changed its       business model to       become an integrator and facilitator, focussing on collaboration with an       engineering company       rather than manufacturing the reactors itself.
It is a critical part of       CMAC, indeed, according to a       member of the Board     "NiTech's technology is the technology that started it all off".
CMAC has now grown into a &gt;&#163;60M consortium with research grants from       EPSRC Centre for       Innovative Manufacturing (&#163;9.1M), ESPRC DTC (&#163;6.9M), Scottish Funding       Council (&#163;1.5M), TSB       (1.75M), EPSRC ICT Platform (&#163;4M), EU (&#163;0.5M), and EPSRC RPIF (&#163;34M).
CMAC       is now the       largest and the most comprehensive centre in the world on continuous       crystallisation.
It is focused       on helping industry to evaluate and trial leading edge process solutions       against their requirements       and to accelerate the introduction of new process-intensification       technologies to meet wider       industry needs.
