     More than 1.2 million women and 900,000 men are stalked in the UK every       year (British Crime Survey.)
77% of victims wait until they have had more       than 100 incidents of unwanted behaviour before they tell anyone about it.
The research described above has directly informed practice in active       investigations of psychosexual crime, case management and intervention       strategies employed by law enforcement and private sector threat       assessment professionals in many countries and anti-stalking public       information campaigns run by law enforcement agencies and charities.
Impact on police investigation practice.
The research derived a typology of stalkers, based on several thousand       cases, and recommendations for case management of the threat that these       pose.
Prior to Sheridan's research, police and threat assessment       professionals had no evidence on which to base case management strategies.
This led to a second stage of the work in which Sheridan, using a database       of existing cases, defined a set of nine offender behaviours that predict       with 99% accuracy the likelihood that an episode of stalking will escalate       into violence against the victim (including murder).
These were       incorporated into the development of the Domestic Abuse, Stalking and       Harassment (DASH) checklist, published in 2009 and adopted as a screening       instrument by all police forces in England and Wales in 2010.
Consequently, all these forces now administer DASH when a report of       stalking is received.
This check for the presence of the nine behaviours       identified in the research, and yields a single-digit index of threat to       the victim that determines subsequent police strategy in dealing with a       report.
Sheridan also verified the effectiveness of these case management       strategies through an analysis of case evidence.
This research has helped       police catch people and has changed the way they deal with this crime.
Sheridan is one of only two academics in the UK accredited by the       Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) to work with police forces       throughout the UK as a Behavioural Investigative Analyst (or offender       profiler).
ACPO commissions profiling work based solely on research       findings (and particularly those of the profiler him/herself), and the       written reports of profilers are subject to on-going reviews by ACPO for       their research-led integrity and utility in case management.
Some of       Sheridan's work of this nature has involved interventions in major cases       based directly on the DASH, although the greater portion of this has       involved other personality-based approaches to major cases of stalking       and/or psychosexual obsession.
The work has involved advising on primarily       threat assessment, interview strategies, and offender detection.
Sheridan       has worked on approximately two dozen such cases, which have been       supplemented by less formal ad hoc advice on numerous cases.
Legislation and Public Awareness     Sheridan was consulted during the formulation of Scotland's anti-stalking       legislation and in June 2010 Stalking became a named crime and a criminal       offence enshrined within the Criminal Justice &amp; Licensing (Scotland)       Bill.
It received Royal Assent in August 2010 and on 13th December came       into force as statute law.
Ann Moulds from Action Scotland Against       Stalking told the UK Parliamentary Inquiry in 2012 that prior to the       introduction of stalking laws the behaviour was dealt with under Breach of       the Peace legislation and the police estimated there were 70 such       prosecutions in the 10 year period up to 2010.
The force had produced       operational guidelines on domestic violence which now incorporated new       procedures to deal with the stalking laws which were introduced in 2010.
Figures from Scotland show that convictions for Stalking offences went       from 3 in 2010/11 to 53 in 2011/12.
Sheridan's work was among research cited by a UK Parliamentary inquiry in       2012, which referenced the 11 risk factors developed by Drs Lorraine       Sheridan and Karl Roberts, "Internationally recognized experts in       stalking", incorporated into and operationalised by Laura Richards in the       DASH.
(Independent Parliamentary Inquiry into Stalking Law Reform: Main       Findings and Recommendations, February 2012.
See references to research on       pp 17, 30.       http://www.protectionagainststalking.org/InquiryReportFinal.pdf)     This report recommended the introduction of legislation in England and       Wales to make stalking a specific offence.
This recommendation was       subsequently adopted by the Government, with stalking and stalking       involving a fear of violence becoming named crimes in November 2012.
Sheridan has also been involved closely with several anti-stalking       charities (Network for Surviving Stalking, Protection against Stalking,       Suzy Lamplugh Trust) in advising victims, and has contributed extensively       to public awareness campaigns run by these charities (often in conjunction       with ACPO and political leaders).
Her work has been used by charities to       demonstrate the range and extent of stalking in the UK, and provides       evidence of the need for support services.
As the Manager of the National       Stalking Helpline on behalf of the Suzy Lamplugh Trust stated "Research,         such as that undertaken by Dr Sheridan at Heriot-Watt University is         vital to ensure a picture of stalking is built up which can be used to         inform service provision, policy formation and treatment to prevent         reoffending.
When seeking funding for the National Stalking Helpline, it         is important to demonstrate the need for the service.
Dr Sheridan's work         assists us in being able to demonstrate that need and is therefore an         important factor in the continuation of the service".
She also advised the Network for Surviving Stalking on the establishment       of a training academy, launched in March 2011 and funded by the       Government.
http://www.nss.org.uk/2011/03/home-secretary-backs-launch-of-new-stalking-training-academy/       The National Stalking Training Academy provides specialised training to       agencies, organisations and individuals who deal with or have a duty of       care to those who are either affected by, or are at risk from stalking.
Alongside the NSS, the academy aims to provide support to victims,       potential victims and others affected by stalking &amp; harassment       throughout the UK, to raise awareness of the subject and to provide       information about stalking &amp; harassment to professionals, relevant       agencies and the public.
It is used by The Police, Housing Providers,       Universities &amp; Colleges, Schools, Security and Close Protection, The       CPS and other organisations working with potential victims of stalking.
Advice to these charities has been based on research findings that       defined the effects of stalking, the predictors of severity of stalking       behaviour, and the characteristics of mistaken public beliefs about the       occurrence and causes of stalking.
The campaigns have aimed to publicise       the practical implications of the DASH for those who are experiencing       stalking, and Sheridan has been the academic media contact for the ensuing       publicity campaigns, appearing in various television, radio, and print       outlets offering advice to the public on alleviating stalking (e.g., BBC       News webpages).
