     The BCNA anti-VZV (shingles) research of McGuigan has underpinned       significant commercial impact during the assessment period with the       creation of wealth and highly skilled jobs within the biotechnology       sector; overseas industry has invested heavily in this novel technology.
Through the development of a potent anti-VZV agent the research is poised       to deliver near to market patient benefits; efficacy and safety in       patients has been demonstrated.
Although shingles involves a short-term acute phase it frequently has a       long and very painful recovery period.
This post herpetic neuralgia (PHN)       phase will affect ca.
25% of patients who will still have shingles pain 90       days after infection.
Indeed, shingles is not ideally treated with the       current first-line therapy of acyclovir or its prodrug Valtrex which       require high doses to be administered several times daily (e.g.
acyclovir       800mg, 5 times daily).
The initial clinical data for FV-100 shows it to       have superior efficacy for managing PHN which is one of the most       significant unmet needs in shingles treatment[5.1].
There are       approximately 1 million patients presenting with shingles p.a.
in       USA/Europe with an estimated pharmaceutical market size ca.
$750M p.a.
Clinical development and commercial impact     The discovery of the potent anti-VZV activity of BCNAs by McGuigan along       with his laboratory's contributions in the collaborative development of       Cf1743 and its counterpart pro-drug FV-100, have led to the successful       progress of a novel first-in-class potent anti-VZV agent through phase       I/II human clinical trials.
The effective collaborative research partnership between Cardiff/Rega and       Fermavir, and the promising outcomes of FV-100 in pre-clinical studies[5.2]       led the US pharmaceutical company Inhibitex Inc. to acquire Fermavir in       2007 [5.3] in a deal worth over $19 million[5.4].
Since FV-100 was Fermavir's only drug candidate asset, this places a       direct market valuation on the FV-100 candidate at that time.
During the       assessment period itself Inhibitex invested research funding (ca.
&#163;280K       2008-12) to the McGuigan laboratories to support the FV-100 clinical       research programme [5.4].
In 2008 Inhibitex launched phase 1       safety/pharmacokinetic clinical trials in 50 healthy       volunteers.
This work was followed by a major (ca.
$10M) 350-patient       double-blind randomised study in shingles patients[5.4].
Two-thirds of patients received FV-100 at two doses.
FV-100 was proven to       be a safe and effective therapeutic for VZV shingles at about one-tenth of       the dose and one-third of the dosing frequency of the current standard of       care (Valtrex).
At 400mg once a day the incidence of PHN was reduced from       20% (Valtrex, 1g, 3 times a day) to 12%[5.1].
The use of       analgesics, including opiates, was also significantly reduced in the       FV-100 group.
The continued success of FV-100 in Phase I and II clinical       studies (including a double-blind randomised study, see above) contributed       to the acquisition of Inhibitex by Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) [5.4,5.5].
Inhibitex's only other major asset was also designed in Cardiff's       laboratories, INX-189, a phase II anti-viral agent against the hepatitis C       virus.
Based upon the positive outcome of the clinical trials FV-100 was       acquired from BMS (2012) for an undisclosed fee by Synergy Pharmaceuticals       (New York)[5.6], a NASDAQ listed company (currently valued at       $400M) with plans for a FV-100 registration trial for 2014 [5.7].
The development of anti-VZV BCNAs, including Cf1743 and FV-100, has been       driven by major financial investment from the commercial pharmaceutical       sector, creating wealth (realised through the three acquisition deals       related to FV-100 assets, see above) and highly skilled jobs in Cardiff       and elsewhere.
The Cardiff research funded by the MRC and Industry has led to the       commercial adoption of a new class of anti-VZV agent.
Investment has been       significant and major multi-$M clinical trials have been undertaken.
Industry has been enhanced by this project, and we claim significant       commercial impact, and emerging health impact.
FV-100 is poised for phase       III registration trials and represents the most potent agent currently       known versus VZV shingles, but human efficacy is already proven.
