     The Impact of Lansdown's work is in two broad areas.
The development of       updated ISO standards for safety evaluation (and its application by       industry) and the development of public road safety policy in the UK and       in Scotland, particularly affecting young people and dissemination of the       messages.
His on-going work in establishing and developing definitions for       consistent measurement of driver visual behaviour has been applied through       the International Standards Organisation mechanism.
For example, ISO 15007       (Road vehicles &#8212; Measurement of driver visual behaviour with respect to       transport information and control systems) was revised in 2011 based upon       changes in measurement technologies.
Dr Lansdown's provided definitions       and metrics describing the measurement of driver visual behaviour, and       providing updated models to apply to the man machine interface.
This has       resulted in a common adoption of terminology across industry and       application of common standards in training and induction for Road Haulage       companies.
[2] ISO15007 promotes safe and efficient driving.
Lansdown is       member of BSI (British Standard Institute) committee EPL-278-23, which       deals with human factors in transportation, and had represented the UK in       the ISO, technical committee 22/SubCommittee 13/Working group 8 on       transportation man-machine interactions.
Dr Lansdown participated in an International Multi-Laboratory study to       test the updated draft ISO standard.
His role was to examine the data and       make recommendations on the validity of the study and recommend       alternative data, which was incorporated in the final standard.
The study       involved contributors from Europe (BMW, Daimler Benz, Heriot-Watt, and       INRETS), North America (Dynamic Research Inc., Ford, and Transport Canada)       and Japan (JARI).BMW developed an evaluation tool in conjunction with a       German University designed to test the standards in the ISO, which they       circulated to the ISO working group.
This went to a panel of Academics,       and ultimately was tested by the International-Multi Laboratory for       validity as an evaluation method.
He has actively contributed to other       pertinent work items in ISO guidelines, for example, the Driver Occlusion       evaluation standard and the Lane change evaluation task     Lansdown has been active in linking research findings to the development       of UK policy.
In 2008, he was invited to join the core group of the       Department for Transport's Scoping Study of Driver Distraction.
This       comprised six of the most influential UK experts research-active in the       scientific area of driver distraction to define policy requirements for       driver distraction in the UK.
The Government's Department for Transport       published the report summarising on-going work and identifying gaps in       understanding (Basacik and Stevens 2008,       http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20090417002224/http://www.dft.gov.uk/pgr/roadsafety/research/rsrr/theme2/report95.pdf),       which provides the basis for refinement of policy on hand held phone       devices and in-car distractions such as entertainment systems.
Lansdown's       2002 paper Individual differences during driver secondary task       performance: verbal protocol and visual allocation findings.
Accident       Analysis and Prevention, 34(5), 655-662. cited as a reference that       informed the findings of the scoping study.
As part of the ScotSim Project, Lansdown worked on the design and       development of this innovative simulated training package.
Participants in       the project were pioneering individuals and organisations testing the       technological solutions aimed at delivering one of the future solutions       for truck driver training.
The project was designed to meet the challenge       of the European Parliament's mandate in 2003 that, by 2009, drivers who       transport freight in the states of the European Union must obtain       certificates of professional competence and undergo periodic training.
This has had an impact on how road haulage companies recruit and train       their staff [3].
A special interest group concerning driver information systems was       established under the auspices of the EPSRC professional networks       programme.
The aim of the interest group is to promote human factors       research to improve road safety.
Lansdown is a steering group member and       has contributed actively to collaboration within the UK via this group.
Appropriate dissemination of documents and findings to stakeholders has       been effective via, for example, several events sponsored by I.Mech.E.
As indicated above, Lansdown can evidence impact with the general public       via interaction with the media.
He has participated in numerous interviews       with radio, television and published media, most recently about his 2009       work on real world levels of engagement with distracting behaviours during       driving BBC, 27/9/09 Mail on Sunday, 2009).
Lansdown was an invited       speaker at the 2011 Brake Conference, `Youth, Gender and Road Risk &#8212; 9th       Road Safety Forum International Congress'.
This event demonstrates his       recognition as subject expert, and provided an opportunity to disseminate       recent findings on young driver risk factors, to an audience that will       represent policy makers, road safety practitioners, academics, and the       general public.
On 8th February 2011 the Transport, Infrastructure and Climate Change       Committee of the Scottish Parliament convened a special session on young       driver road safety (Scottish Parliament 2011).
Lansdown was invited to       give evidence as an expert witness to the committee.
http://www.scottish.parliament.uk/s3/committees/ticc/or-11/tr11-0301.htm       .
Lansdown was one of a panel of three experts that informed the Committee       in how to develop Scotland's Road safety Framework 2020.
The meeting       further substantiates his reputation as an academic whose research is       having an impact on the development of improved road safety in the UK, as       the findings of the committee fed in to the regular review of Scotland's       Road Safety Framework 2020.
