     The underpinning research has led to impact primarily because (when used       in synergy with the       uncertainty quantification underpinnings via IPE) it has led to       significantly improved capability in       dealing with optimization problems in the oil/gas sector, validated by       many tests involving data       from real oil/gas fields.
For example, both single and multi-objective       versions of the underpinning       algorithms have been tested on real field examples, including a Russian       field with 15 years of       history and 95 wells (http://dx.doi.org/10.2118/163580-MS       ).
These tests showed minimal 2 to 5-fold       speedup in efficiency over competing algorithms including BP's internal       highly efficient code.
Meanwhile refs [2,3,4] and others all show a combination of 2fold--5fold       speedup over previous       methods, usually in conjunction with obtaining both more and       better-quality solutions than previous       methods.
In addition, the use of multiobjective approaches is new in the       oil industry (with benefits       in enabling users to visualise a range of salient trade-offs in potential       solutions, as well as       supporting efficient diverse search) and the underpinning work has led to       considerable internal       interest within BP, as well as helped Epistemy become the first to market       software to the oil/gas       sector that includes multiobjective approaches.
In detail, the research has led to two principal impacts in the       assessment period:     Impact: BP Plc.
BP implemented algorithms generated from this research in their internal       'TDRM' code base, and       some of their asset teams have applied the algorithms, leading to       reservoir management planning       decisions during 2013.
In detail, the software implemented by BP (BOA,       MOBOA, see [2,3,4]) in       their internal TDRM code base were developed as part of the BP-led TSB       project at Heriot-Watt in       a joint activity between the IPE and HWCS.
During 2013, BP has applied       this new code base to the       task of optimising locations of additional injection and production wells       in one of their North Sea       fields.
The use of the multi-objective algorithms yielded an additional       three million barrels over the       optimised development plan produced by their engineer.
This has translated       into a business       decision that has a positive $330M impact on BP's turnover.
In this case,       our multi-objective       optimisation approach was of tremendous value as it allowed them to       optimise both short-term oil       (to recoup the cost of drilling the new wells), and long-term oil (to       maximise the profitability) of the       project.
BP's comment on the project was "The collaboration between       Heriot-Watt and BP has       resulted in a step-forward in practical, multi-objective optimisation       capability for the industry".
Impact: Epistemy Ltd     Epistemy Ltd is an SME serving the oil/gas sector.
Key algorithms from       the research described are       deployed in Epistemy Ltd.'s main software product, called `Raven', which       supports reservoir       engineers in history matching and reservoir development planning.
Specifically, Raven currently       includes versions of the Bayesian Optimization algorithm and its hybrids       with particle swarm       optimization (PSO), as well as multiobjective versions of each of these,       which were developed in       the BP-led TSB project (Epistemy were subcontracted to commercialise the       research).
Relevant       sales in the period have been &#163;230k, of which &#163;107,000 is directly       attributable to the underpinning       research described above, and we know of at least one case where the       software has already been       deployed in history matching of real field data by engineers in one       company       (http://dx.doi.org/10.2118/164817-MS       ).
In addition, the underpinning research- via funding       procured on the basis of it, as well as its results, has been central to       Epistemy's maintenance of a       team of 3 software engineers, as well as a 6-month consultancy post and       four HWCS student       placements during the period.
