     How the system is deployed by IKEA Communications AB     IKEA Communications AB is responsible for providing the image content for       the product catalogue       and the corresponding webpages of the global retailer.
Much of the imagery in the IKEA catalogue actually features rendered 3D       models of the products       since this allows the literature to be prepared well in advance i.e.
before the season's new designs       go into full production.
A typical IKEA catalogue image of a kitchen, for       example, is not a       photograph - it is a computer-generated image, generated via access to a       library of captured 3D       textures.
Similar is true of much of the online as well as catalogue       content generated by IKEA       communications AB.
Producing a photorealistic version of each item of       merchandise in this way       can be a time-consuming process and requires precise attention to detail.
Not only must the       designers and artists generate an accurate 3D scale model but they also       have to achieve a       convincing surface finish in a wide variety of materials.
Capturing 3D textures in a way that that is fast and accurate is       therefore essential.
Throughout       the entire assessment period (01/2008 to 07/2013), IKEA communications       AB's 3D texture       capture operations have relied solely on the system provided and installed       by Chantler's       Texture Lab at HWUCS.
The software and apparatus configuration provided by Chantler's lab       enables the capture of       extremely large and accurate 50M sample 3D surface normal maps within       seconds that allow       practical panoramic stitching to produce 16x 25k material maps.
This is       vital to the digital       production of IKEA's catalogues and web content.
It has enabled the       development of a materials       library of 5,000 to 6,000 samples.
For production these material maps are       combined with over       22,000 3D models covering the entire product range.
It is simply not       practical using conventional       means to produce imagery of every product in every finish that a customer       could buy it in.
Impact generated 2008&#8212;2013     Ikea Communications produces approximately 240 million catalogues across       43 countries       annually, and currently 30% of room-set content is generated is digital.
When considering the use       in single product images, that percentage rises to 75 -80%.
In 2013 alone,       IKEA Communications       AB generated over 18,000 images using this technology.
In the current       assessment period, approx       1.5 billion printed IKEA catalogues delivered globally have the great       majority of their imagery       generated using texture maps delivered via the system installed by the       Texture Lab.
This is       exclusively sales imagery, relied upon by IKEA to support an annual       turnover well in excess of &#8364;20       billion.
Figures available for the period (from IKEA press releases)       indicate both turnover and       profits rising in 08/09 and 09/10.
In addition, the graphics team at IKEA Communications AB has grown from 3       to 50 staff over the       assessment period, primarily to support the imagery generation pipeline       enabled by the system we       installed.
Additional notes concerning the importance of the system to IKEA     IKEA Communications AB investigated commercially available ways of       facilitating this work such       as utilising 3D laser scanners but they were unable to find a satisfactory       solution.
They       subsequently approached Heriot-Watt University's Prof. Mike Chantler of       the School of       Mathematics and Computer Science, a specialist in the digitisation &amp;       presentation of three       dimensional surface textures.
As Anton Berg, 3D specialist for Ikea Communications AB stated "In       summary, this is very       important software for Ikea Communications &#8212; it just works for us in the       way we need it to.
The       creation of large library viable 3D textures through using the software       enabled the ramping up of       virtual content and it has completely transformed the way in which we       produce both traditional and       digital content."
