     ERPE research during the 1990s, validating large scale computational       modelling of structures in realistic credible fires, has profoundly       influenced the use of performance-based design procedures to engineer       modern buildings for fire, both from life safety and property protection       perspectives.
Coupled with research to understand the causes and       mechanisms of the fire-induced collapses of the WTC towers in 2001 [4]       (and other subsequent collapses), has catalyzed changes in tall building       design practice globally.
Whereas traditionally buildings have been       designed for fire safety based on outdated &#8212; and in many cases irrational       &#8212; prescriptive requirements, ERPE research during the past two decades [1       - 6] has provided the foundational scientific understanding needed to       perform a quantified assessment of the fire safety of building designs.
Torero was selected to chair the fire safety committee of the Council on       Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH) (2009-present) leading also to       the project "Real Fires for the Safe Design of Tall Buildings"       (EP/J001937/1, &#163;819k) with BRE, Corus, Buro Happold, Arup etc.
ERPE       research has thus assisted the design and construction of increasingly       optimised, sustainable, and economical buildings globally with significant       changes in building design and regulation.
Changes to Building Design and Regulation.
Research outputs [1 - 6], in conjunction with the design work of ERPE's       industry partners have led to profound changes in regulatory approaches       for fire safety globally.
The research has catalyzed the development of       the fire sections of the Structural Eurocodes (BS EN 1991-1-2, 1992-1-2,       1993-1-2, 1994-1-2) during the period 1995-2002.
Further the ideas behind       these new regulatory approaches are now being adopted elsewhere, including       in the USA by the American Institute for Steel Construction.
Collaborations with industry have been fostered from the early development       of this research area within ERPE.
Direct involvement of industry leaders       in key projects (particularly with Lane, Law and Lamont) [S1, S2] has       regularly led to adoption of methodologies and tools developed in research       within practical design situations.
Members of the ERPE fire research       group have been involved in translating research into practice through       direct participation in building and fire code committees globally,       including those of: The American Concrete Institute (ACI, 216); British       Standards Institute (BSI, B/525) and European Committee on Standardization       (CEN, TC 250); the International Council on Tall Buildings and Urban       Habitat (CTBUH, Fire &amp; Safety Working Group); Canadian Standards       Association (CSA, S806, S807); National Fire Protection Association       (NFPA); and Society of Fire Protection Engineers (SFPE).
A New Class of Design Consultancy.
Since 2008 ERPE's research in this area has created an entirely new class       of design consultancy which continues to be applied to great advantage       (e.g.
Arup, Buro Happold, etc) in UK buildings and elsewhere.
Numerous UK       buildings have been engineered using performance-based structural fire       engineering techniques developed within ERPE [1, 2, 3].
Heron Tower,       London (2012) is a particularly good example of the profound impact of       ERPE research in real building design.
ERPE worked through collaborative       research funded by Arup to develop new knowledge and modelling approaches       for predicting fire dynamics in large multi-storey open plan compartments       with central atria, as well as advanced computational approaches and       procedures for coupled thermal-structural finite element modelling of       steel-framed buildings in realistic, multi-floor fire scenarios.
The       resulting research outcomes led to the first regulatory approval of a tall       building fire strategy based on a multiple floor design fire (globally),       in addition to enhanced robustness, significantly reduced material and       construction costs, and increased safety.
Without this research Heron       Tower could never have been approved or built.
"Research within ERPE has turned on its head the conventional wisdom         on how to protect buildings during fires, and the resulting design tools         and methodologies are now being used in some of the world's most iconic         new structures including Heron Tower, The Shard, and others.
The work         allows fire protection measures to be targeted at the total response of         a structure, taking account of all of the necessary factors; this has         helped to establish structural fire engineering as a mainstream skill         and has also created an entirely new class of engineering consultancy         and exciting business opportunities for Arup and others."
Director       of Technology Practices, Arup [S1]     From 2010, BRE Trust [S3] supported the development of novel design       methodologies for alleviating travelling fires in modern open-plan       buildings [6].
These offer a paradigm shift in the structural engineering       of modern buildings, and have led to revolutionary changes in the assumed       design fires.
These have been implemented by Arup [6] in at least 6       current design projects (e.g.
see: Arup, "Structural Fire Analysis: Design       Fire Scenarios", 60 Ludgate Hill, May 2012.
This report details use of       travelling fire analysis developed at Edinburgh in performance-based       design of a multi-storey building).
ERPE research has thus profoundly       altered the way in which iconic buildings are structurally engineered [S4]       and will continue to influence optimization and enhanced safety and       sustainability of urban environments worldwide.
Industrial R&amp;D and Research Consultancy.
ERPE researchers' innovation in the area of fire safety engineering has       led to our involvement in numerous research consultancy projects between       2008 and 2013, including industrial R&amp;D (with Arup, Rockwool, Ruredil,       International Paint, Corus), academic research consultancy to support the       design consultants of the world's most sought after architects (Arup,       Pelli Clark Pelli (USA), and Foster + Partners (UK) [S5]) and       litigation/expert witness involvement (e.g.
WTC, IFIC Forensics).
