     BP's decision to implement low Salinity waterflooding in the &#163;4.5 billion       Clair Ridge development       was underpinned by ERPE research.
The direct costs of implementing low       salinity waterflooding       include $125M for desalination facilities to create `low salinity' water       from seawater.
BP justified       this investment on the basis of 42 million barrels of additional recovery       (equivalent to around $4.5       billion of additional income at today's oil price) &#8212; a significant       increase in the estimated 640 million       barrels of recoverable oil from waterflooding using seawater.
The decision to implement low salinity required a high level of       confidence in the technique's       success to persuade BP management and the field partners.
That confidence       was built on       theoretical and experimental results provided by ERPE, and two field tests       (a single well tracer test       and a field trial in the Endicott field, Alaska).
In the field trial at       Endicott, low salinity water was       injected in one well and the incremental oil production observed in       another.
Endicott proved up the       laboratory trials at full scale.
The trial involved an injector and a       producer 1040 feet apart, and the       incremental oil recovery was equal to 10% of the total pore volume in the       swept area [3].
The       confidence generated by the combination of the experimental dataset and       verifiable pore-scale       theory was sufficient for BP to move forward to a single-well tracer test,       and a field trial, providing       them with the `pyramid of proof' that they required to take the technique       all the way through the       field deployment.
Without the theoretical and experimental results, the two field trials       would not have happened, and       low salinity would not have been implemented in Clair Ridge.
According to       BP's Chief Adviser on       Low salinity for BP "ERPE has made a significant contribution to the         fundamental understanding of         the mechanism by which Low Salinity Water Flooding increases oil         recovery.
Without such         understanding and contribution from ERPE, BP would not be in a position         to change their Water         Flood strategy to a default base case position of Low Salinity Water         Flooding."
[S1]
