     The Cardiff-led programme has defined the standard of care for AHA       internationally.
This is evidenced by the new national5.2 and       international5.3,5.4 treatment guidelines for AHA that have       been written (led by Collins in Cardiff with Angela Huth-Kuhne in       Germany), based on novel data generated by Cardiff-led research3.1-3.6,       that for the first time allow evidence-based treatment of AHA.
Our All-Wales3.1 and UK3.2 studies initiated this       process prior to the REF impact period, forming the basis of UK national       guidelines in 20065.1 (150 citations).
Missing information in       the 2006 guidelines was:            Data about the relative efficacy of available immunosuppressive         regimens to eradicate the factor VIII inhibitors in matched patients       Comparison of the efficacy of haemostatic treatments to treat bleeds         in matched patients.
Information about the high frequency of diagnostic delay.
Information about the incidence of thrombotic complications of         haemostatic agents          Over the REF period, further data from the European study3.3-3.6       led to the UK guidelines being substantially changed and updated in 20135.2,       a process co-ordinated by The UK Haemophilia Centre Directors'       Organisation (UKHCDO) Inhibitor Working Party chaired by Collins of       Cardiff University.
These guidelines have been endorsed by the British       Committee on Standards in Haematology, UKHCDO and British Society of       Haematology.
Of the 18 specific management recommendations on AHA in the       2013 guideline5.2, 14 are underpinned by evidence produced by       the Cardiff-led research programme.
The guidelines have been agreed and       adopted by the English Specialised Commissioning Group (The Haemophilia       Clinical Reference Group) which has directed that all 90 UK haemophilia       centres must follow UKHCDO guidelines.
The Cardiff-led research programme has also resulted in the production of       two international guidelines5.3,5.4 as collaborations between       Cardiff University and European, north American and Japanese colleagues.
These guidelines have been adopted worldwide and are the most cited papers       in the field since 2009 (90 citations); they have been cited by groups       from Europe, north and south America, India, Korea and Japan as accepted       standard practice.
Recommendations in clinical guidelines and treatment protocols based         on Cardiff-led research     RECOGNITION AND DIAGNOSIS     1.
Novel finding: Significant diagnostic delay is common even after       abnormal clotting tests have been found (European study)3.3     New treatment recommendation: Laboratories should investigate       abnormal clotting tests for AHA even if the referring clinician had not       requested them and haematologists should directly inform clinicians of the       implications of results5.2-5.4     2.
Novel finding: Delay in recognition of symptoms of AHA (European       study)3.3     Action: Typical presentations highlighted in management guidelines       aimed at general clinicians5.2- 5.4     3.
Novel finding: Fatal bleeding may occur up to 6 months after       diagnosis if inhibitor is not eradicated (UK study)3.2     New treatment recommendation: refer to specialist centres to start       immunosuppression as soon as the diagnosis is made even if presentation       appears benign5.2-5.4     TREATMENT     4.
Novel finding: Combined steroids and cyclophosphamide result in       a higher stable remission rate than steroids alone and rituximab confers       no additional benefit (European study)3.4     New treatment recommendation: Recommended first line       immunosuppression protocol changed between the 2006 and 2013 UK guidelines       and rituximab to be reserved for second line therapy.5.2     5.
Novel finding: There is a high incidence of relapse after       immunosuppression has been stopped (UK and European studies)3.2,3.4     New treatment recommendation: Longer (at least one year) and more       intensive follow up is required in specialist clinics5.2-5.4     SAFETY     6.
Novel finding: There is significant morbidity and mortality       associated with immunosuppressive regimens (UK and European studies)3.2,3.4     New treatment recommendation: Immunosuppressive protocols adapted       to take the age and co- morbidity of patients into account5.2-5.4     7.
Novel finding: The two available inhibitor bypassing agents are       equally as effective for controlling bleeds but both are better than       factor VIII (European study)3.5     New treatment recommendation: Bypassing agents should be used as       first line therapy to treat bleeds.5.2-5.4     8.
Novel finding: Iatrogenic bleeding is common following       venepuncture, blood pressure monitoring and invasive procedures.
(UK       study)3.2     New treatment recommendation: Venepuncture and blood pressure       monitoring should be kept to a minimum and invasive procedures postponed       until factor VIII level has increased.5.2-5.4     9.
Novel finding: There is a high incidence of arterial and venous       thrombotic side effects associated with treating AHA with bypassing agents       (European study)3.5     New treatment recommendation: Bypassing agents should only be used       on the advice of specialist haemophilia centres.
Bypassing agents in AHA       should not be used in combination or in high dose regimens licensed for       congenital haemophilia5.2-5.4     10.
Novel finding: 25-30% of bleeds resolved without haemostatic       treatment and these bleeds have characteristic features (UK and European       studies)3.2,3.3,3.5     New treatment recommendation: Withhold bypassing agents in certain       types of bleeds to limit the risk of thrombotic complications.5.2-5.4     Effect of research on measures of clinical outcomes     The treatment guidelines have been disseminated to patient groups,       clinicians specialising in haemostasis and general physicians around the       world.
By ensuring they receive the most appropriate treatment and care,       the recommendations impact on all patients with AHA.
The international       guideline published in 2009, aimed at specialist haematologists working in       tertiary referral centres, has been cited by groups from Europe, north and       south America, India, Korea and Japan as accepted standard practice.
