     The ERPE usability metric has proven to be particularly significant for       improving customer services in several industry sectors: telephony (BT       [S1], Vodafone, Sky TV, Cable and Wireless); retail (lastminute.com) [3];       travel (British Airways, British Midland); and finance (Barclays, RBS,       HSBC, Lloyds Group, Nationwide, Standard Life).
The key reportable impact since 2008 is evidenced by the millions of       retail and commercial customers using the Internet banking, mobile phone       banking and telephone banking enhanced services of Bank of Scotland,       Halifax and Lloyds TSB (now Lloyds Group) that have been created, based on       the commercially relevant research carried out in ERPE.
Lloyds Banking Group has embraced the engineering approach developed by       ERPE for all new technologies and business processes in advance of       commercial deployment.
As a consequence of their early adoption of the       metric and its assessment methodology, Lloyds has made a distinct and       material contribution to enhancing their electronic banking services [S2].
Through their continuing ongoing commitment to embrace the research,       Lloyds has created innovative customer services that now successfully       handle 60 Million Internet banking customer log-ins per month via their       award-winning internet banking service (http://www.moneyfactsgroup.co.uk/awards/ca/winners/2011)       [S3] and 9 Million automated telephone banking customer log-ins per month       via their automated telephone banking service.
Lloyds assess that the       method has provided a major change in the quality and capability of their       customer services, particularly for the self-service channels of Internet       and telephone banking.
Lloyds has assessed that the impact in terms of       business benefits from its adoption of the metric and its use methodology       on this research programme (&#163;7.1M since 2008) is "at least five times         the funding that the Group has invested in the research since 2008",       Senior Manager, Lloyds Banking Group [S2].
Lloyds started to introduce the ERPE usability metric, outlined in       Section 2, into developments of their customer-facing business operations       in 2008 and since 2008 some 70 large scale user experiments based on the       new usability engineering metric have been undertaken, involving some       9,000 Lloyds customers in Bridgend, Bristol, Edinburgh, Enfield and Leeds.
Specifically, Lloyds has identified four key impacts that they have       derived as a business &#8212;     Providing strategic guidance to the business.
The nature of the benefit centres on what Lloyds Banking Group recognises       as delivering a robust fact-based, metric data for Usability Engineering.
Results give the Group assurance about proceeding with adoption of a       particular technology, based on customers' attitudes to the core usability       of that technology.
For example, the innovative design approach used by       Lloyds Banking Group in their mobile (smart) phone services for mBanking       (mobile banking) [5, 6] exploited our usability assessment metric to       identify optimal user interface designs for customer registration and       customer authentication login.
These mBanking services handle over 30       Million customer log-ins per month.
Service creation.
Lloyds Banking Group has worked with ERPE to create fully realistic       facsimile copies of each of the Group's banking channels &#8212; a `customer       theatre'.
These stand-alone services, with dummy customer data and stub       databases, faithfully reproduce the real-world banking experiences for       customers allowing use of the future technologies and business processes,       under controlled conditions.
The huge costs associated with testing a       commercial system with customers are avoided by the design and       construction of prototype systems to replicate exactly the Group's       strategy that can deliver metric data on customer attitudes and       preferences that would otherwise be very expensive for the Group to       derive.
The usability engineering metric has been used extensively       throughout the Lloyds Banking Group covering all aspects of the Group's       operations &#8212; ATMs, branch offices, Internet banking, automated telephone       banking [2, 4] and mobile phone banking [5], and has been particularly       valuable in the work of the Group to integrate the services of the three       Banks: Bank of Scotland; Halifax; and Lloyds TSB, after the Lloyds Banking       Group was formed through the acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds TSB in 2009.
Staff training.
The metric and its use methodology also allow staff to become trained up       in usability engineering.
This addresses the Group's stated policy of       taking customer views seriously.
Three members of senior staff from Lloyds       Banking Group have successfully competed MSc degrees in Usability       Engineering at Edinburgh, and have succeeded in refining aspects of the       metric and its underlying use methodology in their studies.
Allowing Go/No-Go decisions.
The Group can measure customer reactions and likelihood of acceptance &#8212;       and importantly, customer resistance.
This puts the Group in a stronger       position to make decisions about making expensive investments in adopting       novel technology and thereby reduces the likelihood of poor customer       reaction, bad publicity and serious financial losses.
As an example, a       planned early deployment [2009] of voice biometric technology for customer       authentication in telephone banking was cancelled based on usability       engineering data from research by ERPE, avoiding serious financial and       reputational loss for the Group.
