     ERPE (Rampen, Salter) pioneered the adoption of the hydraulic       transmission technology by spinning out a company with an initially small       team of engineers to develop the core hydraulic technology for commercial       applications [S1].
Artemis/MHI holds a portfolio of 87 patent families and       has been extremely effective at supplementing its licence income with       grants, winning strategic investment of over &#163;3.5M from Scottish       Enterprise, Energy Saving Trust, Carbon Trust, Technology Strategy Board       and the Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC).
Without relying       on venture capital monies Artemis grew to 45 staff of whom 20+ are       graduate engineers including 5+ PhDs.
It has become a new energy       transmission and storage technology development services and its       facilities, operating outside Edinburgh since 2008, are now a       state-of-the-art development platform.
Artemis subsequently successfully refined and commercialised their DD&#174;       technology.
It developed four major partnerships &#8212; with the major oil       company Conoco, with two Tier One automotive suppliers Dana and with Sauer       Danfoss, a leading manufacturer of off-road mobile hydraulics, to apply       its core technology in their sectors.
In the course of this it built many       component and technology demonstrators for both small and very large       applications.
"As Chairman at Artemis I confirm that the early ERPE         research to develop digitally controlled hydraulic pumps and the design,         technical assessment and subsequent refinement of the initial small         scale prototypes was instrumental in proving the concept that ultimately         became the patented Digital Displacement&#174; technology.
This         highly innovative ERPE research laid the secure foundation and enabled         the growth of Artemis into the significant 50 person company that it is         today and also to securing the major inwards investment from         Mitsubishi", Chairman, Artemis Intelligent Power Ltd. [S2]     In December 2010 Artemis, which was still owned by its employees, was       acquired by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries as part of a &#163;100M inwards       investment to establish the Mitsubishi Centre for Advanced Technology in       Edinburgh.
This is a significant impact in employment across the range of       skills from craft-level through graduate training to post-doctoral       research.
"As Chairman of Mitsubishi Power, I can advise you that the         highly innovative hydraulic transmission technology, developed by         Artemis, was the key attraction for our selecting Central Scotland for         this significant investment and deciding to establish our new Centre for         Advanced Technology close to this company", Chairman Mitsubishi       Power.
[S3]     The hydraulic transmission has been extended for application in a hybrid       car, completed under an Energy Saving Trust (EST) grant, using the full DD&#174;       transmission in 2008, which achieved a 50% reduction of urban fuel       consumption and CO2 emissions &#8212; without any reduction in the       vehicle performance.
[6] shows the further application of DD&#174;       to a bus transmission system.
Sauer Danfoss now hold the rights for this       deployment in materials handling and larger off-road vehicles.
They have       also moved from research into product development with pilot installations       under test on customer premises, and they have launched a full range of DD&#174;       based transmissions.
Fixed ratio conventional mechanical gearboxes are the critical limitation       on technological and economic viability of up-scaling large wind turbines       for on-, and more especially, off-shore application.
Due to mechanical       failure and poor reliability and availability, all the gearboxes at the       Scroby Sands, Great Yarmouth, offshore wind-farm had to be replaced over       an 18-month period.
Replacing a 50 tonne gearbox in a nacelle 80 metres       above sea level requires specialised heavy lift crane barges that can cost       &#163;50k per day and weather windows that allow safe working.
Replacement       capital costs and lost production revenue are very significant for the       suppliers and owners.
While blade aerodynamics are well-optimised for       fixed speed operation, energy yield can be optimised by the use of       continuously varying speed ratios that allow the blade speed to match       varying mean wind speeds.
Doubly-fed induction generators and on-board       power electronic converters allow some speed variation, but do not offer       the network support of fixed speed synchronous generators.
The Artemis designed onshore (2.4 MW rating) wind turbine transmission     system [2, 5], part-funded by the Carbon Trust reduced the weight of the     gearbox it replaced by two-thirds, from 50 to 17 tons, enabled the use of     synchronous generators and led on to successive investment in the technology     by DECC.
Mitsubishi performance-tested the on-shore prototype in Yokohama     before Artemis up-scaled the technology in 2013 for offshore application in     the SeaAngel wind turbine, one of the world's largest offshore wind turbines     rated at 7 MW, at the Hunterston offshore wind turbine test facility.
[S4]     Innovation and translation of the DD&#174; technology has reduced       the cost of renewable electricity, by reducing capital and maintenance or       replacement costs, increasing reliability and energy yield, and is       accelerating deployment of larger offshore wind technologies.
Salter       continues to serve as director and consults on technical issues such as       overcoming cavitation effects, and provides new applications for their DD&#174;       technology.
