     The economic and societal impacts of the research in [1, 2] have placed       Orkney at the world-       centre of marine energy demonstration and test.
The ERPE research has       initiated and established       international standards for the development and testing of a tidal and       wave energy devices.
Bryden identified the Fall of Warness in Orkney as the most promising       tidal energy test site in the       UK and this location was subsequently selected for the tidal test site at       EMEC       http://www.emec.org.uk/ [S1].
This       has 14 full-scale test berths and two reduced scale test sites       and there have been more grid-connected tidal and wave energy converters       deployed than any       other single site in the world, with eight tidal devices under test from:       Andritz-Hydro Hammerfest,       Atlantis Resources Corporation, Bluewater Energy Services, Kawasaki Heavy       Industries, Open       Hydro, ScotRenewables Tidal Power Ltd, Tidal Generation Ltd and Voith       Hydro.
EMEC has       generated 250 jobs in Orkney and contributed &#163;57M of gross value add to       this economy.
In 2006-7 Bryden and ERPE staff in UK Centre for Marine Energy Research       (UKCMER) developed       the SIF technique [3-5] and subsequently worked with Black and Veatch to       produce the 2010       Carbon Trust Report on UK Tidal Current Resource &amp; Economics,       http://www.carbontrust.com/media/77264/ctc799_uk_tidal_current_resource_and_economics.pdf.
This estimated more accurately and comprehensively the overall potential       annual UK tidal energy       resource to be 29 TWh/yr, 60% higher than the previous best estimates       [S2].
This was then used       by the Department of Energy and Climate Change in 2011 to affirm       intentions to further develop       these resources as part of the UK plans to establish the industry to       deliver the generating capacity       in the 2020 Renewable Energy Targets.
The EMEC testing guidelines arose from the fundamental research       [3-5] that ultimately became       the basis of the tidal and wave performance testing protocols for the UK       Government &#163;50M Marine       Renewables Deployment Fund (MRDF) to support the installation and       operation of tidal and wave       energy devices.
This in turn expanded into the establishment of the EU       Call (ENERGY 2007.2.6.3)       in 2008 that uniquely funded the Equitable Assessment of Marine Energy       Converters (EquiMar)       project http://www.equimar.org/.
Led by Ingram, the EquiMar project received funding from the       European Community's 7th Framework Programme No.
021338,       co-ordinating the effort of 60       scientists, engineers and industry stakeholders from eleven EU countries.
This established a suite       of protocols to allow fair comparison of marine energy converters under       test and evaluation [S3,       S4].
These EquiMar Protocols became, in 2011, the proving metric in       the Scottish Government Saltire       Prize competition and were extended further as the basis of the       International Electro-technical       Commission (IEC) 62600 marine energy standards, providing the foundations       for many standards       developed by IEC Technical Committee 114,       http://www.iec.ch/dyn/www/f?p=103:14:0::::FSP_ORG_ID,FSP_LANG_ID:5738,25.
Technical       committee TC114: Marine energy - Wave, tidal and other water current       converters, which       comprises members from 26 countries, has recently published the first       UK-led ocean energy       Technical Specification 62600-200: Power Performance Assessment of       Electricity Producing Tidal       Energy Converters that enables the systematic performance evaluation of       tidal turbines.
The       drafting of this international document was led by Ingram and Jeffrey       between 2009 and 2012 with       contributors including Siemens, Voith Hydro, ESB International, Verdant       Power Inc., and Clean       Current Inc. Jeffrey further convened the committee that produced IEC       62600-201 TS Ed.1:       Marine energy &#8212; Wave, tidal and other water current converters - Part 201.
Couch was the UK       contributor to Part 200: Power Performance Assessment of Electricity       Producing Tidal Energy       Converters.
ERPE research on the flux method [3-5] has provided confidence to       the international investment       community of the overall size of the available resource as well its       interaction with the tidal energy       devices, adopted in IEC 62600-200 (performance) and 62600-201 (assessment)       (www.tc114.us/standards-development/project-teams/pt-62600-201/       ).
This work has underpinned       the international convergence of an accepted industrial methodology that       is currently driving the       commercialisation of this sector.
"We are very pleased to see the         publishing of this Technical         Specification of Tidal Device Performance Assessment which will become         the basis of Validation         Reports for clients.
Jeffrey and his team have done an excellent job to         produce the document         which is already being used by the sector and will be considered for         revision in about three years         to take it to the status of a full International Standard."
Managing       Director of EMEC [S1].
This fundamental ERPE research has propagated to other marine device test       and deployment       programmes.
In January 2008, Minas Basin Pulp and Power was awarded a       contract to build       North America's first tidal demonstration facility, FORCE http://fundyforce.ca/about/,       in the Bay of       Fundy, mimicking the Orkney tidal facility at more extreme conditions "Minas         is indebted to the         University of Edinburgh for two reasons: strategic assistance with the         tidal demonstration facility         and our sponsored tidal energy technology.
Your faculty hosted our core         `tidal team' consisting of         engineers, scientists, oceanographers, project managers, and even         lawyers in an educational         session that became the cornerstone of Minas' success back here in         Canada.
We returned to         Nova Scotia with a road map that led us to a) locating a demonstration         site in the Minas Passage         of the Bay of Fundy and b) obtaining environmental consents for a         grid-connected three-berth         facility.
Within a relatively short eighteen months and under your         patient and collegial guidance, we         achieved both."
Chair, FORCE [S5].
Between 2009 and 2012 Oregon and Washington State Universities       established the Northwest       National Marine Renewable Energy Center in the Pacific NW.
MIT, University       of New Haven,       UMass and University of Rhode Island have established the New England       Marine Renewable       Energy Center, both with offshore test facilities based on consultancies       with EMEC and ERPE       staff.
Taiwan has agreed to establish, in collaboration with EMEC and ERPE       staff, an offshore test       facility at Keelung in the South China sea.
