     The impact from research conducted at the UoW and Neurosolutions can be       classified as:            Patents, intellectual property (IP) and research publications by         Neurosolutions staff with academic and industrial partners, which have         ultimately led to Neurosolutions generating annual revenues averaging         &#163;1.4M per annum.
Development of two novel compounds for treating pain.
The first         compound NSL-043 for treating neuropathic pain was developed in         partnership with Sosei (Japan).
The second, NSL-101 for treating dental         pain, was developed in partnership with Ampika (Cambridge).
The creation of new biotechnology companies by providing         "proof-of-concept" data to support financing/fund-raising of these new         companies (e.g.
Cambridge Biotechnology, Numedicus, Cerebrasol).
Facilitation of novel strategies and therapies for neurological         disorders through research contracts with industrial clients, earning         around &#163;7.5M in revenue from the biotechnology and pharmaceutical         industry since 2001.
In addition, D. Spanswick was nominated by industry for the BBSRC       Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 2011.
Further details of each impact are       provided below.
By combining the biomedical research skills of Spanswick (neural networks       in isolated mammalian central neural preparations), Lee and Rush       (single-cell, molecular biology and electrophysiology) and Zhao and Jeggo       (in vivo electrophysiology in whole organisms and behaviour) to       address the site, mode and mechanism of action of novel compounds,       Neurosolutions was founded as a commercial enterprise at the interface       between academia and industry.
Its aim was to provide services to the       pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, to facilitate the development       of novel drugs for neurological disorders; and to commercialise academic       research.
Intellectual Property: Research conducted at Neurosolutions led to       the creation of intellectual property and two patents were granted (see       Section 3).
Neurosolutions undertook all preclinical development of       compounds before taking public investment from Australia (&#163;1.5M approx)       and floating on the ASX in 2005 to support clinical development of NSL-043       for neuropathic pain (successfully completed 2 Phase I studies in       2008-2009 and may possibly enter Phase II trials with a local partner in       China) and NSL-101 (which completed Phase II trials in 2009-2010 and is       currently under formulation as a topical cream treatment).
Contract Research: Neurosolutions is a profit-making contract       research organisation (a).
With a growing reputation and increased demand       for services from North America (see below for details), Neurosolutions       expanded its operations with the creation of Cerebrasol (in Montreal) as a       sister company in 2010 (b, c).
Fifteen full-time staff are currently based       in the UK and Montreal.
Neurosolutions has provided expert translational       neuroscience services to over 100 industrial clients worldwide since its       foundation.
Clients include major pharmaceutical companies - Merck (US),       Eli-Lilly (US and UK); GSK, Pfizer, Organon, Schering-Plough (both now       Merck); Johnson &amp; Johnson; Astra Zeneca (Canada and Sweden); Merz,       Evotech (Germany); Bial (Portugal); Sepracor and Sunovion (US); Lundbeck       (Sweden); Upsher-Smith (US); Takeda (UK, US, Japan); UCB - and small to       medium-sized companies - Neurotherapeutics, Envoy Therapeutics, Elan (US),       Senexis, Xention, (UK); Pangenetics (Netherlands), Syngene (Australia).
Owing to the confidential nature of much of the work undertaken with these       companies we are unable to outline all aspects of the research in which       Neurosolutions has added value/impact to companies.
However, some examples       are given below.
Commercial Impact: Promoting Development of new Biotechnology         Companies: Neurosolutions has supported the development of 5 new       biotechnology companies.
For example, proof-of-concept studies on leptin       mimetics for obesity and compounds for pain were undertaken for Cambridge       Biotechnology, which was founded in 2001.
Cambridge Biotechnology       subsequently raised &#163;10M from venture capitalists (Merlin Biosciences) and       was subsequently acquired by Boivitrum (2005), Proximagen (2009) and       Upsher-Smith in 2012 for &#163;356.8M (d).
Similarly, Neurosolutions provided       proof-of-concept data enabling the development of Numedicus.
Neurosolutions undertook extensive preclinical proof-of-concept data on       anti-Nerve Growth Factor antibodies and their utility for pain for the       Dutch/UK company Pangenetics, which was subsequently acquired by Abbott       for US$170M in November 2009 (e).
Scientific impact: design of novel strategies and identification of         targets and mechanisms of action for therapeutic interventions.
Neurosolutions has provided consultancy and research services to       Neurotherapeutics (NTP; US), facilitating development of a research plan       to identify the mechanism of action of a novel NTP compound and providing       a preclinical data pack to support clinical development (f).
A novel       mechanism of action of a series of GSK anticonvulsant compounds       (Carabersat, Tonabersat) was identified by Spanswick, initially       academically and subsequently by Neurosolutions.
One of these compounds       (Tonabersat) was acquired by Proximagen with Upsher-Smith (US), and is       undergoing further mechanism of action work with Neurosolutions       (2012-2013).
Tonabersat has already been subject to clinical trials for       migraine and is currently being re-profiled for epilepsy (g).
Such has       been the success of the translational neuroscience research approach       adopted by us that Neurosolutions has extended the research capability to       psychiatry and neurodegeneration with a focus on cognitive deficits in       Parkinson's disease.
In-house technologies have already been used       successfully to support development of novel compounds/treatment       strategies for Alzheimer's disease with models of memory loss (Senexis,       Merz, Elan), with one of the Senexis compounds recently (2012) acquired by       BTG for clinical development (h).
Future Impact: Neurosolutions and Cerebrasol in partnership with       TransPharmation and Monash University are extending operations into       Australia (2013).
This major collaborative project will form a new       Australian company (Pacific Discovery Services) as part of a consortium       focused on translational research and development of novel strategies and       treatments for neurological disorders.
The initial focus is pain and       obesity, but will expand into other conditions as the company evolves.
