     The underpinning research made a distinct and material contribution to       impact in the following ways:            Generating new ways of thinking that influence creative practice;       Informing and influencing the understanding of religious/ethnic         discrimination;       Preserving, conserving, and presenting cultural heritage;       Helping media, Jewish education and other professionals adapt to         changing cultural values.
Specifically, this research has:          Enhanced regional, national and international public awareness of         representations of ethnic minorities in contemporary media resulting       in cultural and intellectual enrichment of the wider public.
The       Assignments Editor for Ha'aretz's English Edition stated: `Abrams       offers our publication a singularly interdisciplinary perspective (...)       Due to their quality and originality, his articles have featured       prominently on our website and attracted great interest from our readers,       sometimes garnering up to thousands of unique visitors.
Thanks to his       ability to adapt it to our target readership, by highlighting Jewish- and       Israel-related issues in his myriad fields of expertise, his contribution       is greatly valued and cherished' (5.6; see also 5.7).
Contributed to social and cultural identity of the global Jewish         diaspora by reconfiguring media as a site of ethnic identification and         pride rather than simply negative stereotyping.
According to the       American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (AJJDC) (5.3), `by placing in       the center of his interest the way Jews and Judaism are portrayed by       contemporary films produced in the Western world, Dr. Abrams opened a very       interesting avenue whereby young adults were able to question their own       identity, culture, tradition, affiliation and prejudices.'
Encouraged social inclusion through greater public and media         understanding of how ethnic stereotyping works in media, particularly in         a non-US context.
AJJDC: `Abrams' lectures resulted in a deeper       understanding of films as cultural products for many young adults, and       therefore capable of being analyzed as devices carrying social messages,       ideologies' (5.3; see also 5.7)     Changed popular film critics' interpretations and preconceptions.
Head Of Content, @TopFilmTip testifies that: `Abrams' work has provided       fascinating scope into the counter conventional depiction of Jewish       protagonists in cinema.
In particular, his book (3.1) has provided much       influence for our content.
His discussion of the Walter character in the       Coen Brothers film The Big Lebowski has directly influenced our       interpretation of this film to the point that we sold an article       incorporating some of his insights (`Could The Big Lebowski Be The       Greatest Film Ever Made?')
to Siemens via SabotageTimes.com' (5.4).
See       also 5.6-5.11.
Pointed the public and media to how stereotyping can work on a more         sub-textual level, in particular where it concerns non-visible       minorities such as Jews, widening understanding of how texts can display       ethnic characteristics even when non-explicit.
Referring to output 3.1,       the Bookeywookey blog wrote: `I tend not to be much of a fan of academic       criticism of film or literature.
I find most of it reductive and the       language insular and convoluted, but what is interesting in this book is       Abrams's argument that post-1990 one sees Jews in film as nationals,       cowboys, skinheads, gay and many other categories and that the body of       work by and about Jews in this period conveys the message that "there is       more than one way to be Jewish."
This is about as anti-reductive a message       as one could hope for and is the strength of this book for my money'       (5.10).
(See also 5.7-5.9).
As recognition of this, in September 2013,       Abrams was invited to join ITV Wales' diversity panel.
Beneficiaries       The main beneficiaries are media audiences (especially in Europe, North       America and Israel) with an interest in Jewish issues.
The research has       also been used by UK synagogues to promote adult education and interfaith       relationships; by the Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati to educate a dozen       US rabbinical students; to promote the study of the bible and the Jewish       exegetical tradition of midrash through film, as well as how film can be       considered as midrash, among adult education audiences at Limmud and the       London School of Jewish Studies; for the education, in an informal       setting, of young adults in former communist countries in terms of media       stereotyping at Limmud for the American Jewish Joint Distribution       Committee.
Scope       Impacts of the research were generated through numerous essays,       appearances in regional, national and international media, and extensive       public speaking to the general global Jewish diaspora since 2008.
Its reach       is evidenced by the following:     The number of personal requests for information and consultation by         the mainstream media.
Across 2008-13, Abrams has made over 40       invited media appearances on the subject of representations of Jews,       Judaism and Jewishness in international, national and regional outlets       such as BBC Radio Wales, BBC.co.uk; The Daily Post, The North         Wales Chronicle, Western Mail, The Camden New Journal, and Muswell Hill         Journal.
Abrams appeared in the BBC documentary Coming Home       in December 2012.
Appearances in diverse and global Jewish media with a combined       readership of thousands generating wider discussion in the media/public       sphere.
Publications include The Jewish Week, Jewish Press,       JBooks.com and Heeb Magazine.
From 2011, Abrams had regular       columns in The Jewish Telegraph (circulation: approx.
50,000) &#8212;       the only dedicated newspaper for regional Jewish communities in Northern       England, Scotland and Wales; the Jewish Daily Forward (a historic       New York-based newspaper), and Ha'aretz Digital (the leading       Israeli platform whose print version has approx.
75,000 daily readers).
Abrams recorded a podcast for the website cartoonkippah.com, one       of the largest online young media outlets focusing on Jewish culture in       the UK which has 1,647 subscribers and a further 79 downloaded the       individual episode.
His talk at Limmud Conference 2012 to an audience of       over a hundred was also podcasted live.
The number of times Abrams is requested to speak to international and         diverse audiences.
Abrams is often requested to give popular talks       based on his research at schools, synagogues, adult education conferences       and societies, local history societies and film festivals, in the UK,       Europe, North America and Israel.
Abrams has delivered over 100 talks at       synagogues, Jewish adult education conferences (the annual Limmud       Conference attracts over 2,500 people world-wide), events in Bulgaria,       Serbia, Italy, Sweden, Belgium, and the Jewish Museum in London to       audiences ranging from 10-300.
His public lectures and popular talks to       audiences have totalled approx.
5000 members of the public.
Consultation with leading figures in the Jewish youth, adult and       informal education, museum, film festival, cultural and rabbinical worlds       (e.g.
providing programming advice).
Daily tweets on these issues, generating sustained on-going public       engagement with a highly-interested, self-selecting group.
Abrams       currently has over 600 unique followers on Twitter and tweets regularly to       the film site @TopFilmTip, which has around 3,000 followers checking its       daily feed, often getting upwards of 150-200 re-tweets a week.
The translation and publication of the research abroad.
The       research leading up to 3.1 has been translated and published in       non-academic magazines such as Ha'aretz, Szombat       (Hungary), Judiska Kronska (Sweden), and a Hebraica       (Brazil).
The setting up of a dedicated International Film Festival.
A       Welsh-Jewish mini film festival, organised by the First Minister for       Wales's representative in New York, entitled `Jewish Tales from Wales' was       held in New York City in March 2012.
Directly arising out of the research       (3.2, 3.3), issues covered Welsh-Jewish identity and how this was       expressed through a cinematic medium.
The Welsh Assembly Government,       Bangor University and the Museum of Jewish Heritage (MJH), New York       jointly sponsored the festival.
Abrams was involved in all post-screening       discussions.
The event received media coverage (5.9) and 270 people       attended over two days, including the First Minister for Wales and       high-profile entertainment industry figures.
The Director of Public       Programs at the MJH, stated `the series cast light on the relatively       unfamiliar Welsh experience and the still-more unfamiliar Welsh-Jewish       connection' (5.1, 5.5).
Overall, the significance of the research stems from how       it facilitates public understanding of how films challenge ethnic       stereotyping, as evidenced by testimonials from opinion-leaders (5.1-5.5).
Further recognising the significance of his impact, Abrams was appointed       as a Public Engagement Ambassador by the National Co-ordinating Centre for       Public Engagement in 2011 and was also selected to be part of the Welsh       Crucible 2013 programme of personal, professional and leadership       development for highly promising research leaders of the future who are       building their careers in Wales.
