     Applied and practice-led elements (making and enacting) have engendered       immediate impact in new experience and deeper understanding of late       medieval buildings, objects, texts, music and ritual practices, and their       inter-relationships [5.1-3, 5.5, 5.9, 5.10].
Three principal areas       of impact can be identified: (i) engagement with craftspeople and artists       in investigating and making artefacts and vestments, (ii) provision of       unique resource of three historical organs for players and singers to use       in their own buildings during residencies, (iii) active participation of       clergy, singers, musicians, servers, vergers and congregations in the       enactment of medieval rituals.
(i) Impacts on the practice and technical expertise of craftsmen     The 18 craftsmen involved in creating artefacts and vestments, all       working in Britain, collaborated closely with the researchers over 20       months in all, e.g.
making and painting of the organs [5.8, 5.11]       over 15 months, and a Pax-board [5.9] over four months, with a       total economic benefit to the craftsmen of &#163;91,726 excluding VAT [5.12].
Impact on craftsmen was further achieved through the project-led challenge       of investigating and making historically-informed ritual objects.
New       methods and issues were explored (e.g.
practical interpretation of partial       archaeological and iconographical evidence for hanging pyx and all       vestments, techniques of painting on oak board for altar reredos).
It       enabled them to acquire and share between them new knowledge and       techniques, and to engage with archaeological, iconographical and       documentary evidence.
The combination of interpretation and imagination in       making new objects led them to new questions (e.g.
implications for the       height of stools and benches in relation to medieval posture); seeing them       in use enhanced their understanding of the visual effect, ritual meaning       and religious impact of the objects (e.g.
the Five Wounds image as altar       painting based on a late medieval carving preserved in Scotland [5.11],       and the Pax-board modelled on a survival found in Essex [5.2, 5.9]).
Funding of reconstructions of two organs based on early 16th-century       fragments (Wetheringsett and Wingfield, Suffolk, 2001, 2002) and a third       `new' pre-Reformation organ (St Teilo's, 2011 [5.8]) has enabled       Goetze and Gwynn (who specialise in building new organs on historical       principles and historical restoration) to survey 16th-century remains of       organs (English, Southern French and Spanish) and extend their techniques       (e.g.
bellows made from a single cow-hide) and craft (e.g.
manufacture of       copies of soundboards and pipes).
(ii) Impacts on the performance practice of early organ and choral         music in church     Ensuring that these three organs were easily movable has enabled       residencies in specific locations.
Extended residencies (3-12 months) have       offered unique resources for singers and players.
Keyboard players have       been able to investigate new issues of performance practice for 16th- and       early 17th-century organ playing and repertory in Britain (e.g.
pitch,       tonal qualities, keyboard fingering and articulation, improvisation on       plainsong melodies, accompaniment textures), and singers working with the       organs have reconsidered issues of church pitch and timbre.
Practical       exploration with the organs has led to very significant rethinking of       these matters, and stimulated new engagement with manuscript sources by       cathedral musicians (e.g.
residencies in Durham Cathedral in 2007 and 2009       with subsequent CD [5.3, 5.6]).
The organs have already enabled a       wide range of players to reconsider the appropriate pitch for both solo       and alternatim British organ music before 1680, and 16th-century       improvisation on plainsong [5.7]; and their continuing       availability ensures that such impacts are ongoing and long-lasting.
(iii) Impacts on new experience and deeper understanding of historical         buildings, objects, texts and ritual practices     Some 2,500 participants actively participated in the liturgical       enactments.
In addition, each enactment, prefaced by contextual       introductions, has uniquely enabled regular users of medieval buildings       (e.g.
clergy, choirs &#8212; including the choristers, staff and congregation of       Salisbury Cathedral [5.1, 5.4] and St Davids Cathedral, [5.3])       to engage with and experience how their building was used in the late       Middle Ages, and to reflect on its present configuration and use: that       impact is cultural and religious, enhancing both historical and       contemporary understanding of ritual objects and gestures; use of space,       sound and silence; and wider aesthetic, spiritual and devotional issues.
The physicality of medieval ritual, the reliance on memory and non-verbal       cues, the absence of texts for congregation with concomitant religious       challenges and freedom, and the long periods of silence have all proved       revelatory [5.4, 5.5].
The experience has encouraged promotion of aspects of medieval practice       in contemporary worship.
Linda Woodhead (director of the Religion and         Society programme) used it in an invited presentation to the Roman       Catholic bishops of England and Wales, `The End of Religious Uniformity',       3 October 2012 [5.5].
Elements of medieval ritual practice       (extended periods of kneeling, facing eastwards, movement) and repertory       (chant, early polyphony) were explored in modern worship at Bangor       Cathedral (November 2011 and 2012), and for a week of services (August       2012).
Although drawing on research undertaken since 1993, this case for impact       has focused on a recent, major research project (2009-13).
As such its       full potential is not yet realised.
At St Fagans Museum, collaboration       with curators, conservators and interpreters has addressed questions of       the configuration, embellishment and ritual use of St Teilo's Church: the       ensuing cultural and educational public benefit is long-term       (interpretation of the building, depositing of artefacts, and future use       of the church for enactments) [5.2].
This is also true at       Salisbury Cathedral and its predecessor, Old Sarum (interpretation of the       building/ruins, contemporary liturgical practice, and planned future       historical enactment) [5.1].
More generally, unrestricted access to two globally available major web       resources, developed as core outcomes of the project, enables ongoing       cultural, historical, educational and religious impact.
The Experience         of Worship website [3.2] provides a full narrative of the       project as well as resources to enable future enactments of each liturgy       in other places.
Sarum Customary Online [3.3] offers       contextual introductions to the two cathedrals of Salisbury and their       influential ritual practices (the Use of Sarum).
