     University of Huddersfield research into maximising the value of tropical       forests has been significant in bringing about a shift from ineffective       state conservation efforts to active and productive forest management by       empowered, organised, and informed communities who are developing a range       of enterprises.
The core impacts have been to enable these communities to       produce greater volumes of better quality products, access international       markets via better supply chains and to get higher prices.
These have led       to diverse and wide-ranging impacts in terms of business and product       development, improved livelihoods and environmental management.
More than       100,000 forest users have been directly affected by Huddersfield's work,       another 200,000 in the area and up to 15m in the region have benefited       indirectly, while the forest using communities now actively manage over       105,000 hectares as working forest (Corroborating sources 1,2,3,4).
The research has helped transform the local business landscape.
Seven,       entrepreneur led, forest product cooperatives have been established, most       since 2011, including one that brought a minority group, the Mejengir,       into the commercial world.
Six honey-marketing companies (PLCs) are now       operating, with trade increasing tenfold and prices rising tenfold since       2008.
There has also been increased home production of NTFPs which has led       to the greater involvement of women in production and raised their       economic independence.
(Corroborating sources 5 &amp; 6).
The total number       of people directly or indirectly employed in forest-based enterprises       arising from this research now stands at 3,000.
Huddersfield's work has       also demonstrated the importance of improved national and international       trade links to the enduring success of these developments.
As a result,       the co-operatives, PLCs and other local traders have forged relationships       with buyers from Addis Ababa and through them to the German fair-trade       market (GEPA) and The Body Shop in the UK which confirms the purchase of       all their honey, used in over 240 products, from organizations set-up       through UoH projects (Corroborating source 7).
They have established links       with national level spice traders; and have earned intermittent       certification of forest coffee through Netherlands- based Utz Kapeh, which       oversees a worldwide programme to promote fair trade practices and       "sustainable quality" among coffee farmers.
Trade figures clearly evidence       the impact of these advances with over 300 tonnes of honey sold in 2012.
The contribution of Huddersfield's research and guidance is reflected in       the growth, influence and success of institutions specifically dedicated       to sustainable and productive forest management and trade.
In 2012 and       2013 five Participatory Forest Management Associations were established to       coordinate community-based active forest management, supported by some 120       PFM member groups that oversee forest enterprise, trade and management at       a community level.
As illustrated by data assembled by Huddersfield       researchers, the management skills employed by these organisations, which       are informed by a very deep appreciation of the inherent worth of their       surroundings, have contributed to a notable reduction in forest clearance       in recent years.
Understanding the comparative values of public limited       companies versus co-operatives along with the comparative advantages of       Associations versus Co-operatives for forest management has led to better       business structures and better forest management institutions.
All of the above factors have combined to produce various impacts on the       livelihoods of local populations.
Survey data from the independent impact       assessment study by Conscientia PLC in 2013 quoted in the End of Project       Evaluation Report of LTSI (Corroborating source 4) show that the       significant proportion of family income now obtained through trade in       forest products has increased by 24% due to the project activities       (Corroborating source 8).
This will possibly be increased when carbon       trading is started following approval of the Project Development Document       by Plan Vivo.
The research's influence on forest policy has been crucial       for enabling and accelerating these various advances, with Huddersfield's       work shaping a number of key reforms.
Over the period 2008-2012       Huddersfield supported the regional government to develop a new forest       policy which was promulgated in 2012.
This has specific aims of developing       a working forests/forest enterprise view and encouraging the development       of multiple products to add value to the forest.
This revised policy and       legislation applies to the 15m people in the region, almost all of whom       use forest products in their daily lives, and especially the 5m who live       in districts with major forest areas.
Awareness of the revised legislation is being raised by a dissemination       campaign targeting not just communities but local government offices.
Further efforts, to support the national level debate about forest policy       have included conference presentations and workshops within Ethiopia       (Corroborating source 5).
These have been vital for engaging different       audiences and the consequent adoption of Huddersfield's findings.
Project       funding to the end of 2015 is guaranteed and Prof. Wood has been asked to       submit a follow-on proposal.
