     Macedonia has faced high levels of community conflict and tension in       recent years, bordered as it is by Kosovo and Albania with a large       Albanian population living within its borders.
A coalition of stakeholders       including the Macedonian government and Bureau of Education, OSCE       (Organisation for Security &amp; Cooperation in Europe) and British       Council saw improved inter-ethnic communication as a way to reduce       tension.
But the three main ethnic groups - Serbian, Macedonian and       Albanian - had only a low level knowledge of each other's languages.
Professor Benati is one of a group which developed the discipline of       Processing Instruction which showed that people learn from immersion in a       language and from implicit or unconscious searching for meaning in the       form and structures they hear.
They found that methods which enabled this       implicit acquisition were more successful than traditional methods, which       give explicit grammar instruction followed by mechanical practice.
Professor Benati has led many classroom-based empirical studies in the       last 20 years in order to develop practical tools for teachers,       particularly in the teaching of grammar.
He was invited to apply his       research for the first time on a project of this scale, to introduce a new       education policy and practice in the teaching of second languages across       Macedonia.
The project was implemented between May 2010 and December 2011.
The underpinning research on input processing and processing instruction       represented the foundation for the development of a new model of grammar       instruction which provided teachers in Macedonia with more effective and       appropriate ways of teaching grammatical features, eg syntactic features,       verbal morphology and nominal morphology, in the language classroom.
The two major outcomes of this project were the publication of a teaching       guidebook, and the development and implementation of a training programme       for school teachers on grammar teaching.
The Guidebook was launched on 19       October 2011 at the Centre for Conferences and Studies in Skopje.
The       launch sparked wide interest in the professional and academic community.
The event was attended by sixty participants including the Deputy Minister       of Education and Science, representatives from the Department for the       Promotion of `Communities' Languages and faculty deans from state and       private universities in the Republic of Macedonia.
Hundreds of copies of       the Guidebook, published in four languages, Macedonian, Albanian, Turkish       and Serbian, were disseminated during the event.
The event was covered by       the national TV station "Kanal 5" and a number of newspaper articles were       published.
Since then, thousands of copies of the Guidebook have been       disseminated among language teachers throughout Macedonia, in       collaboration with the regional offices of the Bureau of Education and       Development.
Between August and December 2011, 444 language teachers from 37 primary       and 17 secondary schools from 3 different cities (Skopje, Tetovo and       Kumanovo) were trained using the teacher training programme on grammar       teaching and the Guidebook.
Twenty-eight training sessions were delivered       in two languages (Macedonian and Albanian).
Teachers of other foreign       languages (English, German and French) benefited from the training as well       as those teaching Macedonian and community languages.
Responses and       comments received from the training were positive and encouraging.
The       feedback confirmed that the training was well-designed and provided       important insights into language curriculum development.
It enhanced       teachers' knowledge and ability to develop effective grammar tasks and to       deliver them in the language classroom.
The plan is to cascade the       training to all schools in the country and to develop further training       modules, for instance on the best way to give feedback to students.
An additional value of the project is the knowledge sharing and       cooperation between institutions that previously worked in isolation from       each other.
As a result of the success of the project, state advisors from       the Bureau of Education Development are cooperating with state and private       university professors in adopting a new strategy to develop effective       policies and methodologies in teaching a second language in Macedonia.
A       web site has now been set up where teachers can have online access to the       training programme and the guidebook (Benati, A.
(2011) (Ed.)
A         Guidebook for Language Teaching.
High Commissioner For Minority       Languages OSCE &amp; British Council Macedonia.
(Translated into       Macedonian, Turkish, Serb, and Albanian.)
The research and its application are relevant to the acquisition of all       second languages.
Professor Benati and colleagues have since applied it to       the teaching of Arabic and Japanese.
