     Evidence base for medical practice       The results of the WOSCOPS study represented the first demonstration of       the benefits of statin therapy in a male population with no history of       myocardial infarction, showing a 31% reduction in coronary events and a       28% reduction in deaths from coronary heart disease in patients taking       pravastatin.
A further major study, PROSPER (Lancet 2002;       23;360(9346):1623-30), also conducted by the RCB, established that taking       pravastatin for an average of 3 years reduced the risk in an older       population (70-82 years) where the epidemiological association between       elevated cholesterol and increased risk is less evident.
These studies       therefore clearly established the evidence for statins as a primary       prevention mechanism for reducing cardiovascular risk.
The landmark nature       of the WOSCOPS results is reflected in the subsequent very large number of       medical citations.
Impact on health and patient care       Statins are now very widely used in primary prevention of coronary       disease, with more than 60 million statin prescriptions dispensed in       England alone in 2012.
Although there have been other clinical trials       which have investigated the use of statins in different patient groups       with different risk categories, WOSCOPS remains the definitive study which       first established the benefits, and safety, of statins in preventing       first-time heart attacks for those with raised cholesterol.
Indeed, there       would be ethical issues in repeating a study of this type now that the       benefits have been identified.
WOSCOPS is therefore a primary source in       the supporting evidence for national and international guidelines on the       management of patients.
Examples where WOSCOPS is cited include guidelines       for risk estimation and the prevention of cardiovascular disease [a].
WOSCOPS is also extensively referenced in clinical aids such as GPnotebook       (www.gpnotebook.co.uk), which       assist doctors in decisions on suitable medications and management of       patients.
At the international level, the American Association of Clinical       Endocrinologists issued Guidelines for management of dyslipidaemia and         prevention of atherosclerosis (2012) which recommends statins as the       cholesterol lowering drug of choice, with the in-depth analysis of the       treatment recommendations citing WOSCOPS as one of the major randomised       controlled trials supporting the use of statins in primary prevention [b].
Similarly, the European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis       Society issued Guidelines for the management of dyslipaemias       (2011) which cites WOSCOPS to support the use of statins in patients who       have been stratified according to cardiovascular risk and low-density       lipoprotein levels [c].
The study has therefore had significant impact on       patient care worldwide.
Identification of long-term health and economic benefits       A follow-up study of WOSCOPS patients 10 years after the end of the trial       showed continuing effects in risk reduction and no long-term safety       concerns.
This study, conducted by the RCB, integrating record linkage,       statistical methods and economic analysis, shows that treatment of 1000       patients for five years in middle age saves over 1800 days in hospital       over the following 15 years, with a consequent saving to the NHS of &#163;710k       [d].
As the use of statins has increased internationally, the replication       of these effects over large populations clearly represents savings of       enormous size, both in financial terms and in the positive improvement in       patient health.
The use of record linkage has therefore had the double       impact of providing a highly effective and cost-saving means of pursuing       medical follow-up studies in general, as well as identifying the long-term       health and economic impact associated with the original WOSCOPS study in       particular.
Public understanding and debate       The recent, record linkage based, follow-up study of WOSCOPS patients [d]       has attracted significant press coverage [e], reflecting the widespread       public interest in the associated health and economic issues.
The study       has therefore contributed significantly to public understanding and public       debate of the underlying issues.
A recent example was the reference to       WOSCOPS long-term follow-up as an excellent illustration of the potential       of record linkage in medical research at the national launch of the new       Health e-Research Centres (HeRCs).
