     Kidney failure has a devastating impact on patients' lives, and long-term       survival rates after transplantation demonstrate a doubled or tripled life       expectancy compared to dialysis.
The NHSBT estimates that over 37,500       people in the UK have end-stage renal failure; nearly 21,000 are on       dialysis.
As of 31 March 2013 there were 6,325 patients on the transplant       list for a donor kidney; the number of kidney transplants carried out each       year is less than half that number (2984 between April 2012-April 2013 of       which 1916 were from deceased donors and 1068 from living donors [NHSBT]).
The NHSBT estimates median waiting time on the transplant list at 1168       days for an adult and 354 days for a child, and according to the National       Kidney Federation approximately 400 people each year die while awaiting a       kidney transplant.
Prior to 1 September 2006, transplants could only take place between       those with a genetic or emotional connection.
However, the Human Tissue       Act 2004 and Human Tissue (Scotland) Act 2006 created the legal framework       to allow transplants between strangers, thus opening up new possibilities       for living donor transplants.
Increasing the number of potential kidney matches       Research by the University of Glasgow showed how to model a complex,       hierarchical set of criteria that form the definition of an optimal set of       kidney exchanges.
The algorithm developed to identify optimal sets has       been used by NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT) since 2008, enabling the       number of potential matches to be radically improved and resulting in more       transplants arising from identified kidney exchanges being carried out       over the last four years (see Figure 1).
Figure 1.
Shows how the kidney exchanges work: P=patient; d=donor      The development of the University of Glasgow algorithm led directly to a       decision by the NHS to allow three-patient `swaps' of donor kidneys from       April 2008 onwards, increasing the number of potential transplants even       further.
Between July 2008 and April 2013, a total of 393 transplants were       identified by the algorithms and of these, 232 transplants actually took       place.
Had the NHSBT continued to use their pre-existing algorithm, which       was only capable of identifying pairwise exchanges, it is likely that only       165 transplants would have gone ahead (from a total of 280 identified       matches, using the same conversion rate).
Thus the 232 transplants that       took place represents an increase of 67, or 40%, compared to the estimated       number that would have occurred if the status quo techniques had continued       to be used.
A modified University of Glasgow algorithm has allowed altruistic donors       (people who are willing to donate a kidney to a stranger) to be included       in the National Living Donor Kidney Sharing Schemes since January 2012.
An       altruistic donor can either donate directly to a patient on the Deceased       Donor Waiting List, or else trigger a domino paired donation chain       involving one or more incompatible patient-donor pairs, leading to       additional transplants.
In 2010, the Head of Organ Donation and Transplantation Studies, NHS       Blood and Transplant stated:     Since July 2008, we have been collaborating with Dr David Manlove and         Dr P&#233;ter Bir&#243; in relation to the NMSPD [National Matching Scheme for       Paired Donation, now the National Living Donor Kidney Sharing Schemes]:         their matching algorithms have been used in order to construct optimal         solutions to the datasets that we provide.
Some of these datasets have         encoded particularly challenging underlying problems, and the task of         producing an optimal solution would have been highly complex without the         assistance of these matching algorithms.
We anticipate that this will be         a growing issue as the number of people in the database increases over         time.
Improving patient quality of life       For patients, the benefits are numerous.
Kidneys from living donors last       on average 33% longer than those from deceased donors (15 years compared       to 10), so increasing the number of these types of exchanges translates       into more patients enjoying a longer period of time living with a healthy       kidney, returning to work or otherwise resuming their normal lives.
Transplantation also extends the life expectancy of patients with kidney       disease compared to dialysis (life expectancy for dialysis patients is       only five years on average).
Dialysis can save patients' lives but it is       not a cure as it does not replace all the functions of a healthy kidney.
Dialysis also carries significant health implications for patients and can       cause or contribute to anaemia, bone disease, high blood pressure, heart       disease, nerve damage and infection.
A BBC         news article in March 2010 described the difference that a three-way       kidney transplant made to the lives of the recipients involved.
Financial benefits for the NHS       The work of Dr Manlove and colleagues has economic benefits for the NHS as       well as health benefits for the patients involved.
According to NHSBT,       each kidney transplant saves the NHS &#163;240,000 over 10 years (based on a       comparison with the cost of dialysis over that time period, and taking       into account the cost of the operation itself).
This means that by       enabling an increase of 67 new kidney transplants, the University of       Glasgow researchers have potentially saved the NHS around &#163;16 million over       the next 10 years, with additional savings to come with each new three-way       pairing identified.
With an aim to share best practice, compare and agree on common       optimality criteria and common data formats and lay the ground-work to       ultimately share kidney exchange pools on an international basis, Dr       Manlove and his collaborators currently have a European Cooperation in       Science and Technology proposal under review.
The proposal includes       representation from the UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, Portugal,       Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia and wider participation from the USA and       Australia.
