     Over a period of 15 years, Thomson and Houston developed models and       simulations which greatly improved the general understanding of gyroplane       aerodynamics and behaviour for manufacturers, regulators and operators       across the world.
Implementation of new civil airworthiness requirements in the UK       As a result of this comprehensive University of Glasgow research,       stringent requirements are now in place to ensure that only airworthy       gyroplanes are permitted to fly in the UK.
Reports submitted by Thomson       and Houston led directly to the CAA's current British Civil Airworthiness       Requirements (BCAR) Section T: Light Gyroplanes, legislation which governs       the safety of gyroplanes.
Following a first set of flight trials, Thomson and Houston carried out       an analysis of existing BCAR Section T requirements to inform their next       phase of research.
As the research progressed, regular contractor reports       were submitted to the CAA, enabling a process of continual revision of the       requirements.
University of Glasgow recommendations relating to gyroplane       longitudinal stability were incorporated in 2005.
In 2011, the       requirements were updated again, introducing a number of changes arising       from the increased understanding of the flight characteristics of       gyroplanes gained by the University's ongoing research into stability and       an investigation into rotor dynamics.
International influence of BCAR Section T       Internationally, the 2011 revised requirements have been adopted in       Australia and Canada.
In Germany, although not adopted, they are treated       as advisory requirements.
The implementation of revised regulations for gyroplane design and       modifications forced the main European manufacturer, AutoGyro of Germany,       to change its designs.
Between AutoGyro and RotorSport UK, the leading UK       gyroplane manufacturer, close to 2,000 machines have been produced since       this design change and are in use worldwide.
Even in countries where the       UK CAA standards have not been applied, the research is well-known and       also influences gyroplane design.
Visual evidence of this can be seen in       modern gyroplanes where dropped or stepped keels, inclined powerplant       thrust lines or lowered powerplant installations can be found.
These       changes improve the aerodynamic characteristics of the gyroplane, thereby       improving safety for the pilots and passengers.
Original straight keel.
When the propeller size increased it was necessary to raise the height of the propeller to avoid the keel &#8212; this introduced instability.
Dropped/stepped keel introduced as a result of the University of Glasgow recommendations to CAA, adopted in BCAR Section T. The dropped keel enables the propeller to remain low, maintaining stability.
(Image courtesy of RotorSport UK Ltd)      Reduced fatalities in the UK       This research has had a direct impact on lowering light gyroplane fatal       accidents.
The fatal accident rate between 2000 and 2009 was 1 per 2500       hours.
Since 2009, there have been no fatal accidents in the UK.
For this       period, most of the UK fleet are of modern designs influenced by the       University of Glasgow research (there has been one fatality in the sector       due to deliberate illegal action).
The UK Air Accident Investigation Branch regularly cites the University       of Glasgow research in accident reports.
In fact, Thomson and Houston's       mathematical model, developed since 1993, has been used in simulations to       assist in the investigation of every fatal accident since 1996.
