     1.
Impact on governmental policies relating to language     Crystal's research has led to far reaching and significant impacts on       governmental policies relating to language usage, planning and       maintenance, at both national and international level [3.1, 3.2].
During the REF census period, for instance, Crystal's research has       impacted on the way UK governmental ministries deploy language in       communicating with the general public &#8212; part of the so-called "plain       English campaign" conducted under the UK Government's Public       Administration Select Committee.
A public consultation document on the       state of Local Government Improvement and Development 2001-2010 entitled "The         state of the language" [5.1] was circulated by the Select       Committee.
This document relied, in large part, on Crystal's research on       language usage, especially his findings relating to official language.
He       was subsequently invited, as one of four experts, and the only linguist,       to appear before the Select Committee at the House of Commons (9th       July 2009) [5.2].
He provided advice on the issue of official       language use, and ways to improve linguistic and communication strategies,       by government, local and national, in official communications with the       general public.
The ensuing report "Bad Language: The Use and Abuse of         Official Language" (30 Nov. 2009), [5.3] urges "politicians       and public servants to use language that is clear, honest and       understandable" and relies heavily on Crystal's expertise: Crystal is the       only one of the expert witnesses consulted cited in the report (56       citations).
The ensuing impact on language usage was felt UK-wide       throughout the civil service, which was invited to adopt the report's       recommendation.
2.
Impact on public awareness and greater understanding of the role         and value of linguistic diversity in culture and society     Secondly, Crystal's research has significantly enhanced public awareness       and understanding of the nature and value of linguistic change and       diversity.
This impact is evidenced by Crystal's dissemination of his       research findings and engagement with the general public.
Since 2008,       Crystal has published seven books translating his research for a general       audience, with a common theme of the role and value of linguistic       diversity.
Several of these have been translated, such as Txting: the         gr8 db8 (2008, Oxford: OUP), which appeared in Chinese since (2010).
He has made over 100 invited TV/radio appearances to comment and/or report       on specific issues relating to language diversity, as well as many invited       podcasts.
These include a BBC Newsnight feature with Jeremy Paxman       (first aired Nov 2008); an appearance on BBC4's It's only a theory       (first aired Oct 2009); and recordings for the British Library.
Some of       his broadcasts, have subsequently been deposited on YouTube, attracting       even greater exposure [5.4].
According to YouTube's statistics on       typical viewers (by age and gender), the viewers across these YouTube       postings are predominantly (35-54 year old) men, and (45-54 year old)       women: distinctly above the usual age for university students.
Viewing       figures (&gt;100,000K [5.4]) reveal that viewings have steadily       increased over time and that almost every country that has internet access       has viewed his presentations, with some of the postings having the highest       proportion of hits in Australia, Spain and parts of South America,       demonstrating worldwide reach of his work.
Further public engagement can       be found in news coverage, such as, for example, in the Guardian, BBC and       internationally in the Economist, Huffington Post and on Minnesota Public       Radio.
Crystal's public engagement extends to popular media, such as his       play Living On (1998) on the plight of minority languages, which       has been staged by various amateur dramatic companies worldwide, and as       far afield as Yerevan State University in Armenia (2012) [5.5].
From Nov 2010 to April 2011, Crystal co-curated a major exhibition at the       British Library in London.
Evolving English: one language, many voices,       was the first time the Library had presented an exhibition on the English       language and the planning and selection of content relied heavily on       Crystal's research.
He provided the audio examples of earlier periods of       English used in the exhibition and wrote the accompanying book with the       same name (London: British Library, 2010).
It proved to be the       best-attended winter exhibition the Library had ever put on.
Over 10,000       visitors that attended the exhibition contributed a recording of their       spoken English to the British Library's Sound Archive, which can still be       enjoyed online [5.6].
3.
Global commercial impact in internet advertising applications     In 2001, together with David Saunders, Crystal set up his company Crystal       Semantics, with the aim of developing lexical products, including the       Global Data Model.
Uniquely using context, human linguistic intuition and       semantic relationships between words, this led ultimately to the       development of the patented Sense Engine&#8482;, which provides the basis of a       suite of targeted online technology solutions that currently lead the       field in web-based advertising to make advertisements relevant to the       subject of each individual webpage.
In 2006, Crystal sold Crystal Semantics to Ad Pepper Media International       &#8212; one of the world's largest online advertising technology solutions       providers, with a reach of over 4 billion monthly impressions of web and       email.
Ad Pepper incorporated the Sense Engine as a reference frame into       two new web advertising technologies: The iSense system (launched       September 2007 in Europe, March 2008 in North America) provided the online       advertising community with the world's first targeted advertising system,       allowing adverts to load on the most contextually appropriate webpages,       and in the most appropriate locations, maximising the potential success of       the advert.
The precise advert placement facilitated by iSense has       transformed the digital advertising industry.
It is currently is available       in 11 languages, has won numerous awards and is applied by the world's       leading brands including Volkswagen, IBM and Philips (more brand       references listed on Ad Pepper's website [5.7]).
In 2009, Ad       Pepper launched the SiteScreen system [5.8, 5.9] that also       incorporates Crystal's Sense Engine, protecting advertisers by identifying       potentially objectionable content in various categories and thereby making       and end to ads loading next to such content.
