     The work described in Section 2 has had a significant impact on the       resurgence and rejuvenation of the Welsh language since 2008, with       specific benefits to poetry, education, community projects and publishing       businesses, and has contributed extensively to contemporary debate and       current perspectives on the Welsh language.
The significance of the impact       is in disproportion to the size of this group of researchers and ranges       from involvement with national organisations to regional events, from       community-based projects to curriculum design, utilising and promoting the       Welsh language as a vibrant, living medium throughout.
Impact on national and regional poetry celebration and presentation           of cultural heritage     Between July 2006 and April 2008 Thomas was appointed by The       Welsh Academy of Writers (later Literature Wales) as second National Poet       of Wales, in recognition of the contribution to Welsh language       rejuvenation of his celebrated selected volume of poems, Gweddnewidio.
In this capacity, Thomas took a proactive approach to extending       the reach of contemporary Welsh poetry and in doing so, interpreting the       still-novel role of National Poet.
He adopted from the outset a variety of       strategies ranging from responding in verse to `news stories' (e.g.
the       passing of Welsh rugby giant Ray Gravell and the achievements of the often       controversial and unconventional North Wales police chief, Richard       Brunstrom) to placing unfamiliar poems on beer mats (5.1).
Another       strategy was the regular translation of his poems into English.
Through       his poems and wide outreach he raised the profile of Welsh poetry and       extended its reach to new audiences throughout Wales and beyond, an impact       which extended well beyond the period of his official appointment (5.1).
In recognition of his importance for Welsh national identity and his       expertise in propagation of the language, Thomas was commissioned       in 2009 to write a verse that was inscribed within the structure of the       new Snowdon visitor centre, Hafod Eryri.
Visited annually by around       500,000 visitors from around the world, permanent, worldwide reach of his       work and the Welsh language has thereby been secured on this       world-renowned summit (5.2).
In addition, and in recognition of their       significance as writers steeped in the history and heritage of their       community, Thomas, Hunter, Price and Wiliams were all       commissioned in 2011 to write pieces celebrating the high-profile 60th       anniversary of the Snowdonia National Park which annually attracts over 4       million visitors (5.3).
Their participation in this web-based project       demonstrates how these writers utilise a variety of social platforms to       ensure extended impact of their work, and in the same year, Hunter       and Price were among a select group of 26 authors invited to take       part in the National Library of Wales's 26 Treasures celebratory project,       part of a wider collaboration with the National Museum of Scotland and the       Ulster Museum.
The book accompanying the exhibition, including the work by       Hunter and Price, has sold between 1000 and 1500 copies to       date.
Two national bodies that these writers have regularly impacted upon are       the National Eisteddfod of Wales, which attracts around 150,000 visitors a       year, and the Urdd National Eisteddfod, which draws in the region of       100,000 visitors annually (5.4).
Hunter won the prestigious Prose       Medal in the 2010 National Eisteddfod with his Gwenddydd and the       ensuing publicity has ensured a still wider reach.
For the 2012 Urdd       National Eisteddfod, 'Dan Ein Trwynau' from Tafarn Tawelwch by Wiliams       was selected for a 19-25 age-group recitation competition, which in       practical terms meant that the poem was learnt by hundreds of youngsters       and publically performed in tens of local and area eisteddfodau before       reaching the national stage and enjoying simultaneous multiplatform media       coverage, including a 47,000 television audience (5.7).
These writers have also been involved in a variety of bespoke projects       which have extended the reach of contemporary Welsh writing by exposing it       to bold new contexts.
For example, Davies was commissioned in May       2012 to write a poem responding to the coal-inspired exhibition of artist       Jonathan Anderson at Oriel Myrddin, Carmarthen.
This invitation was a       direct result of Davies's depiction of industrial south Wales in       `Egni' in 2004.
Another impact directly-associated with research, this       time on a regional level, occurred during the 2010 Caernarfon-based       literary festival, G&#373;yl Arall.
Price's Caersaint was       central to the author-led walking tour of Caernarfon; a multi-platform       game based on the novel, along with a blog, was commissioned and formed a       prominent part of the festival's activities, as reported in the regional       and national press (5.5, 5.6).
Impacts on Welsh language education and literature engagement     The impact of these writers ranges from the educational to the       recreational.
Wiliams's `Efrog Newydd Eto' from Rhwng         Gwibdaith a Coldplay was included as a learning aid in Gareth King's       popular The Routledge Intermediate Welsh Reader (2013); the text       was included as an example of contemporary poetry and used to extend       Welsh-learners' linguistic skills.
It was described by King as `a telling       demonstration of the capacity of this ancient linguistic tradition to find       its voice in the wider modern world' (5.8).
Price's Caersaint       and Hunter's Gwenddydd have been used as set texts, the       first for a course in the School of Welsh at Cardiff University and the       latter as a set text in Aberystwyth University's Department of Welsh,       while Davies's `Egni' has been a set text at both Cardiff and       Aberystwyth (5.9).
Hunter's Gwenddydd, Price's Caersaint       and Wiliams's Rhwng Gwibdaith a Coldplay have been the       chosen subject for reading clubs throughout Wales; Caersaint was       also chosen by the Welsh Books Council as its Novel of the Month in March       2010 and Hunter's Gwreiddyn Chwerw in July 2011, providing       evidence for the significant impact of these works on literature       engagement in communities throughout Wales (5.4).
Impact on media and Small and Medium Enterprises     This practice-led research has regularly steered contemporary debate and       influenced current perspectives on the Welsh language.
The research cited       in Section 2 has provided ample subject-matter for numerous television and       radio programmes such as S4C's flagship art platform Pethe which       regularly draws audiences of between 20,000-50,000 viewers (e.g.
March       2010, September 2011, June 2012) (5.10) and BBC Radio Cymru's Stiwdio       (e.g.
July 2012) as well as extensive web presence.
Hunter's       success with Gwenddydd was the deciding element in having the       author selected as the guest for an episode of Dweud Pethe on S4C,       an in-depth interview with host Guto Harri.
In addition to providing       material and setting the agenda for media programmes, works created by       this group of writers have provided publishing opportunities leading to       economic benefits to various SMEs (5.4), namely Gwasg y Bwthyn, Gwasg       Gwynedd and Y Lolfa, which are all located in rural Wales within the       Convergence Area designated for Structural Funds from the European Union       between 2007-2013.
For instance, Hunter's Gwenddydd has       sold over 2400 copies and Price's Caersaint over 2000.
The       fact that these sales continue to grow indicates the lasting public       interest in these important works.
Extending the reach of Welsh literature through translation     An additional important feature of this group's impact is translation       (see also REF5, section b), which extends the bounds of contemporary Welsh       literature and creates cultural capital far beyond Wales.
For example, Price's       The Life of Rebecca Jones (Gwasg Gomer, 2010, and The MacLehose       Press, 2012), a translation of her 2001 O!
Tyn y Gorchudd       (submitted to RAE 2008), is also available on Kindle.
It was praised in The         Independent &#8212; `Widely hailed as the first Welsh classic of the 21st       century, it now stands tall ... as a peak of modern British writing too'       (5.11) &#8212; and was chosen as one of the novels of the year by The Irish         Times and The Independent.
Price has also been       invited to discuss the work in venues such as the 2012 Hay Literary       Festival and Nottingham Welsh Society.
Lloyd Jones's translation of the novel derives from an extended process       of creative interaction with the author.
In order to translate the novel       into six further languages, including German, Romanian and Bengali,       similar creative interactions between author and translator have been       facilitated by the Wales Literature Exchange, an organization which aims       to connect writers, translators and publishers in Wales and abroad (5.12).
