     In 2007, the Serious Games Institute (SGI) was set up as a hub of       excellence in serious games       and virtual world research, providing business development support and       flexible rental       accommodation for new and emerging SME companies in the UK and worldwide.
The aim was to       bring business development capabilities and networks of supported       companies together with high       quality research in a unique physical and virtual network environment.
The       SGI was funded by a &#163;7       million recoverable grant from the West Midlands Regional Development       Agency and others.
The       various funders required the SGI to deliver quantifiable annual measures       of impact including: spin       outs, product development, technology transfer, knowledge transfer, jobs       created and protected, IP       generated, overseas partnerships and direct industrial funding.
This       research group is therefore       focused on ensuring these measures are delivered over the 15 year       life-time of the recoverable       grant.
To achieve this the SGI works with a network of over 30 companies       including: US-based       Area/Code (now Zynga) and NeuroSky and, within Europe: Blitz Games Studios       (founders now       working in new company, Radiant Worlds), I-Maginary, PlayGen, Roll7,       Succubus Interactive,       Serious Games Interactive, V-Step etc.
Economic and commercial impacts on various stakeholders         Business Engagement: The research on the efficacy of serious games,       and work around game       design, validation and evaluation metrics, has had a quantifiable impact       upon a network of over 30       companies.
de Freitas and her group's research has had a direct       impact upon educational game       design and improved usability of products that in turn have improved the       reputation of the       companies and their products.
For example, Mr Richard Smithies, previously       Chief Executive       Officer, Blitz Games Studios (now co-founder of Radiant Worlds), stated       that "the use of the four-dimensional       framework for learning through games was often quoted in company       presentations as       well as used for design ...the research published about Triage Trainer did       increase profile" [d].
Triage Trainer validated TruSim's (a division of Blitz Games Studios)       approach to serious games       and enhanced its reputation as a leader in the field.
This resulted in a       major contract from the US       Department of Defence to create a 3D motion controlled game for combatant       rehabilitation.
Technology transfer and brokering partnerships: In 2009, while       looking for a low cost brain-computer       interface to support a new research area, de Freitas and her group       found NeuroSky, a       Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) headset that uses electroencephalography       (EEG) technology.
The       headset can read a user's level of concentration and relaxation and in       turn those signals can be       used to control game-play.
Following evaluation of the research and       commercial potential of the       NeuroSky Brain-Computer Interface it was introduced to the network of 30       SGI companies.
This       technology transfer allowed Roll7 and NeuroSky to forge a commercial deal       with backing from the       West Midlands Regional Development Agency to create a series of games to       be bundled with the       headset to show off its capabilities.
Current sales figures indicate that       Roll7 has gained over       &#163;150,000 in sales with three new jobs created.
Roll7 is also working with       the Singapore SGI (one       of the international spin-outs from the SGI) on applications of       brain-computer interfacing, co-funded       by the Singapore Media Development Authority (MDA).
For example, Focus         Pocus is a serious-game       aimed at children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and       is being rolled out       in Singapore.
Similarly, Mr Johnny Liu, Manager at NeuroSky, has stated       that the association with       de Freitas and her research group had helped them make continuous       improvements in their       technology and encouraged them to make both a consumer and a research       version of the product       which has resulted in a five-fold growth in sales since 2009 [c].
Commissioning and bidding for funds with partners: PlayGen       attracted a commission from the       Primary Care Trust for the sexual health game for parents, benefiting       directly from de Freitas and       her group's research on the efficacy of serious gaming.
PlayGen's turnover       is approximately &#163;1       million, of which the relationship with de Freitas and her group       secured some 6% over the period       including one staff post being created.
Collaborative research has also       led to an EPSRC I-Case       studentship amounting to &#163;82,000.
Mr Kam Star, Managing Director of       PlayGen, indicated that       `The company's future direction had fundamentally shifted their fortunes       and they were in line to       receive hundreds of thousands of Euros working with Universities across       Europe as a direct result       of involvement in the EU-Funded GALA Network of Excellence' [a].
International SGI partners: Serious Games Institutes are being       established overseas, with the       support of the Unit's researchers.
For example, in 2011 de Freitas       and her team worked with the       spin-out company, Singapore SGI, securing &#163;500,000 investment from the       Media Development       Authority (MDA) to support development of a cluster of companies in       Singapore's serious games       sector.
Similarly, in South Africa, a joint venture between SGI and North       Western University was       opened in 2012 with initial investment of &#163;50,000 p.a.
from Nuffic (Dutch       funding agency).
A       collaborative SGI at George Mason University in Washington has been       established with regional       funding.
To date, jobs have been created in Singapore (5), South Africa       (3) and America (1).
The       close working relationship with industry ensures impact on both sides and       has encouraged other       partners across four continents to set up branches using the same model.
The model replicates the       SGI including: business services such as mobile application development,       training services, shared       IP, a Doctoral school, student and staff exchanges and Masters programmes,       as well as       collaborative project work and co-development of projects.
Technology and       knowledge transfer are       being supported by this model, which impact on local industries.
Commercial spin-outs: The success of the SGI led to the spin-out       of UK company Serious       Games International Ltd (SGiL) which attracted &#163;2 million in Coventry       University investment to       exploit the intellectual property using technology and expert knowledge       from the research of de         Freitas and her research group.
To date, 27 new jobs have been       created and after its first year of       trading the turnover is in excess of &#163;2 million.
Projects have been       secured from Jaguar Land       Rover, Nissan, BAE Systems, Vision Express, TXMax, NHS and others [b].
Impacts on practitioners, professional services, public understanding         and public debate       The PR:EPARe game aims to support the delivery of the Relationship and Sex       Education (RSE)       programme, promoting shared discourse and debriefing within a formal       classroom setting.
The       project is funded by the Health Innovation and Education Cluster (HIEC)       for West Midlands       (South), UK and the game was developed as a result of the funded research       collaboration between       de Freitas, her research group and a research team submitted to       UoA3 Allied Health.
The       interactive serious game is called Positive Relationships: Eliminating       Coercion and Pressure in       Adolescent Relationships (PR:EPARe).
The game was designed, developed and       evaluated by       Coventry University and is currently being rolled out across local schools       in Coventry and       Warwickshire.
The game is designed for teachers, parents, and teenagers       themselves, as a       resource to aid sex education, tackling pressure and coercion in teenage       relationships.
There are       over 22,000 visits a year to website on which the PR:EPARe is hosted and       the PR:EPARe serious       game received significant media attention, promoting and stimulating       public awareness.
