     Since the 2007 publication of the White Paper on Sport, sport has       had a prominent place in the       European Union's policy agenda.
Within this wider agenda, the role of       sport and physical activity in       education and training has held a central position, reflected, for       example, in the European Union       Work Plan for Sport 2011-2014 which established an expert group for       `Education and Training in       Sport'.
Hardman's research has stimulated debate and influenced the       development of policy in this       area.
In 2006, Hardman was commissioned by the European Parliament's committee       on Culture and       Education to undertake a study to review the present state of PE in       schools across Europe and to       make recommendations for its future development (Source A).
Key       recommendations included       making PE compulsory, the development of a `basic needs' model for PE, a       reappraisal of PE's       place within the curriculum and enhancement of training for PE teachers.
The study formed part of       the explicit evidence base for the November 2007 resolution of the       European Parliament on the       role of sport in education (Source B).
The resolution echoes many       of the recommendations in       Hardman's report.
The resolution has fed into subsequent policy       development across the REF       period: for example, it is referenced in European Parliament resolution of       2 February 2012 on the       European dimension in sport (Source C).
In addition, the commissioned study was part of the evidence base for the       European Commission's       White Paper on Sport (Source D).
The White Paper was       accepted by a resolution of the European       Parliament in May 2008 (Source E), a resolution that has also fed       into all subsequent policy       development.
Hardman has worked closely with UNESCO, the United Nations' lead agency       for Physical       Education and Sport, and his research has informed its policy.
In 2012, he       was invited by       UNESCO's Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport       (CIGEPS) to develop a       set of international indicators on Quality Physical Education,       international indicators on Quality       Physical Education Teacher Training and a corresponding Basic Needs Model       (Source F).
This       project was reported at the Fifth International Conference of Ministers       and Senior Officials       Responsible for Physical Education and Sport held in Berlin in May 2013       and explicitly informed       the discussion (Source G).
Hardman was also invited by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to       form part of an expert       group to discuss the role of physical activity and sport on the health and       fitness of young people       and to critically evaluate the scientific evidence as a basis for decision       making.
The final statement       (Source H) aimed to provide recommendations for young people's       sport and physical activity       stakeholders.
