     The outcome of Chao's research within the DEHEMS work package fed       directly into the       development of the next generation energy monitoring product and `Software       as a Service' (SaaS)       called EnergyHive.
This was subsequently commercialised by Hildebrand Ltd,       the industrial partner       within the DEHEMS consortium.
Chao's research led to innovations       in the EnergyHive product,       including: the use of data capture and storage techniques for time series       analytical processing; the       ontology which encodes knowledge of electrical appliances and their       efficiency together with the       association of appliances to households; the recommender system which       provides advice; and the       techniques for social interaction to encourage community efforts.
The       research resulted in       diversification into new markets for Hildebrand Ltd, and the development       of the EnergyHive       product and service, delivering environmental impact by reducing       consumersconsumers' energy bills and       carbon footprint.
Impact on the environment       As part of the DEHEMS project Hildebrand Ltd produced the prototype       monitoring devices that       developed into the EnergyHive product and service.
The semantic system       developed by Chao is at       the heart of the energy saving functionality of EnergyHive.
During the       DEHEMS project the       prototype system was developed in three cycles and incorporated users'       feedback into the       improved system design from each prototype test cycle.
The prototype       product, produced by       Hildebrand Ltd, was deployed in 250 households in the UK cities of       Manchester, Birmingham and       Bristol and the Bulgarian cities of Plovdiv and Ivanovo.
The results from       this work indicated that       individual homes reduced their energy consumption as a result of the usage       feedback about their       energy consumption.
The analysis of energy consumption data collected       before and after       deployment of the prototype system showed an average weekly reduction in       energy consumption       of 7.89%.
A survey of the residents that took part in the project showed       that, as a result of       DEHEMS, households had increased their awareness of how their own energy       usage impacts the       environment, as well as the cost of energy consumption.
Chao also developed the recommendation system and ontology, which       automatically and in a       timely manner makes appropriate recommendations for the users to reduce       both energy usage       and CO2 emission.
Following the completion of the DEHEMS       project, the EnergyHive product       (shown in Figure 1a, b and c) was developed, enabling users to make       informed decisions to       reduce their energy consumption, thus having a positive impact on the       environment.
Camden       Council have installed energy heating and hot water meters in 1000 homes       (using EnergyHive       `Software as a Service' SaaS) and are currently installing it in a further       800 homes during 2013.
The semantic work of Chao is used to display intelligent feedback       on energy usage on tablet       devices.
Daniel White, Camden Council, commented that the EnergyHive       product was the most       advanced of its type and Camden Council estimates that over the lifetime       of their heat metering       programme they will save 8,000 tonnes of CO2 within 2500 homes       [b].
Figure 1a - EnergyHive hub &#169;Hildebrand Ltd   Figure 1b - Energy Elite electricity clamp and transmitter &#169;Hildebrand Ltd   Figure 1c - EnergyHive multi-sensor &#169;Hildebrand Ltd      One of the main aims of the DEHEMS project was to increase both the       awareness and       understanding of the public in relation to their individuaindividual       energy consumption and enable them to       make informed decisions about their future energy usage.
General energy       usage has been       reduced by those who viewed their energy usage through the EnergyHive       product [c].
In a survey       (n=183) of initial motivations for saving energy, more than half of the       respondents indicated their       motivation for saving energy was financial.
As a result of the DEHEMS       project, the number of       respondents solely interested in financial savings was reduced by 50%.
The       number of users       motivated by the environmental impact of their actions increased to 77%       [d].
This evidences the       changes in attitude and behaviour as a result of the research project and       the developed       EnergyHive product.
The DEHEMS research impact has been featured in "Big       Ideas for the       Future" report published in 2011 by UK Research Councils [e].
Economic impact     The research has also had significant economic impact for the       consortium's industrial partner,       Hildebrand Ltd [a].
As a result of the research by Chao       and membership of the DEHEMS       consortium Hildebrand Ltd, previously a small R&amp;D company providing       cloud computing products,       has diversified into an entirely new market through the development of the       EnergyHive product to       monitor energy use and provide advice on how to reduce energy consumption.
The simple       interface shown in Figure 2 has been designed to make the EnergyHive       product easy to use and to       understand by consumers, but flexible enough to monitor the whole house       with up to five heat,       motion and other sensors.
Figure 2 &#8211; Screenshot of EnergyHive&#8217;s web interface &#169;Hildebrand Ltd      Sales of EnergyHive have been to individual consumers, energy companies       for their customers       and local authorities for their tenants.
For example, NPower have       purchased 10,000 EnergyHive       licences which they have rolled out to their customers.
In addition to       sales within the UK, the       product has been taken up internationally.
The housing authorities in       Australia are projecting to       reduce energy consumption for their tenants by 20% by using the product.
Since 2011, EnergyHive       products have generated income to Hildebrand Ltd of &#163;7,509,5000.
This is       made up of 2000 units       of EnergyHive Home to individuals, 6500 EnergyHive `Software as a Service'       (SaaS) licences and       one EnergyHive Enterprise licence.
In addition, to the development of EnergyHive, Chao's research       also transferred to Hildebrand the       necessary knowledge to enable them to work with IBM to develop and market       the Hildebrand       database acceleration product with ontology, which improves efficient       time-series analytical       processing for big data.
Conclusion     This case study demonstrates that Chao's research had economic         impact and as a direct result       Hildebrand Ltd has diversified and entered into entirely new profitable       markets.
In addition, the       research has an impact on the environment by creating the core       technology for EnergyHive       meters which enable home owners, local authorities and energy companies'       significant energy and       carbon dioxide reductions by smart monitoring and advising on energy use.
