     Our research over the last 15 years has developed new local and systemic       treatments for uveitis, and these have become standard practice.
Our work       has introduced new treatments where none existed, specifically patients       with uveitis that is not responsive to steroid therapy or in which steroid       therapy is contraindicated because of adverse effects.
For these patients,       treatment with mycophenolate or intraocular methotrexate may be       sight-saving.
In other patients, as a result of these treatments, vision       has been restored and the dose of systemic steroids reduced or stopped       completely.
MMF is now the major second-line drug used in management of       uveitis.
Our demonstration of its effectiveness in 1999 was key in       bringing the potential of this drug to the attention of the inflammatory       eye disease community.
Our study was also quoted in US guidelines in 2000       [a] and provided the impetus for several additional studies over       the years (e.g.
Teoh et al 2008 [b]).
A recent review of the       management of uveitis demonstrates that the use of MMF is established       practice [c].
A further recent article states: "Antimetabolites now enjoy favor as a         first choice of treatment with IMT [immunomodulatory therapy] in most         cases of posterior uveitis."
Two of the key drugs used are MMF and       MTX [d].
The importance of MMF and MTX as treatments for uveitis       is further emphasised by a recently commenced clinical trial that compares       the two agents as first line therapy for steroid unresponsive uveitis [e].
Robust data concerning the numbers of patients affected globally by       uveitis where steroids are either ineffective or toxic are not available.
However, from our own institution MMF is the major drug used with steroids       in about 80% of these patients [f].
Cystoid macular oedema is a particularly challenging complication of       uveitis and is the most common cause of blindness and visual impairment in       chronic uveitis patients occurring in up to one third.
Our studies have       contributed greatly to the present best practice in the management of this       condition.
We demonstrated that vision could be improved by injecting TA       into the eye where systemic and periocular medication had failed.
This led       to a profusion of papers on TA and then to the longer acting intraocular       steroids being developed.
Our research also introduced intraocular       methotrexate as a successful treatment option for macular oedema in       patients who cannot have intraocular steroids.
A recent review notes the       use of both intraocular TA and methotrexate in the management of uveitic       cystoid macular oedema.
Regarding the former, it notes that "intravitreal         triamcinolone (various formulations) is commonly used for CME" [g].
A number of studies are cited, of which ours was notably the first and       largest.
Our paper on intraocular methotrexate is also cited in both this       review, and another from India in 2013 [h].
A further complication of uveitis is glaucoma, which developes in up to       20% of patients.
Prior to our research, ocular hypotensive prostaglandin         analogues had been used successfully in primary open angle glaucoma       but there was major concern about their use in uveitis patients.
Our study       allowed these very effective drops to be brought into the management of       uveitic glaucoma and reduced the need for surgery [i].
Our demonstration in 2011 that anti-TNF drugs can reduce the risk       of visual loss in patients with Behcet's disease, who have the worst       visual prognosis of all patients with uveitis, is now being quoted       worldwide in support of this treatment [j].
