     As a result of the research described above, rituximab is now in       widespread use as a treatment for RA, with usage rising every year [a].
By the end of July 2013, Roche estimated that 228,801 patients have been       treated with rituximab for RA [b].
In March 2006, the FDA approved rituximab for use in combination with       methotrexate in adult patients with moderately to severely active RA who       have had an inadequate response to anti-TNF&#945; therapy.
Approval by the       European Medicines Agency (EMA) came in July of the same year.
Towards the       end of 2006, a consensus statement and guidance document on the use of       rituximab for routine care of patients with RA was issued by the European       League Against Rheumatism (EULAR), describing the treatment as "a major       advance in the therapeutic armamentarium for patients with rheumatoid       arthritis" [c].
In 2007, NICE issued guidance (updated in 2011) recommending rituximab as       follows:     Rituximab in combination with methotrexate is recommended as an option         for the treatment of adults with severe active rheumatoid arthritis who         have had an inadequate response to, or have an intolerance of, other         disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), including at least one         tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor [d].
British Society for Rheumatology (BSR) and British Health Professionals       in Rheumatology (BHPR) issued further guidelines on the use of rituximab       in 2010 [e].
Rituximab was also recommended in guidelines issued       by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) in 2008, updated in 2012 [f].
Benefits to patients     The use of rituximab extends treatment to those patients who cannot have       anti-TNF&#945; drugs because of contra-indications (a history of cancer or       pre-malignant conditions and patients with history of recurrent and/or       serious infections or considered to be at a high risk of infection).
Data       from a collaboration of different European registries shows that 36% of       patients received rituximab as first-line biologic [g].
Rituximab is also indicated as a second line treatment for patients where       anti-TNF&#945; drugs failed, and this amounts to between 30 and 40% of patients       that are considered for biologic therapy.
One patient, for whom three       anti-TNF&#945; drugs had failed, described the impact of rituximab as follows:     "Blood tests showed that my levels of inflammation were the lowest         that they'd been for years.
I was less tired and had more mental and         physical energy.
I resumed several of my hobbies... Mabthera transformed         my life... the effects have been radical.
I can truthfully say that I         haven't experienced this level of wellbeing for many years" [h].
A major advantage of rituximab is that it can be given as two infusions       two weeks apart (or four smaller weekly injections), with effects       persisting for 6-12 months thereafter.
From the patient's perspective,       this is a more convenient schedule of administration than other biologics       (typically administered 12-24 times per year).
Furthermore, as the UCL       team and others have demonstrated, rituximab infusions can be repeated on       an annual basis for several years.
Loss of response to rituximab in       patients with RA that have previously responded well is rare, and it is       well tolerated with excellent safety profiles in RA and in patients with       many other conditions [i].
Economic impacts     Rituximab costs &#163;5,000 per annum less than other biologics.
In the UK it       is generally the next choice before other more expensive alternatives such       as tocilizumab, abatacept or belimumab.
Use in patients in this setting       has already generated considerable savings to the NHS.
The economic impact       of rituximab has been greater in low and middle income countries (for       example, Brazil) where the lower cost of rituximab makes it the first-line       biologic for RA [j].
Use of rituximab in other conditions     The success of B cell depletion therapy in RA has led directly to it       being used for autoimmune rheumatic diseases (such as systemic lupus       erythematosus, ANCA associated vasculitis, Behcets syndrome, myositis,       anti-phospholipid syndrome, Sjogren's syndrome, neuromyelitis optica).
Rituximab is licensed for ANCA-associated vasculitis [k], is       approved for funding by NHS England for SLE [l], and has been       nationally commissioned for the treatment of Behcets disease [m]       and neuromyelitis optica [n].
