     Obesity has become a global epidemic with over 50% of both men and women       in World Health Organisation (WHO) European Regions being overweight, and       approximately 23% of women and 20% of men being classified as obese (WHO       2008).
Moreover, in the UK alone, the cost to the NHS for the management       of obesity and obesity-associated diseases has been estimated to reach       more than &#163; 45bn/year by 2050.
Government policy has, therefore,       identified an urgent need for the design and development of alternative       management strategies and treatment protocols.
The CW programme was       developed in response to this need and aimed to address the key barriers       to, and facilitators of, practice and patient engagement for the wider       implementation in a UK primary care setting.
As such, the CW programme       provides an evidence based and effective approach for weight management in       routine primary care.
The positive impacts of CW are manifest in several       ways:     Improved Health and Welfare: Continuous evaluation of the CW       programme has demonstrated consistency in the characteristics of the       patients enrolled into the programme.
Of the total 6715 patients enrolled       via 184 general practices, 16 pharmacies and one centralised       community-based service, across 13 Health Boards throughout Scotland, and       of the over 14,000 patients further reported to the Scottish Government,       28% of patients attended for the entire 12 month programme.
Of these,       35.2% of patients maintained a weight loss of &gt;5%, compared to 30.7% in       the original evaluation [4].
This provides evidence for engagement within       areas of higher social deprivation where obesity is a more significant       problems (over 1/4 of the patients had BMI &gt;40 kg/m2 and 30%       more patients had a BMI &gt;50 kg/m2 compared with enrolment in       the original evaluation), and of greater weight losses among those who       attended [a].
Improved Service Delivery: Based on policy and political drive to       tackle obesity through central commissioning, the Scottish Government       commissioned the implementation of the CW programme in Scotland via 3       phases.
The first 2 phases were implemented alongside "Keep Well", a       targeted primary prevention programme aimed at reducing the incidence of       cardiovascular disease in areas of high social deprivation in Scotland.
Following the positive outcome of the CW Programme on weight management in       6 Health Boards, in 2008 the Scottish Government commissioned phase 3,       which rolled out the programme (this time as a stand-alone programme) to a       further 7 Health Boards [b, c].
As a result of continual evaluation and       reporting of outcomes, the Scottish Government continued to support the       implementation of the CW programme in each Health Board until 2012.
Following central funding being devolved to each health board, the       majority (10 of 13) Health Boards have continued with the CW programme       through direct licensing with the Counterweight spin out company.
Over the last 10 years, CW has been widely adopted by the health care       sector.
As described above, it was rolled out in Scotland by the Health       Department, and in England the Department of Health has implemented it in       20 Primary Care Trusts, demonstrating a step change in practice and       delivery of care for the obese.
Despite a lack of incentives within       general practices in the UK to deliver weight management programmes, the       uptake of the CW programme has been high, illustrating the effectiveness       of both the Scottish Government commissioning services and the support       offered by the established implementation process of CW.
Thus CW has       allowed available resources to be used for direct patient intervention       rather than the cumbersome, time-consuming and expensive alternative to       develop local programmes in individual areas.
Improved Guidelines: The implementation of CW throughout the UK       has resulted in changes to clinical and healthcare guidelines, and the       Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) [c, d] recommend CW       among the available Weight Management and support for weight loss       maintenance programmes in adults.
Improved Cost-effectiveness: The economic benefit of CW to both       the private and public sector is supported by the demonstrated link       between successful weight loss and weight loss maintenance at 12 months,       achieved via CW, and the reduction in numbers of patients requiring to be       started on medication for cardiovascular risk factors associated with       obesity.
Moreover, health economic analysis (using the cost effectiveness       model from NICE Guidelines; 2006) of CW delivery in UK primary care has       shown the programme to be a dominant intervention in that it improves       clinical benefit (Quality-adjusted Life-Years) and offers an overall cost       saving to the NHS [e].
If outcomes obtained in CW intervention patients       were projected onto the whole UK population, the anticipated drug cost       saving would be &#163;40.3 M. In recognition of this success and its major       implication for UK health spending, in 2010 CW was awarded a PraxisUnico       Impact Award for Public Policy and Service Impact which recognised the       impact of innovation [f].
Increased Commerce: Through the creation of Counterweight Ltd (www.counterweight.org) the role       of health professionals in the management of obesity has shifted from tier       1-2 level to community workers, pharmacy assistants, lifestyle advisers,       dietetic assistants, long term condition staff, freelance healthcare       professionals and leisure groups.
The creation of the company in 2011,       which employs 6 full-time members of staff, has therefore had a positive       impact on job creation and on commerce by creating a diversified product       for not only the public and private health sectors, but also in the       occupational health sector.
In addition, a new product, Counterweight       Plus, has been developed for non surgical weight management intervention       to treat severe and complicated obesity and is supporting a major Diabetes       UK grant awarded to the Universities of Glasgow and Newcastle.
Since the       creation of the company, 22 Public Health licences have been contracted       (12 licences to Scottish Health Boards, 7 English Health Trusts, 1       University Hospital in Ireland, and 2 in a Canadian Nurse Led Clinic) [g].
Private health contracts have also been secured, with 4 licences       contracted to private hospitals (2 in Scotland, 1 in England, 1 in       Ireland) 1 to a community based pharmacy in Ontario, Canada [h] and 55 to       freelance dietitians.
In the occupational health sector, 1 licence has       been contracted to a UK's leading workplace fitness provider specialised       in setting up and managing corporate fitness and wellbeing centres to       improve the employee health and wellbeing.
Contracts with 2 Occupational       Health service providers in the oil and gas sector are under negotiation       to provide a bespoke service to fully maximise employee wellness and       financial return on investment.
Finally, the programme has influenced clinical and public health       guidelines not only in Scotland and England but also at international       level.
In particular, the Centre for Health Care and Equity in Australia       use CW as a basis for their lifestyle intervention program in Primary       Health Care [i], with Professor Broom being part of a collaborative       research programme funded by the Australian Government and also partnered       by the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta.
