     The last 20 years has seen a significant improvement in outcome for       patients with scleroderma, and specifically an increase in survival, much       of it attributable to research from our centre.
We have more than 2,000       cases, seen over the past 20 years, where we have explored the change in       outcome over time and also used the uniquely well-characterised patient       cohort to define timing and frequency of each of the major       life-threatening complications of the disease.
Our SSc cohort saw       approximately 20 fewer deaths in 2010 compared to 1994.
In addition, by       avoiding unnecessary high dose immunosuppression there were 10% fewer       hospital admissions for infection 2005-10 compared with 1990) [a].
Defining subsets of SSc to improve treatment     The biomarkers we have described have enabled better prediction of       complications such as scleroderma renal crisis and lung fibrosis, and       identified subsets that benefit from more aggressive treatment.
As a       result of our definition of hallmark SSc antibodies associated with lung       fibrosis and scleroderma renal disease, these tests are now routinely used       in risk assessment of SSc worldwide.
They have been incorporated into new       classification criteria for SSc issued by the American College of       Rheumatology (ACR) the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) in 2013,       to which we contributed [b].
This permits more effective patient       education and earlier engagement with other specialised hospital services.
Defining the use of immunosuppression     We have defined the cases of lung fibrosis in scleroderma that are most       likely to benefit from immunosuppression and developed a simple staging       system for lung fibrosis that is now used in most centres in UK and abroad       and has been validated in two independent studies in the USA [c]       and Australia.
This helps to avoid use of toxic immunosuppression in cases       of SSc where this is unnecessary and enables us to target       immunosuppressive therapy to more severe cases who gain the most benefit.
This is a result of our definition of "good prognosis" cases of SSc.
A       logical extension of this work is more effective enrichment of clinical       trial cohorts to allow smaller sample size and improved study design.
Our       approach using cyclophosphamide is incorporated into the European       recommendations for treatment of SSc [d] and is now effectively       standard of care for SSc cases worldwide [e].
Defining the importance of regular proactive screening of cases     As a result of our research, regular screening for pulmonary       complications (lung fibrosis and pulmonary hypertension) has become       standard in the management of SSc.
This is now adopted in all European       scleroderma centres and incorporated in recommendations for international       societies including the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and European       Respiratory Society (ERS) [f] and the Expert Panel on Outcomes       Measures in PAH related to Systemic Sclerosis (EPOSS) [g].
As a       result, historically poor outcomes have been positively impacted [h].
In conclusion, our work has impacted on overall outcome in SSc,       appropriate follow up and screening of cases and use of broad-spectrum       immunosuppression in appropriate cases and has helped to define current       standards of care for a disease with high medical burden and the highest       case-specific mortality of any rheumatic condition.
