 The portfolio of work is impacting policy and practice in the 2008-2014 REF period in a number of ways.
It provides a framework of best available evidence to implement effective and quality service interventions to improve infant feeding experiences and well-being of service users.
In 2008, Dykes was commissioned by DoH (NW Regional Public Health Group 2008) to co- ordinate a team in writing Addressing Health Inequalities: A North West Breastfeeding Framework for Action.
This is utilised widely in the North West to support those in both commissioning and delivering services related to infant and young child feeding.
UNICEF UK education standards, referred to above, are being implemented in academic institutions across the UK, as recommended by NICE.
In recognition of their expertise, both Dykes and Hall Moran have been invited to contribute to the development and review of NICE guidelines: In 2008, Dykes was commissioned to write a briefing paper, Intervention guidance on how to improve breastfeeding rates in hard to reach groups (Dykes 2008).
As a result of the work, Dykes conducted for the DoH (see section 2) she was appointed by NICE, in 2008, as a member of National Topic-specific Advisory Group: http://www.nice.org.uk/usingguidance/commissioningguides/breastfeed/tag.jsp This group produced commissioning guidelines on `peer support programmes for women who breastfeed'; these are now being implemented in maternity services across the UK.
In 2011, Hall Moran was invited onto an Expert Group to review the 2008 NICE public health guidance for health professionals and other primary care services to improve the nutrition of pregnant and breastfeeding mothers and children in low income households, incorporating guidance for encouraging breastfeeding including training for health professional and involvement of breastfeeding peer supporters (NICE 2011).
In recognition of the expertise of Dykes with regard to support for breastfeeding women she was invited by University of Western Sydney (UWS) to collaborate with Virginia Schmied in conducting a meta-synthesis on breastfeeding support.
This is published with the Joanna Briggs institute and has been developed into best practice guidance at the Institute (Schmied et al 2009).
It has also been published in Birth (Schmied et al 2011).
In recognition of her on-going input, Dykes was appointed as Adjunct Professor at UWS in 2008.
Schmied was appointed as Visiting Professor at UCLAN in 2012 to acknowledge strong collaborations.
Dykes and the MAINN team have convened four international peer reviewed conferences in 2007, 2009, 2011 and 2013 (forthcoming) drawing an international audience, representatives from the DoH, NICE, UNICEF and WHO.
These conferences have provided an opportunity to disseminate research in MAINN as well as invite internationally renowned speakers.
http://www.uclan.ac.uk/conference_events/nutrition_nurture_infancy_childhood.php Based on their previous evaluation work, Dykes and Thomson were commissioned by NHS North Lancashire to conduct a longitudinal evaluation of the BFI in the community (Thomson et al 2012), by NHS Blackpool to evaluate the breastfeeding peer support service and by the DoH in 2011 to conduct an evaluation of methods of providing information on infant feeding as part of the BFI in the UK (Dykes et al 2012) and by the Breastfeeding Network (BfN) to undertake an evaluation of the National Breastfeeding Helpline (2011).
These projects have been undertaken utilising an action research framework in terms of insights and outcomes being shared with providers and commissioners on an ongoing basis to inform future service delivery.
Key findings from these studies have been fed back at health professional and service user forums within the local NHS trusts and at national and international conferences.
In 2011, Dykes was invited by the largest Childbirth Charity in the UK, National Childbirth Trust (NCT) to become Research Adviser and, in addition, to support them in the development of a portfolio of work related to offering and evaluating breastfeeding peer support.
Further bidding activity is underway to support this.
In 2013 research undertaken by Dykes and Thomson has had a major influence on a reconfiguration of The UNICEF UK Baby Friendly Initiative; this work is cited extensively in the supporting document and Dykes is also thanked in the acknowledgements section; the work was mentioned at the National UNICEF Conference in 2012 (Cardiff) (UNICEF UK 2013).
In 2012, Dykes was invited to be a collaborator in a subsequently successful NIHR bid.
HTA 10/31/02 BIBS; Benefits of Incentives for Breastfeeding and Smoking cessation: a platform study for a trial (Stirling, UCLAN, Aberdeen, Newcastle, Glasgow).
Hoddinott P (PI &#8212; Stirling), Dykes F (PI &#8212; UCLAN), Bauld L, Campbell M, Ludbrook A, Sniettahotta F. https://www.bibsstudy.net/ Total Grant: &#163;322,127 with &#163;64,372 to UCLAN.
