     Typically, major incidents are characterised by substantial loss,       physical and psychological injury and economic hardship, as well as by       extensive internal displacement and damage to the social and economic       infrastructure [1].
Considerable evidence now exists to show that       technological and natural disasters, terrorist incidents and military       conflict are complex and increasingly common events.
For example, in 2012,       357 natural disasters resulted in: 9,655 deaths (annual average       2002-11:107,000); 124.5M victims worldwide (annual average 2002-11:268M),       and economic damages estimated at $143 billion (CRED 2012 Annual Disaster       Statistical Review).
The severity and extent of such incidents has       potential to challenge the coping abilities of individuals and communities       and may result in a wide range of psychosocial/mental health consequences       in the immediate, intermediate and long term [5].
Despite the frequency of       major incidents worldwide, and their potential to affect large numbers of       people, it is only relatively recently that national policies, strategies       and local operational practices for emergency preparedness, response and       recovery, have been developed.
Two factors, in particular, have led to       this development.
First, a burgeoning body of empirical evidence bears       testimony to the wide reaching effects of disasters and major incidents on       the mental health and psychosocial adjustment of those affected.
Second, a       number of international bodies (e.g.
the World Health Organisation [WHO],       International Agency Standing Committee [IASC], and the North Atlantic       Treaty Organisation [NATO])/Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council [EAPC]) have       sought to address risk and disaster prevention by recommending the       application of measures to promote personal and social resilience in the       face of major incidents.
To this end, a substantial amount of work has       been undertaken in the development of key European policy papers and       international guidelines, which includes the 2009 NATO/EAPC Guidance [A].
The purpose of the NATO/EAPC Guidance is to enable national authorities       to adopt a joined-up approach that encompasses a stepped model of care.
Based on core principles in providing psychosocial care and mental health       services, specific prominence is given to: strategic leadership and       planning; developing collective community resilience, and providing       services proportionate to the individual needs of those affected by       disasters and major incidents.
This joined-up approach also enables full       integration into wider emergency planning policy in respect of the four       levels of: (i) governance policies; (ii) strategic policies for service       design; (iii) service delivery policies, and (iv) policies for good       clinical practice.
With all 28 NATO Members and Partner Nations now signed       up to the NATO/EAPC Guidance, this development has been of signal       importance in fulfilling the 2010 Council of the European Union call upon       Member States to include psychosocial support as a means of mitigating the       adverse psychosocial effects of major incidents on affected populations       and first responders.
It has had impact in terms of both reach and       significance at regional, national and international levels, as evidenced       by the following examples.
Public policies and services improved: The NATO/EAPC Guidance has       been key to informing the NATO-TENTS Guidelines of Principles, which       incorporates work conducted under the European Union by the European       Network for Traumatic Stress (TENTS) project (http://www.tentsproject.eu/)       to combine the common principles and recommendations of both sets of       guidance in a single 2009 document, "Guidance for Responding to the         Psychosocial and Mental Health Needs of People Affected by Disasters or         Major Incidents" [B].
Within the UK, it has enabled: (i) English       Government 2009 Guidance "Department of Health interim national         strategic guidance on NHS emergency planning" [C], which is being       rolled out progressively by the Health Protective Agency (HPA) and the       Ambulance Services.
It is cited as the core text for informing DH 2009       guidance on the "Psychosocial care for NHS staff during an influenza         pandemic" [D], and the HPA 2011 report on "The Effects of         Flooding on Mental Health" [E]; (ii) Welsh Government Assembly 2012       Guidance [C]; (iii) Scottish Government 2013 Guidance on "Preparing for         Emergencies: Planning for the Psychosocial and Mental Health Needs of         People Affected by Emergencies" by an Expert Advisory Group (which       included Professors Williams and Klein) under the auspices of the Scottish       Government Health and Social Care Directorates.
Its purpose is to provide       best practice national strategic guidance for Scotland and is designed to       be used in conjunction with the Resilience Advisory Board for Scotland       (RABS) documents ("Preparing Scotland"; Recovering from Emergencies in         Scotland", and "Preparing Scotland: Care for People Affected by         Emergencies") with particular relevance to the Care for People Teams       in their key co-ordinating role within 8 Strategic Co-ordinating Groups       (responsible for incorporating the guidance into local plans including the       14 regional NHS Boards of NHS Scotland) [F].
The guidance will be       published in December 2013 and launched at an event at the Scottish Police       College (06.12.13) organised under the aegis of the Scottish Resilience       Development Service (ScoRDS) with 105 funded places over the 3 Regional       Resilience Partnerships, and (iv) Republic of Ireland Guidance, which is       currently being developed.
Training improved: Through Professor       Williams and Alexander, the NATO/EAPC Guidance has influenced: (i) TENTS       teaching and practice (TENTS-TP EU funded project [2009-9011]) [G]; (ii)       course content and examination for the Diploma in the Medical Care of       Catastrophes (The Worshipful Society of Apothecaries of London       [2009-present]) [H]; (iii) Short course on "Managing Disasters"       (Royal College of Psychiatrists [2011]) comprising 4 levels of training       for mental health professionals [I], and (iv) Psychosocial Resilience and       Ambulance Service Seminar organised by Heads of Ambulance Education UK       (HEDS) Group at the University of West England (18.07.13) to report       findings from a Psychosocial Tools Project (sponsored by the DH) as an       evidence-base for new education and guidance materials for NHS staff and       patients.
Awareness improved: Through Professors Alexander and       Klein, the NATO/EAPC Guidance has been the basis for raising awareness in       organisations regionally (e.g., 5 workshops to oil and gas companies);       nationally (e.g.
Scottish Government: RABS [2009]; BASICS Scotland 2012),       and internationally (e.g.
Norwegian International Conference on Disaster       Psychology [2010],Pakistan School of Military Intelligence [2012]; CISM       Network Ireland [2012]).
Humanitarian response improved: Through Professors Alexander and       Klein, the NATO/EAPC Guidance has enhanced the provision of 2 Humanitarian       Assistance Centres (HACs) established in Aberdeen following 2 major       helicopter incidents in 2009 and 2013.
The HAC is a facility set up by a       local authority to provide a seamless multi-agency response to anyone       affected by the incident by enabling the access of information and support       (e.g.
www.stish.org) in a timely and       co-ordinated manner.
For example, 160-70 people who had been affected by       the 16 deaths (2 crew and 14 offshore workers) of the 2009 incident       visited the HAC over a 3-week period.
Most recently, the principles have       been applied in the care of those affected by Nairobi mall massacre which       left 72 people and more than 200 injured.
Professor Williams is engaged in       related work with the Foreign Office in dealing with diplomats       post-incident.
