     Two documented examples of the impact arising from the aforementioned       research into evidence       in asylum claims are outlined below.
The impact can be defined as an       effect on legal practice,       evidenced by research findings stimulating debate amongst practitioners,       leading to developments       in attitudes and behaviours, alongside documented evidence of influence on       guidelines.
In both       examples, a set of judicial guidelines were drawn up to aid best practice       in asylum determination.
The first example of impact concerns the investigation into reception of       medical evidence which led       to the development of guidelines to be adopted by the IARLJ.
The IARLJ is       the main international       organisation in the field of asylum and refugee law with a membership of       over 300 judges in 46       countries.
Asylum applications may include presentation of, for instance       evidence of torture as the       basis of an asylum claim, or evidence of psychological disturbance as a       reason for inconsistent or       incomplete testimony.
The quality of evidence presented can vary       internationally, and some types       of evidence, for instance the claim that injuries were caused by torture,       is inherently difficult to       establish, especially after the passage of time.
As mentioned previously,       the need for guidelines on       medical evidence was recognised by the IARLJ in the Expert Evidence       Working Parties and their       development was discussed at IARLJ World Conferences.
Subsequently, Wallace and Wylie were chosen (E1)       to lead the research and to draw up       recommendations to be included in a guidance document for the IARLJ.
The       guidelines (E2) set       out principles that are generally applicable across the wide variety of       refugee determination       systems and procedures found internationally.
The guidelines were adopted       by the IARLJ and       recommended for use, and initially published on its website in May 2010       (with a final version       uploaded in June 2011).
They are intended as a `living document', to be       refined through their use       in practice, and reviewed after a period of three years from publication.
It is expected that Wallace       and Wylie will undertake this review.
Initial reactions within the       impact period have been positive,       and Judges have commented that the guidelines are useful both in practice       and in training       environments (E3).
Further to this, there has been interest in the guidelines from: Freedom       from Torture (E4), a UK       medical foundation for the care of victims of torture, in a 2011 report       where they are said to       "represent the most current and complete guidance on these matters and a       consensus of       international judicial opinion, and could be used to good effect in       developing consistency in       decision-making in this area" (p. 60); and in wider guidance drawn up by       the IARLJ as part of the       Credo project (E5), a partly EU-funded joint project of the       Hungarian Helsinki Committee, the       United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, IARLJ and Asylum Aid &#8212; the       IARLJ has drawn       up wider guidance on credibility assessment in asylum cases.
For       assistance in the use of expert       medical evidence, users of the paper are directed to the guidelines (E5       p. 39).
Following publication of the guidelines, Wallace and Wylie       co-presented a paper at a symposium       in Edinburgh in 2011.
This was based on the research for the IARLJ, and       aimed to disseminate the       research findings while raising the profile of the guidelines.
Several       practitioners were in       attendance including: an advocate; an immigration judge; and       representatives from the UK Borders       Agency and the Scottish Refugee Council (E6).
The second example of impact is underpinned by the British Academy funded       work on COI.
A       Working Party Session was led by Wylie (E7) at the 9th       World Conference of the IARLJ in 2011       where Wallace and Wylie's co-authored paper (E8)       formed the basis for a discussion on the       difficulties in ascertaining the objectivity and relevance of expert       country evidence compared to       expert medical evidence.
The objective of such Working Party sessions is       to assist in the       development of a coherent body of international refugee jurisprudence: the       working party is said to       "make a direct contribution to the principal constitutional objects of the       Association which, in turn,       strengthens the international refugee protection regime or system in the       world today while       protecting and advancing the rights of refugees."
(E9).
Subsequently Wallace was asked, in May 2013, to sit on the       Advisory Board of a project to draft a       best practice guide for country expert evidence.
This involvement can be       expected to have future       impact on the UK asylum determination process, but within this REF       assessment period, has       resulted in the publication of a best practice guide on writing COI       reports (E10).
The guide was       published in July 2013 on the Electronic Immigration Network, and it       provides a practical hands-on       tool to aid the writing of effective and useful country evidence reports.
