     In line with the University's focus on applied, translational research,       the main impacts here are within two particular non-academic communities;       practitioners (particularly judges and tribunal chairs) and legislators.
Here the impact has been in respect of both legal substance and process,       and has contributed to debates around effecting change to the existing       law, and to how law is interpreted and applied.
The first example of impact describes contribution to the debate during       the parliamentary process for the Offensive Behaviour at Football and       Threatening Communications (Scotland) Bill and contribution to the       discussion about whether to reject emergency legislative procedure.
The       response (CE1) to Justice 2 Committee consultation in 2011 led to       discussion in Committee debates of the position put forward by Christie       and McArdle.
The written submission is referred to and used by various other       respondents and by MSPs (CE2) during debates.
In addition, the       consultation response was an agenda item (CE3) where it was       discussed extensively (CE4).
The submission added weight to the       argument behind rejection of emergency legislative procedure, and use of       more normal parliamentary process where lengthy debate of the Bill could       take place.
The stance taken in the written submission was also discussed in press       articles (Douglas Walker, "New hate crime law's an attack on justice", The       Sun, 2 Sept 2011; Eddie Barnes "Reality bites", Scotland on Sunday, Jun       26, 2011) meaning the issue, and the researcher's position on the issue,       has reached a wider audience than originally anticipated.
The work has had       further reach into the area of human rights in Scotland, where the       submission paper was cited in the Scottish Human Rights Commission's       research report (CE5).
Christie was also invited to speak to the Fans Against       Criminalisation campaign which is made up of the main Celtic supporters'       organisations, at a public meeting they organised in opposition to the       Bill.
An invitation-only symposium, drawing its audience from       practitioners and government bodies, was also organised, at which Christie       was invited to present her research findings.
(In both cases, Christie       was unable to attend for the reasons underlying the special circumstances       noted for her) (CE6).
The second example of impact is largely concerned with impact on process       and procedure.
These fields (process and procedure) are sometimes rather       overlooked in favour of substantive aspects of law but are the areas of       law that have significant relevance to, and impact on, legal practice,       both at the level of practitioners and courts.
Evidence of this can be       found in the positive citations and reviews of Auchie's work by       practitioners in a number of fields, the MHTS book especially was       positively reviewed (CE7) in the light of its contribution to       practice, as well as academia.
The book has also been utilised in appeal hearings.
There is evidence of       use made by Sheriff Principal Bowen of specific points relating to the       role of curators in appeal hearing in the case of Gordon Henderson v         Mental Health Tribunal and Grant Pagan (CE8), an appeal to       the Sheriff Principal from a decision of the Mental Health tribunal.
It       was referred to by both sides in their arguments on a particular point of       statutory interpretation, and by the judge.
In addition, the text was       cited in the judgement by Sheriff Principal Young in the case of Black         v MHTS in 2010 (CE9).
The impact here is in its verifiable       effect on the practice of law in the courts.
The book has also been cited in consultation responses from Howard League       Scotland.
(The Howard League for Penal Reform in Scotland is an       independent organisation whose members seek improvements to the criminal       justice system in Scotland.)
