     Active involvement in researching and writing local and family history is       a significant marker of individual well-being and community cohesion and       resilience.
Consequently, Staffordshire and Stoke Archive and Heritage       Service are committed, indeed required, to undertake systematic public       engagement and educational activity, and to provide the resources and       training that support individuals and groups in their own historical work.
The VCH volumes and associated initiatives of the Keele historians       involved with the VCH make a very significant contribution to the Archive       Service's outreach work.
The value placed on Keele's research expertise is       demonstrated by the generous funding given to the university by       Staffordshire County Council, to support Dr Tringham's work on the VCH and       other local history activities.
This funding has included &#163;260,000 in       grants between 2008 and 2013, with the County Council continuing to pay       &#163;30,000 per annum, despite current funding constraints [source 1].
As Tristram Hunt MP wrote on the launch of the latest VCH volume, `these       big red books are invaluable sources', and serve as starting points for       most research on local history.
They are widely available in local       libraries and systematic attempts are made in Staffordshire to make them       accessible to the public.
High-profile public launches of each volume are       one element in this strategy; Hunt's Marc Fitch lecture at the launch of       the latest volume attracted an attendance of more than 100; in the local       press he noted that the VCH was `changing with the times', bringing the       `downstairs world' of Trentham Hall to life [source 2].
Furthermore, Staffordshire Archive Service has arranged cheap paperback       publication of specific sections, such as the constituent Pottery towns,       Lichfield cathedral, Walsall borough, and small villages, such as Gnosall.
Some 300 copies have been sold to date, bringing an income of over &#163;1500       to the Record Office.
Finally, most of the volumes are now freely       available in electronic format through the Staffordshire VCH website, part       of the Institute of Historical Research's British History Online.
Recent       volumes are attracting over 20,000 downloads each year: between 2008 and       2012 inclusive vol.
VII (Leek and the Moorlands) was accessed approx.
117,000 times, vol.
IX (Burton) 112,500.
Older volumes are still relevant:       Lichfield was accessed 101,500 times over the five years, while Stoke and       Newcastle (vol.
VIII) was accessed over 30,000 times per annum (174,000 in       all) [source 3].
These figures indicate the value of the VCH to readers and researchers       beyond academic institutions (particularly as they largely match general       population patterns in the county).
The scholarship in the VCH is an       essential reference point for Staffordshire Archive Service, deployed as       contextualization in cataloguing and informing successful applications for       grant support, as in the 2009 award to calendar and digitise Quarter       Sessions records, so extending access to vital materials for understanding       Staffordshire's (and Britain's) past.
VCH articles inform many of the       service's public dissemination activities, including exhibitions, `road       shows' and its website.
`Out of Darkness', an exhibition which highlighted       the county's rich collection of original pre-Conquest documents, was       informed by VCH work on Domesday, and the paperback edition of the       relevant section from vol.
IV was on sale.
Each year the Archive Service       takes a road show (featuring a local exhibition and activities with       archives) to a different village, the choice influenced in part by whether       it has or soon will be featured in the VCH.
For Gnosall in 2011, the       Service arranged for the reprint of the VCH article on the village.
Attendance at these road shows usually varies from 150 to 300; the       enthusiasm generated at the Gnosall event prompted the formation of a       local society that won lottery funding for new interpretation panels [source         1].
The VCH is also referenced on the Archive Service's       Staffordshire Places website article on Gnosall [source 4].
Tringham gave a lecture at the opening of the `Out of Darkness'       exhibition, one of many examples of how the expertise of Keele historians       in partnership with the Archives service contribute to informing the       public, and encouraging active participation in historical research.
A       talk by Atherton on the early modern heretic Edward Wightman prompted       commemorations by Lichfield city and the cathedral of the 400th       anniversary of Wightman's execution in April 2012 [source 5].
Keele historians speak at regular themed day schools (on Landscape in       2009, for example) and at the annual Staffordshire History Day (organised       since 2012 by the Archive Service, and Birmingham and Keele Universities)       that is attended by over 100 people.
In addition there are annual `VCH       Study Days' held at the Record Office introducing smaller groups to       research techniques on specific topics (Aristocracy in 2009, Industries in       2012, for example).
All events are evaluated by the Archive Service and       responses feed into future developments [source 1].
The VCH offers experienced independent researchers and newer local       historians opportunities to research and publish local history.
A member       of the North Staffordshire Guild of Historians and an independent garden       historian (previously unpublished) contributed to the work on the       household at Trentham for volume XI, as did members of the history society       in the small village of Betley (where 172 people attended the archive road       show in 2009) [source 6].
The combined impact of the 2010 road       show and the start of VCH work on south-east Staffordshire prompted the       formation of a local history society at Clifton Campville.
Some of its       members participate in the Staffordshire Community Research Group run by       Tringham and archive staff at the Record Office, which is now working       mainly on sources for the next VCH volume.
A study of `Lordship and       Community' in the medieval village is already on the central VCH `Explore'       website, which also features work on Gnosall [sources, 1, 7].
Local volunteers contribute to national initiatives, such as the project       to catalogue and digitise the 19th-century correspondence of the       London-based poor law commissioners with local guardians, run by the       British Association for Local History (BALH) with the National Archives.
Through Tringham's initiative and supported by a grant of &#163;36,100 from the       heritage lottery fund, 15 people from north Staffordshire, mentored and       trained by experienced local historians, are part of a Midlands volunteer       research community working on `Pauper prisons... pauper palaces',       illuminating the history of the Victorian poor [source 8].
The significance of the VCH then is not just that it has impact on, but       that it works in partnership with, the local archive service and both       sustains and benefits from a thriving group of local historians and       societies.
The county council's generous support for the VCH and broader       local history initiatives at Keele is linked to their `Healthy Living       Initiatives' as well as their heritage strategy.
Evaluations suggest that       the main audiences and participants come from active older people although       younger people are represented in the Community Research Group [source         1].
The VCH team similarly recognise that local history is a       democratic rather than an exclusive endeavour, that active participation       in historical research empowers individuals, and that informed and       critical understanding of the past helps sustain local communities.
Their       dissemination, partnership and training activities aim to maximise these       benefits.
