     In 2008 the economic cost of fire across the UK was estimated at &#163;8.3       billion.
As well as the economic cost, there is also the injury and loss       of life resulting from fire incidences.
Between 2009/10 and 2012/13, there       was a reduction in accidental dwelling fires by approximately 12% (163       incidents) across Merseyside [A], [B], [D].
This reduction in accidental       dwelling fires is associated with improved delivery of fire prevention       activities resulting from the research.
Based upon the knowledge gained       from causal factor analysis, the enhanced community safety model enabled       more accurate identification of vulnerable groups and individuals within       the community, for example those likely to have elderly falls.
The       community safety model supports preventative measures that can save       considerable funds in the medium term for the different agencies involved.
For example, care for elderly individuals who may suffer from excess cold       costs &#163;3.2m per local authority, whereas remedial work is estimated to       cost less than &#163;1m, resulting in a significant saving if the vulnerable       people can be identified through the customer insight approach.
Fire Prevention:     A KTP in partnership with MF&amp;RS developed a novel causal factor model       of accidental dwelling fire risk and incorporated it into a geographical       information system for fire prevention management.
This has been used by       MF&amp;RS to support the delivery of fire prevention within Merseyside       since the end of the KTP.
The implementation of the enhanced risk       identification system was a major development for MF&amp;RS, which is now       able to more effectively identify groups of individuals at increased risk       of experiencing an accidental dwelling fire.
This allows greater       understanding of why groups of individuals are at risk for better       tailoring and targeting of services to the community.
The adoption in 2010       of the approach as best practice for improved delivery of fire prevention       activities is associated with an observed reduction in accidental dwelling       fires between 2009/10 and 2012/13.
Furthermore, the geographical information system and the learning gained       from the KTP contributed to the Community Safety strategy at MF&amp;RS       [A].
The financial impact of our research on MF&amp;RS was measured by the       reduced cost of responding to accidental dwelling fires.
Response to fire       is estimated at &#163;3,100 per incident, therefore reducing the number of       incidents amounted to an estimated saving of over &#163;500,000 over the period       2009/10 to 2012/13 [D].
MF&amp;RS has been a pioneer of preventative initiatives in the       community, reducing accidental dwelling fires and driving down related       deaths in Merseyside over several years.
The sophisticated geographical       information system developed through the KTP assisted with further       reductions by better targeting fire prevention activities using a spatial       analysis of known accidental dwelling fire risk factors.
As this       methodology is based on risk factors that are also of relevance to other       partners, it has enhanced collaboration with other public service       agencies, as listed in Section 2, for more accurate targeting of       preventative measures to the most vulnerable communities.
This will have       significant economic value in the region but most importantly will reduce       human suffering.
The system has the potential to be adopted by Fire &amp;       Rescue Services across the UK and possibly beyond [B].
Community Safety:     We extended our fire safety approach to other aspects of assessing risk       to the community through a customer insight project funded by the UK       Department of Communities and Local Government and MF&amp;RS.
This       extended the analysis of fire risk to incorporate associated health,       social care and crime risks that used the previous analysis of fire risk       as a basis for further analysis of causal factors.
The research provided       an objective means to identify households most at risk in the community in       order to support more targeted use of fire prevention resources [5].
The       approach has been disseminated as a model good practice approach by the UK       Department of Communities and Local Government [C].
This supports the       joined-up public sector provision approach advocated by the UK Government       [C].
The results of a pilot of customer insight found that over 70% of       residents identified by the approach and visited during the customer       insight pilot had some factors present that could result in them becoming       at risk from fire.
In addition, 50% of residents visited were signposted       or referred onto another agency because additional risks or needs were       identified [C].
This evidences the value of more accurate targeting of       fire prevention activities as part of a multi-agency preventative       approach, by allowing officers to signpost or refer onto other agencies if       additional risks are identified.
This methodology has the potential to       significantly reduce costs for MF&amp;RS and its partners.
For example,       due to more accurate identification of vulnerable individuals through the       customer insight project, elderly falls and problems related to excess       cold will be reduced.
An elderly person falling at home will cost the NHS       approximately &#163;2,500, whereas preventative remedial work carried out at       the home of an elderly person would result in a potential avoided cost of       approximately &#163;2,000 per person (there are approximately 5000 elderly       falls in Merseyside each year).
Another currently important concern is       that of problems relating to excess cold, which cost &#163;3.2m per local       authority, whereas remedial work is estimated to cost less than &#163;1m,       giving a significant saving if the vulnerable people can be identified       through the customer insight approach.
The community of Merseyside has benefited from more co-ordinated       community safety which supports elderly, disabled and other at-risk       individuals to live independently via co-ordinated support from the fire       and rescue service, national health service, local council and police       service.
The Community Profiles developed by the research are used by the       six MF&amp;RS Service District Prevention Teams and the Home Safety       Coordinator at headquarters when developing new fire safety campaigns.
The       Vulnerable Person Index (VPI) developed by the research is used by       Operational Crews at the sixteen fire stations in Wirral and Liverpool on       a daily basis.
This index enables Operational Crews to better target Home       Fire Safety Checks based on known risk factors, for example a person known       to adult social care, over 65, living alone etc.
The Community Profiles       have also allowed for a greater understanding of communities.
For example,       an analysis of kitchen fires identified that over 80% occurred in three       out of the ten Community Profile groups.
This enabled greater targeting of       safer cooking messages towards those most at risk.
The VPI has enhanced       the identification of vulnerable individuals.
Typically, some of these       vulnerable individuals may not have been identified using previous       methodologies as they live within `low risk' areas.
Utilising this       methodology has resulted in a 5% increase in Home Fire Safety Check visits       within areas previously defined as `low risk'.
In addition, over 70% of       these individuals were found to have some fire risks present that could       lead to death or injury.
