     The outcomes of the EURRECA project are being used to advise government       policy of the setting of nutrient recommendations worldwide.
Currently,       the European Food Standard Agency is using data generated by EURRECA to       devise new micronutrient recommendations.
Publications from the first       phase of EURRECA (including Lowe et al 2009, listed in section 3) were       discussed at a meeting of international experts in Vienna at the       International Atomic Energy Agency in 2010.
Following this meeting it was       decided to form a series of expert groups under the title "BOND"       (Biomarker of Nutrition for Development).
These expert groups have been       brought together for a 3 year period, funded by the National Institutes of       Health in the USA and the Bill Gates foundation to address the causes of       malnutrition worldwide.
These expert groups include a number of academics       that participated in EURRECA, and includes Prof. Nicola Lowe.
BOND       provides information and service to support the entire nutrition research       and global health enterprise and includes core elements of discovery,       development and delivery/implementation.
An interactive web-based tool       (Query based system) to assist researchers in developing countries to       design their research most effectively based on evidence from existing       publications is the key output from this initiative.
The outputs of EURRECA, which have highlighted the importance of the role       of adequate dietary zinc to human health, have also contributed to the       development of a new European Commission funded COST Action Network (COST:       Collaboration in Science and Technology.
Funding is approximately 500,000       euros over 4 years).
The aim of this network, currently comprised of 20       international partners, is to bring together different scientific       disciplines, specifically chemistry, biology, nutritionists, health       professionals and other end users, with industrial stakeholders and policy       formers to develop a coherent platform for discussion, collaborative       research and dissemination of information relating to the role zinc plays       in biology, public health and well-being.
The network will be formally       launched in October 2013 and will be chaired by Lowe.
The comparative research of nutrition and health in the UK Pakistani       diaspora community and in Pakistan lead to an invitation to attend and       contribute to a Rank Forum on Vitamin D, bringing together international       experts on vitamin D to discuss and provide advice on revisions to Vitamin       D recommendations in the UK.
This resulted in a in a peer-reviewed       published workshop report.
The impact of the research in Pakistan has influenced provincial policy       relating to nutrition in North West Pakistan.
This is an extremely       challenging environment for research, due to the political instability,       extreme poverty and social deprivation.
Lowe and McKeown work in close       partnership with the Abaseen Foundation (AF), a UK/Pakistan NGO that is       playing a pivotal role in transforming health and nutrition support for       marginalised communities within this province.
Lowe is the Director of       Research for the AFUK, and both she and McKeown are Trustees for the UK       branch of the organisation.
The research undertaken is providing an       evidence base for healthcare and nutrition support practice development.
The Abaseen Foundation has taken over the management and operation of two       health care facilities in PK and has agreement from the Provincial Health       Minister to take on a third in this region.
These hospitals are providing       vital healthcare and nutrition support and education for communities       living in extreme poverty.
The impact of this work was recognised by the       British Council and Awarded the THE International collaboration of the       Year award in 2010.
It also led to an invitation to Lowe to speak about       the research at the Higher Education Leadership Summit in 2011.
As a       result of our research, the Abaseen Foundation was asked by UNICEF to lead       nutrition support programmes in flood affected areas following the floods       in 2010, where modifications to standard UNICEF CMAM (community management       of acute malnutrition) practice were made as a result of our research, and       implemented in the field, reaching thousands people living in remote       communities.
