     Professor Charles Ironside's research on Quantum Cascade Lasers (QCLs)       has created commercial impact through two SMEs &#8212; Compound Semiconductor       Technologies Global (CSTG) and Cascade Technologies &#8212; and the development       of new products and processes for gas sensing, safety and security and       military applications.
CSTG supplies advanced semiconductor optoelectronic devices to a range of       markets including counterterrorism, homeland security, and oil and gas.
For example, devices that sense minute quantities of explosive gases are       used for the stand-off detection of explosive devices including IEDs, and       the detection of hydrogen peroxide is used in combination with infrared       counter measures to dazzle heat-seeking missiles.
The company serves both       fabless and vertically integrated customers in the UK, US, Europe and       Japan.
In excess of 70% of the company revenues are derived from       high-value product exports.
CSTG is now recognised as a global leader in       QCL fabrication as a direct result of the collaboration with the       University of Glasgow and achieved an increase in turnover of ~40% from       2010 to 2012.
Building on his world-leading research, Ironside, together with CSTG,       secured a KTP project in 2009 which has had a remarkable impact on CSTG's       profitability.
This has been achieved through the creation of a       manufacturing toolbox, a generic QCL process library that can be used to       produce a wide variety of chip designs, hence establishing the company's       reputation in new applications and markets.
The company has achieved world       firsts, in manufacturing QCLs for systems that detect explosives at a safe       distance and for countering heat-seeking missile attacks on aircraft.
This project integrated Ironside's knowledge of the design and optical       characterisation of QCLs into CSTG business, allowing the company to       harness the commercial potential of QCLs as an emerging mid-infrared laser       technology.
This resulted in CSTG adding a new high-value laser device and       manufacturing process to their product range.
The project also yielded new       fabrication processes and novel laser chip designs, enabling CSTG to       address a market need for innovative semiconductor foundry processes for       the manufacture of compact, mid-infrared micro-chip laser sources.
The       Commercial Director at CSTG has stated that at least 60% of the company's       increase in turnover (between 2010 and 2012) could be attributed to these       mid-infrared products.
CSTG's ability to access markets and clients       through the introduction of a QCL foundry service has resulted in new       contracts, customers, and the recruitment by the company, via a KTP, of       Thomas Slight from Ironside's research group.
The impact of this       collaboration in terms of business profitability and expansion was       recognised by the award of Best KTP in Scotland in 2012.
In addition to the impact through CSTG, Ironside's QCLs were used to tune       a new intra-pulse spectroscopy technique.
This led to a series of       successful gas phase molecular fingerprinting experiments.
Cascade       Technologies was established in 2003 to capitalise on this novel       technique.
The intra-pulse technology is now used within the spectroscopic       systems developed, manufactured and marketed by Cascade Technologies.
Their QCL based gas emission monitoring systems and gas analysers are used       for industrial emissions monitoring, process optimisation, analytical       chemistry and trace level applications.
The systems are installed on the       production lines of products where integrity is critical, e.g.
in the       manufacture of aerosol cans and inhalers, guaranteeing their integrity by       scanning to sense for escaping gases.
