     The University of Glasgow has developed an integrated suite of       microfabrication processes that now sits within the photonic systems at       the heart of today's global data transmission networks.
Commercialisation of silicon planar waveguide technology and associated       fabrication techniques began in 1998 with the formation of spin-out       Kymata, an optical components company based in Livingston, Scotland.
Kymata licensed IP, including a range of patents, from the Universities of       Glasgow and Southampton.
The company grew rapidly and was successful in       securing multimillion pound venture capital backing from investors across       Europe and the US.
In 2001, it was bought by French company Alcatel       Optronics for more than $119m; Alcatel Optronics was subsequently taken       over by Avanex in 2003.
The US-based company Gemfire acquired Avanex and the associated       Livingston plant in 2004.
The University of Glasgow technology has been       used by Gemfire since then in both manufacturing and R&amp;D, underpinning       product development and supporting market growth in the area of optical       component integration.
The technology base has been used to develop planar       lightwave circuits (PLCs) that are compact, stable and reliable.
These       products have played a significant role in the building of optical data       transmission capacity to meet demand caused by the explosion in video over       the internet.
Gemfire has continued to develop their portfolio using the flame       hydrolysis deposition techniques (FHD) and deep vertical etching       technology research from the University of Glasgow.
The technology base       allowed a new, greener range of Arrayed Waveguide Grating (AWG) products       with low power consumption to be introduced in 2008 - Gemfire's `athermal'       AWG.
The athermal AWG gained significant market share as the design is       temperature-insensitive and requires no electrical power, reducing overall       system power requirements.
Gemfire added six new products to the athermal range in April 2012,       followed by a further two PLC-based product families in August 2012.
These       offer higher channel count, and narrower channel spacing for long       haul/metro systems; and lower channel count, wider channel spacing for       access and datacoms applications.
The VP for Sales &amp; Marketing (PLC       Products), Kaiam Corp., stated that `these new products have enabled       Gemfire to increase market share in the telecom market, and also to       attract new customers in the adjacent metro and datacom market segments.'
Based on the athermal platform, the company's revenues reached $12m       annually and the company went through a period of recruitment, with staff       numbers at the Livingston operation increasing from 19 in 2004 to around       70 in 2013.
In 2013, Gemfire was one of the world's top 5 PLC companies.
In April 2013, Gemfire was acquired by Kaiam Corporation (http://www.kaiamcorp.com)       a California-based developer and manufacturer of innovative components       primarily for the optical interconnect market, in a multimillion dollar       deal.
Kaiam acquired the company to access their PLC technology and       Gemfire's 8-inch wafer fabrication facility in Livingston.
Kaiam now plans       further investment to build production of high-speed optical modules for       the global data networking and datacentre markets.
