     The reach and significance of the impact claims fall broadly under two       headings:     Changing attitudes to the treatment of women offenders locally,           nationally and internationally     Anne, Mary and Anette have well-established reputations for their       expertise on women offenders.
Raising public awareness through the media,       Anne was interviewed about her research by the United Nations         Womenwatch Newsletter in 2008 (Source 1) and was interviewed on       women's imprisonment by Charlotte Gill in Fabulous magazine (Part       of the Sun on Sunday), in May 2012 (also available online &#8212; Source       2).
In 2008, Mary was interviewed about her research on women political       prisoners in Northern Ireland on BBC Radio 4's Thinking Allowed.
Mary was also an invited participant in the consultation on Volunteering         across the Criminal Justice System, convened by Baroness Julia       Neuberger, where Mary convened and minuted a discussion group for the       consultation's report published in 2009 by the Office for the Third       Sector.
Anette has been contacted (separately) by the families of three       executed women thanking her for giving them a voice through her research.
She has remained in contact with one descendant who has written her own       non-academic autobiography and has told us that `through meeting Anette       and reading her research, I was able to understand so much more about the       injustice of what happened to my great-grandmother...I was [also] able to       gain insights and a deeper understanding of how the discrimination and       poverty of those post-industrial times impacted so disastrously on her and       her family'.
(Sources 3 and 4).
Engaging with practitioners, Anne can point to the popularity of her 2009       article (co-authored with Gelsthorpe) in Probation Journal, a peer       reviewed journal but with a largely practitioner readership.
The article       was in the top 20 `most read' online articles from the journal for three       years and reached number 10 in November 2012 (Source 5).
Since 1998, Anne       has been invited regularly to teach a postgraduate module on `Women, Crime       and Criminal Justice' at the Crime Research Centre at the University of       Western Australia (UWA).
Students on this Masters and CPD programme are       predominantly regional, national and international legal and criminal       justice practitioners and policy makers.
UWA also appointed Anne as a       `Professor-at-Large' between 2006 and 2008 to promote inter-disciplinary       and community collaboration, resulting in closer relationships between UWA       and local criminal justice agencies (Source 6).
She conducted workshops       with Community Corrections personnel and organised a conference `stream'       specifically for non-academic female criminal justice practitioners at the       2009 `Engendering Leadership' conference run by the UWA Business School.
This work goes beyond teaching and dissemination and demonstrates an       influence on long-term changes of attitude and practice.
In May 2013 Anne       was invited to join an inspection team by the Custodial Inspector of       Western Australia as part of a State Government enquiry into a riot at a       mixed-gender youth detention centre.
The report, which she co-authored (in       draft June 2013) will be presented to the WA Parliament and is an       excellent example of the application of feminist perspectives to a       `real-life' problem (Source 7).
Supporting local policy and provision for women offenders through           evaluation of voluntary and statutory provision in collaboration with           research users     Following the Corston Report on vulnerable women offenders in 2007, Anne       was approached and funded by the Butler Trust to undertake an evaluation       of the work of Adelaide House Outreach Programme for women offenders in       Liverpool.
In carrying out this work in collaboration with Adelaide House       staff, Anne also engaged a recently released female parolee as her       research assistant, thus assisting the latter's rehabilitation and       providing her with career development opportunities.
The resulting       research report, entitled Giving them back their dignity, was       published and disseminated by the Butler Trust in 2008, raising awareness       of, and giving credibility to, the excellent practice developed in       Liverpool (Source 8).
In 2009, Anne and Mary were approached by a large local voluntary       organisation, Brighter Futures, to conduct an evaluation of a new one-stop       shop provision for women offenders in North Staffordshire.
This was       conducted in close collaboration with the research users and the       preliminary report informed a parliamentary question raised by the MP for       Stoke Central, Tristram Hunt in Jan 2011 (Source 9).
The final report was       published on the Brighter Futures website and contributed to the project       securing further funding.
Subsequently, Mary was invited by the Trustees       of the Brighter Futures charity to develop their strategic plan for       extending services for women offenders in the West Midlands (Source 10).
The report also resulted in the Stoke-on-Trent Community Safety lead       advising Staffordshire Police to employ Anne and Mary to evaluate their       Integrated Offender Management programme (2013-2014).
In 2012, Anne and Mary were approached by the voluntary organisation,       Spurgeons, and HM Prison Drake Hall for advice about setting up and       evaluating a mentoring programme for young women prisoners.
Subsequently,       they were successful in obtaining a grant to undertake the evaluation,       which will be completed in 2014 (Source 11).
Initial findings about the       relationship between mentors and mentees are likely to both inform and       challenge the development of mentoring programmes which are currently       being promoted by the Government.
At this early stage, we suggest that       while individualised work with women offenders can be a vehicle for       `healing', empowering and supporting them to navigate their way through       and out of risky behaviours that are deemed to be associated with crime,       it can also license `soft' forms of social control through maternalistic       social relationships.
In sum, this historical, empirical and theoretical research has       challenged official discourses about the control and needs of women       offenders and the discrimination they experience within the criminal       justice system and the media.
Specifically, in the period 2008-2013, Anne,       Mary, and Anette have supported local and national policy and practice for       women offenders through the evaluation of voluntary and statutory       provision in collaboration with research users.
This research continues to       raise awareness and influence practice internationally, for example, by       regular teaching, workshops, conferences and expert advice involving       practitioners and policy makers in Australia.
Finally, this research has       quietly made impact on those most closely affected by the treatment of       women offenders.
