     Professor John Marsh's research on Quantum Well Intermixing (QWI) has       underpinned more than 10 new diode laser products and upgrades developed       by the spin-out company Intense since 2008.
The world-leading,       individually addressable laser arrays have in turn enabled new product       developments in high-speed colour printing of the highest commercial       quality with significant increases in cost effectiveness and productivity.
QWI has also been used in devices for the medical, industrial and defence       markets.
Developing new and improved diode laser products       Intense Ltd was formed in 2000 by Professor John Marsh and Research       Assistant Dr Craig Hamilton based on the University's patented portfolio       of QWI and related technologies.
Marsh was seconded as Chief Technical       Officer on a 0.9 FTE basis to Intense from 2001 until 2009.
Several       EPSRC-supported Research Assistants and research students joined the       company at or shortly after its foundation, including Dr Olek Kowalski, Dr       Stewart McDougall, Dr Bocang Qiu, Dr Xuefeng Li, Dr Valentin Loyo and Dr       Dan Yanson.
In 2011 Intense Ltd was sold to ORIX USA Corporate Finance       Group for an undisclosed sum and continues to develop, manufacture and       sell its products based on University of Glasgow QWI IP under the Intense       name.
The Intense CEO has verified that       "Since 2008, the impact of research at the University of Glasgow,         particularly research on Quantum Well Intermixing, on products         manufactured by Intense Inc can be demonstrated by the following:            Intense has released 10-12 new products       Intense has a further 4-6 products in development       These products have been sold to 10-12 new customers and 10-12           existing customers       We have been able to launch 8-10 unique products into the           printing/defence/medical market sectors       QWI has enabled us to develop higher performance products in terms           of the combination of output power and wavelength than our competitors       We have grown our sales in the Defence, Print and Medical markets           by 10-25%       The value of sales from QWI enabled products since 2008 is $12-15M       Market opportunities have opened up in China, Europe and North           America           Intense is a living example of how the research and technology         development being conducted at the University of Glasgow can be used to         help tech start ups develop cutting edge, state of the art products         which provide those start ups the solid foundation and industry traction         upon which to build a successful and sustainable business model with         solid growth prospects."
Underpinning advances in the printing industry       The QWI process enabled array technology developed by Intense has had a       particularly profound influence on the printing industry as the processes       have played a major role in enabling wide arrays of lasers to be       manufactured.
The Intense INSlam individually addressable arrays have been       responsible for major developments in next generation colour laser       printers [text removed for publication.]
INSlam multi-beam systems allow       up to 64 multiple lines to be scanned in parallel from a single       semiconductor chip.
The INSlam technology reduced the cost of modules and       increased print productivity by increasing scanning speed; this in turn       enabled further significant improvements in cost effectiveness and       productivity for high-speed, high-quality colour printing.
[text removed for publication.]
