     HPC Wales Background       High Performance Computing Wales (HPC Wales), launched in July 2010, is a       &#163;44 million five-year project providing a super-computing facility at a       scale unprecedented in Europe due to its unique "hub- and-spoke" design.
Briefly, a number of "hubs" are distributed throughout the nation and are       joined by high-speed connections.
Financial support was provided by ERDF       and ESF European funds, the Department for Business, Innovation and       Skills, collaborating academic institutions (including USW), the Welsh       Assembly Government and the private sector.
In early 2011, Fujitsu won the procurement bid to provide infrastructure,       support and services.
The nature of the projects, the application areas       and the necessary equipment was to be shaped by its early adopters since       they would be providing real-world problems that would test and refine the       system.
Associated with the procurement process, Fujitsu re-invested       approximately &#163;1.5 million to support projects led by early adopters.
Wiltshire identified a number of early adopters, including       Tatarinova, who provided sample problems that shaped current application       areas, trained HPC Wales staff and introduced further collaborators from       commercial organisations, thus helping to expand employment and develop       technical skills.
Indeed, HPC Wales employs approximately 30 managerial,       technical and support staff and it is planned to generate a further 400       jobs requiring high level skills and technical training.
Impact on HPC Wales       Tatarinova's "test" project, started in 2011, involved the analysis of       large genome sequences using a combination of standard software coupled       with the implementation of novel algorithms.
Funded by a &#163;56K award from       Fujitsu, HPC Wales were able to understand the type of problems they would       be supporting and how to appropriately manage their hardware and software.
This work was so influential that in September 2012 HPC Wales rated it as       one of their top 5 projects.
The success of this project resulted in two further Tatarinova-led       projects supported by HPC Wales, each worth &#163;15k, and running in       collaboration with non-academic partners including the National Botanical       Gardens of Wales (the Barcode Wales project) and Morvus Technology       Ltd. investigating a range of problems including analysing strains of Escherichia         coli.
Tatarinova and Wiltshire actively promoted HPC Wales by       presenting at numerous promotional events and gave media interviews.
Further projects and collaborators, both within and outside of academia,       arose as a result of these promotional activities (e.g.
OSTC Ltd. have two       projects utilising HPC Wales working with Roach), thus helping to       secure the future of HPC Wales and its associated employment.
As of October 2013, and in only three years from its inception, in excess       of 50 commercial businesses and industrial partners are engaged in over 60       collaborative projects using HPC Wales; 40% of these involving the life       sciences and approximately 5% on problems in genomics and bioinformatics.
A key feature of HPC Wales is its accessibility to businesses, such as       those brought on board by Wiltshire and Tatarinova, and HPC Wales'       success in this area was acknowledged through being a runner up in Open       Data category of the national Next Generation Digital Challenge Awards in       October 2013.
Impact on supercomputing and bioinformatics       As part of Tatarinova's "test" project, certain bioinformatics software (cisexpress)       required redesigning to work on the highly-parallelised architecture of       HPC Wales.
Fujitsu provided the equivalent of approximately &#163;90k in       consultancy fees to support the redesign of key algorithms that not only       improved essential software for the analysis of large genome sequences,       but also resulted in training HPC Wales staff.
Since early 2013, this revised software, running on HPC Wales, has been       made available to the world-wide scientific community (http://glacombio01.comp.glam.ac.uk/cisExpress/new/home.php)       and as of October 2013, approximately 50% of the total simulations       performed (numbering several hundred) have been conducted by scientists       external to USW.
This revised software has therefore laid foundations for       further bioinformatics projects around the world with HPC Wales and USW       researchers at their core.
Creating impact legacy       Tatarinova's work with HPC Wales has been designed to create a lasting       impact.
Barcode Wales has constructed a DNA database for the       native flowering plants and conifers for Wales and represents the most       comprehensive sampling of any national flora to date.
Thus, future       environmental surveys need not rely on a taxonomic expert to determine       flora and can instead use sampled DNA and associated software developed       from this project.
In January 2013, Tatarinova, alongside Prof. Denis       Murphy (USW), created a spin-out company called myregulome.com ltd       which is currently marketing software for genomic analysis developed in       collaboration with Fujitsu and HPC Wales.
