     (Corroborating sources in numbered brackets)     Impact on policy (England): This ECEC research has created change       in political awareness, understanding and policy formulation.
The       significant contribution of Birth to Three Matters Review resulted       in conceptual categories being integrated into the first national       `curriculum' for children from birth to five in England (EYFS, 2008).
Reported as `significant' in its own right (Brooker et al., 2010:5-6), the       Review was cited in the Report on the Evidence for the (Tickell) Review         of the Early Years Foundation Stage (2011:7) and described at the       2012 Froebel Conference by Professor Tina Bruce, as `the definitive       reference source on children from birth to three'.
The Baby Room         Project has also informed policy and debate.
As a consequence of her       involvement with the project, the President of Early Education in the       British Association for Early Childhood Education established a new Baby       Room Special Interest Group (1).
The research has been cited in national       organisations' responses, such as the National Children's Bureau (2),       countering Government proposals to relax childcare ratios (More Great         Childcare (2013)) and shifted the focus from `young children' to       `babies and young children' in the (2012) Nutbrown Review of Childcare         and Early Education Qualifications.
Goouch and Powell met with       officers for the then Children's Minister, Sarah Teather MP, in 2010 to       discuss baby room concerns.
The research was cited during the Fabian       Society's debate on Childcare at the House of Commons (February 2013), and       an invitation was made to provide a summary of the work, which is included       in their report (2013), informing the Labour Party's Policy Review (3).
Impact on policy (overseas) is evidenced by Professor David's       report on ECEC in the Netherlands (www.oecd.org),       integral to the OECD publication, Starting Strong II (2006).
Professor David was an invited rapporteur for the OECD's study of ECEC in       member states, as part of the World Organisation for Early Childhood       Education.
Impact on professional practice (UK and beyond): Professor David       was commissioned to design and write the early childhood education       materials for the National College for School Leadership's course,       Learning Centred Leadership.
Collaboration with the Shanghai Education       Ministry in 2003-5 informed the development of Baoshan Early Learning       Centre, its new birth to three programmes (2008) and materials for       practitioners and parents (4).
Following a presentation by Goouch and       Powell at EECERA 2011, attendance at the Baby Room Conference in       2012 and ongoing discussions at the Global Gathering for Early Childhood       in Ireland (2013) delegates from Early Childhood Ireland undertook to       establish a baby room project in Eire (5).
The principles and findings       from the project, following publication in the Baby Room book       (Spring 2013), are also influencing the design of a new approach to       training early years' professionals, amalgamating vocational and higher       education in Germany (6).
Locally, practitioner participants in the Baby Room Project from       two local authorities (LAs), directly involved in the care of more than       370 babies per annum, have been promoted, or have registered for       Foundation Degrees or other qualifications.
The strong impact on       practitioners' self-confidence, ability to respond reflectively to the       challenges of their work and environments, and increased attunement to       babies in their care, can be evidenced by professionals in the field (7).
Articles in professional as well as academic journals have disseminated       findings, and development days for front-line practitioners, managers and       advisers have focused on the professional identities of baby room staff.
The annual Baby Room conference for practitioners has attracted       over 100 delegates each year.
A bespoke online network, The Baby Room         NING, has provided baby room staff with direct access to policy and       research information, associated critique, dialogue, networking and       support, as well as a collective `voice' for responding to Government       consultations.
The Project's reach and significance has been helped by       unsolicited publicity in Nursery World, the professional       publication with the highest circulation figures in the UK, where the NING       has been described as a `successful method' (2010) and the project a       `wonderful initiative' (2012) (8).
Impact on ECEC service delivery: Baby Room case study       enquiries at Medway Council in 2012, structured and supported by       professional development sessions, have had a direct impact on culture and       practice at local authority level, encouraging a shift in focus of the       advisory team's work towards different observational practices, and a       reassessment of respective roles and responsibilities (9).
The positive       impact on the knowledge of advisors and culture of advisory work in Medway       led to a commission by three further LAs (West Sussex, Surrey and       Hampshire) for a bespoke research-led development programme for their       early years' advisors and leaders in 2013, focusing on provision for       two-year-olds.
Kent LA also commissioned bespoke `birth to three'       programmes from CCCU for its early years' leaders in 2012 and 2013,       following dissemination of the project's early findings, involving       practitioners for the first time in a research-led programme of M Level       CPD, specifically focusing on birth to three provision and practice.
Impact on a commercial organisation with clients in the UK and beyond       In addition, the research has led to changes in one company's awareness of       the lack of attention to the professional knowledge of people who care for       babies.
Following interviews with Goouch and Powell about research       findings from the Baby Room Project in 2012, Community Playthings       created a free training booklet and DVD for practitioners: `What Happens       in the Baby Room?'
(10).
9,476 copies have been downloaded so far and       16,918 printed copies distributed (13.11.13).
