     The IMAGINES network's main aim is the organization of a series of       conferences devoted to universal themes that intend to offer a basis not       only for interdisciplinary debates on the impact of antiquity in the arts,       but also for open discussion on the diversity of reception(s) in different       cultural traditions.
While the first conference (La Rioja in 2007,       published in 2008) gave an overview of the wide range and specific forms       of ongoing projects, the second meeting (Bristol, September 22nd-25th,       2010) focussed on a particular topic: Seduction and Power.
The conference       explored the tensions and relations of gender, sexuality, and power in       reception, associated with concepts such as domination, magnetism and       attraction.
Such themes dominated the plots and characters of myth and       drama, but also served to portray historical personages.
A third       conference in Mainz (Germany) on the topic Magic and the Supernatural was       held in September 2012.
The project's impact strategy has been to open up       the key research themes to the public and to engage with artists and       members of the creative and cultural industries.
The Bristol conference,       co-funded by UWTSD and co-organised by Garc&#237;a Morcillo included an open       and public screening of silent movies with original music composed and       performed live by two students of the University of Bristol.
The event was       followed by a discussion with the musicians about their work.
As a result       of the success of this event, a second such event was organised at the       Faculty of Music of the University of Barcelona and moderated by Garc&#237;a       Morcillo, with the presence of the musicians.
The Imagines II, Seduction and Power conference's public engagement       strategy also included a collaborative public exhibition run with the       independent Bristol Galley (Eric Shanower: The Age of Bronze, Tuesday 21st       September to Sunday 26th September 2010).
Jointly organised by Garc&#237;a       Morcillo and Knippschild (University of Bristol), the public exhibition       featured original artwork of the comic Age of Bronze, a graphic novel       series about the Trojan Wars, by the renowned and Eisner Prize awarded       American graphic novelist Eric Shanower.
The exhibition sought to       demonstrate the influence of the reception of antiquity on a specific       manifestation of culture and showed how this shapes culture as such,       ranging from post-classical traditional art disciplines to contemporary       popular cultural expressions.
Expanding on these themes, Shanower       delivered a free public lecture about his work at the gallery on Saturday       25 September entitled Trojan Lovers and Warriors: The Power of Seduction       in Age of Bronze.
In this talk he drew on the work of the network to       explore how sex and power underpin the entire story of the Trojan War, and       how these themes weave together to create the stories we know today.
Age       of Bronze presents the complete story of the world-famous War at Troy,       freshly retold for the 21st century.
Its primary sources begin with       Homer's Iliad, and include the three major tragedians Aeschylus, Euripides       and Sophocles, as well as other Greek and Roman works such as Virgil's       Aeneid, and Medieval and Renaissance European sources, such as       Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida.
From Schliemann to current research,       the art of Age of Bronze further incorporates archaeological excavations       of the places where the story took place: Mycenae, Knossos, and Pylos and       especially Troy itself.
In September 2012, IMAGINES furthered its       commitment to bringing together scholars, students, the general public and       professionals working on or inspired by ancient topics.
Imagines III: Magic and the Supernatural hosted a public event at which       the renowned playwright and director Stephan Seidel (Staatstheater Mainz)       introduced to the public his work and his sources of inspiration in       ancient myth.
He spoke about the connections between his work and ancient       myth and how this aspect is reflected in the staging of his plays.
Particular attention was paid during the talk to Seidel's reworking of the       Phaedra myth in his play "Deine Liebe ist vielleicht tragischer als meine,       aber nicht dein Tod" ("Your love is perhaps more tragic than my love, yet       your death is not") after Jean Racine.
He explained to the audience how he       reads the characters of the play and the world they live in and how these       aspects are transferred into the physis of the actors on stage, into their       relationships, and how they are recreated within a given space and music.
The film maker Oliver Stone has also shared Garc&#237;a Morcillo's and Berti's       volume Hellas on Screen on his website and Facebook page, soliciting       discussions from his viewing community.
He also visited (30th Jan 2012)       IMAGINES contributor, Angelos Chaniotis, Professor of Ancient History at       Princeton Institute of Advanced Study to speak about research on Alexander       in relation to his film Alexander: Revisited.
