     Research by the Sue Ryder Care Centre for the Study of Supportive,       Palliative and End of Life Care has improved the understanding,       implementation and uptake of ACP.
It has informed public policy and       professional practice, educated care staff and raised public awareness of       the issue.
The research played a significant role in guiding policy by informing the       development of the Department of Health's End of Life Care Strategy,       launched in 2008 and led by the National End of Life Care Programme.
Claire Henry, Head of Programmes for Long-Term Conditions and End of Life       Care at NHS Improving Quality, has described the Centre's contribution,       which involved consultation and cited research, as "extensive and       innovative", remarking: "[It] was influential and provided a foundation       upon which further work and research has been based."
[a] Data published       in 2012's Fourth Annual Report revealed the Strategy's effect on reducing       the number of people dying in hospital: between 2008 and 2011 around       30,000 more were able to pass away in their usual place of residence (i.e.
home or care home) [b].
The Centre's research also informed the work of Dying Matters, a national       coalition established by the National Council for Palliative Care to raise       public awareness of and debate about ACP.
In 2009, the year it was       founded, the coalition asked the Centre to help shape its campaign and       priorities and to collaborate in disseminating key findings and messages       [c].
Since 2009 the coalition has gained 20,000 members from across the       NHS, voluntary and independent health and social care sectors, community       organisations and academia.
In 2012 Sir Mike Richards, then NHS England's       National Clinical Director for End of Life Care, noted the "marked       contrast" brought about by Dying Matters, observing: "Dying Matters       continues to make major strides towards engaging the public and tackling       the taboo of discussing death and dying" [b].
The Centre was subsequently asked to apply its findings to develop an       educational guide about ACP.
Produced in collaboration with the Dying       Matters coalition and the National End of Life Care Programme, it was       first published in 2009; it was revised in 2011 and is now available in       seven languages.
Some 1,200 individuals requested copies of the original       version, which an Institute of Healthcare Management evaluation found was       used by a wide range of healthcare professionals and accessed by service       users directly [d].
Users reported that it helped facilitate otherwise       "difficult" conversations.
In 2010 the Dying Matters coalition and the National End of Life Care       Programme commissioned the Centre to develop a volunteer training       programme about ACP, building on its original research and prototype.
This       was published in 2011 [e], with significant uptake in London, Devon and       the Midlands.
For example, between March and September 2012 Gentle Dusk, a       London-based consultancy specialising in preparing and supporting end of       life care, trained 32 volunteers &#8212; one of whom went on to write an article       for `Heart Matters' magazine, which is sent to half a million people.
In       September 2012 Gentle Dusk secured new funding from NHS London to train 30       volunteers attached to GP practices.
Twelve community groups benefited       from courses run by Rowcroft Hospice, Devon, in March 2012.
The research findings highlighting the marginalisation of certain groups       with regard to ACP &#8212; specifically, older lesbian, gay, bisexual and       transsexual (LGBT) people &#8212; were widely disseminated to policymakers,       practitioners and the public, resulting in a commission from the National       End of Life Care Programme for a knowledge-exchange project to improve       practice.
This in turn led to a national conference on the subject and the       provision of evidence briefings and consultation for national guidance.
Almost 700 copies of the resource [f] have been distributed to individuals       and organisations since its launch in 2012.
Evaluative data indicate the       majority of users have both changed the way they work with LGBT people and       are seeking to change the way colleagues practise.
In December 2012 Almack       co-convened a group now working to sustain this work, involving       organisations such as Marie Curie Cancer Care, Macmillan Cancer Support,       Help the Hospices and the Social Care Institute for Health.
The research also informed professional practice at a high level.
The       Royal College of Physicians' 2009 evidence-based guidelines for ACP cited       the Centre's work and were reviewed by Seymour [g].
In 2011 Seymour led a       working party for the National End of Life Care Programme to revise       guidance for health and social care staff [h], drawing on the Centre's       analysis of staff's educational needs.
The research has been presented internationally, including at the       inaugural International Advance Care Planning and End of Life Care (ACPEL)       Conference, held in Melbourne in 2010, which led to the establishment of       the International Society of Advance Care Planning and End of Life Care, a       partnership between healthcare professionals and academics that now has       more than a thousand members.
The study on peer education was cited as an       exemplar in the 2011 World Health Organisation guidance for palliative       care and older people [i], which is aimed at health policymakers and       decision-makers, health professionals and research funders and has been       used by the European Union Geriatric Medicine Society and the       International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics (European Region)       for lobbying the European Commission/Parliament.
In December 2010 the Centre's research also informed a European Council       Symposium on the end of life decision-making process, with the event's       conclusions presented to the Steering Committee on Bioethics in June 2011.
The committee agreed to develop European guidelines as part of its work       programme [j].
Seymour was also recently invited to participate in the       development of a European Association for Palliative Care White Paper       setting out key recommendations for ACP practice and policy.
In 2010 the innovative nature of the research led to Seymour being       invited to sit on a steering group for Dying for Change, a project run by       leading cross-party think-tank DEMOS and commissioned by Help the       Hospices.
The subsequent report recommended normalisation of ACP and       greater focus on volunteers.
In a related development, the research       informed Help the Hospices' Commission into the Future of Hospice Care       (2011-2013), on which Seymour also sits.
Wider outreach activities have included an appearance on BBC Radio 4's       Woman's Hour in 2011 and the co-organisation of two public events in       Nottinghamshire in February 2010 and August 2011.
A follow-up evaluation       of the 2010 event showed all respondents would recommend a similar event       to someone else and that around a third felt more comfortable about       discussing death and dying.
