     Research by the University of Nottingham has played a major role in       developing and informing practical approaches to prevent psychosocial       risks and work-related stress.
This guidance has helped to improve       workers' well-being and to significantly reduce the costs associated with       employee ill health at national, international and industry levels.
The Health and Safety Executive's Management Standards for tackling       work-related stress are still based on the risk-assessment framework       methodology originally developed by Cox and Griffiths.
A recent evaluation       by the HSE revealed that between 2001/2002 and 2010/2011 the number of       self-reported new cases of work-related illness fell by 43,000 and the       total number of cases by 69,000 &#8212; an overall reduction of 8.5%.
According       to HSE data, the five sectors specifically targeted with a view to       adopting the Management Standards have fared "significantly better" than       others in addressing psychosocial risks.
The Management Standards website       receives between 40,000 and 50,000 hits per month [a].
The economic benefits of the fall in cases of work-related stress have       been considerable.
HSE economists have estimated that on average the       overall cost of a case of work-related ill health (to the individual, the       NHS and the economy) is &#163;16,000.
Dr Colin Mackay, Principal Psychologist       at the HSE's Economic and Social Analysis Unit, has suggested that       estimates of approximate cost savings of &#163;1.1bn (for prevalence) and &#163;688m       (for incidence) between 2001/2002 and 2010/2011 might be viewed as       "conservative" [b].
MacKay confirms that the Management Standards have now       also been adopted in other European countries, including Italy [b].
Internationally, the PRIMA-EF framework that emerged from Leka, Cox and       Jain's EC-funded review of psychosocial risk management and work-related       stress prevention knowledge, policies and practices was launched in 2008       [c].
Having been adopted and promoted by the World Health Organisation,       the guidance is now available in 12 languages (English, French, Italian,       German, Dutch, Polish, Finnish, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek, traditional       Chinese and Japanese) through the WHO website (more than 60,000 hits) and       the PRIMA-EF website (more than 30,000 hits).
PRIMA-EF is a key element of       the global WHO Healthy Workplaces Model, which was launched in 2010 and       has been incorporated in the Global Plan of Action on Workers' Health for       the period 2008-2017 &#8212; adopted unanimously by the WHO's 193 Member States       [d].
The PRIMA-EF WHO guidance was also cited in the 2012 Senior Labour       Inspectors' Committee (SLIC) campaign on psychosocial risks.
SLIC advises       the EC on issues relating to the enforcement of EC law concerning health       and safety at work.
SLIC guidance uses the PRIMA-EF framework as part of       its key resources for inspectors in Europe to apply good practice in       addressing psychosocial risks [e].
In addition, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EU-OSHA)       used PRIMA-EF to inform its European Enterprise Survey on New and Emerging       Risks (ESENER), which culminated in recommendations for policy and       practice in psychosocial risk management.
PRIMA eTraining (PRIMA-eT),       launched in six languages in 2012, is now being used to disseminate the       outputs of the research programme to stakeholders and organisations across       Europe, including all occupational health practitioners in Finland [f].
The research has also impacted widely across industry within the UK and       internationally.
Since 2008 more than 125 employers, including SMEs and       large companies, have used the online Work Organisation Assessment       Questionnaire developed by Griffiths for the Engineering Employers'       Federation (now the EEF).
Many have also requested detailed follow-up       analyses.
Professor Sayeed Khan, the EEF's Chief Medical Adviser, reports       that the WOAQ has been "accepted by employers and employees as a       constructive way to look at workplace stressors and begin a dialogue       between management and staff to resolve any issues" [g] and that its       dedicated website [h] is one of the organisation's most popular.
In 2011 the British Standards Institution (BSI), a global independent       business services organisation with over 80,000 customers in more than 120       countries, used PRIMA-EF to develop the first standard for the management       of psychosocial risks in the workplace.
Publicly Available Specification       1010 (PAS1010) was jointly developed with the involvement and support of       the EU-OSHA, several European national health and safety institutions, the       WHO, the European Trade Union Confederation, EEF and the HSE.
The BSI       reports that around 2,000 organisations worldwide, including sectoral and       standardisation bodies, businesses and trade unions, have adopted the       standard to date, with user feedback suggesting it has "filled a gap in       occupational health and safety management systems".
PAS1010 was also used       to inform the development of a new Canadian national standard for       psychological health and safety in the workplace, launched in January 2013       [i].
Major industrial adopters of PRIMA-EF include Norwegian oil and gas       company Statoil ASA, which has 21,000 employees in 36 countries.
PRIMA-EF       is implemented as corporate best practice and is valid globally across all       business levels.
By 2013 interventions to improve well-being in line with       PRIMA-EF guidance had been implemented for 5,000 onshore and offshore       employees, resulting in a 20% reduction in work-related stress levels.
Around 100 professionals have also taken part in a related training       programme.
The company reports that managers regard PRIMA-EF as "a       cost-effective and time-efficient method to pinpoint concrete and       manageable aspects of work" [j].
