     Research by the Division of Rehabilitation and Ageing has informed the       effective implementation of evidence-based ESD and community services for       stroke survivors at local, regional, national and international levels.
The team's strong collaborative partnership with the East Midlands       Cardiovascular Network (EMCVN) has been crucial to facilitating       evidence-based improvements in community stroke care locally.
The 2011 ESD       consensus informed a service specification for providers and commissioners       across the East Midlands.
In 2012 a review of ESD services led by EMCVN       reported that local ESD teams were actively using both the consensus and       service specification [a, b].
The national consensus on the implementation of community stroke services       has also informed the Midlands and East Strategic Health Authority's       stroke service specification.
The launch of these regional guidelines in       June 2012 led to community stroke services throughout the authority's area       returning data based on the specification and being mandated to agree       evidence-based plans for service improvements by the end of 2013 [c].
The research team has conducted several implementation activities to       address the findings of the ESD consensus and qualitative mapping.
These       local and regional events, which have targeted the barriers to providing       evidence-based services, have generated extensive positive feedback.
An       ESD Knowledge Sharing Event in October 2010 was rated "excellent" or       "good" by all evaluation respondents [d] and resulted in greater       collaboration and joint decision-making between acute and community stroke       services.
A May 2013 evaluation of a series of eligibility workshops       addressing difficulties in deciding who should be referred to ESD services       showed attendees felt the events had facilitated communication across       teams and organisations and increased knowledge of the evidence base, with       all respondents confirming they would apply what they had learnt to their       work [e].
Eight data-handling "task and finish group" meetings with ESD       and hospital staff have also been held, as a result of which hospital       teams now routinely record patient destinations on discharge, have       improved their ability to analyse patient flow to community stroke       services and have enhanced the quality and sharing of data.
Funding from the East Midlands Health Innovation Education Cluster has       enabled the research team to build on its implementation activity through       an East Midlands-wide educational programme, which ran until the end of       July 2013.
Piloted in Nottinghamshire in April 2013, this specifically       addressed how teams within the stroke care pathway (e.g.
ESD, longer-term       community stroke teams, outpatient services, voluntary organisations,       social care) could work together to ensure seamless transition between       services for stroke survivors.
Feedback from attendees at a February 2013       event to support this initiative included "[it] will help me look at       implementing some changes to further improve service quality" and "[it       will] guide us on next steps for service improving" [f].
The intention is       that this programme, which was developed in response to issues raised by       patient and carers as part of the team's earlier qualitative research,       will eventually be rolled out nationally.
Collaboration with the national NHS SIP, which was tasked with the       implementation of the National Stroke Strategy 2007, has ensured the       team's research has informed service provision across the country.
Details       of the ESD consensus and programme of research are featured on the NHS SIP       website [g], which is a major source of information for providers and       commissioners setting up community stroke services.
The team's research       has also informed guidance for a national audit of ESD services conducted       by the NHS SIP and regional Cardiovascular Networks since 2011 [b, h].
The research has attracted growing national and international interest.
The team has provided more than 30 detailed responses to stakeholders       around the UK and in other countries following e-mail requests for       guidance on the implementation of ESD and community stroke services       (available on request).
In Cheshire and Merseyside, for example, the St Helen's Clinical       Commissioning Group requested advice on revising its existing ESD       specification.
The information it received was used to improve eligibility       criteria, staff numbers and skill mix, length of ESD input and Key       Performance Indicators.
The research team's findings are now being used to       redesign the entire stroke pathway.
The North West Assisted Discharge       stroke service in Lincolnshire has used the community stroke consensus to       present to commissioners to make a case for a stroke community       rehabilitation team.
In 2011 the manager of the North Nottinghamshire ESD       team, which was nominated for the Stroke Association's annual Most       Improved Stroke Service Award, cited collaborative links with the Division       of Rehabilitation and Ageing as key to the service's development.
Internationally, the research team's ESD consensus has been used by the       `Rehabilitation in the Home' team in Perth, Australia, to inform its       service by implementing the recommended team composition and stroke       service model [i].
It was also referred to in the Model of Stroke Care for       the State of Western Australia [j].
