     Public awareness - patients at higher risk of stroke     The integrative review was cited in: the 4th edition of the       National Clinical Guideline for Stroke (Intercollegiate Stroke Working       Party, 2012); the Australian National Guidelines for Stroke Management       (National Stroke Foundation, 2010); and the New Zealand Clinical       Guidelines for Stroke Management (Stroke Foundation of New Zealand, 2010).
The review also identified that people from minority ethnic groups were       less likely to have knowledge of stroke risk factors and symptoms, yet       often had a higher risk of stroke.
To address this lack of knowledge in       the local South East Asian community in north west England, we conducted a       collaborative project.
This involved training people from those       communities in interview techniques in order to enable interviews in the       participants' first language.
A DVD was then developed with local service       users from South Asian communities.
This was a short `soap opera' style       film in Hindi with English subtitles about someone having a stroke, and       included information on risk factors, action to take when stroke is       suspected, acute care, rehabilitation and secondary prevention.
Making and       refining the DVD involved the co-operation of 20 local community groups.
Subsequent evaluation indicated a significant increase in knowledge of       stroke in the short and medium term, and an associated positive increase       in health behaviours.
Further testing in different populations is underway.
This work has been       cited as an example of good practice in Patient and Public Engagement by       NHS Improvement.
The DVD has been widely disseminated including free       distribution of 7000 copies with Asian Image newspaper.
RESPONSE programme     Our systematic review (Jones et al., 2007) identified that routine oxygen       supplementation via facemask was not based on evidence, yet this was       common practice.
This led to consultation with the Joint Royal Colleges       Ambulance Liaison Committee and subsequent amendment to their guideline       for pre-hospital care in suspected stroke.
Other systematic reviews       undertaken to underpin the RESPONSE course were incorporated in       pre-hospital guidelines which were initially an addendum to, now       incorporated in, the National Clinical Guideline for Stroke.
The work of       setting up the pre-hospital guideline group was initiated by Watkins and       Jones and the team further collaborated with the Royal College of       Paramedics in updating the pre-hospital guidelines for the 4th       edition of National Clinical Guideline for Stroke.
The RESPONSE online training has been undertaken by over 3000 health care       staff worldwide, including Australia, Jamaica and Canada.
An evaluation of       the course conducted with UK participants found that participants were       either very satisfied or satisfied with it and reported an increased       knowledge in the management of acute stroke.
They especially welcomed its       usability, interactive nature, and flexibility (Jones et al., 2011c).
The       RESPONSE programme has been further developed to provide training for       staff working in A&amp;E, care homes, and primary care.
Emergency Stroke Calls: Obtaining Rapid Telephone Triage (ESCORTT)     The impact of the stroke-specific training package which was based on       earlier phases of this programme (Jones et al., 2011a; Jones et al 2011b)       on the recognition of stroke by Emergency Medical Dispatchers has been       evaluated over 8 months with 488 patients, using an interrupted time       series analysis (Watkins et al., 2013).
The percentages of those with       final diagnosis of stroke who were correctly dispatched by EMS were 63.0%       in the pre-implementation phase, rising to 87.5% during implementation,       and remaining higher than baseline at 79.7% post-implementation.
The       training package also improved aspects of pre-hospital delay, amounting to       a mean overall reduction of more than 10 minutes from time of call to       emergency department diagnosis.
It has been estimated that a typical       patient loses 1.9 million neurons each minute in which stroke is untreated       (Saver, 2006) and the benefits of rapid diagnosis of stroke on improving       both mortality and morbidity are well-recognised.
Our work in this field contributed to a successful application for NIHR       Research for Patient Benefit project funding on the development and       evaluation of training in a telemedicine system for acute stroke in       A&amp;E: Acute Stroke Telemedicine: Utility, Training and Evaluation       (ASTUTE).
In the ASTUTE programme we are exploring how standardisation of       procedures and training can facilitate the effective use of telemedicine       in stroke in order to benefit patient care.
The research programme was       developed in collaboration with the introduction in 2011 of a Telestroke       service throughout Cumbria and Lancashire across nine NHS Trusts.
A       Standardised Telemedicine Toolkit has been developed       (http://www.astute-telestroke.org.uk) to support individuals or       organisations that want to set up a telemedicine system.
