     The participatory methodology established by the Education and Technology       for Health team's       research has led to an extensive and ever-expanding repository of       evidence-based RLOs [a].
These learning tools have benefited healthcare students, professionals,       users, carers and       institutions both in the UK and internationally.
Although created by the team and their collaborators for use within host       institutions, the RLOs were       released for non-commercial reuse from the outset.
This decision was made       well before the       creation of Creative Commons Licensing regimes for educational resources       in 2007.
Requiring no       password or complex technology, the RLOs are now accessed across all       continents and in around       50 countries.
All have optional online evaluation forms that allow the       gathering of information about       their use, and these have been used to evidence their reach and       significance throughout the       impact period [b, c].
A detailed evaluation of 71 RLOs [b] analysed 13,217 respondents' forms       between May 2006 and       July 2013.
Estimates from comparison with server logs suggests 1-2% of       users return evaluations,       which extrapolates to around 1,300,000 RLO users over this period.
Students were the largest       group (67%), with the other 33% being lecturers, nurses, doctors, users,       carers and the public.
97.9% (12,954 respondents) rated the RLO as "very helpful" or "helpful"       for learning a subject.
Satisfaction levels ranged from 96% in African respondents to 100% in       South American and       Caribbean and Middle East respondents.
An analysis carried out as part of       Windle's SCORE       fellowship showed learners were most likely to redistribute the resources,       followed by educators       and healthcare professionals [c].
A wealth of feedback has evidenced the RLOs' role in enhancing knowledge       and confidence       among students.
For instance, a user from Rutgers University, New Jersey,       commenting on the       Volume of Distribution RLO, remarked on June 18 2011: "I have a much       better understanding of       what is needed to obtain therapeutic drug levels.
This was the easiest       online tool I found."
A       student of medicinal chemistry at the University of Minnesota wrote on       January 5 2011: "It really       makes you think and understand the material.
I have been very confused       after sitting through       lectures with my professor.
This just explained VD [volume of       distribution] in about 15 minutes."
Other comments have included "I could go back and listen again until I       understood &#8212; you can't do       this in class" and "It was really helpful seeing the different stages on       screen rather just reading it       from a textbook &#8212; it helps the information sink in, because you can then       visualise it".
Practitioners have also provided significant positive feedback.
For       example, referring to the       Improving Patient Safety &#8212; SBAR RLO, an honorary consultant surgeon       leading a hospital-wide       patient safety project at Barnet and Chase Farm Hospitals NHS Trust, North       London, wrote on       September 16 2010: "The group that have been looking at the teaching       materials available `off the       shelf' are very impressed with your e-learning module and would be keen to       make extensive use of       it."
[d] An employee at RN Poison Control, Oregon Health Sciences       University, noted on April 17       2010: "VD [volume of distribution] has always been beyond comprehension.
This made it easy."
An       anaesthetist at the University of Sydney, commenting on the Sensitivity       and Specificity RLO,       remarked on February 4 2012: "I find statistics difficult to grasp and       have always found so-called       `easy' statistical concepts such as sensitivity and specificity difficult.
Your programme, with its clear       and unambiguous instruction and clear graphics, has revealed all.
Yes, it       is `easy' when taught       well.
I never thought I would ever be able to teach these concepts, but       now I can &#8212; with       confidence."
A member of staff at a learning disability service in Sligo,       referring to the Little Things       Make a BIG Difference RLO, said on April 13 2010: "This learning object       helped me to reflect on       many aspects of supporting service users, including communication, rights,       dignity, respect,       equality... and the visuals helped to highlight this."
Many service users have also praised the tools' effectiveness.
One parent       of a child with autism,       commenting on the "Hello &#8212; My Name Is Tom" Learning Disability RLO, wrote       on September 6       2010: "As a parent, you can easily get lost in the heat of the moment and       feel that you are the only       one going through this...
I would like to see a link to this site for       teaching staff at all our schools."
A number of follow-up studies have demonstrated how the team's       methodology has translated to       the healthcare sector to provide user-designed multimedia education       interventions for users and       carers, including HEAR-IT (Hearing Evaluation of Auditory Rehabilitation &#8212;       Interactive Tutorials),       which was carried out from January 2011 to May 2012 to address the 25-30%       non-use of hearing       aids.
Participants took part in focus groups and workshops to develop       seven RLOs covering       educational and practical information on the use of hearing aids and how       the brain adapts.
Users       of the RLOs were later found to have better knowledge of hearing aids and       communication and       scored significantly higher on practical hearing-aid skills [e].
Since 2013 RLOs focusing on clinical skills and biology have been used in       resource-deprived       countries.
In Juba, South Sudan, in a project headed by a consultant       paediatric surgeon at       Oxford's John Radcliffe Hospital, they are being used on a portable device       to train students with no       broadband access [f].
In Malawi, in an initiative led by an emergency       department nurse from       Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, they are being used to educate       health surveillance       workers [g].
