     Research by the Mental Health Group has played a significant role in       shaping a new model of mental health service provision.
This has helped       improve mental health outcomes both in the UK and internationally       throughout the impact period.
Repper and Perkins' model of recovery for mental health practice, as       first articulated in their 2003 book, has continued to serve as a key       reference point for various policy documents and tools for commissioning       services in the UK.
These include the NICE Guideline on Core Interventions       in the Treatment and Management of Schizophrenia in Adults in Primary and       Secondary Care, published by the British Psychological Society and the       Royal College of Psychiatrists in 2010 [a], and the latest Joint       Commissioning Panel for Mental Health Cases for Change [b].
A recovery       framework now explicitly underpins all mental health professionals, with       professional documents produced by the Royal College of Psychiatrists       (November 2009) [c], the British Psychological Society (November 2009)       [d], the College of Occupational Therapy and the Royal College of Nursing       among those citing Repper's research.
Repper's work has also been widely cited in policy guidance outside the       UK, including the Republic of Ireland (Recovery: What You Should Expect       from a Good-Quality Mental Health Service, published by Mental Health       Reform in 2013) [e] and Canada (Mental Health Promotion in Ontario: A Call       to Action, published by the Canadian Mental Health Association in November       2008) [f].
It has also featured in policy guidance elsewhere in Western       Europe, Scandinavia, Turkey and Australia.
Repper is frequently asked to       work with services and researchers further afield and during the past       three years alone has delivered invited papers in New Zealand, the US,       Canada, Japan, Uganda and India, as well as recovery-focused workshops in       Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, France and Italy.
Key materials       have been translated into Italian, German, French and Japanese.
Repper's research has been crucial in shaping Implementing Recovery       through Organisational Change (ImROC), a two-year project managed by the       NHS Confederation Mental Health Network and funded by the Department of       Health [g].
As a core member of the ImROC team, Repper secured funding to       pilot a methodology for implementing recovery in six NHS Trusts &#8212; Central       and North West London, Devon Partnership, Southern Health, Mersey Care, St       Andrew's Healthcare and West London Mental Health &#8212; from 2010 to 2012.
A       February 2013 report outlined the scheme's impact on health services       across England, including the introduction of Recovery Colleges, the       employment and training of PSWs and service users' involvement in       decision-making at all levels in the participating Trusts.
Further funding       has been secured for the second phase of ImROC, to run from 2013 to 2015,       and 21 more Trusts have so far elected to buy into ImROC organisational       development and membership of a network of action learning sets.
Speaking       in February 2013, Care and Support Minister Norman Lamb remarked: "Through       ImROC, mental health service providers are recognising that people with       direct experience of mental ill health can offer just as valuable       expertise as medics and clinicians.
Combined, they can gently       revolutionise mental health care in this country."
[h] Repper is now       Deputy Director of this project, which is advising the Department of       Health on measuring outcomes to reflect recovery, and has also developed a       methodology for implementing recovery principles in clinical teams, which       is being used in 26 Trusts and by two Clinical Commissioning Groups as       part of their CQUIN targets.
Recovery Colleges, which use an education paradigm to complement       traditional treatment approaches, have been a key element of the ImROC       project, with Repper's research central to their introduction in the UK.
Repper led the pilot establishment of Nottingham Recovery College in 2011       and later co-authored a briefing paper highlighting Recovery Colleges'       positive effects on service user satisfaction, confidence, recovery and       inclusion [i].
The success of the four Recovery Colleges that opened       during the first phase of ImROC has led to plans for 22 more, with spread       into primary care services and a focus on long-term conditions.
In       addition, Repper has instigated and supervised the development of Recovery       Colleges in Brescia, Italy; Kerala, India; and Tokyo, Japan.
Drawing on her review of the evidence in support of their development,       Repper has also been at the forefront of the introduction of PSWs.
She       worked with Nottingham's Institute of Mental Health to create the UK's       first accredited PSW training programme, which to date has been used by 12       different organisations.
Some 150 PSWs have been employed during the first       phase of ImROC, approximately 98% of whom have been taken out of long-term       unemployment, with more than 400 more trained.
Repper has led two       innovative projects to develop learning around the employment of PSWs &#8212;       the first funded by the East Midlands Research Innovation Fund and       providing six PSW posts within Nottinghamshire Healthcare Trust, the       second funded by the Health Foundation and creating a further seven posts,       a further 13 people taken out of unemployment into salaried positions.
These developments have driven the commissioning and writing of an ImROC       briefing paper [j], an overview for mental health charity Together and       further guidance for the Mental Health Network Workforce Commission and       the Centre for Mental Health.
Peer support is now supported in national       policy, and more than 25 NHS Trusts currently employ PSWs.
