     Professional competence and engagement       The genetics education framework for nursing/midwifery we developed in       2003 (revised 2010) addressed an identified need in the Government's drive       to improve genetic literacy in the NHS workforce.
It set a benchmark that       has influenced similar competency development programmes in the US and in       Europe and formed the basis of the NHS National Genetics Education &amp;       Development Centre nursing programme we led from 2004-2012.
The RCN and UK       National Screening Programme adopted it when developing competency       frameworks for sickle cell and thalassaemia (SCAT) nurses in 2011 and for       specialist SCAT counsellors in 2013.
Our work has helped to raise awareness of genetic healthcare and its       relevance to good quality nursing care, nationally and internationally,       and has helped give nursing a voice in informing policy.
This is highly       significant in a profession where there is still resistance to embracing       genetics although it is increasingly part of mainstream healthcare.
In       2009, Kirk was invited to give evidence to the House of Lords Science and       Technology Committee's review of Genomic Medicine.
Her comments were       reflected in the recommendations made by the Committee to the Nursing and       Midwifery Council, who, in 2010 for the first time included a reference to       genetics in the revised pre-registration requirements.
In 2010, Kirk was       invited to chair and convene a Task and Finish Group to consider the       implications of genetics/genomics for nursing and midwifery, for the       Department of Health Nursing &amp; Midwifery Professional Advisory Board.
The recommendations were subsequently endorsed in the report by the Human       Genomics Strategy Group, a government-appointed body to develop the vision       for genomics in the NHS.
We enhance our impact by providing practical help for educators,       practitioners and others, publishing accessible articles and web       resources.
Over 64,300 people from 173 countries have visited the Telling       Stories resource since 2009.
An evaluation in 2008 showed it was well       regarded by educators (http://www.tellingstories.nhs.uk/Preliminary_report.pdf).
The numbers of visitors coming to the site from links on over 500 patient       support websites indicate that the resource has wider impact than just       health professionals and the American Museum of Natural History is       currently our top referring site.
It has also had an impact on our 100+       storytellers whom we regard as partners.
They have reported their       involvement as a positive and even cathartic experience, in the words of       one story teller: "I think that for me, it was a form of therapy.
I         needed to `shout out' and it's taken me 24 years!
Thanks for giving me         that release!"
Public engagement       One of the most important things a person can do to promote their own and       their family's health is to gain genetic literacy.
Our research has       empowered many people to contribute to debates about genetics.
Young       people are the generation for which genetic and reproductive technologies       are most relevant in the 21st century and this group has been a       particular focus of our work.
There has been a clear trajectory from the       earliest research 15 years ago, with young people exploring their views on       gene therapy in a series of reconvened interviews, through to Citizens'       Juries, Mock Trial as well as long term projects with teenagers.
The GAMY       Project Rap has attracted more than 76,000 views on You Tube.
Government consultations on genetics issues have used results from our       public involvement projects.
Participants have been invited to visit the       Welsh Government, the Human Genetics Commission and the Human       Fertilisation and Embryology Authority to put forward their views to       policy makers in Wales and England making delicate decisions about       genetics services in the UK.
On one occasion 12 young people were       supported to visit London for this purpose.
This also has wider       significance in terms of engaging young people in `citizenship'.
The Let's Talk about Genes project directly involved twenty 12-13 year       olds (and their teachers) in learning about genes, family history and       cancer.
One commented that I learnt that only 5% of cancers are passed         down through genes...I enjoyed the session because we learnt everything         in a fun way.
The video the children produced has already attracted       over 3,800 views.
YouTube analytics indicates viewers are aged from 13-65       years and older, with 13-17 year olds accounting for 30% of views.
We are       thus reaching a broad range of ages.
The Having fun with science project aimed to promote genetic       literacy across a variety of audiences.
We developed a series of games and       teaching resources disseminated via our links with Techniquest, the Wales       Gene Park and the Teachers' Genetics Network, to improve understanding of       the role that family history plays in health and disease.
The games have       been showcased around Wales and are easily accessible to all sectors of       the public.
This research has also been disseminated via interactive road       shows and community festivals in deprived areas of the South Wales       valleys, such as the Green Man Festival in 2011 (where 105 visitors aged       4-65 also responded to a survey).
One of the positive outcomes from our work has been its broader reach,       fostering new collaborations with the local police, the Magistrates in         the Community scheme, the probation service and Funky Dragon (young       people's organisation in Wales), i.e.
those who are not usually involved       in this sort of public engagement with science initiative.
The beneficiaries of our public engagement work go beyond the immediate       participants.
One of the outcomes of our research, the DVD Cheek to         Court, was used by the National DNA Database Manager and the Home       Office for staff training.
The 15 minute video itself has attracted over       275 views since being uploaded to YouTube last year.
We facilitate young people's understanding of genetics issues in ways       that make personal sense to them and which are located in their own       particular environments or communities, because we help them engage with       the issues over an extended period.
