     Mowlabocus' research has informed and changed the approaches to the       health promotion of       beneficiaries, including the Terrence Higgins Trust (THT), the UK's       largest HIV prevention charity.
Through THT, the broader community of gay / bisexual / MSM service-users       have also benefited.
In particular, Mowlabocus' research has directly fed into the shaping of       THT Brighton's policy on       addressing bareback pornography &#8212; and bareback sex &#8212; during health       promotion outreach and       online intervention work, and has led to the creation of an information       website and intervention       toolkit (launched in April of this year), which is being used in the       charity's training of health       promotion workers across its 31 regional offices.
As Marc Tweed, Head of       THT Brighton, has said,       `[Following Porn Laid Bare (PLB) our practice] has changed.
We are       equipped with the tools to look       at this subject and speak about it with authority.
The toolkit definitely       has provided us with a       framework for delivering interventions, and I think it will continue to do       so.
And as an organisation I       think it's our duty &#8212; prevention is what the Terrence Higgins Trust does,       to reduce infection rates....
It's been invaluable, really' [see Section       5, C1].
The pathway to this research impact was as follows.
In May 2010,       Mowlabocus organised a       dissemination and knowledge exchange workshop timed to coincide with the       publication of his       research monograph Gaydar Culture &#8212; which was already receiving       national notice and reviews.
This was attended by healthcare professionals, including individuals from       the NHS, the Terrence       Higgins Trust and UNISEX.
Following this event, in December 2010 THT       invited Mowlabocus to       develop a new research project in partnership with them &#8212; Porn Laid Bare.
This built on the       approach to focus groups used in, as well as findings identified by, Gaydar         Culture.
PLB was       funded via a Big Lottery Grant awarded to THT for its on-going Informed         Passions research project       (2010-2014).
Empirical research was undertaken between April and October       2011.
Project findings were shared with health promotion experts and clinicians       from statutory and non-statutory       services at a workshop in Brighton on 31 July 2012, which provided an       opportunity to       respond to the research and develop a new set of approaches to new and       existing health       promotion work.
Drawing on Mowlabocus' research findings that, despite       their difficulty in       articulating their feelings and attitudes towards (and desires for)       bareback pornography and       bareback sex, gay men/MSMs are watching bareback pornography and report       both enjoying and       having concerns about it, the stakeholders recommended that:            discussions of bareback pornography need to take place during health         interventions;       it needs to be acknowledged that all porn (but especially bareback         porn) is an ordinary part of         many gay men's lives;       the popularity of bareback pornography among gay men could be used to         open up valuable         space for discussions around motivations for having Unprotected Anal         Intercourse (UAI) and         safer sex, offering the potential to open up discussions and behavioural         change work around         UAI.
Some stakeholders began to put some of these findings into practice       immediately &#8212; notably to       open up informal, supportive and non-judgemental discursive spaces in       which service-users can       articulate their desires for, concerns about and questions regarding the       consumption of bareback       pornography in order to enable them to mitigate unsafe behaviours.
For       example, Mike Jones,       Sexual Health Advisor at the Claude Nicol Centre (Sexual Health) and       Lawson Unit (HIV),       Outpatients, Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton, has testified that,       since his attendance at the       PLB stakeholders' workshop, a new clinic &#8212; Clinic M &#8212; had been set up at       his centre to enact       changes around non-judgmental questioning and the expectation that MSMs       are using bareback       pornography.
His view is that interventions had been transformed by       involvement in PLB research       and he cited numbers of clients (10k through-put over 12 months) as well       as NHS professionals       (i.e.
the entire Brighton clinic) for whom the service had potentially       been transformed over the last       12 months, as a result of the symposium, by using a style of intervention       concretised in the PLB       toolkit.
His colleague at the clinic, Dr Daniel Richardson, Consultant in       HIV/GUM, Brighton NHS       Trust, has also testified as to how his practice had concretely changed as       a result of engagement       with PLB (he cited interventions he had made in clinical settings       specifically around bareback porn &#8212; as       a result of attending the PLB stakeholders' workshop [C2]).
In addition, Mowlabocus' findings were cascaded into PLB's development of       a `bareback       intervention toolkit' &#8212; a set of questions and guidance notes to       facilitate discussions about porn       consumption and the viewing of bareback pornography, hosted on the PLB       project website, and       freely available to sexual health and LGBT community organisations, and       others.
This toolbox,       which went live in April 2013, provides practical advice and       recommendations on how to engage       service-users in discussions and behaviour-change interventions that focus       on identifying and       addressing the challenges posed by pornography in the context of reducing       incidences of       unprotected sexual activity.
The research is thus effecting changes in the       way health practitioners       approach their intervention methods and engagement with clients.
This       toolkit is currently being       used, inter alia, by health promotion experts and practitioners at       the Claude Nicol Clinic in Brighton &#8212; one       of the leading HIV clinics &#8212; and, as part of its health promotion outreach       work, by THT       Brighton which, because of the size of the city's LGBT population,       operates as a test-bed for       innovations which are then scaled up to national campaigns, a process that       the PLB intervention       toolkit is currently undergoing [C3].
Justin Harbottle, Programme Officer for Quality Engagement at THT's       national office, has reported       that approval has just been given by his organisation to produce a       `bareback harm-reduction guide'       which `has very much come out [...] of the PLB work'.
And that this, `in       itself, will have to change       the [national THT policy on bareback sex]'.
He has testified that this       development has emerged       from the work that PLB has done in Brighton in which this kind of `harm       reduction work was very       much [part of] its ethos' [C4].
The success of PLB has also meant that Mowlabocus will continue his       collaboration with THT,       leading the CCN+-funded project Reaching Out Online (ROO), which began in       June 2013.
ROO       has secured additional funding from the Big Lottery Fund to run a parallel       user-centred study to       examine the use of online social media tools and platforms by outreach       workers during sexual       health interventions targeted at gay male and MSM communities, whilst the       parallel project will       explore user's experiences of online health promotion work [C5].
