     In his book on the buildings of Wiltshire, Nikolaus Pevsner (1965, 181)       wrote of Clarendon palace 'Today Clarendon is a tragedy.
A footpath leads       into the wood.
One threads one's way through elder and wild clematis.
A       solitary old iron notice board of the Ministry of Works indicates that one       has arrived.
One crag of walling stands up.
All the rest is back to its       sleeping beauty.'
Little had changed by 1994 - the royal palace was       overgrown, largely unknown by the public and inaccessible (not only hidden       by vegetation, but being located on private land with no public access).
The work of CPP has resulted in a complete turnaround to such an extent       that Clarendon Palace is one of the most visited historic sites in rural       Wiltshire and key element of the Clarendon Way long distance footpath.
The       impact of CPP can therefore be summarised as:     1.
Cultural     a. Presenting and informing       The change to Clarendon Palace since 1999 is entirely the consequence of       lobbying and subsequent work by past and present UoA members Gerrard and       James who in 1998 persuaded English Heritage and the then landowner to       fund conservation works (totalling &#163;550,000), not only to stabilise the       palace structure, but also to enable the public to visit the palace.
The       landowner agreed to put in a permissive path from the adjacent Clarendon       Way public footpath between Salisbury and Winchester thereby enabling       access from Salisbury.
CPP then produced accompanying interpretation media       that were both emplaced on the site, but also produced in book form (James       2010), to explain the site, its history and conservation to visitors.
Both       the signboards and the guidebook are a direct product of the research       carried out by CPP and as such they incorporate original data collected       since 1977 and interpretations made on the basis of those data.
As public       entrance to the site is free and unmonitored, it is difficult to estimate       visitor numbers since the first phase of conservation works were completed       in 2005 but judging from the fact that the conserved palace is mentioned       as a must see feature in many paper and online hiking guides (e.g.
Lonely       Planet's Walking in Britain [2007], Hampshire County Council's       official guide to the Clarendon Way [2006] and the BBC's Hampshire and       Isle of Wight web pages), many hundred members of the public now visit       Clarendon Palace annually (estimated at c. 5000 per year on the basis of       counts made during CPP's volunteer working days).
The opening of the       palace site has also meant that guided tours can now take place.
James,       Richardson and Salisbury Blue Badge holders (for example see the schedule       of the latter at http://www.salisburycityguides.co.uk/clarendon-palace/),       have led dozens of such expeditions since 2005.
The net result of the       UoA's research, conservation and presentation works is that not only is it       now possible for the visitors to view and understand the site, but the       site's significance in English History is a great deal better known to a       wider public than it was a decade ago.
Indeed, dissemination of the       project's results to the widest possible public has been a focus of the       recent phase of works such that during the present REF census period James       has presented lectures and day-schools to local groups of 40-250 people at       locations including Salisbury (Museum Society and Spire U3A),       Wolverhampton (2009), Winchester (2010), Chipping Sodbury (2011),       Nottingham, Truro (2012) and Sidmouth (2013).
b.
Training       Although led by James and Gerrard, the Clarendon Park Project has not only       been a project by staff and students of the University of Winchester.
Rather, since 1994, it has also involved members of the local and regional       public &#8212; indeed the latter are presently the majority.
The volunteers are       provided with training in archaeological survey, building recording and       building conservation, and while working they also develop a knowledge of       the archaeology and history of their landscape.
Such volunteer       participants are now the mainstay of the Friends of Clarendon group, which       not only coordinates the ongoing work on the palace, but also organises an       annual Clarendon Lecture in the Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum       (annual attendances of c 80 since 2010).
2.
Environmental impacts        a.
Conservation       As will be obvious from the above, the remedial works to preserve       Clarendon Palace would not have taken place without the involvement of the       UoA in the affairs of the Estate.
Not only did Gerrard and James author       the bid made to English Heritage to fund the structural and landscaping       works on the palace, but following Gerrard's departure for Durham, James       led all aspects of the subsequent works.
These included repairs made to       the walls by stonemasons using original medieval technology and materials,       and clearance of scrub (initially using volunteer labour, but later       maintained by grazing sheep &#8212; and later still, more effectively, by       llamas), but also the removal (via controlled archaeological excavation)       of the spoil heaps left from previous excavations.
James has presented       technical aspects of the conservation and presentation project to groups       of 30-80 Museum and Conservation professionals at the National Museum of       Wales (2008), Centre for the Study of the Country House, Leicester (2009),       Wiltshire Buildings Record, Salisbury (2010), Madingley Hall, Cambridge       (2012) and Poltimore, Devon (2012).
b.
Approaches to management       Not only have the conservation works rendered Clarendon Palace open and       legible to the public, but they were also unique at the point of       instigation in formally linking a statutory body (English Heritage), a       private landowner (Andrew Christie-Miller) and an HEI in a restoration and       presentation project.
As noted in Section 2, an outline bid for HLF was successful and a full       bid is currently (at the July 2013 census) being produced by FCC and the       UoA.
The UoA will carry out a laser scan/GPR survey of the Palace and use       a crowdsourcing approach (with FCC volunteers) to examine LiDaR imagery       for archaeological features in the adjacent woodland.
The UoA, FSS and the       local public are therefore entwined in future research at Clarendon and       the dissemination of the results.
