     In June 2005 Ranyard, principal investigator on this research, was       invited to participate in a seminar on Consumer Detriment at the       OFT.
His presentation, Consumer credit and payment protection         insurance decisions: Seeking benefit and avoiding detriment,       described relevant findings from project 1 and preliminary findings from       project 2, and discussed their policy implications.
Following this, in       2006 the OFT carried out a market study of PPI in the UK and commissioned       Ranyard as consultant on the study, to ' examine the findings from the       consumer survey with a view to considering the psychological factors which       might influence the consumer's decision to buy or not to buy PPI and, in       the light of the survey findings, how might the consumer be supported and       what might be done to facilitate informed PPI decision making'.
He also       'contributed to the design of the consumer survey' (report 1 below,       paragraph 2.13).
The market study was published in October 2006, with the       PI's independent report published as Annexe C. Among other things, his       report highlighted the importance of disclosing the total cost of PPI and       problems for borrowers associated with the joint sale of PPI with credit       products.
Following the OFT's market study several important changes       related to these points were implemented, the first stage of the process       described in a report by the FSA in October 2006 (see below).
They       emphasised that they wanted to see total cost disclosure, citing the PI's       research (paragraph 6).
In January 2009 the Competition Commission       published its final report (report 3 below) which included the following       action that was incorporated into regulations in 2010: ' A requirement on       distributors and intermediaries to provide a `personal PPI quote', clearly       stating the cost of the PPI policy'.
Proposals to prohibit the joint sale       of PPI were also made, and this came into force on Good Friday 2012.
