     This work helped inform professional psychiatric debate, public debate       and debate within the computer game playing and design communities as to       criteria for classifying people as pathologically over-engaged with       respect to computer-related activities in general and internet-related       activities and computer game playing in particular, and whether children       on the autism spectrum are particularly at risk of such addictions.
The work came into the public arena via dissemination activities such as       press releases by the University of Bolton and the British Psychological       Society (leading to articles in the Daily Telegraph, Daily Mirror, Daily       Mail, Daily Record, Irish Times, Metro and The Scotsman &#8212; all articles       published 3 April 2008; The Manchester Evening News &#8212; article published 27       April, 2010; Metro &#8212; article published 25 August, 2010), interviews for       newspapers (e.g.
The Guardian &#8212; article published 11 March, 2011, and       syndicated in The Sydney Morning Herald, Melbourne Age and Brisbane Times       16 - 17 March 20011), magazines; Play magazine (a magazine for Sony       Playstation users), issue 179, May 2009; 360 Magazine (article published       autumn 2007), interviews on a number of radio stations (e.g.
BBC Radio       Lancashire, April 2007; BBC Radio Manchester, April 2008; BBC Radio 4 iPM       November 2008), and a public presentation at the Museum of Science &amp;       Industry, Manchester on 25 October, 2011.
The above activities have led to the use of our findings in debates via a       number of Internet sites.
These include an article entitled "Is Video Game       Addiction Really an Addiction?
by Elizabeth Hartney on About.com (a US       cite claiming to have 69 million visitors which "...offers expert, quality       content that helps users find solutions to a wide range of daily needs &#8212;       from parenting, health care and technology to cooking, travel and many       others").
Here, Hartney asks whether parents should worry about whether       children spending large amounts of time playing video games are addicted       in the same way that some are addicted to alcohol and hard drugs, and uses       the Charlton (2002) findings to argue that computer addictions are a       unique type of addiction that are dissimilar from phenomena such as       pathological gambling, and that children's excessive game playing can be       unhealthy.
A further example of our contribution to this debate is an       essay entitled "Is internet addiction a valid psychiatric disorder?"
in       the open access journal Psychiatry Online, which is aimed at the       psychiatric profession.
Here, the consultant psychiatrists Sanju George       and Fionnbar Lenihan assess the evidence for and against considering the       concept of internet addiction as a valid psychiatric disorder, and cite       data from Charlton (2002) as evidence that the number of people suffering       from Internet-related addictions is over-estimated in studies which apply       DSM-IV criteria for other pathologies to computing-related activities.
The       findings in Charlton and Danforth (2007) have also informed worldwide       debates in the computer gaming community as to the circumstances under       which game playing behaviours might be considered problematic.
For       example, one player with the pseudonym Dr Strangelove quotes widely from       our paper in a video on tacticalgamer.com, noting our distinction between       core criteria indicating addiction and peripheral criteria which are       indicative of (non-pathological) high engagement.
The 2007 paper has also       impacted on computer games development discussions, with, for example, an       article posted by Michael L. Grimes on gamecareerguide.com in July 2011       using our findings on addiction vs. high engagement to show how developers       can use psychological research outcomes to understand addiction       mechanisms, adjust the reward systems in their games to make addiction       less likely, and thereby, in extremis, avoid law suits.
In addition to informing non-academic debates about the concept of       Internet addiction and its nature, there is also Internet material showing       that members of the public use our findings to address their children's       problematic behaviours.
One example is an article written by a child's       mother on the US Autism Support Network web site citing our 2008       presentation at the BPS's Annual Conference (later published as Charlton       &amp; Danforth, 2010).
Here the mother describes how our findings on       personality and addictions implying that some people with Asperger's       Syndrome (AS) might be susceptible to game playing addictions struck a       chord with her own experience and how she developed a strategy to work       with her son to moderate his video game playing.
Similarly, a 2011 post on       Netmums (a prominent UK online parenting organisation with over 1.2       million members and 5 million visits annually) used our personality study       findings to warn parents of AS children that although they might consider       excessive game playing as a child self-medicating, the behaviour should be       discouraged because it hinders social development.
