     Orthodox theology has been part of British university life for a long       time.
Research in this area has       been pioneered by Metropolitan Kallistos Ware, Prof Andrew Louth, Donald       Allchin, and the       Fellowship of St Alban and St Sergius.
Now, however, with the retirement       of this generation,       Andreas Andreopoulos has been placed in a central position as far as the       study of Orthodox       theology in the UK is concerned.
In addition, he is gradually replacing       Kallistos Ware and Andrew       Louth in several Orthodox organizations in the UK, taking the baton (as it       were) from them.
Under       his leadership, Winchester is becoming a leading centre for research and       study in Orthodox       theology in the UK.
To ensure the maximum benefit to the Orthodox community in the UK from       this research activity,       and to ensure that Winchester's academic activity in this area remains       closely connected to the       needs of the Orthodox community, Andreopoulos has since 2010 been       developing the Winchester       Orthodox Network, formally inaugurated by the Faculty of Humanities and       Social Sciences in 2012.
This is an association of clergy, students and laypeople who are       interested in Eastern Christianity.
Its members are based in the area around Winchester, or are keeping close       contact with it, and it       also includes two Visiting Research Fellows, Prof Nicholas Loudovikos       (Greece) and Dr Adrian       Agachi (Romania).
The Winchester Orthodox Network facilitates a continuous       pastoral and       theological dialogue, making it the first level of impact that connects       the research conducted in       Winchester with a number of other organizations and levels of       dissemination and pastoral activity       in the UK.
Andreopoulos has been a member of the committee of the Orthodox       Fellowship of St John the       Baptist for several years, becoming its chairman in June 2013.
The       Fellowship enables members       of the several Orthodox Church Traditions in the UK to come together, and       through prayer,       discussion and mutual friendship, to deepen their understanding of the       Orthodox Christian faith       and its place in the West.
It brings together clergy, theologians and       laypeople, and for this reason it       has a wide and large membership, of about 500 members.
Andreopoulos'       election as chairman       was a recognition both of his research reputation and his commitment to       pastoral life and theology.
Through his work on the committee, Andreopoulos has had a considerable       influence on the       directions and interests of the Fellowship.
The theological and pastoral       background of his       involvement is reflected in several of his publications, where the       direction and the goals of modern       Orthodox theology are discussed (such as 2012 and 2013a, which touch on       the contribution of       Orthodox theology and methodology to modern Christian theology), or       publications that reflect a       dialogue with the Patristic heritage (such as 2011b) and the continuous       research into liturgical       theology (such as 2013b).
The main aim of the Fellowship is to develop all levels of Orthodox life.
It operates in such a way       that learning and research are extended to the level of the parish and the       average churchgoer,       something especially evident in the annual Study Weekends, which are       sponsored by, and held in,       a different Orthodox parish every year.
Through its close collaboration       with Orthodox clergy and       parishes throughout the country, the Fellowship affects the entire       English-speaking Orthodox       population of the UK, and much of the ethnic Orthodox Church in the UK,       and promotes awareness       of Orthodox spirituality, communal spirit beyond ethnic lines, and further       understanding of liturgical       life.
Its activities include:            An international residential weekend conference each summer.
Recent         subjects have been:         Mothers and Fathers in God: Spiritual Guidance in the Orthodox Church         (2010), Orthodox         Witness Today (2011), Death and Eternity (2012), and The Liturgy:         Entrance into the Kingdom         (2013).
Andreopoulos was a keynote speaker in the 2013 conference (July         12-14, 2013), with a         presentation (The Eschatological Character of the Divine Liturgy)         based on material from two of         his publications (2013a and 2013b).
A Study Weekend early each year, often devoted either to the Bible or         to one of the Church         Fathers.
Andreopoulos was the organizer and keynote speaker of two         recent Study Weekends,         `Song of Songs: Mystical Prayer, Poetry and Worship in Daily Life' (Jan         28 &#8212; Feb 2, 2011) and         `Symbolism in the Gospel of John' (Jan 25-27, 2013).
His presentations         were based on         material from two of his publications (2011b and 2012 respectively).
The Fellowship Youth Committee also organises various events including       Youth Festivals, choir       concerts, pilgrimages and additional events according to demand.
The       Fellowship publishes an       annual Calendar and Lectionary, as well as a Directory giving details of       Orthodox clergy and       places of worship in the UK and Ireland.
The extent of its impact may be       seen in the number of       participants in its events (80-100 in most annual conferences; 30-50 in       most Study Weekends),       and in the annual sales of the Directory and the Calendar (about 200 for       the Directory and 600 for       the Calendar).
Andreopoulos has also undertaken direct pastoral duties.
He provides       regular pastoral support in       collaboration with the local hospitals.
In addition, he has founded and is       in charge of a new       Orthodox parish in Winchester, which has allowed Orthodox Christians to       worship there on a       weekly basis, and is open to people who are generally interested in       Orthodox theology and       practice.
As preparation for the foundation of the parish, Andreopoulos       held weekly catechetical       lectures for a year at the Orthodox church of St Nicholas in Southampton,       open to parishioners and       inquirers (attended by 10-20 people every time).
These catechetical       lectures continued in the       Winchester parish, and as he has been offering them in the last three       years, they have drawn       material from all of Andreopoulos's publications.
The thematic units       covered included Biblical       analysis, the Church lectionary and the feasts, ecclesiology and the       theology of the sacraments,       and the language and theology of iconography.
The effect of these       activities is considerable, at the       level of community formation, generation and enhancement of spiritual       practices, and the dynamic       integration of the Orthodox community within the wider social and       spiritual context.
Andreopoulos's speaking engagements have extended beyond the immediate       area.
He is often       invited to preach or speak in clergy gatherings and lay theology       conferences outside the UK.
Examples include: lectures on the iconographic programme of St Nicholas in       Cardiff, September       2012 (in association with Open Doors 2012 &#8212; European Heritage Days in       Wales); an exposition of       John's Gospel over two weeks to a clergy retreat (attendance of 30, mostly       Catholic priests) in       Tantur College, Jerusalem, November 2012 (drawing largely on material from       Andreopoulos       2011b, 2012 and 2013a); a talk on New Martyrs, Diocese of R&#226;mnicu V&#226;lcea,       Romania,       September 2012 (invited by the local bishop, with an audience of 200); an       exposition of the       challenges of spiritual guidance in modern Greece at the biennial       Madingley Conference of the       Friends of Mount Athos, March 2013 (attendance of 150).
Such talks       communicate the fruits of       research beyond the context of higher education, but they are also a way       to make sure that       Orthodox theological study and research remain grounded in the needs of       the wider community.
As an extension of this, Andreopoulos has provided expert opinions to the       wider Orthodox       community.
A relevant example is the case of the iconostasis of the       Orthodox Church of St       Makarios in Leeds, which was bought by that community in 2013 (a cost of       &#163;20,000).
Before its       design and purchase, the priest of that community solicited the advice of       Andreopoulos regarding       its design.
The advice sought had to do with the choice and the placement       of the icons within the       icon screen, a matter of theological and liturgical symbolism.
This came       up not only through       Andreopoulos's personal involvement with that parish, but also because of       the recognition of his       expertise in iconography (such as may be demonstrated in 2013a).
