     Screening for Depression post-stroke       The work that we have undertaken on screening for psychological problems       following a stroke has been referenced in publications, guidelines and       books.
We are also aware of several services that are utilising the tools       that we have clinically validated in clinical practice.
These tools form       part of the clinical pathway, for example the Royal Free hospital use both       the Signs of Depression Scale (SODS) and the Yale in their screening       pathway.
Psychological Interventions       The Motivational Interviewing study was the first talk-based psychological       intervention to show a positive outcome following a stroke.
As such it has       had a considerable impact nationally and internationally.
It is cited in       the National Clinical Guideline for Stroke, and a recent book on the       Psychological Management of Stroke.
There is evidence that stroke specific       staff are accessing training in MI (UK Stroke Forum Education and       Training, invited workshop UK Stroke Forum, Nursing and Rehabilitation       Training Day: Translating Research into Practice workshop), and       there are other professionals, such as Increasing Access to Psychological       Therapies (IAPT) with mental health expertise who could be trained in MI       quickly.
Internationally the results of this study have been posted on       several websites.
Outside of the domain of stroke it has had considerable       impact within the Motivational Interviewing community.
We have presented       our results as a plenary session at the International Conference on       Motivational Interviewing and also nationally to the Motivational       Interviewing Network of Trainers.
We have also been asked to collaborate       in several studies utilising MI in stroke and in other disease (HIV).
National Psychological Support Competences       The National Psychological Support Competences have been developed to       ensure the staff working with people following a stroke have the correct       knowledge and skills.
Training has been developed around the competences.
The Stroke Improvement Programme is in the process of publishing the       competences on their website and have already used them in reviewing and       standardising services and training within Peninsula.
REFLECT training       The training has been developed and implemented throughout the North West       Region and evaluated locally.
We are also delivering the training in the       South Central Cardiac and Stroke Network.
The training has been endorsed       by the UK Stroke Forum Education and Training and will be applicable       across the UK.
The Stroke Improvement Programme has also agreed to host       the training package on their website so that it will be freely available.
Economic Model for Impact of Psychological Care       The Stroke Improvement Programme has published this work on their website       so that it is freely available and assist those who are writing business       cases to commissioners to develop psychological services following a       stroke.
There is evidence that this work has already been utilised by a       clinical neuropsychologist to successfully retain a clinical       neuropsychology post which was being axed.
It was the economic argument       rather than clinical need that influenced the decision.
