     The research [2] was conducted by Goldstein and O'Hagan in the       context of assessing assets of a regional water company, who sponsored       aspects of this work.
O'Hagan implemented [2] in the inference       programme termed ABLE (Assessment with Bayes Linear Estimation &#8212; as       described in [2], which states that ABLE performs all the       calculations in that paper), and applied this approach as a consultant,       first for various water companies, then more widely.
ABLE was applied to the assets of London Underground, through a       consultancy with Metronet (which was contracted to maintain nine London       Underground lines), to achieve a better understanding of long term       investment requirements and the sustainability or otherwise of current       investment levels in infrastructure.
This lead to the development of       ESTEEM (Engineering Strategy for Economic and Efficient Management), which       applied the Bayes linear methodology of [1] and [2], based       on the ABLE programme, to Metronet's assets, namely the maintainable items       in all of the stations, bridges and other structures, that require an       estimated &#163;5 billion investment over a 50 year period.
The aim of ESTEEM       was to provide the company, through asset management estimates of asset       degradation, costs, risks and their probabilities for each maintainable       item, with a whole-life cost (WLC) strategic planning process for       maintenance and renewal of its civil engineering assets, under varying       funding constraints, over a 100 year planning horizon.
A 2009 audit report1       stated that the anticipated benefit of the ESTEEM project was a 20%       saving, equalling about &#163;600m (p7 of report).
ESTEEM also improved       passenger safety by combining safety, business and financial risk factors       into a single modelling process (p3).
The report (p25) concludes, "ESTEEM,       as so far implemented in Metronet, is a clear demonstration of best       practice, leading edge thinking in the areas of civil engineering       strategic planning and whole-life cost justification."
The ESTEEM project       continued throughout a restructuring, resulting in the assets being       returned to the public sector, to Transport for London (TfL).
In November       2010, ESTEEM won the prestigious Institution of Engineering and Technology       Innovation Award, in the Asset Management category.
In its entry       submission, London Underground Ltd described the aim of ESTEEM as "an       approach to optimising investment that aids training, promotes culture       change and improves decision making" 2.
The ESTEEM protocol was followed in particular for all of the       maintainable components in every one of the stations and bridges in that       portion of the London Underground network originally controlled by       Metronet.
This comprised about 2/3 of the network and many thousands of       components, all of whose uncertain characteristics were assessed by       experts, leading to a full uncertainty specification and analysis within       the ABLE structure.
This analysis was used as the basis for developing and       comparing whole-life maintenance strategies for all of these assets, as       part of the decision support structure outlined in the Esteem documents.
The ESTEEM Civil Assets least WLC predictions substantiated a basis for       long term investment in the asset base and justified inclusion of       preventative maintenance in a new performance contract for maintaining the       assets.
A particular example of the benefits reaped from this project is       in the waterproofing of structures.
Prior to ESTEEM, this was thought to       be too expensive to justify.
However, ESTEEM predictions anticipated a 20%       savings in maintenance costs over a 30-year period, a saving of &#163;5m p.a.
The water-proofing was thus implemented at the end of 2009 for all       concrete and masonry structures and continues to this day.
A further       example is the information systems used in London Underground stations.
ESTEEM has become a critical operational system used to maintain and       update these systems, and was fully implemented by summer 2011.
It       includes a hand held asset survey system used across London Underground       for stations, maintains the asset register, reports condition and produces       deterministic predictions of WLC for budgetary purposes on an ongoing       basis.
Currently, London Underground is maintaining condition state       reports electronically for an intended Bayes linear update of the Civil       Assets degradation predictions.
In summary, the ESTEEM project, and the       Bayesian work underpinning it, has been of great benefit to TfL, with       current cost savings in the order of &#163;5m-&#163;10m for Civil assets and       development of investment policy options for stations that have enabled       prioritisation of future investment at levels that are sustainable3.
Our second example of the impact of the methodology in [1]       derives from [3].
Goldstein was a PI in the Basic Technology       funded "Managing Uncertainty for Complex Models" consortium of       universities.
A postdoc within this consortium learned to apply Bayes       linear methodology; he then left the consortium to join FERA, the arm of       DEFRA dealing with regulation, policy and risk, as a statistician.
He       applied these methods there, for example within the project Food,       Additives, Food Contact Material and Exposure Task (FACET), an 8.9 million       euro project, involving 20 research organisations, funded by the European       Commission, under the Seventh Framework Programme, which ran for four       years from September 20084.
Project objectives were to       deliver to the European Community a sustainable system to monitor intake       of chemicals from food among European populations.
Databases on food       intake, chemical occurrence and chemical concentration were linked in       algorithms for the estimation of probabilistic exposure to target food       chemical intake.
The experts struggled to specify full probability       distributions across this complex space, but they had some experience of       average consumption rates with standard deviations and there had been some       studies into correlations between food types and across countries.
As a       result, the Bayes linear approach was judged a good fit for modelling food       consumption databases for building up this model4,5.
Unilever and FERA collaborated on a hazard assessment model based on the       Bayes linear kinematic methodology, as part of Unilever's overall research       effort to find novel approaches for assuring customer safety.
The model       considers the potency of chemicals that cause human sensitisation when       applied to the skin, resulting in an undesired immune response known as       allergic contact dermatitis.
This presents clinically as a rash, skin       lesion, papules or blistering at the site of exposure.
Risk assessors in       this area must weigh up several lines of evidence from in vivo and in       vitro experiments when characterising the potency for a new chemical       product in order to determine a safe dose for exposed individuals.
Beginning in 2010, Unilever applied the Bayes model in a series of       assessments, based around products such as cinnamic aldehyde (used to give       products a cinammon aroma, and a known skin sensitiser).
This provided for       Unilever estimates such as ingredient dose on skin that would induce an       allergic response in certain percentages of consumers.
The Bayes linear       kinematic provided the framework for modelling the assessors' expectations       and uncertainties and updating those beliefs in the light of the competing       data sources.
This approach to synthesising multiple lines of evidence and       estimating hazard was judged to provide a transparent mechanism to       construct, defend and communicate risk management decisions.
Its value to       Unilever is reflected in the fact that the company is working on extending       the model to incorporate population variance, the uncertainty in the       amount of product/ingredient that the consumer applies and the probability       that the amount applied exceeds the adverse effect threshold for a given       consumer.
A published account of the details from the study that are       publically available is provided in a 2013 paper6 and       also the document 5.
The Unilever internal documents on       the outcomes are confidential and not for public dissemination, but we       have been allowed to quote the following, from two internal reports, as       illustrations of the role of Bayes linear methodology at Unilever7:     "Due to this feature, Bayes linear theory is applied to solve the skin       sensitization risk assessment problem, as in such a problem, the available       information is usually not enough for the specification of a full       probability distribution.
On the basis of the Bayes linear theory, the       Bayes Linear method is applied when the new information is deterministic       while the Bayes Linear Kinematic method is applied when there are       uncertainties existing in the new information."
[Progress towards       modelling a population-level risk metric for skin allergy risk assessment:       page 5]     "What we've done to date: In 2011, a model was developed with FERA to       predict median human threshold, i.e., the threshold to sensitize 50% of       population under specific clinical exposure conditions, according to the       data from both in vivo and in vitro tests.
[The 50% threshold is not       chosen as the protection goal for sensitization incidence but as the       easiest percentile for experts to consider when judging correlation to       other assay results.]
The objective of this model was to make transparent,       coherent and robust, an expert `weight of evidence' analysis using the       Bayes Linear method.
This model was to allow comparison to be made between       tests on how informative they were on the median threshold in humans."
[Skin allergy risk assessment document: page 1]
