     There were regular discussions on probabilistic climate projection, from       2002, between members of the Durham Statistics group and individuals with       responsibility for uncertainty analysis in climate projections in the Met       Office Hadley Centre.
Therefore, there was general familiarity with our       approach, in which Dr. Rougier consulted closely with the Hadley Centre.
By this route, the Durham research into Bayesian modelling became a       central methodological component of the UK Climate Projections 2009       (UKCP09), the Met Office's climate analysis tool for the UK for the 21st       century, funded by DEFRA.
The science and methodology used to construct       UKCP09 is described in detail in the 200 page report1, from the       Met office.
The report 1 emphasises the importance of the       careful treatment of uncertainty in the climate projections.
Here is an       indicative quotation from the introduction:     "Uncertainty in climate change projections is a major problem for those       planning to adapt to a changing climate.
Adapting to a smaller change than       that which actually occurs (or one of the wrong sign) could result in       costly impacts and endanger lives, yet adapting to too large a change (or,       again, one of the wrong sign), could waste money.
In addition there is the       risk of maladaptation &#8212; adapting to climate change in a way that prevents       or inhibits future adaptation.
The 2008 projections are the first from       UKCIP to be designed to treat uncertainties explicitly ...
This means that       probabilities are attached to different climate change outcomes, giving       more information to planners and decision makers."
[page 19]     The methods developed at Durham play an important role in the uncertainty       analysis throughout the report.
Here are some indicative quotes from the       report (all references to Goldstein and Rougier (2004) and Rougier (2007)       refer to papers [1] and [2] cited in the preceding       section).
"These results are then incorporated into our uncertainty analysis, based       on a statistical framework devised by Goldstein and Rougier (2004),       discussed in Chapter 3.
This allows us to create a probability       distribution function accounting for uncertainties arising from both model       parameters and structural errors, and constrained by observations," [page       39]     "The method is based on a general statistical framework for the       derivation of probabilistic projections of real systems from simulations       carried out using complex but imperfect models of those systems (Goldstein       and Rougier, 2004; Rougier, 2007)."
[page 49]     "Our ensemble projections are converted into probabilistic projections       using a Bayesian statistical framework developed to support inference of       future information about real systems from complex but imperfect models       (Goldstein and Rougier, 2004; Rougier, 2007).
This process allows our       projections to be constrained by a set of observations of past climate       (Section 3.2.9), and also involves the use of expert judgements ...
The       probabilities which emerge from this approach represent the relative       credibility of a family of different possible outcomes, taking into       account our understanding of physics, chemistry, biology, observational       evidence, and expert judgement."
[page 82]     The contribution of the Durham approach to UKCP09 is amplified in a paper2       by several of the authors involved with that uncertainty analysis, which       explains in detail the uncertainty methodology used by UKCP09.
For       example, section 3 of the paper, "Outline of the calculations", begins       "Here we describe the general steps in Goldstein and Rougier (2004)       necessary to determine a probability distribution of some aspects of       climate change that we want to predict."
Similarly, the final subsection,       section 6.2 begins "... Goldstein and Rougier (2004) gives us several key       advantages.
...First, the multivariate nature of this probabilistic       framework allows us to have more than one prediction variable.
Predicting       joint probabilities provides us with important information on how       uncertainty is related across different climate variables..."     UKCP09 plays a key role within the Government's statutory       responsibilities for assessing and responding to climate change.
The       Climate Change Act 2008 constructed a legally-binding long-term framework       for the UK to cut greenhouse gas emissions and a framework for building       the UK's ability to adapt to a changing climate.
The Act requires a       UK-wide climate change risk assessment (CCRA) that must take place every       five years and a national adaptation programme (NAP), setting out the       Government's objectives, proposals and policies for responding to the       risks identified in the CCRA.
The CCRA, and thus the NAP, drew heavily on       the uncertainty analysis in UKCP09.
The purpose of CCRA and the role of       UKCP09 are indicated by the following two quotes from the Evidence Report3:     "The UK Climate Change Act (CCA) 2008 makes the UK the first country in       the world to have a legally binding, long-term framework to cut carbon       emissions.
It also requires a series of assessments of the risks of       climate for the UK, under both current conditions and over the long term,       to 2100.
The CCRA provides the first of these assessments and was laid       before parliament in January 2012."
[page V]     "The CCRA makes use of the UKCP09 climate projections that represent a       range of possible future changes in UK climate.
The range of possibilities       is necessarily wide to take account of uncertainties in natural climate       variability, how the UK's climate may respond to global warming, the       future trajectory of emissions, and how these might magnify any regional       climate change effects."
[page 9]     The CCRA constructed sector reports describing a wide range of potential       risks in each of the following sectors (followed by a more detailed       analysis of selected risks that were judged to be the most important):       Agriculture; Biodiversity &amp; Ecosystem Services; Built Environment;       Business, Industry &amp; Services; Energy; Floods &amp; Coastal Erosion;       Forestry; Health; Marine &amp; Fisheries; Transport; Water.
The CCRA used       the UK Climate Projections (UKCP09) for three time periods &#8212; 30-year       periods centred on the 2020s, 2050s and 2080s.
The CCRA attempted to       monetise the most important risks to the UK, and concluded that the       results indicated that the net economic costs to the UK are of the order       of tens of billions/year by the 2050s (in current prices) even for the       middle of the uncertainty range for these costs at the middle of the       projected emission scenarios (see the Scoping Study4, page 6,       which suggests that this figure is an underestimate).
The CCRA is constructed to facilitate the Climate Change Act mandated       National Adaptation Programme (NAP, 2013).
The NAP report5       (laid before Parliament in 2013) explains:     "The Climate Change Risk Assessment 2012 (CCRA) for the UK brought       together the best available evidence, using a consistent framework to       identify the risks and opportunities related to climate change.
The       assessment distilled approximately 700 potential risks down to more than       100 for detailed review.
The government's response to the CCRA, which       meets the requirements laid down in the Climate Change Act 2008, is the       first NAP.
In developing the NAP for England, we have taken the highest       order risks from the CCRA and working in partnership with businesses,       local government and other organisations, have developed objectives,       policies and proposals to address them."
[page 8]     In addition to its statutory role, the Met Office has worked with a wide       range of public and private sector organisations to use UKCP09 to inform       decisions on investment amounting to billions of pounds to 'future proof'       projects against climate change.
On the UKCP09 website (http://ukclimateprojections.defra.gov.uk)       there is a link to a Case Studies web-page6, which states       "Working with our stakeholders, we have put together a number of case       studies to show how UKCP09 data can be used."
As of 17/10/13, these       included case studies with Councils for Devon, Hampshire, Kent, Milton       Keynes and Oxford City, and organisations including Atkins/UKWIR, CEH,       Environment Agency/Acclimatise /JBA consulting, Macaulay Institute, United       Sustainable Energy Agency, Proclimation, Prometheus, Royal Haskoning,       Severn Trent Water, South West Tourism.
Each case study describes how the       UKCP09 products were used, and how the results would be communicated to       the target audience.
The range of topics covered includes: national       assessment of river flows, climate change and pollution at water courses       in Birmingham, strategic planning for flood management, changes in flood       damages at a catchment scale, assessments of storm surge and sea level       rise, emergency planning, defining land capability for agriculture       specifications, assessing potential vulnerabilities to climate change,       future proofing design decisions in the buildings sector, investigating       coastal recession &amp; shore profile development, storm surge and sea       level rise and assessing impacts of climate change on tourism in South       West England.
