     Northern Doctors Urgent Care Group (NDUC) is a not-for-profit       organisation, based in       Newcastle, which is commissioned by the NHS to deliver out-of-hours urgent       GP services.
It has       a turnover of &#163;15M and 600 staff.
Trained call handlers liaise with       clinicians to provide patients       with appropriate care, including: telephone advice, visit to an Urgent       Care Centre, home visit, or       hospital admission.
In 2008, NDUC was receiving 100,000 calls per annum from the Northumbria       health region       (population 929,000) when it approached Knowledge House, an organisation       that facilitates links       between companies and universities in North East England, requesting a       research partnership       aimed at reducing costs and improving patient care by more accurately       forecasting call volumes       and daily patterns of call arrivals.
Durham University responded and       entered into a Knowledge       Transfer Partnership, placing an early career researcher, Grace Stirling,       at NDUC from 2008-10,       supervised by Professor Wooff.
The research was conducted during the       period of the KTP and       the results were announced in the talk [4] and summary note [3],       the details being published in       [2] and [1].
The statistical methodology developed in Durham in these works provided       NDUC with a forecast       of numbers of calls arriving during every 30 minutes.
Forecasts are made       up to a year in       advance and are highly accurate, facilitating optimum clinical staffing,       which accounted for 64%       of expenditure.
NDUC was able to save about &#163;65,000 per year by changing       GP shift patterns in       response to better forecasting.
A further &#163;35,000 per year was saved by       introducing a new rota       for call handlers working at weekends.1     These improvements aided business expansion.
In 2011 NDUC won a &#163;4.5M per       year contract       to handle non-emergency calls in Teesside (565,000 population) and in 2012       a &#163;4.7M per year       contract to provide a similar service in Staffordshire (700,000       population).
The Chief Executive of NDUC commented that the relationship with Durham       University and the       success of the research-based methodology were `central' to the successful       bid for the       Staffordshire contract, forming a major part of the presentation to the       NHS commissioning body       and providing a distinct competitive edge over the four other bidders.
"In       terms of better patient       care, I just think it (the Durham methodology) makes the whole       organisation operate more       effectively... At the busy times, it means we have the right number of       staff to deal with the       patients, so patients don't experience delays ... and then again we are       not having to spend a lot       of money putting too many doctors on, when they are not really needed...
The key thing is that it       enables us to provide a consistent service.
"2 The resulting       contract was very well-received:       indeed, the Clinical Director for Unplanned Care for Stoke-on-Trent       Clinical Commissioning       Group, Dr Chandra Kanneganti, commented to a local newspaper: "This was a       comprehensive       procurement process involving five possible providers ...
I am delighted       that we will be working       with Northern Doctors Urgent Care.
They have a proven track record of       delivering out of hours       services."
3     The Teesside assessors positively highlighted the NDUC's response to the       swine flu epidemic in       2009,1 when the Durham methodology enabled diagnostic models to       forecast patient volumes       and disentangle normal load from epidemic load.
This allowed NDUC to react       to increasing       volumes and provided the North East England Strategic Health Authority       with timely out-of-hours       data to help as an early warning trigger for the rest of the healthcare       system.
Subsequent impact       on public policy was incorporation by the SHA of this second strand of       research into its North       East Escalation Plan for Pandemic Influenza.
The research [1-4] has had further impact in another area of       public policy.
SUSTRANS is a       charity which fosters sustainable transport and had previously       collaborated on statistical analysis       of cycling data with Durham University, through the relationship with the       SUSTRANS Research       and Monitoring Unit Project Manager, a Durham graduate.
In 2009, the       Project Manager       approached Professor Wooff to evaluate the first phase of the Cycling       Demonstration Town       Programme (CDTP), a multi-agency project funded by the Department for       Transport and local       authorities which had allocated &#163;1m per year to each of six participating       towns between 2005-09       for schemes aimed at stimulating levels of cycling.4 The data       concern automatic daily counts of       cyclists at 111 locations over four years.
Counts of cyclists arriving at       locations is structurally the       same as volumes of calls arriving at a call centre, and so the Durham       methodology of [1-4],       which had been developed in the context of call centre data, could be       immediately applied to the       cycling data.
Professor Wooff's data analysis underpinned two evaluation reports       co-authored by the       SUSTRANS Project Manager and published by Cycling England and the       Department for       Transport in 20094,5.
This analysis, especially its key figure       of a 27% increase in the cycle count       (unweighted mean percentage change relative to 2005 baseline)5,       had significant political,       economic, environmental and public engagement impacts, as will now be       described.
The 27% figure provided an easy to understand measure upon which the       Government based       further cost-benefit analyses and was quoted extensively in publicity and       media campaigns to       gain acceptance of its policies on cycling, said the Project Manager:     "David's work gave us the possibility to report the change in one number       (27%), which was what       the Government wanted.
It helped make the case for further funding for the       Cycling Cities and       Towns (Programme) and other cycling-related projects and more recently       helped make the case       for the (Local) Sustainable Transport Fund.
It is still being used in       Government today as one of       the pieces of analysis underpinning a lot of benefit cost ratio       calculation in city or town wide       initiatives."
6     The Cycling Cities and Towns Programme attracted &#163;43M of government       funding for cycle lanes,       enhanced junction crossings, cycle parking facilities, training and       information, from 2008-2011.
An evaluation document7 says the programme was `built on       earlier experience in six Cycling       Demonstration Towns'.
This is a reference to the data that was analysed in       the reports 4,5 using       the Durham methodology.
The Government subsequently allocated a further &#163;600M6,8, via       the Local Sustainable Transport       Fund, to integrated projects that encourage green transport.
The first       tranche of 39 LSTF projects       funded in July 2011 included 38 with a cycling element9.
Further tranches were funded in May       2012 and June 2012.
A further &#163;62M has been spent on `other projects on       cycling' during this       period6.
These include projects funded through block       allocations by government to local transport       authorities.9
