     The underpinning research increased our understanding of cochlear       function and dysfunction, led to the identification of TECTA as a deafness       gene, and revealed roles for many others (e.g.
MYO7A, PCDH15, PTPRQ, OTOA       &amp; VLGR1).
TECTA and the additional genes now comprise a subset of the       60 deafness genes included on OtoSCOPE, a comprehensive genetic test       implemented in 2010 and now used for the diagnosis of hereditary deafness       by the clinical community [see Section 5, C1, C2 and C3].
Dr Guy van Camp       writes: `The identification of deafness genes has led to improved DNA       diagnostics.
DNA diagnostics for deafness in children is very important,       as it has the potential of providing valuable information on therapeutic       options, the future evolution of the hearing loss, the development of       additional symptoms (such as blindness in Usher syndrome) later in life,       the recurrence risk and guilt relief for parents'.
Between 2008 and 2012, mutations in TECTA have been identified as the       cause of hereditary hearing loss in 288 patients from 51 different       families worldwide thus far, and the OtoScope screening platform, in the       first 100 people tested during this period, has identified two novel       missense mutations in TECTA that cause recessive deafness.
An       understanding of the cause of deafness in these families enables genetic       counselling and provides information regarding the suitability of       different corrective measures, with hearing aids or cochlear implants       being likely therapies.
The work has also changed our understanding of how       aminoglycoside antibiotics selectively accumulate in and cause damage to       sensory hair cells.
It thus informs on potential measures to prevent the       ototoxic side effects of an otherwise clinically useful class of drug,       such as reinforcing the case for a once-daily dosing regime and trying to       design novel drugs that could be co-administered with the aminoglycosides       and that compete with the antibiotics for the entry mechanism into the       sensory hair cells (MRC Research Grant by Kros et al.).
As a       result, we have advised clinicians, during the REF period, about the       clinical implications for patients treated with these antibiotics (see       Section 5, C4).
