     Developing educational resources for teachers and students     The richness and significance of the oral histories generated through the       underpinning research       led the research team to seek additional ways to disseminate the stories,       the methodology and the       findings to a broader audience.
They were particularly keen to do this       with young people who had       not experienced migration themselves but whose multicultural lives and       communities had been       shaped and influenced by it.
Dr. Alexander was awarded &#163;28,600 by the LSE       Heif4 Knowledge       Transfer Fund in 2009 to use the underpinning research to develop a       website and educational       resources that would engage students in questions about migration,       settlement, culture, identity       and citizenship.
Dr. Alexander and the research team collaborated on the       project with Runnymede       Trust, an independent think tank that uses research and thought leadership       to influence policy and       social change and that had produced a report titled "The Future of the       Multi Ethnic Britain".
The Banglastories website was designed for young people at Key Stage 3       and was accompanied       by a teacher resource pack for use in the English curriculum [A,B].
It       encouraged young people to       understand how contemporary multicultural Britain was formed as well as       illuminating the history of       the Bengali community in Britain and its links to Britain's Imperial past.
The website was launched       at Runnymede's Jim Rose Memorial Lecture by novelist Amitav Ghosh to a       general audience of       350 people in December 2009.
The associated education resource was       launched at the House of       Lords in July 2010 with the participation of 30 Bengali young women from       Mulberry School in       Tower Hamlets.
It was covered by BBC Asia Network, BBC World service, four       Bengali TV stations       and Eastern Eye newspaper (20,000 copies weekly).
The       Banglastories site also featured in the       Runnymede Bulletin (Autumn 2010), an online publication that reaches over       3,000 subscribers,       including government departments and third sector organisations.
The Banglastories website has had over 66,500 'hits' since 2010.
The       impact has been       international, with 33% of the 'hits' from the UK, 33% from South Asia,       10% from North America,       and about 13% from mainland Europe, the Middle East, East/SE Asia and       Australasia.
The       teachers' pages have been viewed over 4,100 times.
In 2012 the Oral       History section of the British       Library, as part of a project called Curator's Choice, requested       permission to include the       Banglastories website in the permanent UK Web Archive.
Websites are       selected that "publish       research, reflect the diversity of lives, interests and activities       throughout the UK, and demonstrate       web innovation", with the purpose being to preserve them and ensure       permanent access by future       generations.
Since March 2013 a 'snapshot' of the website is being taken       every six months and       added to this accessible and permanent Oral History archive [C].
Developing a new approach to history and diversity in the school         curriculum     A follow-up project in 2011-2012, called 'Banglastories: telling       community histories about migration       and belonging', was funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council       (ARHC) for &#163;93,281,       with Dr. Alexander as PI and Dr. Chatterji as Co-PI.
Continuing their       highly productive partnership       with Runnymede Foundation, the project team worked in four schools and a       youth centre in three       cities &#8212; Leicester, Cardiff and Sheffield &#8212; that presented diverse       demographies and histories of       migration.
They worked with over 120 young people aged 12-15 to introduce       them to family and       community history research using a variety of social research methods,       with an emphasis on using       oral histories to better understand the history of migration and its       effects in contemporary society.
Advisory groups composed of historians and representatives from local       museums, race equality       organisations and universities were established in each city to provide       advice and support.
The       students involved in the project produced films, animation, journalistic       pieces, poetry and artwork.
The final material was edited by Runnymede and Feedback Films and uploaded       to a new website       called Making Histories [D].
Students learned presentation and public       speaking skills, first by       sharing their experience with fellow students, then through their       involvement in community       launches of the website involving local institutions and in a national       launch at the House of       Commons in November 2012, attended by MPs and community activists.
The project had impact at four different levels: individual, school,       community and society.
According to involved teachers, the project was an effective vehicle for       helping individual students       to develop "countless new transferrable skills" [E], including research       (e.g.
modelling questions),       listening, communication, teamwork, problem-solving, using digital media,       filmmaking and public       speaking.
The project also bolstered student's pride, self-esteem and       confidence, engaged them       more deeply with learning and with their schools, reinvigorated their       interest in history and enabled       them to meet a number of the requirements for their Baccalaureate       qualification [E].
"Their       knowledge and understanding of migration stories relevant to their family,       their local community       and Britain as a whole was greatly increased", which according to MPs       Jenny Willott and David       Blunkett is "the first step to tolerance and cohesion" amongst individuals       and communities [F].
In terms of school impact, the Making Histories approach was integrated       into the history curriculum       in Cardiff at the middle and lower school levels and in Leicester at the       community college level,       demonstrating that this approach could be effective with students of       different ages, abilities and       backgrounds.
The project therefore established Making Histories as an       effective model for       responding to Ofsted findings that diversity and multiculturalism is       taught poorly in British schools,       as well as addressing the Ofsted recommendation that personal, family and       local history should be       taught in UK schools, a recommendation supported by Education Secretary       Michael Gove.
In terms of community impact, the project was a catalyst for       collaboration amongst a number of       community and national organisations, including Runnymede Trust, The       Swadhinata Trust (the       Bengali community history and campaigning organisation), local Race       Equality Councils, local and       national museums (Museum of Wales, the Cardiff Story Museum, Museum of       London), universities       and other organisations (e.g.
the Somali Community and Parents       Association).
Several national       organisations &#8212; Runnymede, Swadhinata and the `Making History' charity led       by actor Colin       McFarlane &#8212; were able to extend their reach to new and often hard-to-reach       audiences, create       lasting links with schools and community organisations and even raise new       funding to expand       project coverage [G].
The collaboration also became a model for the AHRC       and Runnymede.
The       AHRC views it as a new template for research and knowledge transfer and an       example of a `high       impact' case study.
For Runnymede it "has led to additional interest from       other academics to       replicate the high levels of dissemination to non-academic groups that we       have achieved on both       projects", and has already resulted in a second successful collaboration       that has produced another       educational website resource focused on diversity issues called Romans       Revealed.
In terms of broader impact, "The projects conducted by the young people       on the Making Histories       project provided much needed insight into the migration journeys and       hidden histories of the very       diverse communities that have settled across the UK, including those of       Yemeni, Somali,       Togolese, Pakistani, Caribbean, Zambian, Indian, Irish and Italian       backgrounds among others."
[G]       The website has had nearly 900 visits to date, the majority from the UK,       but some from North       America, mainland Europe, Australia, Brazil, South Africa and the UAE.
Influencing policy around history teaching and the National Curriculum     Based on the underpinning research and the development and testing of a       new approach for       teaching history, Alexander, Chatterji and Weekes-Bernard (from Runnymede)       wrote a paper to       influence policy and practice called Making British Histories:         Diversity and the National Curriculum       [H] as part of the Runnymede Perspectives series.
The paper suggested       reform of the National       Curriculum to redraw the boundaries between British and World Histories,       to give schools the       resources to develop courses that engage students in living history, and       to include family and       community research as part of the curriculum.
It was launched at a       high-profile roundtable of       policymakers, teachers, historians and community representatives at the       Museum of London, held       as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science, where prominent historians       engaged in a debate       about the role and purpose of history drawing upon the findings described       in the paper.
The paper and the underpinning research have proved influential in       discussions and debates about       policy and practice in both Britain and Asia.
They have been presented to       a range of non-governmental       organisations and community groups in the UK, India and Bangladesh.
They       have       informed the thinking of religious authorities, including the Archbishop       of Canterbury's Office and       the North Herts Interfaith Forum, which believes that the history       curriculum is causing social       division because "the Asian story is missing" and that "the making history       project is finding a gentle       way through a fraught subject" [I].
They have fed into discussions with       policymakers from the UK       Department of Education in terms of how to make history teaching more       inclusive, and Dr Chatterji       has been invited to policy discussions regarding future curriculum       development.
The report also had a more direct influence on the National Curriculum.
In early 2013 the       Department of Education proposed to remove key historical figures from       minority ethnic       backgrounds (Mary Seacole and Olaudah Equiano) from the history curriculum       for ages 5-14.
This       spurred Runnymede, Operation Black Vote (OBV) and race equality       organisations to respond with       an online petition that gathered 40,000 signatures (including 72 MPs), and       Runnymede produced a       policy briefing paper based on the Making British Histories research that       was shared with       Education Secretary Michael Gove in an invited briefing and that was used       to influence       parliamentarians and policy advisors.
The briefing paper proved to be       "significant in influencing the       revised school history curriculum in which both historical figures were       retained" and was used "to       make a strong and ultimately convincing case to also ensure that African       and other world histories       were part of the pre eleven National Curriculum" [J].
OBV considered       "these achievements as       some of our greatest endeavors in our 18 year history" because they       "ensure our National       Curriculum, particularly around history remains diverse and reflects a UK       and global history that       will inspire all children" [J].
Wider implications: There are over 270 nationalities represented       in the UK and the world, and each       nationality &#8212; not to mention each individual &#8212; has its own unique history.
Rather than teaching a       monolithic, and therefore by definition misleading and inaccurate, history       of Britain and the world,       the National Curriculum can instead encourage the use of teaching       methodologies, such as the       Making Histories approach, that capitalise on diversity and       multiculturalism for better learning, that       instil critical thinking, and that ultimately lead to a more tolerant and       cohesive society.
