     Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), Cockayne Syndrome (CS) and       trichothiodystrophy are genetic disorders caused by a deficiency &#8212; in       affected individuals &#8212; in the ability to repair damage produced in       cellular DNA by ultraviolet light.
Although these disorders have a       devastating effect on the affected families, in many cases, access to       clinical needs have been unsatisfactory due to a lack of clinical       expertise.
Consequently, Lehmann played an instrumental role in       establishing a multi-disciplinary clinic to alleviate this problem,       initially in Worthing with Dr Arjida Woollons (an MD who trained in       Lehmann's laboratory) but, since 2008, in London, under the clinical       leadership of Dr R Sarkany [see Section 5, C1: Letter from Dr Sarkany &#8212;       `The Department of Health team (NCG) who annually audit the Service, has       commented in each audit on the excellent and symbiotic relationship       between Prof. Lehmann's team of research scientists and our       multidisciplinary clinical team, which contributes to the standard of       patient care in this Clinical Service'].
Since April 2010, following the receipt of funding from the NHS National       Commissioning Group (NCG), the clinic takes place every two weeks at St       Thomas' Hospital [C2].
Three or four patients spend the whole day at the       clinic and receive detailed examination and advice from different       specialists.
Almost all (approximately 90 per cent) XP patients in this       country are now seen at this clinic, which Lehmann attends as Consultant       Scientist and where he provides genetic expertise and guidance.
This has       led to improved patient management and quality of life, as indicated by       the questionnaires completed by each patient, detailing patient       satisfaction (e.g.
`The whole service was excellent.
Could not fault it')       and the report from the clinic to the NCG [C3, C4].
The attendance of       patients at the XP clinic has resulted in improved photoprotection,       especially for children.
In 60-75 per cent of families with XP children,       the patients wear a UV-protective visor, and UV-protective film has been       installed in both home and school.
Skin cancers are identified and excised       at a very early stage.
There is also an increased awareness of the       importance of eye photoprotection.
As part of this clinic, Lehmann conducts diagnostic testing in Sussex       using simple assays based on his underpinning research into DNA repair       [see Section 3, R1 and Section 5, C5, C6].
These tests provide unambiguous       confirmation or exclusion of the clinical diagnoses, which has been vital       for patient management, both within the clinic and externally, worldwide.
For example, he received over 300 samples in the current REF period       (2008-2013), from which he has diagnosed about 60 positive cases of XP, CS       or TTD.
His tests are also used for prenatal diagnoses and, to date, he       has carried out over 70 prenatal diagnoses in families with CS, including       10 in the current REF period.
Professional/end-users who can corroborate       the impact of his input are listed below.
A letter from the founder of the       XP patient support group says: `...As the Group grew it was quite clear       that level of care received by families was not consistent and care seemed       to range from negligent to excellent.
We soon realised that a minimum       standard of care was needed for all XP Patients and with the help of Dr       Arjida Woollens and Professor Lehmann, an experimental Multi-disciplinary       team was set up at Southlands Hospital.
The patient experience was       excellent'...The patient satisfaction questionnaires show that the service       is very well received...' [C7].
It also attests to the impact on patients       and their families by describing how Professor Lehmann "has brought the       science to our families and made us more connected with what is going on       with our children" [C7].
