     During the impact reporting period 2008-2013, all of our Astronomy and       Astrophysics staff have       given public lectures, talks and demonstrations at a variety of events,       both nationally and       internationally (see evidence web page).
Professor Gibson enhanced his commitment to public outreach during the       REF period, including       his invitation to address the European community at AstroFest-2013, before       a standing room only       crowd of 1000 people.
His passion for "Galactic Archaeology" and       real-world applications of high       performance computational physics permeates his public lectures, including       that delivered recently       to 250 audience members as the Kevin Westfold Distinguished Visitor at       Monash University.
These       links to real-world physics have led to invitations to Triple Science       Celebrations, Lancashire       Science Teacher Training events, and local colleges in the northwest.
Professor Kurtz has delivered over 150 highly-regarded,       widely-publicised, public lectures       throughout the world -- including at the Edinburgh International Science       Festival, European       AstroFest, Harvard, NASA California, IAC Tenerife, Perimeter Institute       Canada and the University       of Cape Town.
Almost all of these public talks have been delivered to       large (typically several       hundred to a few thousand) sell-out audiences.
In addition, public       outreach events and astronomy       exhibitions for the public, mostly within the UK, have been led by Prof       Kurtz and his astrophysics       and solar physics colleagues.
These have further increased the societal       impact of our research in       these areas.
Professor Kurtz has also been interviewed regularly and       frequently for many years on       BBC Radio Lancashire (he now appears in a regular Breakfast Show slot, in       which he answers       science questions texted in by members of the public), and during the       impact reporting period has       appeared on the BBC's `Stargazing Live' programme and also on BBC `Sky at       Night'.
All of these       appearances depend on Professor Kurtz's recent research which has been       published in leading       refereed journals, and which has attracted grant funding from RCUK       Research Councils.
He has       held, as PI, 4 PPARC/STFC Grants totalling ~&#163;600k during the period       2002-2012 to support his       research, together with Royal Society International UK-Japan grants.
Professor Ward-Thompson joined UCLAN in July 2012.
Since then he has been       President of the       UK Society for Popular Astronomy (SPA) in its 60th anniversary       Jubilee Year of 2013.
The SPA has       some 2500 members, mostly based in the UK, but with about 10% coming from       overseas.
He has       written about his work in the SPA magazine, Popular Astronomy, in 2012/13       which is sent to all       members, and in particular he has written about his July 2012 Science       paper on the formation       mechanism of brown dwarfs.
He has also addressed the SPA at all 8 of its       2013 meetings - typical       attendance ~200-250 members.
These meetings have taken place all over the       country, in       Edinburgh, Belfast, Cardiff, Cambridge, Preston and London.
He has also       addressed many local       astronomical societies in northwest England.
In the period 2000-2012 he       was PI or co-I on grants       totalling over &#163;10M and in the period since joining UCLan in 2012 he has       already been PI on three       successful grant proposals totalling ~&#163;450k to support his star formation       research.
Professor Walsh has given over 70 public lectures in several different       countries to the general       public, amateur astronomy clubs and schools.
He has received a number of       national awards for       science communication.
Since December 2001, when the Royal Institution of       Great Britain       awarded him the title of "Scientist of the New Century", he has maintained       his close connection       with the RI through a series of school lectures throughout North West       England.
In 2005, he       obtained the British Association for the Advancement of Science Lord       Kelvin Award, while in 2008,       he was the Institute of Physics in Ireland's Tyndall Lecturer, undertaking       a school lecture tour of 12       different locations around Ireland.
He has given numerous press interviews       to websites,       newspapers, radio and television.
As a very recent example, the work       resulting from his Nature       paper in January 2013 was covered on BBC North West Tonight, as well as       via numerous news       websites.
Also, in February 2013 he was "panel guest" on a morning show       for BBC Radio       Lancashire.
Various other media commitments are on-going.
His other public       engagement       highlights include:     SunTrek.org - an educational website linking science in the       National Curriculum to solar topics.
Transit of Venus - UCLan was chosen as the UK focus for       ToV activities in the UK.
Sunbeam Digital Projection Project - Images of the Sun projected       onto a giant solar tracker.
Lancashire Science Festival - Walsh instigated this       event and chairs the steering committee.
Water rocket challenge - he instigated an event       that set a new world record for the most water-       powered bottle rockets launched in a day.
The Sun at Night - he is working with an artist to produce an art       installation for the Preston market.
Communicating Heliophysics - Walsh was a member of an       IAU-sponsored panel to       promote outreach activities of the international heliophysics community.
In 2009, Professors Ward-Thompson and Gibson were 2 of 44 scientists       selected by STFC to       represent the community as part of the International Year of Astronomy's       "Explorers of the       Universe" exhibit, a road-show which travelled the UK for more than a       year, including a showing to       an audience of over 500 at the Royal Albert Hall.
We also have a spin-out enterprise known as `Beauty in the Universe', run       by UCLAN graduates.
It       uses Astronomy as a vehicle to engage those in disadvantaged       circumstances, both children in       primary schools and adults in community groups.
They have obtained funding       to work with schools       and community groups to deliver enhancements to the curriculum.
JHI staff       and research students       have participated in the activities in those communities as well as       hosting celebration events at       UCLAN's Alston Observatory.
The programme has now extended its reach to       communities in India.
All other staff members have also given many public lectures every year       during the REF reporting       period (see evidence web page).
We also have the largest award-bearing distance learning programme of       adult and continuing       education in astronomy in the UK, with over 300 adult distance learners       enrolled in 2013/14.
Whilst       this is clearly bordering on the standard educational aspects of the       University's role, we       nevertheless treat this as partly an outreach activity, since most of the       adult learners enrolled on       our courses are taking them purely out of interest rather than for any       commercial or work-related       benefit, simply to enrich their lives in terms of enhancing their       understanding of the Universe       around us, in a similar way to that in which they would attend an       astronomy outreach seminar.
We       also run weekend residential courses at our Alston Observatory facility.
