     Suppose you want to buy a laptop.
What you might do is go to a search       engine and type laptop (known as the keyword) in the       search field.
If you are using Google, you will see sponsored links       (adverts), as well as the results of natural search.
The adverts appear       because the keyword you typed is one that a company has paid Google to       display whenever someone searches for it.
Broadly what happens is that if       you then click on the advert, the sponsoring company pays Google a small       amount.
This is called Pay Per Click (PPC).
Total paid-for search spend       was &#163;3.1 billion in the UK in 2012, growing at about 14% per year1,       with Google's market share about 88% in December 20122.
The amount a company is prepared to pay per click determines the position       of the sponsor's advert in the list.
A count is made of the number of       times the advert appears &#8212; these are called impressions.
Once you       click on the link, you are taken to the sponsor's website.
This is a visit.
Once within that website, you might visit several pages and might buy       something from the sponsoring company.
Your browsing history is recorded       using cookies stored on your computer, and is usually aggregated       with the browsing histories of thousands of customers visiting the       sponsor's website from various sources.
This results in an enormous volume       of data.
For example, for every keyword for a given sponsor, there is a       daily summary which reports the total number of adverts shown, the       resulting number of visits, the total amount paid by the sponsoring       company for the clicks, the total sales revenue generated by the clicks,       and so forth.
One of Summit Media's tasks is to maximise the flow of traffic to a       client.
Traditionally they manage the keywords and PPC bids using their       expertise.
However, there were many relationships which were poorly       understood.
For example, what is the relationship between number of       impressions and PPC price, and does this lead to increased sales revenue       for the sponsor.
Further, how does this vary by keyword and how does it       vary by sponsor?
The Durham research has addressed these issues by modelling the complex       interrelationships, simulating from the constructed models, and then       providing individual predictions of expected revenue (together with       uncertainties) for every advert position for every keyword in the client's       portfolio.
The portfolio is then optimized through an algorithm developed       by the Durham team.
Several different feasible solutions are available,       depending on the risk attitude of the client &#8212; for example higher returns       might be associated with greater uncertainty.
Many of the issues posed       challenges which the group has needed to overcome: for example, the       massive scale of the problem requires special statistical modelling.
This has a very major impact for the collaborating company in several       important ways.
Firstly, far greater precision and certainty in their       operations, as previous practice focused only on default pricing and rough       heuristics, together with sharper human judgements for a tiny fraction of       keywords.
Secondly, a much reduced need for human intervention and so a       significant saving in personnel costs.
Thirdly, the ability to obtain much       better revenue streams for clients because of understanding the       uncertainties involved and through optimization of budget.
Fourthly, the       ability to attract more clients because it will be able to offer both a       cheaper service and a more precisely quantified expected revenue.
Summit Media, based in Hull, approached Durham University while it was       seeking a higher education research partner to enhance the services it       offered to clients.
During the resulting KTP period, from 2010-13, the       company... [text removed for publication].
Summit Media listed the main achievements of the KTPs as (i) the       "development of a market leading solution (Forecaster) which has       revolutionised the way pay PPC advertising is optimised"; (ii) the       creation of a new department (Insight, now headed by one of the KTP       associates as a full time employee); (iii) tighter and automated control       over key business drivers; (iv) client retention and (v) The acquisition       of new clients... [text removed for publication].
In the KTP final report3, Summit Media says that it       "definitely wouldn't be making similar progress" without the Durham KTPs       and that "the main outcome from the project, Forecaster, is seen as the       single most important piece of innovation that Summit has developed over       the past few years... " [text removed for publication].
