     Much of the impact of O'Neill's research develops from the continuing,       but diffuse impact       concerning news values, in relation to both Journalism education and wider       public discourses       around news media diversity.
Both the original article `What is News?
Galtung and Ruge Revisited'       and more recent development of news values in `News Values and       Selectivity', have been adopted       widely by journalism educators in Higher Education Institutions, and       within further education/sixth       form both nationally and internationally, as well as referenced by further       resources and research       including outside Higher Education.
The International Collaborative       Dictionary of Communications       (ICDC), a commons-based, peer-produced resource compiled by American       academics for use in       teaching and research, notes both these articles in its entry on News       Values.
The earlier article has       been used for learning activities for A2 Media studies in the textbook       Antony Bateman, Peter       Bennett, Sarah Casey Benyahia and Jacqui Shirley (2010) A2 Media         Studies: The Essential         Introduction for AQA, Routledge and its accompanying web learning       resources.
This evidences an       increased coverage of News Values in A level textbooks, enhanced by the       currency and saliency       to the British context of O'Neill and Harcup's article.
The chapter on News Values and selectivity has continued the impact       within Higher Education       Institutions, being essential or core reading for undergraduate and MA       journalism courses at seven       or more UK universities.
Similarly her `No Cause for Celebration' is       recommended for journalism       students at two English universities.
O'Neill's co-authored `The Passive Journalist', with Catherine O'Connor       (Leeds Trinity University)       prompted debate within the professional journals The Press Gazette       and online professional       resource Hold the Front Page in 2007, prior to publication, but       this in turn led to further impact       within the REF assessment period through being further referenced in a       number of books and       articles on journalism practices, both aimed at students but also       professional journalists.
These       include Hugo De Burgh and Paul Bradshaw (2008) Investigative         Journalism, Routledge, a book       aimed at journalism students, p. 99 which references The Press Gazette       article; and as evidencing       the reliance on single sources and influence of public relations in Bob       Franklin (2010) Journalists,         Sources, and Credibility: New Perspectives, p. 52, p. 95, p140.
Furthermore it is discussed in Peter       Cole and Tony Harcup (2009) Newspaper Journalism, Sage p.119, a       book recommended for       journalism students and practitioners.
The article was also cited as       evidence of reliance on single       (press release) sources in Angela Phillips (2010) `Transparency and the       new ethics of journalism',       Journalism Practice 4 (3), pp.
373-382, which was submitted to the       Leveson inquiry.
http://www.levesoninquiry.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/Exhibit-JC17.pdf       Within higher education, this article is an essential text in the module       `Understanding Journalism       Studies' at Cardiff University, and has also fed into the delivery of the       module `Writing for       Newspapers', used within a weekly blog task, also at Cardiff University.
Hence the findings of this       research on reliance on single sources in local newspaper journalism       achieved direct and potential       secondary impact on journalism education, journalism students and       practitioners, and contributed       to the wider debates about press practices and regulation.
O'Neill and Lay's research on Regional Television News contributed to       public debate about the       future of regional television, highlighting interrelated changes in       technology and funding as `techonomics'.
This was initially disseminated through the Future of Journalism       Conference (2009) and       Peripheries and Regions Conference that involved practitioners (newspaper,       broadcast and online       journalism) as well as academics.
O'Neill's consideration of news values in relation to press       representations of union and industrial       relations, `From Hunky Heroes to Dangerous Dinosaurs', was acknowledged by       the Acas       Research Paper `Trade Union Officers and Collective Conciliation'.
This       suggested that       understanding of how news values constrain access to news could be better       understood by union       officials, particularly in respect of press and public relations.
O'Neill       advocated using human       interest values to promote the interests of union members.
This evidences       the reach of this       research amongst Industrial Relations specialists and its intended       dissemination amongst union       personnel.
