     By virtue of collaborative working, targeted research communication and       stakeholder engagement, the GoWell research led by the University of       Glasgow has achieved meaningful and sustainable impact on policy-makers,       practitioners, professional bodies and voluntary, community and social       enterprise (VCSE) organisations, whose objectives extend across a broad       range of policy sectors, including: criminal justice and policing, health       and well-being, equalities, regeneration, and social housing.
Over the past two years, the Scottish Government has instituted a new       Regeneration Strategy.
A Discussion Paper published in spring 2011       recognised the issue of slow progress on social regeneration and       attributed its acknowledgement to GoWell's findings [1].
The resulting       Strategy document Achieving           a Sustainable Future, published in December 2011, further       identified GoWell as one of the Scottish Government's main sources of       evidence on the effectiveness of different approaches to regeneration on       health outcomes, in part due to the programme's ability to investigate       pathways to health outcomes [2].
Reflecting this adoption of health as a       key outcome from regeneration, Tannahill was subsequently invited to join       the Scottish Government's Regeneration High Level Working Group Part of       the Group's remit was to consider issues specifically raised by the       Regeneration External Stakeholder Group, of which Kearns was also a       member.
The researchers therefore ensured that GoWell findings and       insights continued to feed into the work of both groups, each of which       focused on how to ensure the delivery of regeneration outcomes.
In January 2013, the Scottish Parliament's Local Government and       Regeneration Committee launched an Inquiry into the delivery of       regeneration under the new strategy.
GoWell was specially invited to give       both written and verbal evidence to the Inquiry.
In giving evidence, the       research team highlighted research findings showing how measures of       community cohesion were less positive than other social indicators within       deprived areas, and that there was a lack of clarity amongst the partners       in regeneration regarding the distribution of responsibility for       implementation.
They also pointed out how measures of health and wellbeing       could be used in evaluating the impact of regeneration [3].
GoWell's contribution to the Inquiry was further strengthened by the main       representative organisation for regeneration professionals in Scotland,       the Scottish Urban Regeneration Forum, who used evidence from GoWell in       their own submission to the Inquiry to argue that the main health and       wellbeing outcome measures used in GoWell should be used in the future       monitoring and evaluation of regeneration strategies [4].
GoWell research       was also used to argue that neighbourhood quality and the means of its       delivery should be important components of the Scottish Government's       strategy to enhance wellbeing and reduce health inequalities.
This point       and others have also been made through Tannahill serving on the SG's       Ministerial Task Force on Health Inequalities since 2008, and Kearns on       the `Equally Well' Glasgow Advisory Group since 2009.
Both the Task Force       and the Advisory Group comprise government Ministers, representatives from       the NHS, local government, the Third Sector and others within community       planning partnerships resulting in the continuous research communication       by Kearns and colleagues of GoWell findings to all relevant user       communities working in the areas relating to health inequalities [5].
As part of the overall strategy on health inequalities, in 2008 the       Scottish Government launched its strategy on health and the environment,       called Good Places Better Health.
The main work on the strategy       has been progressed through an evaluation group set up to study the       available evidence and make recommendations to improve neighbourhood       environments, primarily for children.
As a consequence of the evidence       GoWell was producing Kearns was invited to join the evaluation group.
During this process, a Scottish Government seminar was held in September       2011 at which Kearns presented the idea of establishing a Scottish       Neighbourhood Quality Standard, including suggestions as to its possible       coverage and how it might be used as a policy tool [6].
The final         report from the Good Places Better Health group, published       in December 2011, then recommended the development of a `Scottish       Neighbourhood Quality Standard' as "a means of enabling the implementation       of neighbourhood asset development" [7].
During 2012, civil servants       worked on the further development of the idea, in consultation with       Kearns, and in March 2013, it was presented to the Ministerial Task Force       on Health Inequalities to seek their support for its further development       alongside national policy for architecture and design, thus bridging two       policy sectors [8].
As a consequence, NHS Health Scotland is now working       on the further development of relevant standards and policy tools.
GoWell's findings on the influence of alcohol outlets on crime rates,       which relate specifically to the consumer environment component of       neighbourhood quality, were widely reported in different media outlets       [9].
The findings were also shared with Strathclyde Police (now Police       Scotland), who used them to define the nature of `overprovision' of       alcohol outlets as a policy problem within the context of the Local       Licensing Forum, where evidence to underpin the city's licensing policy is       discussed.
The main charity involved in alcohol policy in Scotland,       Alcohol Focus Scotland (AFS), also incorporated the findings into its       resource toolkit for licensing stakeholders, Good           Licensing Practice: Developing an Effective Overprovision Policy.
The toolkit is intended to assist licensing boards to use evidence in the       development of their policies on `overprovision' of alcohol outlets so       that they can withstand legal challenge where license applications are       refused in certain localities.
In this case, GoWell's findings are having       impact at both the national and city levels, and with regard to policy and       practice.
By providing the `Licensing Toolkit', which draws from GoWell       research, in this way, AFS works to ensure the control of alcohol as a       means of reducing long term alcohol related harm.
The AFS Toolkit was       provided to 40 Licensing Boards and 40 Local Licensing Forums, and had       been accessed on the AFS website a further 1,600 times by September 2013.
GoWell research, then, as well as making an influential contribution to       the work of charities, law enforcement agencies, and regulatory bodies to       support the controlled provision of alcohol outlets has informed the work       of civil servants, politicians, government Ministers, regeneration       professionals and third sector organisations in turn shaping Scottish       Government strategies and policies to secure neighbourhood and community       improvement.
