     The body of research detailed above has contributed towards research       informed productions produced by the institution's in house production       company, Trinity Vision.
This has had secondary impacts on the charitable       organisations that Trinity Vision work with, in that the organisations       gained a higher quality promotional film or documentary.
Roberts has also       engaged the general public in his research through his involvement in a       local film club (for young people) and a project with the University of       the Third Age (U3A).
The full impact of Roberts' Malentendu pieces       has not yet been realised but through his development of more sympathetic       dubbing techniques, an opportunity is created to make international       culture available to monolingual audiences.
Each of these impacts are now       described in turn.
Trinity Vision have made use of Roberts' research into production       practice through their work with numerous charities and community groups       producing various promotional films and documentaries.
This service is       provided to such organisations for free and is funded by Trinity Vision's       work with for-profit companies.
In the process of making such films,       Trinity Vision drew on Roberts' research on theorising and reflecting on       practice.
This has resulted in a more rigorous and self-reflexive approach       to production, production management and relations with external clients.
The following examples are organisations that have benefited from this       different approach used by Trinity Vision.
A substantial project was       undertaken with Washburn Heritage Centre, an organisation funded by the       Heritage Lottery Fund, which seeks to support and preserve the history of       the Washburn Valley (North Yorkshire).
This project (begun in 2010 and       ongoing) recorded oral history from local residents, focusing on       agricultural history and World War II.
Memories captured on film were used       by the heritage centre in subsequent exhibitions and archived for the       future.
Trinity Vision provided training to residents in handling the       camera equipment.
The final video was then edited and produced on a DVD by       Trinity Vision.
A further project involved working with the Positive Lifestyle Centre,       Bradford, producing two promotional videos for the organisation.
The       Positive Lifestyle Centre are an educational service that provide personal       development sessions for schoolchildren, situated at the Bradford City       Football ground.
School groups come to visit the ground and then       participate in sessions such as self-esteem, drug awareness, and healthy       eating.
The centre is a charitable organisation that relies on community       funding to provide their services.
Trinity Vision produced two promotional       films for the organisation that were then used to advertise their services       and attract funding (April-May 2013).
Trinity Vision have also worked with the Irish Arts Foundation, an       organisation based in Leeds that promotes the music and arts of Ireland       throughout Britain, providing access and participation in traditional       Irish culture.
As part of their work, the Irish Arts Foundation held a       concert with four of Ireland's top musicians performing.
Trinity Vision       filmed this concert and interviewed people involved, asking them about       their background and the importance of preserving Irish culture (Summer       2011).
Trinity Vision have had a more sustained involvement with the Leeds       Fashion Show (a not for profit organisation supporting people to bridge       the gap between education and the fashion industry) and the Leeds Chinese       Community Association.
Trinity Vision have filmed annual events for each       organisation, a fashion show and Chinese new year celebrations       respectively, since 2010.
In line with the unit's approach to impact during the REF assessment       period, Roberts has engaged with particular groups of the public based on       his research into production processes and resulting production outputs.
He was instrumental in setting up and running a film-making club (October       2011 &#8212; July 2012) at Fulneck School, Leeds.
This ran parallel to his       research at Leeds Trinity in production techniques.
Though the number of       students involved varied, there were frequently around 30 involved.
As a       consequence, different groups of students were inspired to shoot their own       short videos (including their views of the school, fund raising events and       an end of year all-day celebration event) and Sixth formers produced a       video about the attractions of post-16 study at the school which was used       as a marketing tool at an open evening for prospective students and their       parents.
Roberts utilized his research via teacher and peer-led discussion       to inform and shape the production process and how it can be developed.
Roberts further engaged with the public through his involvement in the       University of the Third Age (U3A), where he acted as advisor on the `A       Planet in Crisis' project from January to July 2013.
U3A is a registered       charity that provides educational, creative and leisure opportunities for       people no longer in full-time employment.
The organisation is based on       reciprocal principles of `the teachers learn and the learners teach'.
It       is entirely run by volunteers and so welcomes support and research       contributions.
The `A Planet in Crisis' project sought to explore the       issue of climate change and opinion formation.
As part of the project, 64       members of U3A were surveyed on their attitudes to climate change and       perceptions of opinion shaping.
A further 20 members were then engaged in       one-to-one interviews which explored in more depth how attitudes are       formed and influenced.
Roberts contributed advice regarding the structure       of the project, questionnaire and focus group design.
In July 2013, the       culmination of Phase 1 of the project (which will continue in 2014)       Roberts was invited to provide the keynote speech and was the plenary       contributor to a one day seminar on climate change and opinion formation       hosted at U3A, Cambridge.
Roberts' keynote was based on his research into       the use of the mass media to shape public opinion (in this case around the       issue of `climate change', with particular reference to how specific       production practices produce specific production results).
It was       delivered in an accessible way to an interested but non-specialist       audience.
The seminar was attended by 45 people (audience numbers were       limited by the room capacity, many more members applied to attend).
The       project co-ordinator has received several positive e-mails and is now       planning a follow-up event: `Influence your family and neighbours to       forsake consumption and take on sustainability'.
Roberts will be involved       as media/production mentor (building on the research findings of outputs 1       and 2 above).
In particular Roberts' continuing involvement centres on       mentoring the project team and engaging with participants to reflect on       how the nature of production shapes the product we consume.
In addition       (to build on the filming of the workshop/seminar) Roberts continues to       engage in strategies to involve previously excluded groups.
