     DCD and overlapping developmental disorders have been the main theme of       research at The Dyscovery Centre since its inception over 16 years ago by       its founder and General Practitioner Professor Amanda Kirby.
The Dyscovery       Centre has built up an interdisciplinary team of health and educational       professionals who run a service integrating different models of working as       well as providing care for over three thousand children (mainly from the       UK).
It is acknowledged as a tertiary referral centre and receives       referrals from paediatricians and child and adolescent psychiatrists from       the National Health Service, and is recommended by a number of       organisations including the Royal College of Speech and Language       Therapists.
The Centre's reputation has grown over the years and referrals       now range from countries such as Japan, Singapore, Dubai, Ireland, USA,       Russia and India.
The Centre's clinical activity provides a sound basis       for its continuing research.
Work at the centre has focused increasingly on `growing up' with a       developmental disorder and the impact this has on the individual and their       families.
This has produced seminal work in the field that the Centre       remains known for.
Using knowledge transfer principles is a central tenet       of the work of the team and is a key objective throughout all research       work undertaken at the centre.
This has been achieved through translation       of materials for differing audiences and in a variety of ways including       using new media formats such as mobile phone applications, web sites and       ebooks as well as the more traditional books and leaflets.
The Centre       prides itself on its engagement in mainstream and peer reviewed journals       and through presentations, conferences and on television and radio       programmes and newspaper articles.
The Adult Developmental coordination disorder Checklist (ADC) is       routinely used in the day-to-day clinical activity of The Dyscovery       Centre, having an impact on clinical decisions for 60 clients since its       publication in September 2010.
Adults referred to the clinic complete the       screening tool to assist clinicians when diagnosing DCD.
The screening       tool provides insight into and understanding of areas that were reported       in childhood along with current areas of difficulty for younger and older       adults.
This was not fully possible prior to its development &#8212; again       demonstrating the positive and important impact that the ADC has had.
There are four areas that are assessed: (a) past difficulties in       childhood, (b) motor difficulties, (c) impairments in executive       functioning skills, and (d) problems relating to social behaviour.
The ADC       is also freely available on the University of South Wales (via         http://psychology.research.southwales.ac.uk/) where it is accessed       by health and education professionals as well as individuals with DCD.
The       screener has received 2, 272 page views between the time it was uploaded       onto the centre's clinical services web pages in September 2010 and May       2013.
Those viewing the screener during this timeframe come from across       the UK (2, 033) and also from Ireland (129), Belgium (92) and Australia       (18) (taken from Google analytics data).
The ADC is currently used as a screening tool by Student Support Services       in several universities in the UK and Ireland.
For example it is routinely       used as a screener for motor difficulties by student support services at       the University of Cambridge.
Here it acts to facilitate directed support       to individual students.
It is also recommended as a screening tool for use       by universities in the UK by the group Movement Matters (see reference to       the web link in section 5).
The ADC has been used in research projects in the UK and internationally       to screen adult participants including: Oxford Brooks University, Eastern       Michigan University, the Radbound University, Nijmegen Medical Centre, and       H&#244;pital de la Salp&#233;ti&#232;re.
The ADC has also been translated into Hebrew,       Dutch, Brazilian and Taiwanese where it has been normed in those countries       for use in adults.
It is also available on a new international website for       research in DCD which can be accessed by experts in 29 countries (see       reference to web link in section 5).
A shortened version of the screening       tool is also available on the `NeuroKnowHow' neurodiversity web site (see       reference to web link in section 5).
The ADC has also been cited as a       screening tool for DCD peer-review articles and books (see reference list       in section 5).
