     Overall, our work has demonstrated that fire toxicity can be replicated       on a bench scale, using the steady state tube furnace apparatus (SSTF).
This method was adopted by ISO as a technical specification in 2007 (ISO       TS 19700); Prof Hull has been ISO Project Leader since 2004.
This       is a publicly available document and, now the interlaboratory       reproducibility has been demonstrated, is currently (2013) published as       ISO/FDIS 19700 (final draft international standard) due to be published as       ISO 19700 in 2014.
This provides the first robust framework for the       realistic bench-scale quantification of fire effluent toxicity as a       function of fire condition.
As the major killer, and major source of       injury in fires, this provides the vital tool for improving fire safety.
Some industries (for example the glass and mineral wool insulation, and       electric cable industries) have recognised the importance of fire       toxicity, supported our research, and are using it to market products of       greater fire safety.
Recently, we have used the SSTF to show that       phosphorus based fire retardants are much safer than the brominated       materials they replace4, of great       interest to their manufacturer, Clariant, and the environmental groups       concerned about brominated flame retardants.
The adoption of performance based design by fire regulators, as an       adaptable strategy to free designers from the inappropriateness of       specific regulations that have no significant fire safety benefit,       includes a requirement to estimate the available safe escape time.
This is       the time between detection of a fire and the safe evacuation of occupants.
The toxic product concentration along the escape route must be low enough       not to hinder or prevent escape.
This requires prediction using robust       data on toxic product yields as a function of fire condition, and so far       the SSTF has proved the only apparatus capable of providing such data.
In       addition, the SSTF provides regulators with a tool to quantify hazards,       and if necessary to restrict the use of the most dangerous materials in       the highest risk applications (e.g.
mass transport, high rise buildings,       electrical and electronic components etc.)
Closer regulation of fire toxicity has saved lives, and forced industry       to replace dangerous products with safer materials; the progressive       switch-over from PVC to "zero-halogen" cables across Europe is the       clearest example.
Meanwhile, for many years, the older products will       remain installed and sometimes in use, making it very difficult to       quantify the benefit in terms of reduced fire deaths and injuries.
Thus,       while there is a clear societal benefit to reducing the toxicity of fires,       the short term cost has to be offset against the longer term benefits of       better designed materials and products (from which there is generally       greater profit) as well as improved fire safety.
Industries already       manufacturing fire safe products, such as the zero-halogen cable and       mineral and glass wool insulation industries have been the immediate       beneficiaries in terms of increased sales.
One of the most tangible current outcomes has been the introduction of       the acidity classification in the European Construction Products       Regulation (305/2011/EU &#8212; CPR) &#8212; requiring all cables in Euroclasses B, C       and D to be classified according to the hazardous properties of gases       developed in the event of fire, which "compromise the ability of the       persons exposed to them to take effective action to accomplish escape",       allowing users to discriminate between high toxicity (PVC) and low       smoke/zero halogen (LSZH), low fire toxicity cables.
This is illustrated       below, showing the acidity of the effluent as 0.15 measured by the EN       50267-2-3 regulatory test (a lower pH value means greater least toxic       acidity; cables with pH&lt;4.3 do not meet the 0.05 low hazard "acidity       classification"), against the toxicity (quantified using ISO 19700       expressed as Fractional Effective Dose &#8212; the higher the value, the greater       the toxicity).
This clearly shows the relationship between the acidity       classification and the toxicity, was presented in the IWCS paper, and was       used to persuade the regulators of the need to introduce such as       classification in the Construction Products Regulation (2011), which came       into force across Europe in 2013.
This has driven the switchover from PVC       to LSZH cables in the non-domestic sector over the last 5 years.
Our       industrial contacts have helped to ensure that ISO 19700 is a usable tool,       that our supporting publications are relevant to current industrial       practice, and have participated in our "Hazards from Fire" short course.
We have been proactive on national and international standardisation       bodies.
Dr Stec represents the Society for Chemical Industry on       the British Standards Hazard to Life from Fire Technical Committee       (FSH/16), and is designated the UK's principal expert on Fire Chemistry,       playing a key role in ISO Fire Threat to People and the Environment       sub-committee (TC 92 SC3), while Prof Hull represents the Royal       Society of Chemistry on the same committee and is the Principal expert on       Fire Models, and leads the UK delegation to TC92 SC3 , the premier       international body on fire toxicity, where he is project leader for the       ISO 19700 steady state tube furnace.
Key dates:                                2010           &#8220;Fire Toxicity&#8221; published by Woodhead publishing,             raising the profile of fire toxicity amongst the fire safety             community                             2011           ISO &#8220;Official&#8221; Interlaboratory Reproducibility Exercise completed                             2011           Acidity regulation requirement introduced across Europe             (305/2011/EU &#8211; CPD now CPR)                             2012           Detailed publication of correlations of various bench scale             methods with large scale.
2013           Ballot approves circulation of ISO/FDIS 19700, prior to adoption             as a ful international standard.
