     a) The FLU-CIN delivered its first report to SAGE, on time, less than 8       weeks after planning began.
The Chairs of SAGE later wrote: "We greatly       appreciated your work as the lead for the hub of the Flu Clinical       Information Network as well as your contribution to the sub-group on       clinical countermeasures and to research to inform the UK's response".
A       FLU-CIN report was submitted fortnightly to the UK Government (via SAGE)       from June 2009 until February 2010.
This provided information on the       proportion of otherwise healthy individuals with pandemic influenza       requiring critical care, the burden of disease in children, and helped       towards the early identification of risk factors for severe outcomes.
The       data we provided contributed towards UK government policy for the use of       antiviral drugs and vaccines to combat the pandemic.
In addition, our data       fed directly into UK clinical management guidelines formulated by the       Pandemic Influenza Clinical and Operational group (PICO).
As an example,       the minutes of the UK Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies on 11th       January 2010 note: "The FLU-CIN structure had proved a great success in       obtaining detailed clinical data about patients hospitalised with the       pandemic (H1N1) 2009 virus.
Maintaining some sort of legacy structure,       that could be activated rapidly in the event of a new pandemic, should be       a priority" (see reference 1 below).
b) Regarding the NIHR funded `emergency' influenza studies, these were       commissioned and awarded as part of the UK Government's R&amp;D response       to pandemic influenza, and all three were published rapidly in Health       Technology Assessment, in line with other NIHR funded work.
The `MummyFlu'       project delivered critical data that demonstrated that 2009 pandemic       vaccines administered to pregnant women in the UK were highly likely to       protect newborns via transplacental transfer of passive immunity.
This       work has contributed towards the UK's decision to adopt a policy of       influenza vaccination for pregnant women from Autumn 2010 onwards.
Similarly the work to evaluate the two pandemic vaccines used in adults in       the UK during 2009 provided rapid feedback to the UK Government that one       (adjuvanted with AS03) was in fact considerably more immunogenic than the       other.
This work helped inform the UK's decision to target children with       the AS03 adjuvanted vaccine.
(see reference 2)     c) The HPIRGs evaluation work for the WHO Regional Office for Europe was       the largest piece of post-pandemic evaluative work undertaken by WHO       Europe and led to a consultation workshop in Copenhagen in Autumn 2010,       and a formal WHO report (see Section 5).
The Director of WHO Europe wrote       (Foreword): "A principal value of this report is that it applies a       standard framework to highlight essential cross-cutting elements of       successful pandemic preparedness activities.
Moreover, it takes an       objective approach to highlight not only the essential elements of       successful activities but also the areas on which the pandemic experience       suggests future planning must place greater emphasis...Member States, by       sharing the experiences gained and lessons learnt throughout the process,       have shaped the recommendations in this report, which we at WHO believe is       extremely useful for all countries and WHO alike, as we review our       pandemic plans".
The findings of our work have been incorporated into a       new draft Pandemic preparedness planning guide for Member States of the       WHO European Region and the European Union (affecting 900 million       citizens) which were published in late 2012.
(see references 3 and 4)     d) The HPIRG's research work for WHO Headquarters in Geneva has comprised       of individual (unpaid) consultancy and expert advice as well as four major       systematic reviews and meta- analyses on the subject of influenza       vaccination in immunocompromised subjects and vaccination of healthcare       workers to protect patients.
The WHO was so satisfied with the outputs of       this work, it wrote "these reviews have been of fundamental importance in       supporting WHO's recommendations.....the impact of this work is       significant in terms of the change in policy, which has reduced the       economic impact on Member States for pandemic preparedness..." (see       references 5, 6, 7 and 8).
e) The recently funded work on influenza transmission (awarded October       2011), results from sustained efforts to develop this area.
In terms of       the lack of current understanding about modes of transmission of       influenza, this knowledge gap has been identified by the US CDC, the UK       Government, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC),       the WHO Global Influenza Research Agenda and the Institutes of Medicine as       being a high priority unmet need for influenza.
The findings will be       applicable in every nation of the world in the event of a future pandemic,       emphasising the global importance attached to this work.
(see references 9       and 10)
