     The primary beneficiaries of our work are the millions of smokers in the       UK whose risks of death       and disease are dramatically reduced by stopping smoking; their families       and dependents, who       avoid the suffering and economic cost of loss of a family member;       employers, who enjoy higher       productivity from non-smokers; and wider society, which avoids the       estimated &#163;14 billion that       smoking costs society.
The prevalence of adult smoking in the UK has       fallen by about 7       percentage points (&#8776;3 million smokers) in the last decade, and by about a       third in adolescents       aged &lt;16.
Our work has contributed to these falls, thus helping to       prevent thousands of cases of       lifelong addiction to, and premature death from, smoking.
Examples of       impact include:     Smoke-free policy and passive smoking: Our report on passive       smoking and children generated       widespread media coverage and calls by NGOs (including British Medical       Association, British Lung       Foundation, Action Cancer (Northern Ireland)) for wider restrictions on       smoking in the presence of       children, particularly in cars; a 2011 All Party Parliamentary Group       hearing on smoking in private       vehicles chaired by Steven Williams MP [5.1]); a private member's bill       calling for legislation to       prohibit smoking in cars in Northern Ireland (http://www.niassembly.gov.uk/Assembly-Business/Official-Report/Reports-11-12/14-November-2011/#4)       and the Smoke-free Private       Vehicles Bill [HL] 2012-13 in the House of Lords.
Britton briefed the       Secretary of State for Health       (Hunt) and Public Health Minister (Soubry) personally on passive smoking       and plain packaging on       21.11.12.
Point of sale legislation: McNeill's work on point of sale       legislation in Ireland, presented in the       House of Commons and followed by a personal telephone conversation with       the Secretary of State       for Health (Lansley), proved crucial to the retention of 2010 Health Act       point of sale legislation in       the 2011 Coalition Government's Tobacco Control Plan for England       [5.2].
Plain packaging: Our advocacy, with others, was crucial to the       inclusion of a commitment to       consider plain packaging in the Tobacco Control Plan for England       [5.2], and the systematic       evidence review (AM) a key driver of the formal consultation in 2012.
Smoking cessation and prevention: Our research in hospital       patients, adolescents, pregnant       women and people with mental disorders has fed directly into several NICE       guidelines over the       past decade.
Britton was a member of the NICE PDG which produced guidance       on smoking       cessation in community settings in 2008 (www.nice.org.uk/PH010).
Coleman provided expert       evidence reviews for 2010 NICE guidance on smoking cessation in pregnancy       and after childbirth       (http://guidance.nice.org.uk/PH26).
Britton chaired the PDG (Ratschen and Murray members)       producing guidance on smoking cessation in all NHS acute, maternity and       mental health       secondary care settings (consultation draft published 5.4.13 [5.3]; final       guidance due 27.11.13),       with Ratschen, Murray, Leonardi-Bee and Szatkowski providing expert       reviews, and in which our       work in acute and mental health hospital cessation service models, and       clinical trials, were pivotal.
Szatkowski was part of the NICE Advisory Group which produced the 2013       Evidence Update on       school-based interventions to prevent the uptake of smoking among children       and young people       (http://guidance.nice.org.uk/PH23).
Harm reduction: Our work, particularly the RCP harm reduction       report, has led to the inclusion of       harm reduction strategies in a number of government policies, including       the 2010 and 2011       Department of Health tobacco control strategies [5.2, 5.4], and encouraged       major industries to       enter the alternative nicotine market.
Representations by Britton and       others to the Medicines and       Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) led to the establishment of       and our involvement       in an Expert Committee on Nicotine Containing Products [5.5], leading to a       substantive review of       MHRA licensing policy on nicotine products and an announcement of       permissive licensing for       nicotine-containing products in June 2013 [5.6].
The key change, a switch       from using placebo as       the safety comparator for nicotine products to the pragmatic likelihood of       continued smoking, has       opened the door to the development and use of alternative nicotine       products (e.g.
electronic       cigarettes) as long-term substitutes for smoking.
In 2008 Britton met with       the Director of NICE to       make the case for harm reduction as a public health strategy.
This       initiated a NICE Citizens       Council on harm reduction in 2009 [5.7], and a NICE PDG on tobacco harm       reduction (Britton and       McNeill members) which produced guidance (June 2013) integrating harm       reduction into NHS       practice [5.8].
Britton also met with the Cabinet Office Behavioural       Insight Team (BIT) in 2011,       advocating harm reduction as a means to promote healthy choices, leading       to the inclusion of       harm reduction as a BIT policy [5.9].
Britton has since met twice with the       Prime Minister's senior       policy advisor on Health and Adult Care (Paul Bate) at 10 Downing St (in       2011 and 2012) to       discuss harm reduction and other prevention strategy.
These policy changes       have established the       UK as world leader in harm reduction approaches to nicotine addiction.
Our       influence and       leadership was directly acknowledged in a speech by the Secretary of State       for Health on 6.3.12       [5.10].
The RCP harm reduction report was also used by Britton to brief       (meeting 2.3.13) Linda       McAvan, rapporteur on the 2013 EU Tobacco Products Directive for the       Environment, Public       Health and Food Safety (ENVI) committee, to support permissive regulation       of nicotine-containing       products at EU level (and 75% health warnings on tobacco packs) in the EU       Directive:       http://www.europarl.europa.eu/pdfs/news/expert/infopress/20130708IPR16824/20130708IPR16824_en.pdf.
