     Dunford's research has contributed to both the development of a new phase       of EU Cohesion policy and Chinese poverty-alleviation policy, the latter       being identified by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao as one of the government's       top 5 priorities [see Section 5, C5].
The impact described here stems from       an invitation for Dunford to participate in three successive EU-China       high-level seminars and a policy-dialogue project funded by the European       Policy Dialogues Facility involving the European Commission DG REGIO and       the Chinese National Development and Reform Commission.
This invitation       was issued based on Dunford's reputation and published work on regional       disparities in the European Union and a number of countries in Western,       Mediterranean and Eastern Europe and on his involvement in work relating       to the design and evaluation of EU cohesion policies.
There are two phases       to the impact.
Impact on European regional policy     Dunford's recommendations were embodied in proposals for the future of EU       regional policy 2014-2020.
In an email to Dunford, the Director of DG       REGIO confirmed that: `a number of your ideas can be found in the       proposals for the future of EU regional policy in the EU,       2014-2020......you alluded to the need for more priority to be given to       reducing global warming and carbon emissions as well as to strengthening       and exploiting more effectively research endowments.
These elements are       right at the heart of the policy for 2014-2020, with a corresponding lower       priority being attached to infrastructure, especially outside the poorest       regions' [C1].
Dunford's contribution to this report was based on his       research on `regional disparities in the European Community' [see Section       3, R1, R5].
He wrote two chapters of the final report of the policy       dialogue on (i) regional definition and classification and (ii) the       allocation of regional finance.
The report made proposals for a revised       set of indicators and priorities, a new regional classification and a       system of financial allocation in the EU, including a proposal for       transition(al) areas.
Impact on Chinese poverty alleviation and regional development policy     Recommendations made by Dunford and his collaborator (former Director       General, DG Regio) who worked on field research and the drafting of       reports for the Chinese State Council Leading Group on Poverty Alleviation       (LGOP) [C8] were reflected in the Chinese poverty alleviation strategy for       14 contiguous poor areas.
This included research conducted (i) after the       2008 Wenchuan earthquake, and (ii) after the 2010 earthquake in the       Tibetan autonomous Prefecture of Yu Shu.
Ideas from Dunford's underpinning       research on Wenchuan [R4] were carried forward into his contribution to       the strategy and planning documents produced for Wuling, which became the       pilot area for the 2011-2020 poverty alleviation strategy focused on 14       `contiguous poor areas', grouping China's poorest regions into 14 larger       macro areas.
This was a programme of national importance.
In his November 2012 speech       setting out the government work plan for the last year of his premiership,       Premier Wen Jiabao announced that this programme was one of the five top       priorities.
He said: `We will implement the 2011-2020 rural poverty       alleviation and development programme and, in accordance with the new       national standards for poverty alleviation, do a good job of all poverty       alleviation and development work, and step up our work in contiguous areas       with particular difficulties to ensure that people in poverty share more       fruits of reform and development' [C5].
In an email, the former Director       General for DG REGIO confirms the importance of Dunford and Meadow's work       to the Chinese poverty alleviation strategy saying: `It would be boastful,       perhaps, to assert that our work influenced policy in China, since       policy-making is essentially a team effort and ex-post it is difficult to       pinpoint the original source of ideas.
But our work was at all times       discussed with policy-makers, did input directly into policy discussions,       and we can see ideas similar to the ones we propounded in final policy       decisions.
As a long-time policy-maker myself, I felt that the work that       Professor Dunford and I achieved contributed to policy development' [C2].
Dunford's involvement came about as a direct result of his work on       European regional policy when he was invited to participate in a       Sino-German regional policy mission, followed by five projects involving       the Deutsche Gesellschaft f&#252;r Internationale Zussammenarbeit (GIZ) [C3]       and the LGOP [C4].
The projects were:            the social impact of the reconstruction plan for Wenchun;       the development of a plan for the reconstruction of Yu Shu;       the Wuling Mountain Area baseline study;       the Wuling Mountain Area study; and       the Wuling Mountain Area plan.
Dunford was involved with Chinese experts in identifying the poverty       situation, the poverty alleviation needs and the impact of past measures       and policy recommendations, and in outlining strategies and plans designed       for the reduction of poverty in these areas.
Although the notion of these       areas had been present for some time, it was not acted upon until 2011,       with the design of the strategies and plans for Wuling and the preparatory       baseline study conducted in four provinces.
Reports were presented at a       series of workshops with participants from a large number of Chinese       government ministries, the UNDP, the World Bank, the Mercy Corps and other       organisations.
Dunford also gave a Plenary Speech at the Fourth ASEAN       Social Forum in Guilin, Guangxi province.
Recommendations from the Wuling strategy and planning documents           that were directly translated into policy     Recommendations made by Dunford and his collaborators and presented in       the final report [C6] were reflected in the final poverty alleviation       programme for the 14 contiguous poor areas.
In a press conference speech       made by Mr FAN Xiao Jian, Minister of the State Council Leading Group       Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development, he said: `Since the       beginning of 2009, the State Council Leading Group of Poverty Alleviation       and Development conducted a series of surveys and researches, and put       forward a train of advice for the improvement of poverty reduction       strategy and policy system.
In February 2010, after listening to the       report on poverty reduction in its 101st routine meeting, the State       Council decided to formulate the new Outline for the new decade, so as to       usher in a new stage for poverty reduction efforts' [C7].
The recommendation that all ministries should be made accountable for         achieving the general goal of poverty alleviation was implemented into a         system of making a different line ministry responsible for each area.
The recommendation that special attention should be paid to the         co-ordinated development of rural and urban areas to ensure that         development policy enhanced regional integration and helped to reduce         the isolation of poor communities was also referenced specifically by Mr         FAN Xiao Jian, who confirmed that `We will extensively mobilise social         aid into poverty reduction, taking social aid and pairing the more         developed provinces and municipalities in the east with the impoverished         regions in the west as an effective model of our poverty reduction'         [C7].
The recommendation that, in establishing plans for the co-ordinated         development of the 14 areas, attention should be paid to ensure that         their economies offer a diverse range of special activities and income         sources to reduce the vulnerability of certain areas to shocks affecting         highly specialised industries was referenced in the Outline as `State         Council departments, local governments at all levels should increase         co-ordination efforts ... improving production and living conditions,         fostering the growth of a number of industries with local advantages,         accelerate pace of regional infrastructure'.
