     The results of the research of the maintenance team have had impact in       several companies with whom we have collaborated and demonstrates       international reach.
DYNAMITE project: Industrial impact has been on-going throughout       and beyond the project.
The project has produced an industrial tool: DynaWeb.
(Evidence 1).
Validation activities of the tool were carried out at four       different sites: Fiat; Volvo; Goratu; and Martintech.
FIAT tested and       demonstrated the integration of 25 Dynamite-inspired hardware and software       components/services.
VOLVO tested an oil sensor system developed within       the project (which measures the oil oxidation/degradation level by means       of visible light spectroscopy).
This was performed in a real industrial       hydraulic system within a production line in the foundry.
GORATU provided       a global demonstration by testing several Dynamite components and their       communication with the Mimosa database.
MARTINTECH conducted a trial       consisting of a simulated application of a stern tube bearing/tail end       shaft assembly from an 8000TEU container ship.
Cycled lube oil was       progressively contaminated with water and particulate matter.
The exercise       "clearly demonstrated considerable benefits from applying the Dynamite       concepts" (Evidence 2).
DYNAMITE was selected as one of the top three EU       research projects at its conclusion, and has "influenced VTT's strategic       research related, to e-engineering and ICT future research directions"       (Evidence 2).
The Sunderland team and the VTT team have worked together on       many EU funded projects and have complementary strengths.
In DYNAMITE       Sunderland provided research expertise in the use of artificial       intelligence technique for condition monitoring.
The E-Maintenance book       (Holmberg, Adgar et al, 2010) which resulted from the work of the DYNAMITE       project is one of the top 25% most downloaded ebooks by Springer in this       category (Evidence 3).
The project has also resulted in eMDSS http://www.e-maintenance.se/       "A unique decision- making system for profitable maintenance decisions       within manufacturing companies such as paper, shipping, energy and       automotive industries, that can estimate future life such as a warehouse       and also link the cost of maintenance, with revenue for fewer       interruptions and less downtime in production."
(Evidence 4).
Lube sensor development within the DYNAMITE project has helped to create       a new spin-off company (www.atten2.com)       (Evidence 5) which has its first product available for the market, an       on-line optical sensor which measures the degree of degradation of       lubricating oils.
OPTFEST and impact at Glenmorangie: The research undertaken in the       OPTFEST project and that which underpins it (Evidence 6) has had       significant impact upon the maintenance strategy now pursued by       Glenmorangie (Evidence 7).
Maintenance has been identified as an integral       part of the business, and they now use a web based maintenance system       Emaint to control the maintenance of their three sites.
The approach taken       is based on the AIMMS model developed by Sunderland.
Glenmorangie have two       distilleries and three production sites.
The AIMMS model underlies the       approach taken across the sites and has also influenced the design of the       production line and the new factory environment.
Glenmorangie used the       results of the OPTFEST project to implement a new maintenance strategy and       embed it within their functional and management structure.
During 2012       almost 5000 preventative maintenance tasks were completed, over 650       reactive tasks were recorded and 80 corrective tasks were completed.
The       impact of this work has been wide ranging, producing a culture change       across the three sites.
Maintenance is now recognised as key to the       business at all levels, including management, engineers and production       operatives (Evidence 6).
Seminars and conference       Research from the group has also fed into industry seminars (Evidence 8).
Comments from delegates include: "This was a useful opportunity to         benchmark and understand current best practices in the industry.
The         presenters were very knowledgeable and their enthusiasm for the subject         was very evident."
Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Ltd; "Excellent         event giving a broad taster into the realm of reliability engineering."
Busch GVT Ltd; "An enjoyable presentation on what can         be a complicated time/cost consuming subject.
Very enjoyable and         accessible."
Sellafield Ltd; "M's presentation was well         put together, he offered a good range and gave enough information to         satisfy."
Alstom Power Ltd.
In 2012 the University hosted MPMM12, the second international       conference of Maintenance, Performance, Measurement and Management, which       followed on from the very successful first edition held in Lule&#229;,       Sweden in 2011.
This highly successful event was attended by 65 delegates       from around the world (Evidence 9).
