     This research has enabled a demonstration vehicle to be built which       verifies the theoretical model with actual test data, and has established       the cost/benefit ratios which can be gained.
Batteries are very heavy and       expensive, so the smaller the battery packs the better.
The impact comes       from the manufacture of CAN control systems that maximise the efficiency       of an electric vehicle Driveline considering electric motor and battery       pack characteristics.
The research aimed to model, and develop, a novel       ultra-high efficient gearbox control system for electric vehicles.
The       project has been developed by the University of Sunderland and Avid       vehicles at Cramlington, UK.
The research has produced technology with a       market lead, which achieves additional efficiency and range that cannot be       matched by competitors.
The resultant product will be manufactured in the       North East by Avid, their partners and sub-contractors.
The estimated       timeframe for introduction to the market is early to mid-2014 (Evidence       1).
The University was invited by the North East Local Enterprise Partnership       (NELEP) (in 2012/13) to produce a report to inform the Lord Andrew       Adonis-led Independent Economic Review: "Analysis of Barriers to Growth in       Key Manufacturing Sectors in the North East Region".
The University was       approached because of its research expertise as outlined above.
This       report (Evidence 2) "made a significant impact on the Independent Economic       Review process".
It was presented to a conference of senior       representatives including the Adonis Review Team, Leaders of local       authorities and business leaders.
The report was then used by the review       team to inform their recommendations to grow the North East's economy.
The       piece of work produced by Sunderland (in early 2013, Evidence 2) "will be       critical in informing strategy going forward.
This will be reflected in       the European Investment Plan that NELEP is preparing, and also in the       Local Growth Plan that each Local Enterprise Partnership has been asked to       produce by Central Government".
In 2012 the University, in conjunction with The Energy and Environmental       Industries Forum (EEIF), held a conference: "Low Carbon Vehicles And Their       Role in the Low Carbon Economy" (Evidence 3) which presented the       "pioneering technology being developed in the region".
A programme is underway (2012) to investigate the use of a range of       conventional and low carbon vehicles in the fleets of the University of       Sunderland and Sunderland City Council including hybrid buses and electric       cars (Evidence 4).
Cost effective strategies for carbon reduction are       being developed with low-Cost tracking units being used to record the       operations of a number of vehicles.
Software developed by the university       will analyse the use of the vehicles and determine best options for carbon       minimisation by identifying options for new charging locations, different       power trains and improved scheduling.
The outcome of the project will be a       strategy for reducing carbon emissions along with a set of tools to allow       on-going improvement in changing circumstances.
The University has played       a major role in the development of the Sunderland Strategy on Low Carbon       Vehicles, which has concluded that "the use of low-carbon vehicles would       positively impact the city environmentally, financially and economically"       and that "the council should consider implementing targets to adopt       electric cars into its fleet" (Evidence 4).
Work on hydrogen cells, in the ECO2Trans project (2009 - 2011) was       evaluated in two hydrogen buses which were tested on the streets of       Sunderland.
Work with Nissan adapted a Nissan Almera (2008) to run from       hydrogen fuel cells.
This research has resulted in a start-up company (in       2011) which is developing a system to extend how far electric vehicles can       travel, making them more commercially viable.
North East firm Inova Power       Ltd http://www.inova-power.com/       has teamed up with the University of Sunderland to commercialise the       breakthrough, which extracts hydrogen from water to power vehicles       (Evidence 5).
Professor Dave Crolla was part of a team of British engineers working on       the Bloodhound Supersonic Car (SSC) project (Evidence 6), which was       described as a "great British engineering adventure" by the Government.
The team was designing a car powered by a Eurofighter Typhoon jet engine       and hybrid rocket that will be capable of about 1,050 mph - twice the       speed of a bullet fired from a handgun.
It is expected the car will be       able to accelerate from 0 to 1,050mph in only 40 seconds.
