     Aerospace NDE: With signal and image processing technology       development driven by aerospace       companies, there is a direct path to impact on their aircraft safety with       increased defect       detectability, assessment reliability and manufacturing competitiveness       with reduced inspection       time and costs.
A good example is production NDE at BAE, who have funded a       series of projects       to industrialise the signal and image processing techniques developed from       research to       radiographic and ultrasonic inspection of large and complex shaped       aerostructures produced using       advanced manufacturing processes1.
In particular, our work has            influenced the development of real-time digital radiographic and         multi-axis ultrasonic NDT         facilities currently being used at its aircraft production site,       significantly reduced the data acquisition and analysis time for         aerostructures manufactured         using SPF/DB of titanium, and       enabled inspection of new aerostructures which would be impractical         with conventional         NDT methods.
Furthermore, the signal and image processing technologies developed for       aerospace NDE have       been extended to submarine NDE2.
[text removed for publication].
Medical NID: By developing image processing software for planning       and monitoring of cancer       radiation therapy, by pioneering dynamic 3D facial scan and joint AE as       new medical diagnosis       tools, the research in medical NID contributes directly to improving the       efficacy of assessing and       monitoring the condition and treatment of cancer and stroke which are two       leading causes of       death, and arthritis which is a major cause of disability.
The significance of the research output for cancer treatment stems for       the plethora of algorithms       and software tools developed for image registration, segmentation,       tracking, deformation modelling       and detection for multi-scale data, starting from cell level, through       tissue level to organ level.
These       software tools are used widely by the ECSON members for various medical       applications3.
A subset       of our image segmentation algorithms is publically available and is one of       the most downloaded       Matlab mathematical packages4.
The success of these tools has       formed the foundation of a new       grand research challenge to understand and model the effects of ionising       radiation on the       biomechanical properties of cells.
The significance of dynamic 3D facial scan lies in its specificity and       sensitivity to detect small facial       changes over time, which could be too subtle for clinicians to notice.
With the method being simple,       fast and non-invasive, it opens up potential clinical applications in       neurological conditions       associated with facial dysfunction.
The initial clinical study was       supported by NIHR to measure       facial symmetry.
Further clinical study would be required, but improved       prediction of prognosis in       conditions such as Bell's palsy would be one example of conceivable       clinical application5.
It has       also led to an FP7 project on a face-based health monitoring mirror       (SEMEOTICONS).
In joint AE, the significance lies in the development of a novel       movement-based joint assessment       using the AE waveform profiles related to dynamic interaction of internal       anatomical components       instead of static imaging based on X-rays, MRI, and ultrasound.
In       addition to being shortlisted in       2011 as the Times Higher Education Research Project of the Year Award       (with Lancaster       University for far-reaching impact and catching the public imagination),       there was a wide media       coverage of the Joint Acoustic Analysis System (JAAS) including BBC news6       and a successful       clinical trial establishing an AE based biomarker for identification of       knee joints in different age       bands and conditions (healthy and osteoarthritic).
JAAS is now       commercially available from       Physical Acoustics7 and is to be used in a large-scale       multicentre longitudinal study funded by the       MRC (MR/K008269/1).
The work was in collaboration with a [text removed for publication], and builds the       foundation for a new discipline of musculoskeletal AE.
Tele-immersive Digital Manufacturing facility (TiM): This was       developed at our Burnley campus       as our vision for the factory of the future that is affordable and       internet-accessible.
It emerged as       an interaction between of the technology push to extend signal and image       processing expertise       (developed for aerospace NDE and medical NID) to big data and the       application pull towards ICT-       enabled manufacturing by the world leading manufacturing companies (from       the aerospace,       automotive, energy, food, nuclear and submarine sectors in the region).
The development has       brought in major investment from the top ICT companies such as CISCO to       provide the state-of-       the-art networking infrastructure8 and has attracted joint       research on future manufacturing with the       centres of manufacturing excellence such as Sheffield AMRC and Warwick WMG       (as evidenced by       a 5-year &gt;&#163;2M project funded by EPSRC, EP/K019368/1).
The facility       offers BAE Systems and its       suppliers an off-site demonstrator plant for the trial run of ICT       technologies to evaluate their impact       on production, provides a platform for cross-fertilisation of ideas on the       factory of the future1 and       accelerates ICT technology take-up by regional SMEs for manufacturing       (with 57 SMEs assisted       through ERDF funded projects of PARADIGM and DigitME).
It has also helped       to create a new       image of manufacturing in young people through outreach activities and in       society through high       profile visits (including senior government ministers such as the       Secretary of State for BIS) and HM       The Queen with HRH Duke of Edinburgh in The Queen's diamond jubilee tour.
All of these have       contributed to the award to Burnley as the Most Enterprising Area in the       UK by BIS in 2013 "for its       on-going commitment to support small and medium sized businesses and for       successfully       reframing perceptions of Burnley"9.
