     Leeds research has led to the introduction of a highly effective drug,       eculizumab, for PNH which has transformed patients lives, returned their       survival to normal, radically reconfigured care services and generated a       huge new pharmaceutical activity.
Eculizumab is the only approved agent       for PNH in Europe, US, Canada, Japan and over 40 other countries and       research in Leeds played a critical role leading to these approvals [A].
Eculizumab was awarded the 2008 Prix Galien USA Award for Best       Biotechnology Product with broad implications for future biomedical       research and the 2009 Prix Galien France Award for Drugs for Rare       Diseases.
Research led by Hillmen from Leeds has reached all patients with       this condition in the developed world and has demonstrated normalization       of overall survival for patients with PNH [A].
The impact on patients'       lives is highly significant and impacts the areas of (i) health and       welfare, (ii) commerce changing PNH from a disease that destroyed the       quality of life of patients, often young adults, leading to the death of       half of patients to one that is effectively managed with most patients       returning to a normal life.
Health outcomes     PNH is a serious blood disorder found in 5 per million population with a       huge impact on quality of life with severe disabling lethargy, severe       intermittent abdominal pain, difficulty swallowing, erectile failure and       life-threatening thrombosis with half dying due to PNH.
3 per million are       severely affected requiring regular transfusions and usually being unable       to work and/or are dependent.
Eculizumab immediately reverses the symptoms       and complications of PNH meaning that patients are able to return to work       and stop supportive therapies, such as transfusions and pain-killers.
Pregnancy is associated with very high maternal mortality (10% to 20%)       meaning that many patients wouldn't risk pregnancy.
We have demonstrated       that eculizumab is safe in pregnancy and markedly reduces the risks with       many women having now had successful pregnancies.
Eculizumab prevents the       complications of PNH meaning that patients can lead near normal lives       including working and contributing to society (6) [B, C, D, E].
This was       demonstrated in 195 patients from the clinical trials, 153 UK patients       managed by Hillmen and colleagues and through the Global PNH Registry       (currently over 2000 patients) and is Chaired by Peter Hillmen.
Approximately 3000 patients have received eculizumab since its initial       approval in 2007 including all eligible patients in the UK and global       sales suggest that this pattern is similar in all developed healthcare       systems.
Eculizumab has a clear, well-documented impact on survival in PNH as       demonstrated by Hillmen's group (Kelly et al., 20126).
Previously half of patients with PNH died within 10 years of diagnosis       with only 25% of patients surviving 25 years which, given the disease is       often diagnosed in early adulthood, has a profound impact.
However       eculizumab normalizes survival in PNH (PNH registry data [F]) compared to       a 5 year mortality of approximately 35%.6 The spectre of PNH       for patients with virtually no quality of life and a high risk of early       death has now been lifted by the use of eculizumab [B-E] which has a high       public profile [G].
Guidelines and Governmental Approvals     PNH has now been nationally funded in many countries worldwide including       the Netherlands, France, Australia, Canada, and Japan as well as being       available in the US, Germany, etc.
Since 2011 eculizumab has been approved       in the US, Europe and Canada for atypical Haemolytic Uraemic Syndrome       (aHUS), previously an untreatable condition leading to renal failure and       premature death.
This approval would not have happened without the PNH       trials [A, B, C].
Changes in service configurations and disease regulation     As a result of our research PNH is designated as a highly specialised       service in England and funded as a National Service through the Advisory       Group for National Specialised Services (AGNSS) [H].
This covers the cost       of the Service (in excess of &#163;1million/year) and the cost of eculizumab       for PNH (approximately &#163;25million/year).
The National PNH Service employs       15 people and contracts homecare nurses to deliver 4000 doses of       eculizumab by intravenous infusion in patients' homes each year.
The approval of eculizumab led to the establishment of the PNH Global       Registry (http://www.pnhsource.com/pnh-registry)       which has enrolled over 2000 patients with PNH.
Hillmen chairs the       Executive Committee of the PNH Registry and Leeds has recruited over 250       patients being the largest Centre globally.
Commercial impacts     The approval of eculizumab for PNH has been an economic success for       Alexion Pharmaceuticals as their only approved drug [I].
The sales of       eculizumab in 2012 were $1.134 billion.
This was highlighted in the       September 2012 edition of Forbes magazine in an article entitled: "How A       $440,000 Drug Is Turning Alexion Into Biotech's New Innovation Powerhouse"       [G].
The current estimated market capitalisation for Alexion is $19billion       making Alexion and the development of eculizumab one of the most       impressive economic successes in the last 10 years [J].
