     This strategic programme of clinical and translational research into       colorectal cancer led from       Leeds has changed clinical guidelines and practice in this common cancer,       nationally and       internationally, benefitting thousands of patients.
Impacts on health and welfare       The MRC CRO7 trial (1) of preoperative radiotherapy, analysed together       with a similar trial from       The Netherlands, has changed clinical practice in the UK and across Europe       by recommending its       use in resectable rectal cancer [A, B].
Nationally this has resulted in an       increase in the overall use       of radiotherapy, and specifically in the one-week regimen used in CR07.
Data from the National       Bowel Cancer Audit for England &amp; Wales [C] show that preoperative       radiotherapy increased by       76% from 1022 patients in 2007/8 to 1803 patients in 2011.
Over the same       period, the use of the       one-week radiotherapy regimen increased by 65% from 416 to 690 patients.
In North America,       where short-course radiotherapy was initially met with resistance, the       2013 National       Comprehensive Cancer Network guidance now states: "Short course RT         gives effective local         control and the same overall survival as more conventional RT schedules         and may therefore be an         appropriate choice" [D].
Patient information from Cancer Research UK       states: "If your tumour can         be operated on, you are likely to have a short course of five         radiotherapy treatments in the week         before surgery."
Trials led by Seymour (2-4) established the "MdG" regimens for aCRC with       high activity, good       tolerability and reduced drug costs that are delivered on an outpatient       basis.
These regimens have       been adopted in national guidelines [E] and, as well as being received by       over 5,000 patients in       trials, they underpin the non-trial management of aCRC in most NHS Units       in England &amp; Wales.
Figures from the national Systemic Anti-cancer Therapy Audit (which       captured around one-half of       all chemotherapy prescribing over 1 year) suggest that around 40,000       cycles of MdG-based       regimens are received by 7,000 patients each year in England &amp; Wales       [F].
Although aCRC is moderately chemo-sensitive, eradication or permanent       control of disease by       drugs alone is rare.
Because of the unwanted effects of drug therapy, and       the development of drug       resistance, oncologists and patients need to make informed choices of       strategy, including the       integration of drug and surgical therapy, the sequencing of available       drugs and the option of drug-free       treatment breaks.
The series of national trials led and co-led by Seymour       has made many       contributions to the evidence-base to guide these decisions.
Complex       decision-making involves       synthesis of data from many sources, but the contribution of his work is       highlighted by the 16       references to FOCUS (2) alone in the current NICE colorectal guidance       evidence review [E].
Similarly, the data from these trials is cited extensively in guidance       documents outside the UK, in       Europe, North America and elsewhere [G, H].
Survival for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer has improved from       median of under a year in       the 1990s to over 2 years today.
Many factors have contributed to this,       including the safe and       practicable regimens and patient-centred management strategies developed       and promulgated       through Seymour's research [I].
The median age at death from colorectal cancer in the UK is 75 years, and       median age at       diagnosis of aCRC is around 73 years.
However, the median age of       participants in most RCTs in       aCRC, even those without formal age restrictions, is 60-65 years.
A UK       survey in 2002 established       that in research-active units around 50% of aCRC patients were being       treated off-trial with lower-intensity       schedules than those used in trials because of concerns from oncologists       or patients       themselves that full-intensity regimens would be unsuitable for them.
FOCUS2, with a median age       of 75, was the first RCT to target this population, using adapted       lower-intensity regimens.
It       provides a unique data source and is used by many oncologists to guide       treatment choices.
Evidence from FOCUS2 is included in international colorectal guidance       documents, including in the       USA and Europe [G, J].
Seymour and Quirke initiated predictive biomarker studies from 1997, and       in 2000 pioneered the       inclusion of prospective consent for future translational research within       a trial, FOCUS.
This       practice is now standard in cancer trials.
The translational outputs from       FOCUS led to the design of       two pioneering prospective stratified medicine trials, FOCUS3 and FOCUS4.
In PICCOLO we       identified, within the KRAS-wt population, 30% patients with mutations       predicting non-response or       harm with anti-EGFR antibody therapy &#8212; a finding with important       consequences for influencing       future practice.
Commercial laboratories worldwide, responding to these       and other corroborating       data, have expanded their mutation panels for molecular stratification of       colorectal cancer patients       [K].
Impacts on practitioners and services       Sebag-Montefiore and Quirke are members of the Steering Committee and       Teaching Faculty for       the national programme for low rectal cancer (LOREC) in England.
Between       2010 and 2012 it       trained 147/164 multidisciplinary rectal cancer teams in England in       improved surgical techniques       and selection of patients for preoperative radiotherapy.
