     Following its inauguration in January 2009, CFLP quickly attracted the       attention of key international practitioners and academics working in the       area of International Family Law.
This interest was particularly linked to       the impact of Professor Freeman's research, which has made a very       significant contribution to the knowledge and practice in this area,       including in relation to the lives of those affected by various related       issues, including: International Child Abduction, Relocation, Forced       Marriages, Mediation, Children's Rights, and Gender.
During the course of CFLP's existence and Freeman's research outputs,       public awareness has undoubtedly been raised in relation both to those       practising (legally and otherwise professionally), as well as those who       are affected by them, that is, victims and their families.
Freeman has       made important contributions to scholarship in this field, producing key       peer-reviewed journal articles, delivering keynote conference papers, and       contributing by invitation to international policy debates.
Further, her       work has influenced the development and shape of the law by the effect it       has had on legal practitioners and judges.
It has been cited repeatedly by       members of the judiciary in their judgments, still a relatively rare       occurrence, which provides a cogent indication of its practical value,       reach and significance both domestically and internationally.
The success       of the CFLP and its work has resulted in the appointment of Jacqueline       Mburu as Research Assistant on the University Responses to Forced Marriage       and Violence Against Women project from July 2012, and Sonalini       Gunasekera, as an Intern/Research Assistant on the Long-Term Effects of       Abduction project between November and December 2012.
Freeman is an internationally-renowned authority in international child       law, was a long-term member of the Legal Working Group advising the       All-Party Parliamentary Committee on International Child Abduction until       its recent dissolution, and has been approached to become involved with       the successor to that group.
She publishes widely and is regularly invited       to address both national and international conferences on her work, often       as keynote speaker, and to participate in multi-disciplinary working       groups operating in her areas of expertise.
She was invited to address the       prestigious International Judicial Conference on Cross Border Family       Relocation, Washington DC, March 2010, where she co-presented a paper       detailing the global research in this area for the international experts       in attendance which has become a welcome resource concerning the available       conflicted research in this area.
The written and broadcast media have       been keen to disseminate information about Freeman's research and       associated activities.
Baroness Hale of Richmond, a former academic and a member of the Supreme       Court with a keen interest in the development of Family Law, is the very       active Patron of the CFLP and is often involved in its activities.
Lord       Justice Thorpe, Head of International Family Justice, England and Wales,       is an important supporter of the CFLP and Professor Freeman's work.
Many       academics and researchers are keen to contribute to the work of CFLP, and       many attended the inaugural CFLP Summer School on "Children and the Law"       in 2010.
The CFLP's on-line, peer-reviewed journal continues the aim of bringing       together the academic and practical perspectives of Family Law.
It has an       editorial board which includes key academics, lawyers, and judges.
The       regard in which the CFLP and Professor Freeman are held by the       international community is evidenced in the success of the       multi-disciplinary international inaugural conference which the CFLP held       in 2010 on the linked themes of International Child Abduction, Forced       Marriage and Relocation, and the overwhelming response to the follow-up       conference in July 2013 on Parentage, Equality and Gender, which attracted       over 200 delegates.
The Call for Papers for the 2013 conference received       approximately 150 responses, with accepted presentations from 25 different       countries, and renowned academics and researchers so eager to participate       that a waiting list had to be created for speaking places.
