     Curtis's research into developing new approaches to placement learning       has had significant impact on placement practices in at least eight other       universities in the UK, benefiting both undergraduate students and       academic staff (Huddersfield, Keele, Leeds, Nottingham Trent, Royal       Holloway, Salford, Sheffield Hallam and the University of East Anglia).
Curtis' research exemplifies public impact via (1) engagement with       colleagues at other HE institutions (see the five testimonials in section       5 below) and (2) relevant publications and conference papers.
His article       `Learning in Public: Connecting Politics Students with Practitioners in       "the Edgeless University"', in the Political Studies Association's       magazine Political Insight (2010), was particularly important in       this respect because of its wide circulation among both HE colleagues and       students.
Curtis' work with colleagues at the universities of Keele, Huddersfield       and Leeds in 2007-08 and Sheffield Hallam University in 2010, helped their       Politics departments develop new or revise existing placement learning       schemes better to suit their students' needs and curricular requirements.
The impact was highly noticeable at Huddersfield, where the relevant       placement tutor significantly revised the existing approach to placement       learning by reducing the length of placements from ten to three weeks and       by encouraging his students to blog about their experiences on the HEI's       virtual learning environment.
This made the placement experience much more       popular with students and improved significantly their engagement with the       process.
Lecturers at Leeds, Keele and Sheffield Hallam also altered their       placements, or their plans to introduce placement learning, as a result of       the application of the results of Curtis's research.
Lecturers at Leeds       were primarily concerned about matters of social inclusion, as they saw       the value of short placements in terms of providing experiential learning       opportunities for students with part-time jobs and family commitments, as       had been demonstrated by Curtis's research and publications.
Curtis's publications and conference papers have also had an impact at       other HEIs, such as Salford and UEA.
One of these publications (Curtis et       al.
2009b), published in a PSA journal with wide readership, influenced       how placement learning was introduced at Nottingham Trent University in       particular (see the reference section 5 below).
In addition, as a result       of Curtis's published work and presentations, UEA adopted short       internships in Brussels in relation to an EU-focused undergraduate module.
Curtis organised a two-day conference in June 2008 on placement learning       and other innovative approaches to learning and teaching in politics,       attracting delegates from NGOs, local government and lecturers in the       Politics discipline.
The experiences of a local government officer and an       NGO organiser can be found in the collection of papers which grew out of       the conference (Curtis and Blair 2010).
In recognition of the impact of his research and teaching in this area,       Curtis was appointed national Discipline Associate for Politics and       International Relations at the Higher Education Academy's (HEA) former       Subject Network for Sociology, Anthropology and Politics (C-SAP) (2010-11)       and he is currently (late-2013) Discipline Lead for Politics at the HEA.
In these roles he has organised workshops (e.g., on issues in teaching       European Studies), facilitated sessions in early career events for       colleagues new to teaching, and has visited departments to help them       develop their teaching practice.
Curtis is co-founder and co-chair of the British International Studies       Association's (BISA) Learning and Teaching Working Group (BLT), which aims       to promote the scholarship of learning and teaching in IR.
In this       capacity he has convened panels at annual BISA conferences and organised       one-day workshops on IT-assisted learning and teaching, assessment and       feedback practices in Politics and International Relations, and teaching       research methods.
He has been co-opted onto the Executive Committee and       the Learning and Teaching and Outreach Subcommittees of BISA and appointed       chair of BISA's Teaching and Learning Committee, helping to shape its       initiatives regarding the promotion and professionalization of teaching in       the discipline and promoting the study of the Global Politics units of the       A level in Government and Politics, including liaising with the chief       examiner of these units over plans to produce a textbook on the subject       for sixth form students.
