     This study concerns the public understanding of the `home front' during       the First World War.
The forthcoming centenary of the start of this war is       of international interest.
Since 2010, Smith has acted as an advisor for       the BBC family history series, Who Do You Think You Are?, where       recent shows have linked with growing interest in the First World War and       family life on the home front (Contact 4 below).
Smith's published       research (items 2 and 3 above) has shed light on family myths being       investigated by the programme's researchers and has led to the content of       several programmes being altered to clarify the experiences of the       families of men who died during the war, particularly their relationship       with the State.
The programme is screened on BBC1 and attracts a regular       audience of about six million viewers.
It is repeated at various times on       BBC1 and also on the Freeview channel, Yesterday.
At the talk given to the Gilpin WI, about 80 women (and one man!)
were       present and many were able to gain an insight intotheir own family       histories, with several women pointing out that their grandmothers had       been war widows so this talk had enhanced understanding of their lives.
The talk also highlighted that the widows' pension scheme, on which       several of the women present draw, was based on the war widows' pension,       and, by pointing out the similarities but also the differences between the       two schemes, audience gained a greater understanding of their own       situations.
To engage school children with this historical context, a regional museum       sought to develop events that would enhance understanding of and interest       for the children and wider community.
Smith's long-term academic research       underpins this project (items 1, 2, 3 and 4 above).
One invited paper       delivered at the NECLL in January 2012 gave rise to Smith's details being       passed to the community learning coordinator at Beamish Museum (Contact 1       below).
She contacted Smith in August 2012 to discuss developing their       research into the home front in Sunderland with Smith's wider       understanding of the national perspective.
The Beamish project involved schools from North Sunderland:     Five primary schools: Town End Academy, Bexhill, Hastings Hill, Grange       Park and St Benet's (total 193 pupils);     Two secondary schools: Redhouse Academy and Monkwearmouth (total 240       pupils).
Pupils from these schools took part in a pilot of the Beamish project in       November/December 2012 in preparation for the wider-reaching project to       run in 2014.
This involved a community event held at Southwick and       Monkwearmouth libraries (168 members of the community attended), which was       open to the wider public, as well as school field trips tothe Beamish       Museum site.
In the case of the secondary schools, one of the project's       aims was to develop literacy levels amongst the pupils through the use of       key vocabulary terms and concepts to create newspaper articles reflecting       the experience of the home front and the trenches.
This aim was recorded       as being successful when students' levels were assessed after the project,       and, more generally, the project introduced the students to different       modes of communication.
Steve Newman, Head of History at Redhouse Academy,       commented that `The project has enhanced the learning and literacy of my       students.
The top class produced written work better than hitherto - on       average one sub-level higher per student, which is remarkable.'
The       Southwick event was reported by local press:       http://www.sunderlandecho.com/what-s-on/sunderland-children-research-history-of-first-world-war-soldiers-1-5435315       and on the museum's web site:       http://www.beamish.org.uk/sunderland-library-project/.The       Museum also used       information from this pilot project in its activities later in the year:       ttp://www.thenorthernecho.co.uk/news/10682651.Consett_to_mark_World_War_One_centenary/     The `home front' element of this project is built around Smith's research       (items 1, 2, 3 and 4 above), as well as her donation of several artifacts       to engage pupils in Boy'sactivitiesOwn during their contact       with the museum (particularly bound copies of magazine from this period).
Mr Newman atRedhouse Academy commented that this project `engaged students       and deepened their knowledge'.
Further details of the project appeared in       the Beamish Magazine (print run of 2,500 copies), which is distributed to       Friends of Beamish, people on the Museum's mailing list (including MPs,       councils, other museums and related bodies nationally and internationally,       local and national media), and is sold in the Museum's gift shop.
As a registered charity, Beamish seeks additional funding from a variety       of bodies and uses such outreach events to appeal directly to the local       council and members of parliament for further funding, as well as       reinforcing their case for the long- standing funding from Arts Council       England and the Heritage Lottery Fund.
