     The impact in areas of civil society and cultural life is evident in       Bakari's input to: education and       training; cultural policy; archiving, and through engagement with a       variety of audiences.
Under Bakari's directorship ZIFF addressed the problems of networks and       co-operation as a       strategy for film-making and cultural development.
African Tales       as a project offered a model for       professional film training, with related educational workshops having an       impact on the production       and distribution of films in Africa, and on the audio-visual culture and       social life of the region.
There       has also been impact on European perception of the diversity of film       culture [ref.
5.1].
Furthermore, Bakari's research on the creative industries in Tanzania has       had an impact on       cultural policy in relation to sustainable development in Africa.
It was       used as the basis of Erick       Kajiru's paper for the UNESCO National Commission, `The potential of the       Culture Sector to       contribute to National Economy and Development in Tanzania' (2010) [ref.
5.2], whilst Bakari's       Culture and Creative Industries in Tanzania: A Plan for Strategic Action       (2012) [ref.
5.3] was       commissioned by UNESCO in conjunction with the Tanzania Ministry of       Information, Youth,       Culture and Sport.
The Plan for Strategic Action has been accepted by       UNESCO as a blueprint for       its ongoing work with the Tanzania government in the culture sector.
These       studies formed the       basis for Bakari's subsequent intervention at the 2nd African Creative       Economy Conference (2012)       organised by the Arterial Network, a formally-constituted African network       of creative industry       companies, artists, institutions and non-government organisations       advocating the cultural       dimension of development [ref.
5.4].
As Bakari argues in his 2007 article `Colonialism and Modern Lives in       African Cinema', projects       such as African Tales and Big City Stories can aid the       process of social transformation as they       unite communities and encourage dialogue about cultural identities through       the medium of film.
Bakari increased public access to London's screen heritage through       screenings and linked training       and educational projects [ref.
5.5].
In the case of Big City Stories       the initiative was specifically       designed to identify curatorial talent amongst the Black community, and       included a       mentoring/trainee component directed by the curators.
Launched at the       Ritzy Picture House on 26       March 2011 as part of the cinema's 150th anniversary celebrations, Big         City Stories has       subsequently been screened at the British Film Institute (12 April 2011)       and the Bargehouse (23-25       September 2011) on London's South Bank, to a combined audience of 435       people.
In October       2011 Big City Stories was selected as one of only two films to be       shown as part of The Gate       Cinema's Schools Education Screenings to celebrate Black History Month's       theme of Dreams and       Aspirations [ref.
5.6].
A total of 500 year five and six (Key Stage 2)       pupils from London attended       the screenings, which were supplemented with teaching resource packs and       pre-screening       discussions led by cine-literary educators and storytellers.
Additional       screenings as part of Black       History Month included those at Bruce Castle Museum, Haringey (24 October       2011) and St       Mungo's homeless shelter, Hammersmith (28 October 2011), to a combined       audience of 65.
Big       City Stories has also been shown at a number of prestigious international       film festivals, including       the Brighton Legacy Film Festival (30 October 2011) [ref.
5.7] and the       Hastings Festival (22       October 2011) to a combined audience of 80.
The cinema chain Picture House       programmed the       title for two of its weekly Reminiscence Screenings and on 9 May 2011, 59       people saw Big City         Stories at Greenwich Picturehouse, with 42 in attendance at Brixton       Picturehouse on 17 May 2011.
Photographic documentation of the events' wide audience constituency can       be found at the       project's website: http://www.blacklondonfilmheritage.org/gallery.php.
Comments on Big City Stories' Facebook page mention feelings of       pride and an increased sense       of community from having witnessed the film compilation [ref.
5.8].
This       is further supported by the       project's evaluation report which states that interest in regional and       local heritage and awareness       of other cultures and lifestyles had been enhanced as a result of       attending a Big City Stories       screening.
The report also explains that a knock-on effect of the       screenings has been the increase       in interest in the use of museums, libraries and archival material and       that for 65% of attendees this       was their first experience of participating in such an event.
100% of       respondents indicated an       interest in seeking out a similar event in the future and also stated that       they would recommend       such an event to others.
Of those questioned 78% said that attending the       screening had enhanced       their knowledge of the topic [ref.
5.9].
Featured in The South London Press (8 April 2011), Big City Stories       also attracted international       attention from Jamaican newspaper The Gleaner (22 May 2011) and television       channel VOX Africa       (7 April 2011) &#8212; the first pan-African TV channel - due to its important       role in re-appropriating and       celebrating lost Black histories.
Airwave coverage was provided by       London-based licensed radio       stations Voice of Africa (30 November 2011) and Colourful Radio (23 April       2011) [refs 10-13].
An important aspect of the Big City Stories project is providing       a legacy for future research in the       field, thus encouraging the wider programming of similar films using this       under-resourced area of       London's film heritage.
Big City Stories is currently held at the       London Screen Archives and       Birkbeck College Archives and has been made available for non-commercial       use by community       groups, film societies and for educational projects, reaching as wide an       audience as possible.
Big         City Stories provided the basis for Bakari's invited contributions       to the Africa in the Picture film       festival (Amsterdam, 2012) and the Runnymede Trust's Generation 3.0       initiative (2012) to `end       racism within a generation.'
The annual Africa in the Picture film       festival increases the social and       cultural visibility of African stories, whilst the Generation 3.0 project       provides a public forum for       debates about British identity and changing attitudes towards race       equality [ref.
5.14].
Bakari's research on the representation of African Caribbean people in       cinema has thus had       impact in the areas of civil society and cultural life (in Tanzania and       London in particular),       evidenced through his involvement in professional film training, curation       and educational       workshops; screenings and public discussions, and input to policy showing       how creative industries       can aid social cohesion by encouraging public debate and being part of a       productive creative       economy.
