     IMPACT CLAIM 1: Our research on next generation mobile applications           and services led to           the creation of a unique business assistance programme for SMEs in           Wales.
The research on next generation networks, services and applications laid       the foundation for the       business case for the &#163;5million Centre of Excellence in Mobile       Applications and Services approved       in September 2010 that aims at providing research and application       development to SMEs in Wales       (2010-2015).
The Centre is funded by the Welsh European Funding Office       using the European       Regional Development Fund to give companies in Wales a competitive       advantage in the areas of       the research of the centre through its 18 staff.
By July 2013, the Centre       has provided assistance in       forms of research and development services to 66 companies, developed 28       products (4 in IP       protection process with CEMAS support).
The Centre is having real impact       including the formation       of 6 new companies, creating 8 jobs and further opportunities in the area.
Many of these projects       were based on current research results in the group on sensor networks and       VoIP and their       integration into apps.
A product developed by CEMAS ("HorseRation") for Arkirus Ltd received a       British Equine Trade       Association Award for Innovation in February 2013.
Acknowledging the impact of CEMAS, the funders approved a further &#163;500K       funding in July 2013       increasing thus the size of the project to &#163;6.4million.
IMPACT CLAIM 2: Research on video streaming and transcoding led to           formation of a new           spin off company:       Part of the research on video to the mobile using SIP and 3G technologies       has been filed as a       patent (UK Patent Application No 1009435.7) and a company called Glamex       Security Ltd with       external investment over &#163;220k was formed in 2009.
It has developed the       system called       "LiveGuard".
The "LiveGuard" product is innovative, as it comprises the       results of the research       published in [2][3] and [5] and other publications by the group regarding       video streaming over       multiple networks including transcoding and is implemented on Android to       be embedded in       consumer devices such as Smart TVs.
The company has won two major       contracts for sites in       Wales (Japanese Car parts Manufacturer, Jtekt) and South Africa (KLT Car       parts Factory) in       addition to 5 smaller installations in 2012 with overwhelming positive       feedback.
In May 2013,       Glamex secured a further &#163;400k investments and is creating distribution       channels in 5 international       regions.
Additionally an agreement for partnership is being finalised with       the National Federation of       Retail Newsagents (NFRN) which represents over 16500 news and convenience       retailers across       the UK and Ireland.
The product developed by the team was a finalist for the "Best CCTV       System of the Year" at the       IFSEC International Security Exhibition in Birmingham in May 2012.
It was       also featured as the       "Security Solutions Company of the Month" by the "Building and Facilities       News" a widely       distributed industry magazine in July 2012 (Issue 886).
IMPACT CLAIM 3: our research on next generation networks and IMS,           in particular, as well           as on disaster scenarios is contributing to the creation of world           first Mission Critical Voice           over LTE (MC VoLTE) over 4G networks.
General Dynamics has commissioned collaborative research (through its EDGE       programme) and       consultancy services from Professor Al-Begain and his team to support       developing and optimising       the world first MC VoLTE based on Push-to-Talk technology with high level       quality constraints.
The       system will be based on components developed by the team such as the       GenXfone IMS client and       the SIP-based Push 2 talk Server.
IMPACT CLAIM 4: Research on sensor applications and NFC led to the           development of           MOCAD (Mobile Carer Assistant System).
The research team has developed a novel cost effective system that uses       non-intrusive technology       to monitor the normal daily behaviour of elderly people to establish       normal behavioural patterns.
This allows the detection for any change in behaviour that might be a       symptom of dementia or       other aging related diseases.
In the same context, the team developed an innovative methodology and a       tool (MOCAD) for       monitoring carers' attendance including scheduling, recording visits and       providing assistance to       carers to provide more efficient service to patients using the combination       of GPS (Global       Positioning System) and NFC (Near Field Communications) technologies in an       innovative way.
Care System Integration Ltd is utilising these services in systems for       councils in England and       Wales with a pilot of 45 units in the Rhonda Cynon Taff in Wales.
Larger       scale deployment is       planned in Liverpool as part of a &#163;2million TSB funded project (Caring       Cloud) that includes also the       mobile operator O2 and others.
IMPACT CLAIM 5: The research on the Hybrid communications system           that comprises both           Mobile Ad hoc networks and sensor networks is influencing the           standardisation efforts in           the final EC COST290 report and the Autonomous network theme and in           particular their           usage for emergency systems.
Our research outputs have influenced the COST 290 project and have also       been included in the       Final report of the COST 290 project.
Professor Al-Begain co-authored       Chapter 4 of the final report       on Mobility and contributed to editing the final report.
