     Context     "Insurance underwriters evaluate the risk and exposures of potential       clients.
...
Underwriting involves measuring risk exposure and determining       the premium that needs to be charged to insure that risk.
... Each       insurance company has its own set of underwriting guidelines to help the       underwriter determine whether or not the company should accept the risk.
The information used to evaluate the risk of an applicant for insurance       will depend on the type of coverage involved.
...
Depending on the type of       insurance product, insurance companies use automated underwriting systems       to encode these rules, and reduce the amount of manual work in processing       quotations and policy issuance.
This is especially the case for certain       simpler life or personal lines insurance."
[Wikipedia: Insurance Underwriting]     "Insurance underwriting is a complex decision-making task traditionally       performed by trained individuals.
...
Specializing to life insurance,       there is a natural dichotomy in applicants &#8212; those who have medical       impairments (such as hypertension or diabetes) and those who do not (who       are "clean").
Clean case underwriting is relatively simple and we have       been able to represent it by a compact set of fuzzy logic rules.
Impaired       underwriting is more difficult, as the applicant's medical data is more       complex.
Underwriters thus use more judgment and experience in these       cases.
Therefore, rather than create an enormous and un-maintainable fuzzy       rule base, we turned to CBR to handle the impaired cases."
[I1 p15].
Genworth Financial, a spin-off from the insurance business of GE, is one       of the largest insurance and financial services holding companies in the       U.S. Its GENIUS&#8482; digital underwriting tool exploits previous insurance       cases to underpin the decision support it provides to assist human       underwriters assess life and health insurance applications.
Pathway to Impact     Our introspective learning methods had been well publicised at       International and European CBR conferences and IJCAI during the period       2000-2002 including [R3,R5].
These conferences were attended by CBR       researchers from GE Global Research working on innovative applications of       AI.
Our generic GA-based Self-Optimising Retrieval [R1,R5] inspired the       evolutionary approach to tuning CBR parameters in General Electric's       SOFT-CBR tool [I1].
Our work was explicitly credited during the       SOFT-CBR presentation at the 5th International Conference on       Case-Based Reasoning [I2].
One particularly successful application       of SOFT-CBR was GE's Digital Underwriting Tool for automating the       underwriting of insurance applications [I1-I4].
In order to protect IP associated with Self-Optimising Retrieval       for insurance underwriting, GE filed the patent Process for case-based         insurance underwriting (November 2010):     "A process for at least a partial underwriting of insurance policies         is described.
Based on the similarity to previous insurance         applications, a decision on the current request for underwriting may be         made.
This decision-making process represents an analogical approach to         the placement of an insurance application to an underwriting category,         whereby a given insurance application request is compared to previous         requests."
[I5].
This was extended beyond retrieval to Introspective CBR, together       with a similar introspective learning for fuzzy rules, with the patent Process         for optimization of insurance underwriting (March 2011):     "A robust process for automating the tuning and maintenance of         decision-making systems is described.
A configurable multi-stage         mutation-based evolutionary algorithm optimally tunes the decision         thresholds and internal parameters of fuzzy rule-based and case-based         systems that decide the risk categories of insurance applications.
The         tunable parameters have a critical impact on the coverage and accuracy         of decision making, and a reliable method to optimally tune these         parameters is critical to the quality of decision-making and         maintainability of these systems."
[I6]     In all, 16 US patents have been granted for the Digital Underwriting Tool       [I7].
Genworth Financial was spun off from GE's insurance business in the       largest IPO of 2004, for $2.8 billion.
At the time of the IPO, stock       analysts specifically cited digital underwriting as one of the key       advantages Genworth has over its competitors.
The patents played a       critical role in the valuation of Genworth [I3, I4, I8].
Reach and Significance     Genworth is now one of the largest insurance and financial services       holding companies in the U.S.
It is a Fortune 500&#174; company with       more than $100 billion in assets, $1-5 billion revenue, 6000 employees,       and a presence in more than 25 countries [I9].
At Genworth, the digital underwriting tool is now called GENIUS&#8482;, and is       the responsibility (from an underwriting standpoint) of the Chief       Underwriter [I10].
GENIUS&#8482; sets up the cases for the underwriters       and new business associates, receives requirements, and manages work.
When       a new case is received, GENIUS&#8482; walks the application through the       underwriting process, alerting the underwriters and new business       associates to relevant tasks.
The use of GENIUS&#8482; within Genworth is       significant; it processes all life insurance applications &#8212; currently 2000       per week.
Although a digital underwriting tool might be expected to provide       decision-making, by proposing insurance solutions automatically, only 3-4%       of Genworth's applications are processed automatically, and an underwriter       nevertheless still touches all these cases.
Instead the main purpose of       GENIUS&#8482; is to provide decision support to the underwriters by suggesting a       course of action, highlighting issues that should be taken into account,       and proposing solutions.
As a tool supporting human underwriters, it is       important that its assistance is evidence-based; i.e.
captured from       previous insurance cases.
GENIUS&#8482; uses evidence from 9 years worth of       insurance cases.
One of the main advantages is how it presents information to the       underwriters.
For example when laboratory data is received, GENIUS&#8482; makes       a first pass at evaluation by highlighting to the underwriter things that       are abnormal and things that should be checked; e.g.
when blood test       results are received; perhaps check liver enzymes.
In this way GENIUS&#8482;       provides relevant information about the case being considered to the       underwriter and helps the underwriter make sound decisions.
The biggest advantage of GENIUS&#8482; is in Genworth's New Business       department, where a 40% improvement in productivity was achieved.
The       impact of GENIUS&#8482; for underwriting in general is in improved consistency,       and for underwriting, consistency is very important.
There is no empirical       evidence of the improvement in consistency, but the decision support that       GENIUS&#8482; provides is repeatable in what it flags as normal/abnormal, and       this influences the subsequent decision-making.
