     Impact (1):       Brookman's research on the aetiology of homicide and her development of       homicide typologies       has led to an increased awareness and understanding of how the nature and       circumstances of       homicide impact upon opportunities for investigation.
The indicators of       this impact can be found in       the Murder Investigation Manual [1].
On the first page of the 299 page       publication, the manual       cites Brookman's book on homicide and reproduces her typology of types of       homicide and a       classification of the relationship between the location of homicides and       the method of attack.
The       first four pages of the manual in effect summarise the contents of her       book.
The section summary       based on Brookman's research concludes: `Understanding the different       circumstances in which       homicide is committed ... will assist SIO's (Senior Investigating       Officers) to plan an effective       investigative strategy' [1] (p.25).
The Murder Investigation Manual (MIM)       is seen as the definitive       guide on homicide investigation, by practitioners and policy makers alike.
It is used to underpin       the training and development of SIOs and has become a reference point for       the investigation of       all types of major crime.
Brookman's research was the only academic       publication referred to in       the manual.
Impact (2):       The recommendations to broaden the outcome measures of homicide       investigation were made to       the Programme Manager of the International Association of Chief of Police       (IACP) in person       during spring 2012, in Washington, D.C., when she visited the IACP Head       Offices and later in a       presentation at the Homicide Open Forum held at the Annual IACP Conference       in San Diego in       September 2012.
[2] Professor Brookman was invited to speak at the       conference by the       Programme Manager of the IACP [3].
Brookman proposal for using new ways of       evaluating police       performance in homicide investigation were later included in the       directives of the International       Association of Chiefs of Police titled, 10 Things Chiefs can do to         Positively Impact Homicide         Investigation Outcomes.
[4] The 10th directive was called       `Measure beyond closure' and included       a reference to Brookman's article with Innes as well as listing the four       distinct measures of       investigative success.
The directives proposed that investigators should       start tracking and       measuring this broader range of investigative impacts instead of focusing       exclusively upon case       closure.
These recommendations derived directly from her research and from       the knowledge       obtained about homicide investigation while conducting research in the US       and the UK.
Impact (3):       During her recent fieldwork in Prince George's County, Maryland, in the       US, Professor Brookman       produced a Homicide Investigation Research Briefing which included a       recommendation to       introduce Family Liaison Officers (FLO's) in the department in order to       enhance the treatment of       the families of homicide victims.
[5] The insights for these schemes came       directly from her       knowledge of their successful operation in the UK.
The Deputy Chief of       Police wrote to Dr       Brookman to thank her for what he described as, `...really good       suggestions on how the Homicide       Unit should be sharing information with family members of homicide victims       in order to keep them       updated on the development of the investigation', and indicated in the       email that he will be looking       closely at adopting the strategy.
[6] At the current time, the Research       Briefing has been submitted       to the Chief of Police for consideration.
[6]     Current developments       In the last few years, Brookman has established the Criminal Investigation       Research Network       (CIRN) to enhance international communication and cooperation among, in       particular, homicide       investigators.
[7] CIRN is an international major crime investigation       network that aims to advance       knowledge on the theory and practice of criminal investigation with a       particular focus upon       homicide and major crime.
The network currently spans the UK, North       America, Australia and the       Netherlands and includes academics, current and former detectives,       detective trainers and       forensic scientists.
The CIRN website lists around 40 current members       mainly from among high-ranking       serious crime investigators and academic researchers.
The members were       recruited       initially from the symposium mentioned earlier organised by Brookman in       Cardiff in 2010 [8] as       well as attendees of her roundtable discussion group on homicide held at       the American Society of       Criminology (ASC) Conference in Chicago in November 2012.
[9] A meeting       for all members is       scheduled for the next ASC conference due to take place in Atlanta in       November 2013.
[10]
