     Fish vaccines are essential for maintaining aquaculture production in the       face of widespread       bacterial diseases, which would otherwise constrain production of an       essential human food source.
Around 205000 tonnes of rainbow trout and 150000 tonnes of sea bass and       bream are produced in       the EU annually, worth some 1 billion Euros in total (see EC and FAO       reports, in Section 5 below).
The work at HWU directly results in excess of half-a-billion doses of       fish vaccines being released to       market in Europe each year.
This equates to treatment of more than 25% of       trout and 70% of sea       bass and sea bream produced across Europe each year.
The vaccines tested       include AquaVac&#8482;       ERM, AquaVac&#8482; ERM oral and AquaVac&#8482; Relera (vaccines against ERM of which       there were       195 million doses in 2012); AquaVac&#8482; Furovac and AquaVac&#8482; FNMplus       (vaccines against       furunculosis); AquaVac&#8482; Vibrio injection/immersion, AquaVac&#8482; Vibrio oral       (vaccines against       vibriosis of which there were 250 million doses in 2012), and AquaVac&#8482;       Pastuerella (vaccine       against photobacteriosis, of which there were 110 million doses in 2012).
The original research at HWU led directly to the production and       subsequent development of       commercialised vaccines which are currently in use.
For example, in       relation to ERM, caused by       Yersinia ruckeri bacteria, approximately 158 million trout are       treated annually with either ReleraTM       or ERM vaccines released to market as a result of quality assurance       undertaken by HWU.
New       strains of the ERM pathogen were originally identified at HWU, resulting       in the development of the       improved ReleraTM vaccine, and research at HWU showed that this       vaccine was effective against a       range of emerging strains.
This observation has in turn opened-up new       markets for the vaccine in       eastern and central Europe over the last two years.
A senior manager at       MSD Animal Health       confirmed that HWU studies "of cross-protection undertaken at HWU         examining the efficacy of this         vaccine against novel emerging strains of the disease opened-up new         market opportunities in         Eastern and Central Europe" [S1].
The figure of 25% of European trout being treated with these two vaccines       is based on the       following data: the European trout production is 205000 tonnes (2007)       (European Commission       2012a) worth 580 million Euros, at an average production weight of 300 g       (FAO, 2013)       representing 600 million trout per aunnum.
Trout vaccines (ERM) supplied =       157.5 million fish (60       million priming doses Relera; 97.5 million priming doses ERM vaccine) =       approx.
26% of European       trout production treated using Relera and ERM vaccines released to market       on the basis of testing       at HWU.
Others vaccines developed are used in the protection of marine species       (sea bass and sea bream)       in the Mediterranean against vibriosis and photobacteriosis.
A senior       co-ordinator from the       Schering Plough Animal health confirmed "the key role which research         ... at Heriot-Watt University         has played in the testing and marketing of several fish vaccines         produced by MSDAH, including         Relera&#8482;, ERM vaccine and several of the Aquavac range of vaccines         against vibriosis" [S2].
Sea       bream production (85 000 tonnes p.a., mean fish size = 500 g in 2007       (European Commission       2012a)) represents 170 million fish, whilst sea bass production (58000       tonnes per annum, mean       fish size = 400g (ibid.))
represents 145 million fish, giving a combined       total of 315 million fish per       annum worth some 470 million Euros (European Commission 2012a).
Thus, up       to 231 million of       these two species (over 70%) are treated with vaccines derived from       research at HWU and made       available through market release quality control tests required by       regulators also undertaken at       HWU.
One of MSD Animal Health's Directors [S3] can confirm the       importance of HWU research to       their global business, especially in relation to salmonids.
The beneficiaries of the vaccine release work conducted at HWU include       the vaccine production       company (MSDAH) which has derived and developed significant commercial       products; European       fish farm companies which experience substantially reduced losses to       disease; European fish       processors the supply stream for which is assured in the absence of       disease induced losses;       European fish retailers for which the supply chain is more predictable for       the same reasons;       European fish consumers for whom access to a healthy and popular food is       maintained and       improved; the fish in terms of improved welfare (reduced suffering from       debilitating and fatal       disease); and the environment because of reduced use of harmful chemical       treatments and       antibiotics.
The nature of the benefits to humans are in terms of improved       food security from trout,       sea bream and sea bass; safeguarding of profitability and thus       sustainability of the industries       producing these fish; reduction of disease reservoirs in aquaculture       leading to protection of wild       fish populations; and reduction of antibiotic use in fish farms and       consequently reduced potential       for induction of antibiotic resistance in environmental bacteria.
