     As the founding series editor of `Welsh Women's Classics', which up to       2011 was entitled `Honno       Classics', Aaron (with Katie Gramich as co-editor of the series from       1997-2008) has ensured the       wider recognition and appreciation of Welsh women's achievement as       writers, internationally as       well as in Wales itself.
In 1997 the works of virtually none of the       authors reprinted in the series       were in the public domain and they had not been for generations.
Today       sales of `Welsh Women's       Classics' total over 14,000; best sellers amongst them include the short       story anthology A View         Across the Valley: Short Stories by Women from Wales1850-1950 edited       by Aaron (1,648 sales,       and currently on the English literature syllabus at the universities of       Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff       and Swansea); a poetry anthology, Welsh Women's Poetry 1460-2001       eds.
Katie Gramich and       Catherine Brennan (1,369 sales); and, among the individual novels, Menna       Gallie's The Small         Mine (1,531 sales) and Amy Dillwyn's The Rebecca Rioter       (1,282 sales).
While these figures       indicate its reach, the significance of the series is evinced by public       recognition of its appeal as an       unique and pioneering project, and by its influence, in particular, on the       teaching and researching       of Welsh writing in English at the higher education institutions of Wales.
(In the data provided       below, care has been taken entirely to exclude all reference to teaching,       research and publishing       by USW staff and students.)
In fact, a quiet revolution has occurred in Welsh writing in English       studies.
During the       twentieth century, very few women authors were included in its canon; in       1989, for example, the       only Welsh woman writer taught in Aberystwyth University's English       department, one of the few       which at the time offered Welsh writing in English modules, was the       Welsh-language novelist Kate       Roberts, taught in translation.
Since Honno commenced operations, however,       the ratio of women       authors to men on the syllabuses has changed dramatically and continues to       increase.
16 Welsh       female authors featured on English literature syllabuses at Aberystwyth,       Bangor, Swansea and       Cardiff universities in 2010 compared to 20 male authors, and 33 women to       44 men in 2013.
Of       course, these changes are in part the result of the long-term effect of       the second wave of the       feminist movement, but female-authored texts could not have been taught       had they not been       readily available.
Of the 33 women writers taught in 2013, 21 had been       reprinted in the Welsh       Women's Classics series.
By now that teaching has also affected the topics chosen for postgraduate       research.
Before       this century, theses on Welsh women writers listed in the National Library       of Wales' catalogue       were so few they could be counted on one hand, but of the nine PhD theses       on Welsh writing in       English (excluding those by USW students) listed from 2008-2013, three       were on male authors,       two on women writers (both novelists reprinted in Welsh Women's Classics),       and four included       chapters on both sexes' writings.
Published criticism in the field has       also been marked by a similar       shift.
In the mid 1990s records indicate that annually the ratio of       critical studies on Welsh       Anglophone women authors in relation to men was less than 1:10, with 4       outputs on women writers       published in 1994 compared to 61 on men, and 9 outputs on women to 91 on       men in 1995.
By       2008, however, that ratio had changed to 23 women to 65 men, while in 2009       it improved again to       22 women (17 of whom had been reprinted in the Honno series) to 45 men,       and 24 studies       comparing work by both sexes.
Lay readers too have welcomed the series.
Each of the volumes has been       favourably       reviewed in print and/or broadcast media; and public bodies with       responsibility for the arts in       Wales, like the Welsh Arts Council and Literature Wales, have been       vociferous in their praise.
The       series has proved particularly popular with book club members throughout       the country, with       Honno's move to digitalize all its Classics also being welcomed.
For a       variety of historical reasons       Welsh culture was until very recently more than usually dominated by male       voices, a bias much       exacerbated by the fact that so few of the works by women who did succeed,       against the odds, in       becoming published writers were kept in print.
But readers today want       their literature to represent       as fully as possible the heterogeneous diversity of past and present Welsh       life.
The Welsh       Women's Classics series is helping to correct the gender imbalance, and       provide a varied array of       role models for the next generation of prospective Welsh women writers.
Its impact in terms of its       national significance for Wales has been profound and is likely to prove       long-lasting.
