     While working on Images of Piety Dr Gray was invited to become a       member of the advisory panel       on the reconstruction of Llandeilo Talybont church at the National History       Museum, St Fagan's.
Regarded as the museum's most popular site by most of the 600K+ visitors       each year, the church       has been refurnished as it might have appeared in the early sixteenth       century.
Her research was       crucial to the design and interpretation of the furnishings and       particularly of the completion of the       remarkable but fragmentary sequence of wall paintings which were rescued       from the original       church.
Her research and guidance helped the Learning Team devise a church       tour which       has been performed to over 8,000 pupils, plus widely-disseminated       resources for self-led trails.
All       this has been informed by her research and has been rewarded by the award       of an honorary       research fellowship of the Museum.
As a result of the research outlined above, Dr Gray has also been asked       to advise on numerous       other church heritage projects and heritage trails including the       Llancarfan wall paintings project,       `probably the most significant find of its type in a hundred years'       according to the BBC; the Llantwit       Major Galilee project which is rehousing the early medieval inscribed       stones in the church and       providing an interpretative strategy for later medieval art; the Penrhys       Pilgrims project, a major       community regeneration project in the Rhondda which was largely inspired       by and drew       extensively on the research on the history of the shrine published in Images         of Piety; digital       interpretation of the castle chapel at Oystermouth near Swansea.
All these       projects have received       substantial HLF funding.
Oystermouth has had 14,000 visitors since       reopening this year and has       had extensive praise for the computer visualisations (emails on file).
Dr Gray has been invited to serve on consultation panels for Cadw's       Chapels, Churches and       Monastic Landscapes of Wales interpretation plan and the Churches Tourism       Network Wales's       Faith Tourism strategy, and is a member of the Advisory Panel on Medieval       Stone Sculpture in       Wales.
In all these activities, Images of Piety and subsequent       research publications have provided       a guidebook for the identification and interpretation of visual materials       in medieval churches and       associated sites.
While it is difficult to quantify these impacts in       financial terms, heritage tourism is       recognised as one of the few growth sectors in the UK economy and is       particularly important in       post-industrial areas like Wales.
It also makes major contributions to the       regeneration of a       community's sense of self and self-worth.
As well as academic publications, Dr Gray has a substantial record of       publication of `public history'       informed by her research on the material culture of religion.
As a member       of History Research       Wales she was invited to contribute articles on religious identity, Welsh       tombs and the cults of the       saints to the Western Mail's History of Wales series.
Widely accessed on the Internet and praised       by members of the Welsh Government, these are also being published in a       popular series of       volumes by Gomer.
Working through the Welsh History Forum, she has       arranged exhibitions on       medieval Welsh tomb carvings at the Wrexham and Barry Eisteddfodau.
She is       also regularly       invited to write for popular history journals and to deliver numerous       public lectures on medieval art       informed by her research.
These have included lecturing at the opening of       St Teilo's Church and       speaking at the Hay Literary Festival as well as lectures to local and       regional history societies.
Community history and cultural organisations have a key impact on social       regeneration and the       fabric of civic society, and academic support is crucial to their       continued vitality.
In recognition of       her contribution in south-east Wales Dr Gray has twice received the Gwent       Local History Council's       annual award for services to local history.
She has also advised on and appeared in numerous television and radio       programmes.
In the       current assessment period and informed by her research, these have       included advising on and       appearing in `Bread of Heaven', the award-winning Huw Edwards series on       the history of religion in       Wales; Terry Jones's `Great Maps Mystery', in which she discussed the       spectacular carvings in the       well chapel at Holywell; and another Huw Edwards series, `The Story of       Wales', for which she was       asked to advise both on the series and on follow-up educational materials       as well as being filmed       commenting on the remains of the shrine of the Virgin Mary at Penrhys.
`The Story of Wales' was       seen by over 300,000 people in Wales, had record-breaking appreciation       figures and was awarded       a Welsh BAFTA.
It has also been broadcast on BBC2 and in Australia, South       Africa, Canada and       the United States.
The sequence at Penrhys produced an identifiable       increase in tourism to the       shrine and surrounding area which has been of considerable benefit to the       local community.
Her       advice on `Bread of Heaven' substantially realigned the series towards a       more positive appraisal of       medieval Catholic religious culture in Wales; her contribution to `The       Story of Wales' was more       geared to her research on the trajectory of religious change in the       sixteenth century.
All these       programmes have attracted large audiences outside Wales and have       contributed substantially to       the revaluing of Welsh history and culture.
