     School Counselling       Children spend a great deal of their time in school and there are good       reasons for locating counselling provisions within the school setting.
Evidence of effectiveness is needed to justify rolling out counselling       provision on a much broader scale.
The work by Fox and Butler on the       evaluation of the NSPCC School's Teams provided evidence as to the       effectiveness of school counselling and showed that most young people       value school counselling.
The research has contributed to policy and       practice initiatives throughout the UK.
The findings (Fox and Butler 2007;       2009) were cited in the Welsh Assembly final evaluation report in 2011.
The Welsh Government also drew on Fox and Butler's unpublished report for       the NSPCC (2003) in its review of school counselling which subsequently       led to every secondary school in Wales having access to counselling       provision for their pupils.
The research was cited in a report by Queen's       University Belfast, commissioned by the Department of Education in       Northern Ireland, as part of a programme to promote pupils' emotional       health and well-being.
The London Borough of Richmond- upon-Thames also       referred to the research findings (Fox &amp; Butler, 2009) in their report       on the value of commissioning counselling in schools in the borough       (2012-2013).
Fox &amp; Butler (2009) highlighted issues to consider when       setting up a school counselling service.
This was referred to in a report       for the Children's Workforce Development Council as an example of good       practice &#8212; one of a series of reports that aim to improve ways of working.
Other evidence of impact on policy and practice was a briefing document by       Barnardo's (2012) which referred to the work by Fox and Butler.
Domestic Abuse       Domestic abuse (DA) creates immense human suffering and financial costs.
There is an urgent need to develop a scientific understanding of the       impact of education programmes on this issue.
Fox's research provides       evidence on the effectiveness of DA education in schools and develops       guidelines for good practice with respect to education programmes.
Findings from the `Boys to Men' research have also given practitioners       guidance on how to identify those at risk and how best to intervene with       this group.
The findings from this project continue to be disseminated and       there is increasing evidence of their impact on policy and practice.
The findings from the `Boys to Men' project were used by a working group       including Arch (a Staffordshire charity) to successfully tender to       provide DA services in Stoke-on-Trent (including a schools-based       programme).
This has enabled Arch to secure continued funding for       the project despite recent cuts to public spending.
Presentations at Arch's       annual domestic violence conference (Nov 2010 and Nov 2012), and the       first-year dissemination event at Keele University (June 2011), provided       an opportunity to further influence local policy through discussion with       commissioners in Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire.
Fox has promoted       broader discussion of the research findings through the local media,       including interviews with BBC Radio Stoke, (24/06/11 and 28/03/13), and       key articles in local newspapers, e.g., the Stoke-on-Trent Sentinel       newspaper (`Teens exposed to worrying levels of abuse', 21/03/13) and the       Burton Mail (`Lessons needed to end abuse at home say Keele       University researchers', 28/03/13).
The research findings were also the subject of discussion by a range of       practitioners at several forums elsewhere in the UK.
Fox presented initial       findings at an event in Bristol attended by over 100 practitioners,       organised by Marianne Hester (20th Sep 2012).
Attendees came       from across the UK including employees social services departments, and       organisations such as Women's Aid, Barnardo's, and the NSPCC.
Television       and radio appearances also generated substantial discussion as was       evidenced by subsequent communications.
Fox was interviewed on on BBC       Radio 4 Women's Hour (18/07/11), on BBC Midlands Today, and on BBC West       Midlands Radio (both on 11/04/2013).
The research was also covered by the       Guardian (11/04/13) and the Telegraph (27/03/13).
The UK and regional governments expressed an interest in the research       findings.
Gadd and Fox were invited to the Home Office to present their       findings in March 2013.
The Home Office was particularly interested in       details of the research on young people's perceptions of the Home Office       `This is Abuse' campaign (the findings in press in Crime, Media and         Culture).
In 2013, Fox and Gadd discussed their research with       officials from both the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Executive.
They       also took their research road-show to meetings with the NSPCC and       Barnardo's.
Finally, the research team deliberately engaged in discussion with       women's and community organisations.
They organised a forum in Manchester       (24th October 2013) which attracted over 100 attendees from       RESPECT, the End Violence Against Women Campaign, as well as       representatives from the Youth Justice Board, Personal Social Health and       Economic Education Association, and the Home Office.
Following the success       of this event, it was agreed to work closely with these organisations to       further develop good practice guidance to better address the needs of boys       at risk of becoming perpetrators.
To maximise impact the team developed       user- friendly research reports as well as a `research toolkit' for those       wishing to conduct research with children in schools; this includes a       short film of Fox talking about the challenges that the team encountered       during Phase 1 and how these were addressed.
These are available on the       website.
The Daphne funded REaDAPt project involved evaluating three DA prevention       education programmes in the UK, France and Spain, sharing best practice,       and using the best elements of the programmes to develop an educational       toolkit for those wishing to implement such programmes in schools (e.g.
teachers and social workers across Europe).
The toolkit was completed in       English in 2012, and is available on the project website.
A research       toolkit was also produced in 2012 (also available on the website) to       enable those wishing to run such programmes to evaluate their practice       (using the ADV and focus group methodology).
Fox took the lead in       promoting use of these toolkits through the organisation of events aimed       at teachers.
The event in Malta (March 2012) attracted over 100 teachers       and there are plans to further expand uptake and to continue to evaluate       this new service provision.
There are plans to promote wider uptake of the       projects findings in other EU countries.
A dissemination event in Brussels       (January 2013) attracted Members of the European Parliament and promoted       discussion on access to resources The toolkits are free to download by       anyone interested in developing school-based DA prevention education       provision across Europe (versions in English, French and Spanish).
Findings from the focus groups raised questions about good practice in       relation to DA prevention education.
To maximise impact, the findings were       published in the interdisciplinary journal Sex Education (2013).
Finally, the three grassroots organisations studied by the research have       benefited from the research.
They findings have provided their staff with       the knowledge, skills and tools to enable them to continue to evaluate       what they do.
The organisations have also used the findings to argue for       continued funding for their DA prevention work.
