     Patrick Thornberry's research has had significant impact on the       development of international and       national human rights law, and the work of non-governmental organizations       (NGOs).
This is bound       up with the public positions he has occupied since the 1990s, which in       turn, has also informed his       research.
Thus, the insights of his research in the 1980s and 1990s led to       the Chairmanship of the       NGO Minority Rights Group International (1999-2002), followed by       membership (2001-2014) of UN       CERD (the monitoring body of the International Convention on the       Elimination of Racial       Discrimination &#8212; ICERD).
This was on the nomination of the UK government       and confirmed by       votes of the States parties to the Convention, most recently in 2010 when       Professor Thornberry       received 144 votes.
He served as rapporteur (independent expert) for six       years up to 2008 (with       responsibility to prepare the annual report of CERD to the UN General       Assembly); country       rapporteur for 21 reporting States (9 States since 2008); chairman of the       Early Warning and Urgent       Action Group (2008-2010); and follow-up rapporteur on State party periodic       reports (from 2012), in       which he was responsible for monitoring progress made by States parties in       implementing the       recommendations of the Committee.
Membership of CERD has been coterminous       with additional       UN advisory engagements and work with regional bodies such as the Council       of Europe, and with       NGOs and civil society groups.
Professor Thornberry was the first rapporteur of the UN Forum on Minorities       (2008), initiating the       discussion and preparing the initial draft of the Forum's Recommendations       on Minority Education,       which will influence governments worldwide.
This stemmed from a request       from the then UN       Independent Expert on Minorities, specifically on account of Thornberry's       research on minority       rights in the field of education (see Thornberry, 2005, above); this work       is clearly reflected in the       Recommendations of the Forum.
The former President of the Council of       Europe Advisory       Committee on National Minorities (2006-10) comments: `no other academic I       know has had such a       positive influence at the UN on minority issues as Professor Patrick       Thornberry.'
In addition, in his       capacity as a former Chair of Minority Rights Group (MRG), Professor       Thornberry has maintained       a relationship with the Group.
A spokesperson, writing on behalf of MRG,       notes: `Patrick's research       has most certainly had an influence on our work here at MRG.
His books are       standard texts for us       in our promotion of minority and indigenous rights worldwide.
Arguments at       MRG on finer points of       minority rights law can be definitively settled by reference to       Thornberry.'
Professor Thornberry was primary or shared rapporteur/author of several       General       Recommendations (GRs) on racial discrimination.
These include GR       29 on discrimination on the       grounds of caste or descent (2002), GR 32 on special measures/affirmative       action (2009), and GR       34 on discrimination against persons of African Descent (2011); the latter       were informed by       research developed from his publications in 2005.
Regarding Thornberry's       work on the Committee       for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, a senior representative       says: `While the work of CERD       is a collective one, contributions made by individual experts are highly       important to the overall       results of the work of the Committee.
In this regard, Professor Thornberry       has effectively       contributed to the jurisprudence of CERD by using his academic research,       particularly on       minorities and racial discrimination'.
She highlights in particular his       `crucial role in preparing initial       drafts of General Recommendations'.
These provide guidance to the       governments of the 176       States parties to the convention and influence the work of civil society       in those countries.
`He was       the key member of CERD involved in producing the Committee's       ground-breaking       recommendations on caste or descent GR 29, 2002' (spokesperson for       Minority Rights Group).
This remains `a major influence on UN and governmental approaches'       (President of the Council of       Europe Advisory Committee on National Minorities).
GR 29 has been       extensively employed by       Dalit and Buraku groups in advocacy strategies (for example the Dalit       Solidarity Network's 2011       report recommending implementation of GR 29 in the UK) and has also       influenced legislative       changes in the UK, where caste discrimination has recently been recognised       as a form of racial       discrimination.
Thornberry's earlier work in developing the UN Declaration on the         Rights of Indigenous Peoples       `where he was the leading intellectual thinker' (President of the Council       of Europe, Advisory       Committee on National Minorities, 2006-10) led to further research on indigenous       education rights       (reference 5, section 3) which informed the UN Expert Mechanism on       Indigenous Rights and its       `Advice' to governments in 2009.
Its impact has extended to indigenous       NGOs.
For example, his       research was cited in a recent (2012) submission to CERD in support of the       Sami people's claim       that self-identification principles were leading to the dilution of Sami       identity in Finland: CERD       agreed with the submission and changed its advice to the government.
Sami       organisations       incorporated this advice into their lobbying of the Finnish government in       order to defend their rights       to land and culture.
On hate speech, Professor Thornberry's research has contributed       to moving UN efforts on from       `defamation of religions' to addressing `incitement to hatred'.
In 2011,       following the publication of       his article in Religion and Human Rights (reference 6 in section 3), CERD       appointed him as co-rapporteur       for the discussion on racist hate speech, which took place in 2012.
The       text of a general       recommendation was presented to CERD in 2013 and was adopted as GR 35 on       `combating racist       hate speech'.
Initial reaction suggests that the recommendation is being       treated as a ground-breaking       development and it is cited by a senior representative of the Rule of Law       and Democracy       section, UN OHCHR, as one of `numerous occasions [in which] Patrick       Thornberry has been able       to bring findings from his own research into the work of CERD and by so       doing influenced its work       positively.'
