     The European Space Agency (ESA) require that human beings can survive and       work in space for       long durations of time in order to conduct a mission to Mars before 2020.
However, a number of       general risks to astronauts have been identified by the ESA that require       further investigation before       long duration space missions can be attempted.
Some of these issues are       medical (e.g.
prevention of bone loss in zero gravity) whereas others are psychological       in nature, e.g.
boredom/monotony, human-system automation.
The ESA wish to protect the capacity of their astronauts to work       effectively in order to maximise the       safety of long duration missions into space.
Therefore, they recruited a       group of OFS experts to       identify critical issues for space exploration.
The research conducted by       LJMU led to an invitation       for Professor Tattersall to join a "Topical Team" from 2008-2011.
The       brief for this group of seven       pan-European experts was to develop a detailed description of how long       duration space missions       could affect human performance and safety.
Professor Tattersall also       served the ESA as a       nominated expert and reviewed applications related to human factors       psychology factors on the       research programme surrounding the Concordia facility (Concordia is an       isolated Antarctic station       used to approximate conditions of long duration space exploration).
Despite existing studies from NASA and reports obtained from the "Topical       Teams" organised by       the ESA, it was recognised that Europe had no roadmap for the exploration       of space approved by       the European scientific and industrial communities.
The primary aim of the       THESEUS project       funded by the European Science Foundation (ESF) in April 2010 was to       develop an integrated life       sciences roadmap to enable a European space programme to take advantage of       the expertise       available in the community.
This project organised activities into cluster       groups and Professor       Tattersall was invited to join Cluster 2 (Psychology and Human-Machine       Interface).
This group of       26 experts were divided into three themed groups (group/team processes,       human-machine       interface, skill maintenance) tasked with identifying knowledge gaps and       defining/prioritising key       issues for operational integrity during long duration space missions.
The       output from these       discussions were documented over the two years of the project and       presented at the THESEUS       Roadmap launch event held in Paris on 15th March 2012.
The key issues       identified by the       THESEUS Roadmap (see the Cluster reports cited in section 5) will feed       directly into the European       space programme to travel to Mars by 2020 and prioritise those human       factors research topics to       be addressed within the space exploration area of the Horizon 2020       programme.
Professor Tattersall chaired the group of eight experts concerned with       OFS research issues       surrounding skill maintenance.
They identified four key issues for long       duration missions into       space:     (a) skill deterioration during long-duration missions and need for       on-board training     (b) scheduling and delivery of task training     (c) threats to skill maintenance such as monotony/boredom, isolation,       task demand     (d) scheduling of work/rest and sleep/wake patterns in space to prevent       impaired performance.
There is continuity between original research at LJMU and those key       issues identified in the       Psychology/Human-Machine Interface area for space exploration.
Our       experimental paper       (Fairclough et al, 2005) on the relationship between mental workload,       performance and       learning/skill development provided evidence of how training/skill       development can alleviate high       workload (issue 1).
The paper on sustained complex performance (Fairclough       and Venables,       2006) demonstrated how monotony can lead to errors and the book chapter       (Hockey and       Tattersall, 2008) described the effects of fatigue and workload on health       and performance (issue       3).
Our work on modeling sleep/wake cycles in order to predict impaired       performance was       conducted on a commercial-in-confidence basis for Volvo, but the knowledge       obtained informed       the identification of issue 4 resulting in the prioritisation of these       themes in the THESEUS       Roadmap for space exploration and represents a direct impact from our       research as Professor       Tattersall was leading discussion on the skill maintenance theme.
The OFS concept provides an explanatory framework for understanding and       predicting how skilled       performance may degrade under conditions of duress.
The inclusion of OFS       in the work of ESA       and ESF is important because it permits the developing field of space       exploration to exploit existing       knowledge from other domains of skilled performance.
This transfer of       knowledge provides policy-       makers with a preview of the risks, challenges and potential solutions       during space exploration in       order to inform their organisational protocols and priority areas for       further investigation.
Therefore,       the expertise developed by Professor Tattersall at LJMU has been accessed       to promote safety and       inform operational procedures for space exploration over the coming       decade.
