     Context regarding dissemination and impact of the research       A key SEARRP aim has been to provide sound, unbiased science to test and       underpin existing       and alternative improved land-management techniques and strategies for       decision-making bodies       in Malaysia.
Dissemination of its research and translation into policy in       Sabah has been greatly       facilitated by the unusually direct two-way links that SEARRP has with       Yayasan Sabah (YS &#8212; a       Government-run foundation that manages a 10,000-km2 forested       section of the State), its       Environment and Conservation Division, and the Sabah Forestry Department.
The direct links are       enabled by requirements for all SEARRP research projects to be approved at       State and Federal       levels, to involve local research collaborators (often from YS or       Government ministries), and for       copies of all papers and reports to be provided to YS and the       Sabah/Malaysian Governments.
The       roles of Walsh and Reynolds as Research Co-ordinator and       the Sabah-based Director of       SEARRP respectively since 2000 have also aided dissemination of research       and its translation into       policy through invited membership of committees and advisory panels [e.g.
C1].
Direct impact in Sabah and Malaysia       Research findings from the Swansea team underpinned key land         management and forest         conservation decisions and policies adopted by the Sabah Government in         2008-13.
On the       hydrological side, of particular importance has been the science       demonstrating and quantifying the       benefits of keeping steep (&gt;25&#176;) slopes unlogged or at least under       forest, and of carefully aligning       logging roads [R3].
The Group Manager of the Environment and Conservation       Division of Yayasan       Sabah wrote that "the research findings of the hydrological group led by       Walsh demonstrating the       influence of logging roads and their alignment on landslides and sediment       transport have provided       the underpinning science behind Reduced Impact Logging protocols used       within Sabah and recent       adoption of helicopter logging in higher slope terrain" [C2].
The climatic change and forest response research [R4-R6] was accompanied       by specific       recommendations by Walsh at a Sabah Government-organized conference on the       need to retain a       large contiguous E-W unit of forest in eastern Sabah with buffer areas       around primary forest       conservation areas to (1) reduce fire risk and (2) increase the ability of       forest ecosystems to adapt       to climatic change, thereby maximizing the security and value of       biodiversity conservation       strategies [C3].
The research underpinned a series of forest conservation       initiatives by the Sabah       Government in 2008-2013 [e.g.
C4, C5].
These included: (1) rehabilitation       of large areas of       overlogged forest, starting with the Malua Forest Reserve in 2008; (2)       designation in 2009 of a       third primary forest conservation area (Imbak Valley; 30,000 ha), with 15%       of Sabah now protected       primary forest; (3) a decision in 2010 to apply for World Heritage Status       for the three Sabah       conservation areas, with Reynolds appointed to the panel to take       this forward; and (4) decisions in       May-September 2012 [C4] and in June 2013 [C5] to commit irrevocably to the       principle of       contiguity of forest cover E-W across eastern Sabah.
The final initiative       was accomplished by       giving legal protection to forest corridors of regenerating forest linking       the three primary forest       conservation areas, and to large additional buffer areas &#8212; an additional       285,000 ha of protected       forest [C5].
Thus, the Director of Forestry in Sabah in June 2013       confirmed the extension of legal       protection to create "the single largest contiguous area to be placed         under protection anywhere in         the country....an unbroken stretch from Maliau Basin to Imbak Canyon to         Danum Valley....of         nearly 500,000 hectares" [C5].
These dramatic policy changes acknowledging the importance of forest       retention in supporting       environmental and socioeconomic sustainability and mitigating climatic       change followed talks by       Walsh and Reynolds at Government-organised workshops and conferences in       Malaysia, supported       often by Climate Change Initiative funds of the UK Foreign Office.
Thus       the 2012-13 decisions       directly followed invited participation of Walsh and Reynolds (who gave       presentations on policy       implications of their research) in the Government-organised workshop in       September 2011 to       develop Sabah's REDD+ policy.
REDD+ is the second phase of the United       Nations REDD       Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation)       collaborating initiative aimed at       promoting forest cover in developing countries and combating global       warming.
The Sabah Director       of Forestry thanked Walsh `for making the Conference a world-class       event' and stated the       research "...has given us an insight on how to realise REDD-plus in         Sabah, in tandem with the         Heart of Borneo Initiative" [C6].
The Chief Minister also twice       acknowledged the key role SEARRP       science has played in aiding Government policy [C7].
The decisions       represent a step-change in       Government attitude and policy and have their origins in letters to the       Sabah Government in the       early 2000s from the Royal Society (drafted in part by Walsh as       SEARRP Research Co-ordinator)       expressing concern about the environmental consequences of headwaters       logging and proposed       land-use change that would have broken the contiguity of remaining forest       [C2].
Wider reach and significance of the impact       The forest involved includes the largest remaining area of primary lowland       rainforest in SE Asia,       and is key habitat for orang-utans &#8212; and many other endangered species of       global importance.
It       represents an oasis of conservation in a region in which rates of loss of       forest habitat remain high.
Furthermore, since 2009, the nested forest conservation area concept of       Danum has been       widened to include Indonesia, through the development of a `Heart of       Borneo Concept', with a       crescent of conservation areas spanning north-east Kalimantan, eastern       Sabah and Brunei [C6].
Also, both Walsh and Reynolds are involved in advising the       Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil       (RSPO) on their attempts to rehabilitate and extend riparian forest and       forest fragments.
The       findings detailed in R3 are also being used by the Australia-based Forest       Practices Authority in       drawing up new Guidelines for Logging in Papua New Guinea [C8].
Acknowledgment of the scale       and significance of the research and its impact is also provided by the       Honours bestowed on       Reynolds by both the British and Malaysian Governments in 2011 and       2012, respectively [C9].
