     User interaction before and during the research process led to a series       of interim impacts including: (1) improved awareness in the UK       [C1, C8], Europe [C2, C13] and Australia [C3] of the reasons why age is       difficult to assess for children from different social and cultural       backgrounds; (2) improved guidance and training for lawyers,       social workers, paediatricians and other practitioners [C5, C10, C12]; and       (3) changes to policy and improved procedures for the assessment of       age [C6].
These, in turn, led to improved protection and welfare         outcomes for asylum-seeking children including a significant       reduction in the number of children whose age is disputed in the UK.
In       2006 when the research began around half (2,279) of those claiming to be       children were age disputed and treated as adults.
Since publication there       have been steep drops in the percentages recorded as age disputed,       beginning in 2009 with a fall of 57%.
In 2012, just 328 individuals had       their age disputed, a decrease of 12% compared with 2011 (374) and       continuing recent year-on-year decreases [C7].
The process for securing impact was greatly facilitated by       close collaboration with many of the end-users.
The research was conducted       in collaboration with ILPA [C11] and a Project Advisory Group of 18       individuals representing UKBA, voluntary sector organisations, lawyers,       social workers and immigration judges.
The findings were shared with       end-users prior to publication at a roundtable chaired by the Children's       Commissioner for England who wrote the foreword to the report in which he       stated: "[W]e often hear the term `evidence based policy making'.
The         quality of the research that has gone into the production of this report         really does provide a sound basis for moving forward...and an excellent         starting point for a properly informed discussion" [R1, ix].
The research has had considerable reach and is viewed "as       a benchmark of excellence not only for the rigour of [its] academic       approach, but also for the practical impact it has had in challenging       government policies and practices at the front line" [C8].
These     challenges have been secured via lawyers, social workers and other       practitioners.
ILPA and other professional bodies have used the     research to define best practice and have informed lawyers of the     findings through briefings, training to more than 100 solicitors and     barristers and an annual conference at which Crawley was the keynote     speaker [C11].
Crawley has also provided professional advice and     expert testimony in legal cases including M v LB Lambeth (CO/2130/2007),       R (A) v LB Croydon (CO/2334/2008), R (M) v LB Waltham Forest       (CO/11154/2007) together with an important judicial review in Northern     Ireland (2011 no.
36351/01 High Court of Justice in Northern Ireland,       Queen's Bench Division).
Voluntary sector organisations have     used the research to raise awareness of age disputes and develop practice     guidelines.
According to one user, the research "was pivotal in the       development of the Age Assessment Best Practice Guidance that we created       in 2012 and which was endorsed by the Scottish Government, UKBA and COSLA"     [C9].
The All Wales Protection Procedures Review Group has also issued     guidance drawing on the research, and age assessment training for social     workers has been provided by Crawley through the Wales Migration     Partnership.
Research by the Office of the Children's Commissioner (2012)     found that many social workers rely on the research findings to inform their     practice [C1].
More generally there has been an increase in awareness and     understanding of the issues associated with age assessment as a result of media       coverage on the BBC website and in the Guardian, Daily Mail, New     Scientist, Community Care and Young People Now, much of which refers     explicitly to the research findings.
In March 2013, Crawley convened     an expert roundtable hosted by The Honourable Justice Blake,     President of the Upper Tribunal (Immigration and Asylum Chamber) and chaired     by the former Children's Commissioner for England, also a leading     paediatrician.
The roundtable brought together senior policy makers from the     Home Office and Departments of Education and Health with lawyers, children's     organisations and social work managers to discuss developments and secure     consensus for an improved process.
According to the former Children's     Commissioner, Crawley has "facilitated for the first time some       important dialogue between government departments of state, the judiciary,       the legal profession including lawyers, and medical and social care       practitioners.
She has the authority and competence from her stature and       knowledge to lead such disparate groups to find common ground to improve       the outcomes of some of the most vulnerable children and young people in       our society today" [C8].
As a result of the roundtable the Home Office     established an Age Assessment Strategic Oversight Group in June 2013     composed of representatives from Local Authority Children Services, the     Association of Directors of Children Services, Royal College of Paediatrics     and Child Health (RCPCH), Departments of Health and Education, Children's     Commissioner for England and Home Office.
The group's remit is to oversee     improvements to existing age assessment procedures whilst a new model is     developed [C11].
The significance of the research can be seen     in terms of policies for age assessment in the UK, Europe and     Australia as well as social work practice and case law.
In     2008 UKBA established a Working Group on Age Assessment to review     policy and practice in response to the findings of the research.
Existing     guidance on disputed age cases was amended to state that an asylum seeker     can only be treated as an adult "if their physical appearance / demeanour       very strongly suggests that they are significantly over       18 years of age.
All other applicants should be afforded the benefit of       the doubt and treated as children".
Legal action brought by solicitors     and barristers resulted in guidance from UKBA reminding case owners that age     disputed individuals should not be detained.
The research also informed a     Home Office consultation process on reform to support for asylum-seeking     children.
Organisations engaged in the research responded to the     consultation citing evidence research.
As a result the Home Office       announced that it would establish specialist centres for the assessment of       age [C6], a key recommendation of the underpinning research [R1,     192-3].
This policy has yet to be implemented primarily due to funding     constraints but was discussed in a House of Commons debate in May 2012.
According to a Principal Policy Advisor at the Office of the Children's     Commissioner, "Crawley's research on age assessment has       had a huge influence on the subsequent policy debate around age assessment       and has been enormously influential in establishing and clarifying the       `fault lines' of the debate...
While a system of age assessment that works       for young people remains elusive, the influence of Crawley's     work in this area continues to be felt" [C10].
The research has also been used to challenge proposed policies for         the use of x-rays to assess age.
In May 2012 the Home Office was       forced to suspend a pilot scheme to use x-rays to assess age in light of       fierce opposition from ILPA and other organisations including the RCPCH       which explicitly drew upon the findings of the research [C12].
At the European       level, ILPA used the research findings to respond to a European Asylum       Support Office (EASO) questionnaire on age assessment practices (2012)       being used to develop a module and handbook on age assessment in EU Member       States.
Crawley has worked with the Separated Children in Europe       Programme (SCEP) and the Council of Europe to inform this process.
She       attended an expert workshop (Brussels 2011) to develop the SCEP Position         Paper on Age Assessment (2012).
This paper is being promoted by       SCEP, a party to EASO meetings in Brussels and Malta (2012).
Crawley       has contributed to the drafting of age assessment guidelines produced by       the Department of Health in Ukraine, attending expert workshops in       Kiev (October and December 2012).
Her paper with Aynsley-Green et         al.
(R5) was translated into Ukrainian so that it could inform the       proceedings.
According to the Head of Migration Co-ordination at the       Council of Europe, "[t]he document which was produced in the framework         of these activities has drawn heavily on the results of Crawley's       research, the findings and conclusions of which were extensively used in       developing its structure and content.
More importantly, however, the       results of Crawley's research improved the         understanding of the age assessment (especially of its ethical         implications) by many governmental officials and positive impacted their         overall perception of the subject" [C13].
In Spain the       Acting Ombudsman published a report entitled Children or Adults?
[C3] which drew extensively on the underpinning research to highlight the       wide margins of error in currently available age assessment techniques.
In       Australia, the Human Rights Commission conducted an inquiry into       the treatment of age disputed individuals suspected of people smuggling       offences.
Their report, An Age of Uncertainty tabled by       Parliament in July 2012, details how the Australian Government's failure       to question age assessment practices and procedures, particularly the use       of x-rays, resulted in some children being detained in adult prisons C4].
The Commission referred explicitly to evidence from the underpinning       research (R1) and the paper written jointly with Aynsley-Green et al.
(R5).
Most recently the research has been referenced by the Joint       Committee of Human Rights (JCHR) in its parliamentary inquiry into         Unaccompanied Migrant Children [C2].
Crawley was appointed       as a Specialist Adviser to the Committee in November 2012 and was able to       ensure that the research findings and discussion at the expert roundtable       informed the Committee's recommendations, which included the introduction       of a holistic multi-agency assessment process.
The Committee also       recommended that the Government commission the RCPCH to develop guidelines       for paediatric consultants in the assessment of age.
According to a       consultant paediatrician, "many of the recommendations of the JCHR         report clearly date back to [Crawley's] work"       [C10]     Finally, many of these changes in policy and practice have been cemented       by changes in case law, particularly as it relates to social work       age assessment and the use of medical (and other) evidence in the age       assessment process [C12].
The underpinning research is cited in two       important High Court decisions, namely A v London Borough of Croydon,         WK v Kent Borough Council [2009] EWHC 939 (Admin), 8 May 2009 and R         (NA) v Croydon London Borough [2009] EWHC 2357 (Admin), and in the       landmark judgement R(A) v Croydon; R(M) v Lambeth [2009] UKSC, in       which the new Supreme Court unanimously decided that age disputes must be       resolved by the courts rather than local authorities.
