     The UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) establishes that 10% of       coastal and marine environments should be conserved through protected       areas by 2020, an ambition that is not yet even half realized.
Across the       North East Atlantic, Caribbean and Eastern Pacific, nine Marine Protected       Areas (MPAs) have been designated based on HWU research and a further six       are under consideration since the inception of the CBD at the 1992 Rio       Earth Summit.
1.
Mair's research with the Colombian government agency Coralina       led (in combination with Kerr and Side) to the designation       of the San Andres archipelago as a United Nations Man and Biosphere       Seaflower Reserve in 2000 (Mitchell et al.
2001 [4]).
At the       United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity Conference in Nagoya, in       October 2010, Coralina won the International Union for the Conservation of       Nature's (IUCN) Countdown 2010 Biodiversity Award for the work in San       Andres.
A senior member of staff [S1] of Coralina, wrote: "The         management of the reserve has been challenging work ....... but....         based on good scientific information [inc work by Mair].
It was a great         honour therefore to have our work recognised by .... Nagoya 2010.....".
Elsewhere, Mair's collaboration with the Smithsonian Tropical       Research Institute (STRI) in Panama led directly to the protection of Las       Perlas Archipelago as a marine Special Management Zone and underpinned       subsequent management (Mair et al., 2009 [3]).
A senior staff       member at STRI [S2] expressed the Institute's "gratitude to the         Heriot-Watt University for ......the ground research work that allowed         the Panamanian government to designate the Archipelago Las Perlas as a         Special Management Zone...... should help in guiding science-based         decisions...."     2.
HWU researchers (Mair, Sanderson and Lyndon) have a track record of       research on temperate biogenic structures that has led to the designation       of European MPAs called SACs under the EU Habitats Directive.
Before 2008,       these have been designated at Loch Sunart, Loch Creran, Loch Duich Long       and Alsh and Sullom Voe based on their work.
Since 2008, the Isle of Man       government have used work by Sanderson and Porter (Cook et al.
2013 [1])       as a core component to the permanent protection of 6 km2 of horse mussel       (Modiolus modiolus) reef in the Irish Sea.
"This research [Cook et       al.
2013 [1]] supported the permanent protection of the reef as part         of the Ramsey Marine Nature Reserve, designated in October 2011.
",       [S3].
In November 2012, the cold water corals of East Mingulay became part       of another MPA of European importance (a candidate SAC) based on Robert's       on-going biodiversity research (Roberts et al.
2009 [6]).
Marine Scotland,       [S4] confirm that "the GIS data supplied by [HWU] for Marine Scotland         Science's 2010 survey of the Mingulay Reef Complex was a key component         in the design of our survey [and was] key to the process of re-defining         the boundary for proposed East Mingulay Special Area of Conservation         (SAC)"     3.
Based on a track record of 23 commissioned projects from Scottish       Government's scientific and statutory conservation advisors, Scottish       Natural Heritage and Marine Scotland Science continue to commission HWU to       undertake research, survey and evaluate marine habitats as potential MPAs.
Since 2008 research by Lyndon, Mair, Porter, Roberts and Sanderson (and       other colleagues) has been key to policy implementation in the form of MPA       proposals under the Marine (Scotland) Act (2010) in Blue Mull Sound, Wyre       and Rousay Sounds, Noss Head, Southern Trench, Lochs Linnhe, Etive, Leven       and Eil (www.scotland.gov.uk/marineconsultation).
A senior marine advisor at Scottish Natural Heritage, [S5] confirms "HWU         involvement in survey, research and assessment ... has contributed to         the designation and sustainable management of a number of Special Areas         of Conservation (SAC)".
4.
Biogenic habitat research by Mair, Porter, Sanderson       and Roberts has underpinned MPA policy within the North East       Atlantic for 'threatened and/or declining species and habitats' under the       Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East       Atlantic (the OSPAR Convention).
The research was widely assimilated in       assessments published between 2008 and 2010 on the status and key threats       for deep water sponge aggregations, horse mussel beds and cold water coral       habitats.
These assessments have led to an international policy to protect       biogenic habitats as 'Priority Marine Habitats' in an MPA network across       15 North East Atlantic countries.
For deep water sponge aggregations,       their significance has been recognised globally through Roberts'       work under the United Nations Environment Programme (Section 5: Hogg et         al., 2010 [S6]) and these and other habitats have been identified in       Ecologically or Biologically Significant Marine Areas (EBSMAs) beyond       national jurisdictions in the North-East Atlantic through Roberts'       work on the International Council for the Exploration of the Seas (Advice       Drafting Group June 2013, Copenhagen).
5.
Research to support sustainable development, especially protected       areas, has been enhanced through a programme of outreach.
MPA biogenic       habitats have been widely promoted at three annual Dunbar Science       Festivals (2011-13) by Sanderson, Porter, Mair and Roberts       (each &gt;3,000 visitors), the 2013 Orkney International Science Festival       (Sanderson, Porter, Mair) and the Edinburgh Science       Festival during National Science and Engineering Week in March-April 2013       (Mair, Porter, Roberts).
Roberts integrated       a school visit in the Outer Hebrides (Benbecula) into an MPA research       cruise on RV James Cook in May 2012.
6.
HWU has a strong track record of environmental indicator development       under the Water Framework Directive (Fernandes).
Research by Lyndon,       Mair, Porter Sanderson and Roberts since 2008 has       been widely cited in the development of the UKs biodiversity indicators of       Good Environmental Status for biogenic structures under the EC Marine       Strategy Framework Directive (see section 5: Moffat et al.
2011       [S7]), an area where Sanderson provides on-going advice to the UK       and EU (through DEFRA and OSPAR Benthic Expert Groups).
7.
Kerr and Side's research in the Galapagos (e.g.
Davos       et al.
2007 [2]) provided baseline data (fisheries and       socio-economic) for the establishment of the Seaflower biosphere reserve       in San Andres and on-going fisheries management in the Galapagos Marine       Reserve (GMR).
Capacity building exchanges included training for Charles       Darwin Research Station (CDRS) and Coralina (San Andres) [S2] research       staff at ICIT.
Additionally an ICIT PhD student (Alex Hearn) was in post       as Co-ordinator of Fisheries Research at CDRS 2002-2008.
Kerr was       recently invited back to the Galapagos to present at a 2010 UNESCO       workshop exploring socio-economic aspects of future management of the GMR.
Overall, the beneficiaries of HWUs sustained research into biogenic reef       habitats are a number of government agencies, NGOs and communities       involved in protected area management throughout Central America and North       Western Europe.
Sustainable protected area management can be highly       socially valuable to communities and economies beyond conventional       resource extraction because the ecosystem services of biogenic reefs can,       for example, stabilise sediment, maintain water quality and sequester       carbon as well as providing human food and recreation.
