     There are currently no internationally approved guidelines or       standardised methods of assessing an equestrian surface.
The absence of       recommendations was highlighted in preparation for the equestrian events       at the London 2012 Olympic Games due to the arenas being constructed on a       raised platform, unprecedented for equestrian activities.
Part of our       research work informed decisions made by the surface providers (Andrews       Bowen Ltd, EPG Ltd and SEL Environmental Ltd) [4, 5] for the construction       and preparation of the equestrian surfaces at Greenwich Park for the       London 2012 Olympic Games.
The RACES team was subsequently awarded a Research Council UK bronze       Podium Award for `exceptional research contribution to the London 2012         Olympic and Paralympic Games' [6].
Subsequent work after the Olympic Games in 2012, and in the first half of       2013, contributed further to raising awareness within the equine sector of       the need for recognised standards for equestrian arena surfaces.
This work       has resulted in the production of a White Paper for the FEI, the worldwide       controlling body for all equestrian competitions, including the Olympics.
This White Paper reviews current knowledge in this field; describes       standardised tests appropriate for assessing equestrian surfaces, and       defines key terms that encompass surface functional properties and are       intended for use by the equestrian public.
This report has now been       approved for publication by the FEI [1, 2, 3].
Two areas of impact are described; firstly, changes to the design,       construction, preparation and management of the equestrian arena surfaces       for the London 2012 Olympic Games, and secondly, increased awareness in       the equine sector of the need for industry standards for equestrian arena       surfaces.
With the endorsement of the White Paper by the FEI, RACES will       now work with industry partners such as equine arena surface providers       towards sector-wide adoption of the guidelines.
i) London 2012 Olympic Games &#8212; equestrian arena surfaces at Greenwich         Park       The RACES partnership carried out a series of assessments on a variety of       equestrian arenas during 2010 and 2011, in order to advise the surface       providers for the London 2012 Olympic Games [1, 4, 6].
A test event was       held in June 2011 at the venue site at Greenwich Park [4].
We were       involved in assessing and comparing arena surface data for Greenwich, in       relation to established competition arenas not constructed on a raised       platform.
The results from the BST suggested that there were issues that       needed to be resolved in relation to the platform construction and water       management system.
Additionally there were some differences in surface       parameters when comparing data taken directly on and off struts (struts       were used to support the platform).
The decision was made to set up a       small test platform (away from Greenwich Park) that we assessed regularly       from November 2011 until March 2012.
The issues were resolved by       increasing stiffness of the base layer of the arena, and minor       modifications were subsequently made in surface composition and       management.
The alterations resulted in a more favourable load carrying       capacity and also minimised the differences found on and off struts.
RACES were involved in the decision making for the arena surface, and       carried out final tests at Greenwich Park two weeks prior to the       equestrian events at London 2012, to ensure surface properties were       appropriate [1, 4, 6].
The Environmental Protection Group Ltd (EPG), the       contractor appointed by LOCOG (the London Organising Committee of the       Olympic Games) for the work at Greenwich Park, has confirmed that our       research work informed decisions made by the surface providers, and was       instrumental in gaining approval from LOCOG for the construction and       preparation of the equestrian arenas at Greenwich for the London 2012       Olympic Games [4].
ii) Increased awareness in the equine sector of the need for industry         standards for equestrian arena surfaces       Since the publicity surrounding the equestrian arenas constructed on a       raised platform for London 2012, there has been greater interest in arena       surfaces from both the equestrian public and the overriding regulatory       bodies at national and international levels.
Collaboration with other researchers (identified above) has meant that we       have developed key terms to describe functional properties of surfaces, as       defined in the White Paper (Hobbs et al., 2013), now endorsed by       the FEI [1, 2, 3] .
The White Paper (Hobbs et al., 2013) is the       first internationally recognised step in educating the equestrian public       about matters related to equestrian surface use and management [1, 2, 3].
We anticipate that the key terms described in the White Paper will be       adopted by riders to encourage greater understanding and promote standard       terminology for surface characteristics.
The full citation for the White Paper, now approved for publication by       the FEI (online publication is likely to be in late 2013), is:     Hobbs, S.J., Northrop, A.J., Mahaffey, C., Martin, J.H., Clayton, H.M.,       Murray, R., Roepstorff, L., and Peterson, M. 2013.
Equine Surfaces White       Paper.
