     The reach and significance of the research has benefited three groups       outside the academic research community: organisations and individuals in       the creative and performing arts; the media; and the wider public in       general.
Hand and Wilson's books have brought twenty plays into the public domain.
They translated/adapted ten into English as well as bringing others out of       archives and into publication.
Independent productions of these twenty       plays have been regularly staged by professional theatre companies       including: Wild Thyme Players (Knoxville, Tennessee, 2011); Le Nouveau       Guignol (London, 2010-12); Theatre of the Damned (London, 2010-11); Danger       House Theatre (San Diego, 2010); Yehuda Duenyas and The National Theater       of the USA, (Saratoga Springs, New York, 2010);Molotov Theatre (Washington       DC, 2008); Santa Fe Playhouse (Sante Fe, 2008); The Sticking Place       (London, 2007); Phantasmagoria Horror Theater (Arizona, 2003); La Mama       Theatre (Australia, 2003); Tragic Pleasure Theatre (London, 2002); and       Instant Classics (London, 2001).
Hand and Wilson were commissioned to translate the Grand-Guignol play The         Beast (publication forthcoming) by Thrillpeddlers (San Francisco),       resident company of the world's only permanent horror theatre, the       Hypnodrome.
Hand has written original scripts: Do It Yourself for       Tragic Pleasure and The Belladonna Monologues for the       award-winning Molotov Theatre: `an unprecedented coup for any group       pursuing the authentic Grand-Guignol' (see 5.6).
Hand and Wilson located the script of Coward's The Better Half in       the Lord Chamberlain archives.
The play had been `missed' by Methuen's       9-volume Complete Plays of No&#235;l Coward, so with approval of the       Coward Estate, Hand and Wilson published Coward's `forgotten' play.
The       restitution of the play into the Coward canon resulted in Hand and Wilson       being interviewed as part of a major feature on the play on BBC Radio 4's       Woman's Hour and they were also interviewed in the Observer,         Stage and Western Mail.
Wilson attended the UK revival of       the play at the 2007 Terror Festival at the Union Theatre, London.
In       2008, Hand was guest-of-honour at the US premiere of Coward's play,       delivering a public lecture prior to the opening performance at the       Hypnodrome, San Francisco.
In the following days, Hand was interviewed on       US radio (West Coast Live and KALW).
Hand and Wilson have established a clear pattern of impact through their       Grand-Guignol research and have made numerous industry and media       appearances drawing on their expertise in horror performance.
They were       commissioned by Hammer Films to give a lecture at the 2008 Cheltenham       Screenwriters Festival, a major industry event.
They are the primary       interviewees on the "Grand-Guignol: A Theatrical Tradition" documentary on       the DVD of Tim Burton's Sweeney Todd (2008) and have been       interviewed on Bridge FM (UK).
Other media presence has included       interviews with Hand on BBC Radio 4's Grand-Guignol: A Documentary       and BBC Wales (Roy Noble).
Hand and Wilson have also delivered       public lectures for the Society of Theatre Research (2008); the London       Horror Festival (2012); the San Francisco Performing Arts Library and       Museum (Wilson, 2007); and the Radyr and Morganstown History Society       (Hand, 2009).
After their 1999 Edinburgh Fringe Grand-Guignol production, they have       mounted touring productions commissioned by the Society for Theatre       Research (London, 2008) and the Abertoir Horror Festival (Aberystwyth,       2009).
Hand was also commissioned to direct the world premiere of Laughing         Anne in 2000 with public performances in the UK (Birmingham) and US       (Texas).
Since 2011, Hand has mounted an annual public Halloween       performance for Cardiff City Parks.
Hand and Wilson advised in the writing of Carl Grose's Grand-Guignol       (Theatre Royal Plymouth, 2009) and were commissioned to write an essay for       the programme.
Julie Hoverson's Puppets (November 2011) for the       award-winning Seattle-based podcast channel 19 Nocturne Boulevard is a       dark comedy about the Grand-Guignol and features Hand and Wilson playing       eponymous characters (accompanied by other characters synonymous with the       Grand-Guignol such as "Thorndike", "Maltby" etc.)
brutally tortured to       death.
Firmly established as they are as consultants and experts in       Grand-Guignol research, Hand and Wilson will continue to attract       invitations for public lectures, consultancy roles and media appearances.
Their Grand-Guignol books have been highly prominent for UEP: the 2002       volume is now in its third edition and is one of the most successful ever       published by UEP, achieving a genuine public readership as well as an       academic one; the 2007 volume was shortlisted for the 2007 Theatre Book       Award and reached the final six, beaten to the top prize by Michael       Billington's The State of the Nation.
UEP has recently       commissioned Hand and Wilson to write two more Grand-Guignol books which,       with emphases on practicalities and Grand-Guignol `now', will be of great       interest to the creative arts industries.
