     The Centre's research has achieved cultural, economic and policy impact       by advising broadcasters, theatre companies, music professionals and       community radio stations on their creative strategy and cultural role.
Our       contribution to public debate has improved the understanding of both       policymakers and the public of the challenges and contribution of creative       industries in Wales.
Our research has made an impact by contributing to       the establishment of National Theatre Wales; the BBC's increased emphasis       on drama production in the nations and regions (including the opening of       Roath Lock Studios in Cardiff Bay); and the Welsh Government's mapping of       the live music industry in Wales.
The international reach of our impact is       evidenced by Traynor's work on community radio production in Laos where       her methodology has now been adopted by Community Radio/UNDP as a tool for       development.
Reach and significance of the impact       Blandford et al's Screening the Nation (2010) report provided the       BBC Trust with insights on how well the BBC is serving its audience and       delivering its public purpose (see 5.1 and 5.6).
The report's findings       were used by ACW members in their discussion with other Audience Councils       at a joint meeting in Salford in October 2009, where ACW provided a lead       on issues of portrayal and identity.
Janet Lewis-Jones (then BBC National       Trustee for Wales), commented that the `report offers a perspective which       will contribute to the work of the ACW and the Trust during the months and       years to come'.
(http://tinyurl.com/nhzkjf8).
Its significance to the BBC was indicated by the presence at its launch of       the BBC Trust vice-chair, Chitra Bharucha (see http://tinyurl.com/q76htkf).
The report's longer-term impact has been to contribute to regions and       nations agenda-building within the BBC which is exemplified by the public       lecture given by Jana Bennett (then Director of BBC Vision) in July 2010 (http://tinyurl.com/plwndpd) and       which has now been made manifest through the opening of Roath Lock       Studios.
The report's impact on Welsh Government policy on broadcasting is       evidenced by the Centre Director being invited to provide evidence to the       National Assembly's Task and Finish Group on the Future Outlook of the       Media in Wales in November 2011 (see 5.5).
Blandford's research, and his advocacy for national theatres in the       devolved UK nations, contributed to the formation of National Theatre       Wales (NTW) in 2008.
It led to his appointment as one of NTW's inaugural       Trustees.
The thinking represented by his research on progressive models       of national theatre has been central in helping NTW set its core mission.
Blandford's research has had a significant artistic impact by helping NTW       achieve a reputation as one of the most important new companies in Britain       and Europe, providing what the Chair of the Board of NTW calls `an       excellent example of academic work contributing to the formation of a       company whose impact on theatre in the UK and internationally has been       very profound' (see 5.2).
Carr's report, Live Music in Wales (2011), has been widely       reported in the Welsh press and its findings have been discussed at       several industry and policy events hosted by the Hay Festival, the Brecon       Jazz Festival and the Institute of Welsh Affairs (see 5.9 and 5.10).
Carr's call for a mapping exercise on the live music industry in Wales is       now being implemented as part of the Welsh Government's creative       industries strategy, while the other problems highlighted by the report       are currently being addressed by the Welsh Music Foundation as part of its       on-going work to assist in the development of the music industry in Wales       (see 5.3).
Carr's subsequent report for the Higher Education Academy on Higher         Education and the Live Music in Wales (2012) has informed policy       debates about the training needs of the live music industry in Wales.
His       call for more flexible, distance-learning courses and strategic work       placements within the industry was discussed with representatives from       Creative and Cultural Skills, the Arts Council of Wales, the Welsh Music       Foundation and the Welsh Government at an AHRC Knowledge Transfer event       organised by the Live Music Exchange at Atrium in November 2012 (http://tinyurl.com/p38wqus).
Barlow, Johnson and Traynor's research on independent radio has provided       extensive benefits for community radio stations, their workers and       volunteers.
The models of community participation established by the       members of the Centre, contributed to the development of Wales' first       community radio station, GTFM.
Building on this experience, members of the       Centre have taken a lead in establishing, with support from the Welsh       Government, the Welsh Community Radio Stations Network (see 5.4 and 5.8),       through which to share expertise and best practice throughout Wales and       the UK.
They have also helped develop community radio stations in other       small nations, such as Laos (see 5.5).
