     The `bones without barriers' project has had an enormous impact on many       different sectors within society.
Firstly, this research highlighted to       the heritage sector the need for legislative reinterpretation in England       and Wales.
This research was a catalyst which mobilised professional       archaeologists to challenge the current legal situation surrounding human       remains.
A 2010 article by Pitts and Sayer in British Archaeology       raised the profile of the problems identified within the research; media       interviews and letters written by Sayer and key colleagues to MPs and the       Select Committee for Science and Technology raised the profile of the       problem and solicited direct responses from cabinet ministers.
In 2011       questions were asked in parliament and Parker Pearson, Pitts and Sayer       organised a more extensive media campaign which centred on a letter to the       Lord Chancellor, with signatures from 40 leading British professors,       requesting a change to the law.
At the same time the campaign encouraged       individuals and organisations to write to the MoJ to express their       concerns.
As a direct consequence the Ministry reinterpreted legislation       making it more flexible for archaeologists and curators of skeletal       material.
The opinions of professional archaeological bodies were       recognised by the government.
Impact has also been on academic and       professional debate which has resulted in subject-wide dialogue.
Various       conferences have discussed these issues including in Durham in April 2012       (Whose Past?
An Interdisciplinary debate on the repatriation of artefacts       and reburial of human remains) and a Higher Education Academy workshop in       March 2013 (Using human remains in teaching and learning).
Further afield,       an academic session at EAA in Oslo in 2011 focused on this topic, and Papers         from the Institute of Archaeology published an entire edition on the       human remains crisis.
These debates have thus extended to include a       European audience, not only academics, but also field archaeologists,       heritage professionals and students.
The letter to the MoJ, and the issues it discussed, were also picked up       by the media.
The issue was featured on BBC Radio 4 (Material World,       Today and PM), the Guardian and other British newspapers.
It gained international attention from the BBC world service, Nature News       and Reuters, and notable interest in Sweden and Canada.
Thus this research       has had a high impact in the world media.
In particular the public's       perception and engagement with archaeology, specifically human remains,       has been challenged.
Thus, what began as an issue within the academic and       commercial sector has led to increased public engagement with this key       research issue.
This project has influenced people not just on a global       and national level, but also at more local scales.
The Oakington project       in particular is an excellent example of this.
In 2010 excavations at       Oakington Anglo-Saxon cemetery obtained permission from the MoJ to allow       the public to see the excavation of human remains without screens.
Community Liaison Officers on the project ran open days and events for the       public which highlighted the issues surrounding the excavation of human       remains.
The public responded positively, and some wrote letters of       thanks.
Ten notable letters were published in British Archaeology in 2011       feeding back the value of outreach into the archaeological community.
Consequently this element developed into a Heritage Lottery funded `young       roots, bones without barriers' project.
It involved groups from all over       Cambridgeshire including YAC, Oakington School, Brownies, Scouts, Foxton       special needs school and St Faiths school.
This is a clear demonstration       of how academic research and community engagement can come together in a       dynamic and relevant way for all parties.
As a direct result of the       openness agenda a BBC news article about burial 80, a woman found with a       cow, was read by 483,500 people in 12 hours, placing it at the top of the       most-read news stories on June 22nd 2012.
This article was       syndicated by 47 home and overseas news agencies demonstrating the broad       base of international interest in the project.
Academic research has also       been treated this way and a 2013 World Archaeology article paper       used grave 57 as its point of departure.
It was published open access and       just eight weeks after publication it had been read by 1,296 people,       extraordinary for archaeology, placing it as the most read article on the       journal's website.
This case study demonstrates a clear link between academic research and       its impacts on a variety of different people.
It has led to the       reinterpretation of the law, benefitting the whole heritage sector.
This       will go on to impact on the types of excavation and research that can be       done.
It has also had an impact on public engagement with the remains of       the dead, and issues surrounding their excavation, retention and display.
