     The Centre's storytelling research has made a significant and       wide-reaching impact on civil society       and cultural life by taking storytelling (in all its diverse forms) out       into a range of communities and       organisations.
Our research has helped enrich the lives and imaginations       of the people and       organisations with whom we have worked, providing them with opportunities       for personal       expression and creativity.
Our strong collaborative ethos of working in       partnership with diverse       social organisations and charities, often at grass roots level, has been       central to our ability to bring       about change through renewed understanding of different lives and voices.
In the process, our       research has also delivered tangible educational and economic benefits by       transferring technical       skills from our research centre to the citizens and communities with whom       we have worked.
Rooted in the conviction that storytelling is a creative practice that can       have a positive impact on       quality of life and mutual understanding in civil society, our research       has also had an impact in       policy-making by both providing powerful evidence of the effects of policy       decisions and debates       on the lives of ordinary people, and by advocating for the value of       creative arts practice as a       process that helps build individual and community assets, by fostering       social inclinations and skills       critical to civic renewal.
Details of the impact are best indicated       through examination of some of       GEECS's collaborative outputs and how they ensure the reach and       significance of the above       research.
Impact: Public Services.
The `Who Do You Think I Am?'
project applies Fyfe's research on the       benefits of participation in       the arts (see for example 3.1 3.3 and Fyfe REF 2), making an impact by       improving the delivery of       public services for homeless people whilst promoting an understanding of       disadvantaged and       marginalised individuals.
It was a collaborative project carried out in       2010, led by Fyfe for GEECS,       in collaboration with British Telecom, Boomerang TV, Cube Interactive and       Cardiff Y.M.C.A       Housing Association, which resulted in six short films (http://vimeo.com/40769899)       created using       the stories of homeless people at the Cardiff YMCA Housing Association.
Who Do You Think I       Am?
was funded by a grant of &#163;44,715 from the Welsh Assembly Government       demonstrating the       interest in Fyfe's research among policy makers.
The project had a direct       impact on vulnerable       young people's opportunities and ability to imagine a better future.
As       well as the benefits for the       young people involved, this project helped professionals and organisations       better understand and       meet the needs of vulnerable people.
(See 5.2).
Impact: Economic Prosperity and Education.
Communities 2.0 (C2.0) (http://George         Ewart Evans Centre for Storytelling.tumblr.com/) is funded       with a &#163;6.4M ERDF/Welsh Assembly Government grant and works in areas of       social and economic       deprivation.
This project, led by Fyfe and Lewis, ensures the impact of       much of the Centre's       research around the benefits of participation in storytelling and digital       arts for improving the       employability of the digitally excluded and enabling participation in       civic and economic life (see for       example 3.1, 3.3 and 3.5).
It has enabled over 22,231 individuals and 232       community groups to       become digitally literate, better accessing civic and consumer life,       becoming less isolated and       improving their employability.
The initiative is a collaboration between       GEECS, Wales Co-       operative Centre, Pembrokeshire Association of Voluntary Services, and       Carmarthenshire County       Council and runs from 2008 to 2014.
The Centre's team have been directly       responsible for       disseminating best practice in digital creativity and passing on skills to       demographic groups likely       to be excluded, for example, the long-term unemployed and the elderly.
GEECS have also       provided public conferences, seminars and research events to ensure the       work reaches policy       makers, community organisations and other stakeholders (see 5.3).
Impact: Public Discourse.
GEECS research has had a significant impact on extending the range and       improving the quality of       evidence and argument to enhance public understanding of climate change.
Fyfe, Wilson and       Lewis's research on how storytelling can be employed to assist in       understanding the impact of       flooding has had a global reach (see for example Fyfe and Wilson's paper       at the UN conference       `Dealing with Disaster' (11 - 12 Nov 2009) hosted by the Nepal Government       (http://www.dealing-with-disasters.org.uk)       and Lewis et al's `Archiving memories of changing flood risk:       interdisciplinary       explorations around knowledge for resilience' (2013), Journal of Arts         and Communities, 4 (1-2), pp.
46 - 75.).
Lewis's work on Project Aspect (www.projectaspect.org)       ensures the research into the       benefits of storytelling for understanding climate change continues to       have an impact on national       and international environmental policy.
Project Aspect is a pilot project       funded by the AHRC and       carried out by GEECS in collaboration with University College Falmouth and       White Loop between       2011 and 2013; the research curated stories of climate change, and       presented these through       digital media aimed directly at influencing public debate, understanding       and policy.
Research       findings have been presented to senior staff at the Government Department       of Energy and Climate       Change and have been acknowledged as leading in the field of climate       change communication       (see 5.4).
The findings of Project Aspect are disseminated at       international conferences (e.g.
`People and the Planet' July 2013, RMIT University, Melbourne, and       `Transatlantic Solutions to Sea       Level Rise Adaptation: Moving Beyond the Threat' October 2013, Old       Dominion University,       Virginia) ensuring the impact continues and has a global reach.
Impact: Policy Making and Civil Society.
Commissioned research projects, reports and published articles by GEECS       have provided direct       benefit and impact for government, NGOs and charities informing and       influencing policy debate       and practice and illuminating cultural values and assumptions (see 3.3).
Fyfe's reports `Arts and       Public Engagement' and `Hand and Hand' for Arts Council of Wales (ACW)       have been presented       to the Culture Committee of the Welsh Assembly Government, where Fyfe was       an invited speaker.
`Hand in Hand' has provided evidence for ACW planning and policy which has       led to over 5000       young people having greater access to and participation in arts and       culture (see 5.6).
Fyfe's       `Changing Spaces' report (see 3.3) was debated in the full Welsh Assembly       and is acknowledged       as being influential in bringing about a number of cross-sectoral       initiatives such as the current       collaboration between the Departments of Health and Culture on developing       the Arts in Health in       Wales.
Fyfe et al's research on BBC Wales (see 3.5) has been presented       widely through BBC       Wales (see 5.8) and has also had an impact on Digital Storytelling       Practitioners and other artists       enhancing the creation of cultural capital to enrich and expand the lives,       imaginations and       sensibilities of individuals and groups.
