     Health and welfare impacts       Having identified increased free radical formation and impaired vascular       structure/function subsequent to a selective depletion of the antioxidant       vitamin C in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA), the Vascular       Health Group in collaboration with Prof MH Lewis (Visiting Professor,       Consultant Vascular Surgeon and Bailey's PhD student), are       involved in the Wales AAA Screening Programme (http://www.aaascreening.wales.nhs.uk/home).
The Group have widened the protocol to include novel free radical and       vascular biomarkers including cardiopulmonary exercise testing to reduce       the vascular complications and untimely deaths associated with AAA rupture       and direct surgery.
By improving screening sensitivity, these activities       have had a beneficial impact on the patients' quality of life, their       families and society in general.
We anticipate that this will improve on       the current 53% risk reduction in AAA-related deaths and mean cost       effectiveness of &#163;28k per patient per life-year gained.
Similar approaches have been applied to stroke patients scheduled for       elective carotid endarterectomy, a surgical procedure that corrects       carotid stenosis improving perfusion to the brain.
Bailey's Group       have shown that the speed of surgical repair (ie.
reducing the time       that clamps are applied to the diseased artery) dictates the extent of       free radical formation and corresponding neurocognitive decline that       persists during the post-operative recovery phase, highlighting why       "surgical speed" is so critical for patient outcome.
Furthermore, it was       generally accepted that this procedure improves cognitive function, due in       part to increased cerebral perfusion.
This was "misinformed" given that       prior investigators consistently failed to take into account learning       effects.
As a consequence, patients are now being advised cognitive       function will be impaired during the recovery period thereby reducing       post-operative stress.
Given that arterial hypoxaemia is a common feature of vascular disease       with the capacity to stimulate free radical formation, the group have also       focused on chronic mountain sickness (CMS), a novel model of accelerated       vascular ageing and decreased longevity.
Recognised by the World Health       Organisation, CMS affects 5-10% of an estimated 140 million natives living       at altitude with treatment largely ineffective.
They identified that CMS       was associated with impaired systemic vascular structure/function due to a       free radical-mediated reduction in the vascular bioavailability of nitric       oxide.
Similar to the surgical patients previously outlined, this was       attributed to a selective depletion in the antioxidant vitamin C,       providing clear justification for antioxidant prophylaxis as a viable       clinical intervention.
In collaboration with the Bolivian High Altitude       Biology Institute (IBBA), pharmacological (iv ascorbate infusion)       and dietary (fresh fruit and vegetables) approaches have since been       deployed to increase the concentration of circulating antioxidants,       interventions that are already having a positive impact on patient health       and well-being (personal communication, Dr M Villena, IBBA).
Extending this work from the systemic to the cerebral circulation, novel       cerebrovascular function tests have been deployed within the sporting       context, notably in mountaineers to screen for "subtle" imperfections in       brain blood flow regulation that can be detected even at sea-level and       inform the risk of developing altitude-related illnesses during ascent to       high-altitude.
These tests have been communicated to commercial companies       (eg.
Altitude Centre, Icicle Expeditions) given that they have the       potential to improve management of environmental risk with implications       for indemnity and insurance.
Similar tests have been applied for the       detection of subtle brain injury following concussion, a novel model of       accelerated brain ageing that increases susceptibility to dementia.
A       recent publication in professional boxers highlighted that the majority of       brain injury occurs due to the mechanical trauma incurred by repetitive,       sub-concussive head impacts associated with sparring "training" and not as       traditionally believed, due to a single knockout blow during       "competition".
This message has been communicated globally through the USA       warning combat specialists to limit their sparring.
Similar warnings have       been communicated to rugby union players (including the Welsh Rugby Union)       and help inform "return-to-play" guidelines that currently lack any       clinical or scientific gravitas with an arbitrary 3 week suspension.
Creativity and practitioner impacts     The analytical advances outlined have led to research findings that have       challenged conventional wisdom/established norms and changed the modes of       thought and practice of research groups that have traditionally relied on       indirect, non-specific biomarkers of free radical activity to inform the       disease process.
Internationally-renowned groups in the USA and Europe       have adopted the direct technique of EPR spectroscopy with specialist       input from Bailey.
Science communication impacts     Concerted attempts have been made to engage with the public to       disseminate research findings that have clear practical implications for       improving lifelong health and well-being in both the clinical and sporting       context.
The reach has been considerable raising awareness both locally       and globally.
