     Sports performance impacts       The Sports Performance Group actively collaborate with the Welsh Institute       of Sport in Cardiff and the London Altitude Centre (eg https://www.altitudecentre.com/about-us/partnerships/)       and have been approached by elite sports teams including the GB Cycling       Team (http://www.britishcycling.org.uk/gbcyclingteam)       and individual elite athletes who have sought to improve sports       performance by gaining a legal competitive age through improved vascular       oxygen transport.
These include one of Wales' most successful professional       boxers, Nathan Cleverly (http://www.nathancleverly.co.uk/)       ahead of his successful bid to become WBO Light Heavyweight Boxing World       Champion.
Endurance athletes that have also extensively taken advantage of       the IHT facilities during their preparation for the London 2012 Olympic       Games include Dame Sarah Storey DBE (http://www.teamstoreysport.com/sarah-storey.html),       GB's most decorated female Paralympian in history having won 11 Gold, 8       Silver and 3 Bronze medals across an impressive 6 Paralympic Games and       Helen Jenkins, Olympic triathlete and double world champion (http://helenjenkins.co.uk/).
These athletes have confirmed that the Group's IHT programs informed by       our scientific research, including work with hypoxic tents for home-based       "sleep-high, train-low", was a critical component underpinning their       successes in the Olympic Games.
IHT has also been employed by individuals       engaged in high-profile mountaineering fund-raising expeditions to       accelerate the acclimatisation process in an attempt to reduce altitude       illness and improve summit success in the field.
This has included the       Brains SA Captains Climb that included retired captains of the Welsh Rugby       Union and the Tenovus Kilimanjaro Challenge.
The Group has also assisted       with the British Explorer Richard Parks' preparations during his       pioneering 7 month race that saw him summit the highest mountain on each       of the world's continents and venture to The South and Geographical North       Poles (737 Challenge; seven summits, three poles, seven months) for Marie       Cure Cancer Care (http://www.737challenge.com/).
Ongoing scientific support based on the Group's research expertise is also       being provided to assist with his Project X Challenge which will see him       attempt to record the fastest solo, unsupported and unassisted journey to       the South Pole (http://www.richardparks.co.uk/).
Creativity impacts       Building on the research conducted by Bailey demonstrating that       hypoxia causes free radical-mediated vascular dysfunction, Brugniaux       has utilised intermittent hypoxia as a model to determine its functional       impact in OSA.
The impact of the development of this model is significant,       inasmuch as providing a new tool to improve understanding of OSA to the       scientific community.
To assess the role of Epo and its specific soluble       receptor (sEpoR) in the sensitivity to hypoxia, the Group further       developed a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
In so doing, we were       able to accurately detect circulating levels of sEpoR for the first time       in healthy human plasma.
This model and technique are now being utilised       by several world-renowned groups.
Health and welfare impacts       Patients with OSA utilise almost double the healthcare resources compared       with healthy controls and its prevalence is set to rise given the       worldwide increase in obesity and ageing of the population.
Despite a       growing body of evidence linking OSA with cardiovascular morbidity and       mortality, metabolic dysfunction and neurocognitive impairment, our       understanding of the underlying pathophysiology remains unclear.
The       Group's research in this area has advanced understanding of the       fundamental mechanisms involved in the development of cardiovascular and       cerebrovascular disease in OSA patients.
It has revealed two novel       pathways involved in promoting breathing instability in OSA patients.
Collectively, these findings have significant implications for the       practitioner since they suggest that antioxidant therapy could reduce       sensitivity to hypoxia and stabilise breathing.
This approach could       ultimately complement current therapy, ultimately improving a patient's       quality of life.
Science communication impacts       Concerted attempts have been made to engage with the public to disseminate       research findings and demonstrate how this has had a beneficial impact on       sports performance.
This has been particularly successful given the       Group's specialist input into high-profile expeditions and work with       Olympic athletes prior to the London 2012 Olympic games, reaching a global       audience and raising awareness of the team's international expertise in       high-altitude physiology and medicine.
