     EEERG's innovative work on fluid systems has been credited with       "transforming" the design, operating and sales strategies of one of the       University of Huddersfield's industrial partners.
The successful       application of research, which has resulted in 18-fold increase in sales       for the company and further contracts for the University, has been       described as an exemplar of a Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
The inverse design methodology that was first developed for Bentley       Motors led to immediate success when incorporated into Weir Valves and       Controls Ltd's X-Stream valve trim.
In its product literature the company,       based in Elland, West Yorkshire, describes X-Stream as "the first [valve]       of its kind to provide complete 3D-flow control", adding: "The result of       an extensive research programme, this method of design uses a combination       of proven computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and actual flow visualisation       techniques to eliminate local areas of excessive turbulence and velocity       (the main source of noise and erosion problems) and areas of recirculating       flow (a significant cause of cavitation)."
[a] Modifications in design       strategy brought about by EEERG's research resulted in an immediate       improvement in design lead times - specifically, a reduction of 75% - and       led to growth in demand for and sales of X-Stream.
In addition, enhanced       knowledge of the pressure field and the velocity field inside valve       internals enabled the company's design and sales employees to handle       clients' queries far more efficiently.
[b, c]     The resulting success of this collaboration has led to more investment in       the company's R&amp;D and sales strategies, including the establishing of       a team specifically tasked with handling X-Stream matters.
The industrial       supervisor of the KTP was given responsibility for leading further       research and development in this area, with Mishra's team and the       University's facilities remaining integral to the work.
The growth in       sales since the partnership was first established is reflected in the       figures below.
Year:           2010           2011           2012           2013                             Sales:*           &#163;X           &#163;4X           &#163; 11 X           &#163; 18 X                          (Actual numbers cannot be given because of confidentiality)     This progression shows how embedding the knowledge through the KTP       programme, along with initiatives taken by the company to fully utilise       the support available, has resulted in a 18-fold increase in sales in the       space of less than four years.
[c] The figure for 2012-2013 is expected to       show a 25 fold increase by the end of this year.
Weir's Senior Design       Engineer has remarked: "The impact of embedding outcomes of computational       fluid dynamics into the design strategy, as well as operation and sales,       transformed the market for X-Stream worldwide."
[c] Speaking at a local       management committee meeting in September 2013, the KTP adviser described       the programme as an example of an ideal Knowledge Transfer Partnership in       which academic expertise had been embedded through a structured process in       the company's work system to deliver benefits to all parties.
[d]     The strengthening of the partnership between the University and Weir as a       result of the success of EEERG's research has delivered further       advantages.
In the past two years four graduates have been employed by the       company as full-time engineers, and every year Weir has employed two       placement students, which has further contributed to the partnership's       sustainability.
Although the current KTP is due to end in January 2014,       both parties have already agreed to extend collaboration via another KTP -       one focused on extending the work carried out so far to develop the design       of wear-resistive valves for application in the oil and gas industry.
The influence of the research conducted with both Bentley and Weir has       also been be evidenced by the securing of further contracts by Mishra and       his team.
Two PhD studentships are being sponsored by Blackhall       Engineering Ltd, of Brighouse, West Yorkshire, to embed the team's       knowledge base into the company's design and development activities in       order to optimise Blackhall's product range.
[e]
