     The role of the Community Pharmacist has been reformed with an increasing       role in the public's health and wellbeing.
Anderson's research has played       an important part in this reform, providing evidence for the 2008 Pharmacy       White Paper.
Subsequent changes in pharmacy practice have been piloted and       have shown benefits to commissioners, pharmacy staff, contractors and the       public in relation to the delivery and outcomes of public health services,       as evidenced below.
The DH commissioned Anderson's updated systematic reviews (4)       specifically to provide evidence for the 2008 White Paper: `Pharmacy in       England: Building on strengths delivering the future' (a).
This White       Paper set out how pharmacists would work to complement GPs in promoting       health, preventing ill health and providing care that is more responsive       to individual needs.
The DH confirmed that "The updated evidence base       [provided by Anderson] was used within the White Paper wherever         relevant, with the greatest input represented in Chapters 4 (More         pharmacy services supporting healthy living and better care), 5         (Communications and relationships), 6 (Research and innovation in         practice) and 8 (Structural enablers and levers)" (b).
Chapter 4 of       the White Paper proposed the launch of `healthy living centres' a       repositioning of pharmacies so that they are recognised as healthy living       and health-promoting centres, commissioning services relevant to their       local communities &#8212; highlighting outcomes from Anderson's research (4).
Sections of the White Paper, specifically Chapter 4, were used by the DH       to inform the Healthy Living Pharmacy (HLP) initiative set up with NHS       Portsmouth in 2009 (b).
NHS Portsmouth were looking to increase access to       public health services through pharmacies, to meet the needs of their       local deprived population.
A HLP framework was developed with a remit to       deliver consistent high quality public health services, flexible enough to       meet local needs.
To be accredited as a HLP a series of quality standards       were set (c: p16), including: development of the pharmacy public health       workforce with at least one member of non-pharmacist staff trained as a       Health Champion (via Royal Society of Public Health Level 2 Health       Improvement Award); appropriate premises with a consultation room and       health promoting area; and engagement with local healthcare professionals       and commissioners to ensure appropriate services were offered.
An interim       report of the HLP pilot in 2010 (d) showed improvements in service       delivery and improved public awareness of the services available in       pharmacies.
There was a 140% increase in smoking quits via community       pharmacy from pre-HLP levels.
During the 5 month evaluation period the       average numbers of quits were: 25.1 for a HLP; 13.2 for a pharmacy with a       Health Champion; and 3.7 for a pharmacy with no Health Champion (d).
HLPs       also supplied a significantly higher proportion of EHC than non-HLPs (X       (Chi)2, p&lt;0.001) (c: p18).
The success of the pilot attracted the attention of the new Coalition       government who cited HLPs as an example of good practice in the 2010 White       Paper `Healthy Lives Healthy People: our strategy for public health in       England' (e: p42).
The Health Minister Lord Howe commented "Visiting         Portsmouth has demonstrated exactly why pharmacy is embedded within our         strategy for the public health service.
Portsmouth's experience with         HLPs shows that the public does want more healthy living advice and can         benefit greatly from the expertise of pharmacists and their teams who         are a part of the community.
It displays just how successful pharmacy         can be at delivering commissioned services" (f).
In 2011 a series of       20 HLP pathfinder sites were rolled out across England with an initial       target of 100 HLPs by April 2012.
This figure was exceeded (199) and the       latest figures show around 500 pharmacies now have accredited HLP status       with many outside the pathfinder sites (c: p19-21), demonstrating buy-in       from pharmacy contractors and commissioners.
In 2013 the evaluation of these pathfinder sites confirmed the HLP       concept could be replicated in differing areas, with improved service       activity and outcomes in HLPs.
The report states "The strength of the         improvements seen was notable [...], gains were seen across different         services, with different specifications, in geographically varied areas         with different levels of health need and deprivation" (c: p29).
Smoking cessation and supply of EHC were the services most commissioned       across the pathfinder sites, with Plymouth commissioning smoking cessation       through pharmacies for the first time (c: p32).
Differing reporting styles       limit detailed analysis, however 8 out of 9 pathfinder sites who evaluated       smoking cessation reported higher numbers of quits in HLPs than non-HLPs       (&gt;50% more quits in most areas) (c: p32-5) and for EHC 4 out of 5 sites       noted increased consultations and/or supply in HLPs than non-HLPs (c:       p37-9).
Associated increases in Chlamydia screening and condom supply were       also reported by some pathfinder sites.
The evaluation detailed benefits for the public, contractors, staff and       commissioners:     Public: Feedback from 1034 service user questionnaires showed that       the public welcome the HLP concept with 98% of respondents agreeing they       would recommend the service and 81% rating the quality of service as       `excellent' (a `good' rating received a further 17%) (c: p96-7).
These       figures indicate public approval for the delivery of public health       services via community pharmacy.
HLPs are also reaching people who would       not otherwise have taken steps to improve their health &#8212; 1 in 5       respondents stated that if the service received was not offered in a       pharmacy, they would have done nothing; a further 3 in 5 respondents would       have visited their GP to receive the service (c: p98), demonstrating a       shift in behaviour towards accessing public health services via       pharmacies.
Contractors: Analysis of 106 contractor surveys related to service       delivery indicated that the full range of pharmacy staff was being used to       provide HLP services (c:p 64-7).
Where appropriate, use of Health       Champions leads to a reduction in service delivery costs of up to 70%.
Estimates from the survey show that a trained pharmacy technician delivers       an effective stop smoking service for &#163;40 per smoking quit, compared to       &#163;135 if delivered by a pharmacist (c: p87).
A second survey looked at the       benefits of becoming a HLP; of the 153 responses analysed: 43% reported an       increase in their NHS income related to public health services (1 in 4       reported &gt;25% increase); 33% stated prescription volume had gone up       (61% stayed the same); and 62% reported an increase in demand for public       health services since becoming a HLP (37% no change) (c: p106-9).
Staff: 80% of contractors surveyed had seen an increase in       productivity of staff with 92% suggesting that becoming a HLP has been       worthwhile in terms of staff development.
Recurring themes from the survey       showed that staff felt they had more professional recognition and greater       professional satisfaction, since their pharmacy became a HLP (c: p109-11).
Commissioners: Commissioners views on HLPs were very positive.
They had confidence from the Portsmouth trial results to use the HLP       quality mark as an assurance of consistent, cost effective service       delivery, with a Commissioner from Birmingham stating that "becoming a         HLP will display to commissioners' pharmacy's commitment to delivering         cost effective and high quality services" (c: p103).
In Portsmouth       their commissioner remarked "future commissioning can be targeted and         offered to those pharmacies that we know will deliver.
So this has         become a great organisational tool to target commissioning more cost         effectively" (c: p103).
In addition to impact via HLPs, Anderson's research (1,4,6) was cited by       the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) in their consultation response (g)       to the 2010 White Paper `Healthy Lives, Healthy People: our strategy for       public health in England' (e).
The RPS believe that their response had an       influence on the initiation of the government backed Pharmacy and Public       Health Forum (PPHF) in 2011 (h), which was set up as part of the NHS       reforms with a remit to drive the development of public health services in       Pharmacy.
The PPHF provided the 2013 evaluation of HLPs and is working on       their future roll out.
The Forum is building an evidence base for       Pharmacy's role in public health, with Anderson's research (4,5,6) cited       in their 2013 report (i).
The RPS is devising a set of professional       standards for the PPHF and has confirmed the use of Anderson's research       (4) in their scoping studies (h).
Released for consultation in August       2013, the `Professional Standards for Public Health Practice in Pharmacy'       are designed to provide a framework for pharmacy teams across the UK to       design, implement, deliver and monitor high quality public health       services.
