     Development of the IMROC system and prototype agreement from         Optoacoustics     The IMROC (Interventional MR Optical Communication) System makes MRI       communications simple and effective.
Incorporating lightweight fibre       optical headphones, it allows hands-free, full duplex communications       between MRI scanner and control room.
Using IMROC, doctors can speak with       technicians and patients in any MRI environment.
It is especially suited       to advanced interventional and interoperational MRI suites, where clear,       full duplex communications are absolutely critical.
Radiologists and       technologists have praised IMROC for improving personal productivity and       clinical throughput       (http://www.webwire.com/ViewPressRel.asp?aId=149468#.UfKOtJwvyZQ).
In September 1998, as part of the development process, researchers at MRC       IHR contacted Optoacoustics Ltd (a leading designer and manufacturer of       optical fibre-based microphones, headphones and sensing systems for       medical applications) about their optical microphone technology.
Optoacoustics had developed optical noise-cancelling microphones which       were ideal for MRI because their operation was unimpaired by the high       magnetic field, although the company did not yet have a complete active       noise-cancellation system for the MRI market.
The company provided MRC IHR       with a set of optical microphones which were incorporated into our       research prototype MRI active noise-cancellation system.
The prototype was       installed and evaluated using the Phillips 3 Tesla MRI scanner at the Sir       Peter Mansfield Magnetic Resonance Centre, University of Nottingham in       2006.
In February 2006 Dr. Yuvi Kahana, CEO of Optoacoustics Ltd, visited       Nottingham to experience the fully operational prototype system and to       informally discuss the technical specification.
Following subsequent       negotiations, the intellectual property was exclusively licensed to the       company through a formal contract drawn up by MRC Technology &#8212; the       exclusive technology transfer agent for the MRC.
The licensing agreement       provided Optoacoustics Ltd with the mechanical design, hardware and       software of the prototype and was signed on August 2008a     Translation of proof of concept work to commercial system     The company devoted 10 years and considerable financial resources to turn       MRC IHR's proof-of-concept work into a commercial system for wider MRI       applications.
Dr. Kahana and his team redesigned the IMROC system for use       during MRI; with the OptoActive&#8482; active noise-cancelling headphones       component of the IMROC system based on the original MRC IHR innovation.
The OptoActive&#8482; component uses adaptive filtering to attenuate MR acoustic       gradient noise, with three selectable modes to fit every scenario.
MRC IHR       is acknowledged in the OptoActive product as licensing a portion of the       Active Noise Cancellation algorithm supporting real-time algorithmic,       out-of-phase harmonic active noise cancelling using proprietary Digital       Signal Processing.
Many of the system's other features (unsurpassed sound       clarity, quiet two-way communication, self- calibrating with sound       pressure level monitoring in real time, and high fidelity audio stimuli       capability) are also characteristics of the MRC IHR research prototype.
Siemens AG financed compatibility testing in one of their major USA       imaging centres (North Carolina).
In April 2011 Siemens AG declared that       Optoacoustics' OptoActive&#8482; headphone system, IMROC system and FOMRI       noise-cancelling microphone were compatible and safe for use in Siemens AG       MRI systems worldwide, specifically in the MAGNETOM family of MRI systemsb.
The IMROC system has been evaluated by several development partners at       leading interventional MRI research centres (University of Texas M. D.       Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Johns       Hopkins University School of Medicine, University of Utah School of       Medicine, and Klinikum Coburg, Germany) and in November 2011, Siemens       promoted the system at the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)       2011 conference in Chicago, USAc.
Optoacoustics' CEO Dr. Yuvi       Kahana said: "We're honored and thrilled to be invited by Siemens to join       them in promoting the IMROC system at RSNA 2011.
We look forward to seeing       IMROC become an integral part of every Siemens MRI suite''.
FDA approval and Optoacoustics system brought to market     In May 2012, Optoacoustics' OptoActive&#8482; system was cleared for marketing       in the US by the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA)d.       Receipt of 510(k) clearance enables broader sales and distribution of this       unique flagship device in advanced MRI, interventional MRI and functional       MRI facilities.
In marking the FDA approval, Optoacoustics' CEO Dr. Yuvi       Kahana said, "The FDA clearance for our leading medical division products       opens up an exciting new era for Optoacoustics.
I expect that we'll see       very keen interest from MR professionals in the US.
Now they can       dramatically expand their research and work more efficiently without EPI       noise."
In September 2012, Optoacoustics formally launched the fully wireless       IMROC system at the 9th Interventional MRI (iMRI) symposium at       Harvard Medical School, Boston, USAe.
The company has so far       installed six systems worldwide and has already received 10 major orders       for Optoacoustics' OptoActive&#8482; systems from companies in the USA, Germany,       Begium, South Korea, Finland and Israelf.
