     The key beneficiaries for Morriss's body of work are GPs, other       clinicians (such as psychologists       and practice nurses) and patients with MUS through the following       mechanisms:            Successful attainment of government funding for IAPT for MUS       Changes to general practice training       Reattribution training taken up by clinicians and researchers         internationally based upon         Nottingham methods       Better identification of patients through the development of The         Nottingham Tool, an aid to         identification of MUS within the clinical and patient community          Introduction of a national streamlined pathway for psychological         treatment (IAPT)     In April 2008, the Government announced that they would invest       approximately &#163;33 million in       2008/09, a further &#163;70 million in 2009/10 and an additional &#163;70 million in       2010/11 (totalling &#163;173       million) to introduce IAPT treatment for MUS and long-term conditionsa.
This document was       prepared in collaboration with the Care Services Improvement Partnership       (CSIP) and the NHS       commissioning team for MUS/long-term conditions (LTC).
Later, in October       2008, the Positive       Practice Guide published by IAPTb outined changes in clinical       practice proposed by Morriss and       colleagues, discussing barriers to treatment, identification, the impact       of psychological problems       and gaps in GP training.
Morriss is a key member of the MUS/LTC special       interest group for IAPT       who also aim to improve access to psychological therapies for the whole       community by removing       barriers to treatment and increased understanding of patient needs, thus       translating the work       directly to local communitiesc.
Work conducted by Morriss       through this group has had impact on       patients by raising awareness of MUS as a long-term debilitating condition       and a disabilityd.
This       formed a major part of the need for increased government funding to       address the issue.
Based       upon more recent work by Morriss6, the government have decided       to introduce nurse-delivered       and CBT psychological interventions for MUS in primary care.
This has       resulted in a major training       programme to be developed to expand the psychological therapist workforce       in order to respond       more effectively to the needs to patients with MUS/LTC and co-morbid       anxiety and depressionc.
In 2009, Morriss's work on reattribution training (cited in research from       2007)1,2 informed the       Royal College of Psychiatrists Practical Management Guide for Patients       with Physical and       Psychological Problems in Primary Caree as well as the       practical guidance document for GPs to       help manage MUS by encouraging reattribution and reducing GP anxieties       about tackling       psychological problems with the patientf.
More recently, in       2012, a NHS Emotional Wellbeing and       Physical Health Care Case for Change described Morriss's findings on       symptom reattribution as a       successful technique as part of a wider package of care for people with       MUSg thus further       improving the patient experience.
Looking forward, and as evidence of government acknowledgment of its       importance, in 2010       the government decided to increase the funding of IAPT services to &#163;400       million over the next 4       years to fund the expansion of work into further areas including medically       unexplained symptomsh.
Impact on cost-effectiveness of care and international uptake       Although it is hard to give a precise estimate of cost savings at this       early phase, previous estimates       made independently (Bermingham et al., 2010) suggest that if IAPT were to       deliver psychological       treatments based on approaches in the MUS and LTC Positive Practice Guideb       (based on       Morriss's work), savings of at least &#163;75 million per year may be made (9%       of GP estimated       expenditure of &#163;837 million per year).
Morriss's work has also been       instrumental in finding and       translating the message that many patients could be better managed       clinically and more cost-       effectively in primary care.
As such, work on clinical communication and       organisation of care for       patients with MUS is now part of standard GP and psychiatry training in       England through the Royal       College of General Practitionersi and internationally in       Denmark, Germany, Netherlands and Spain.
The Denmark group has taken up reattribution methods using Morriss's       framework through the       development of `TERM'.
There is also evidence of uptake in the USj.
Increased recognition of MUS in general practice through The         Nottingham Tool     For further impact on GPs and patients, Morriss's work has increased       recognition of MUS       cases in primary care through the development of The Nottingham Tool.
This       tool has helped       estimate the need for psychosocial treatment through better identification       of patients with MUS       within the general practice community.
In 2009, NHS Commissioning Support       for London       recommended The Nottingham Tool for general practitioners to increase       recognition of MUS within       the local community by scanning medical records to generate a list of       patients with MUSk.
The Tool       has its impact primarily on commissioners, raising awareness of numbers of       individuals within local       communities with MUS so that funding can be distributed appropriately.
The       Tool has been praised       by practitioners, including the chair of Sainsbury Centre for Mental       Health and IAPT MUS/LTC       special interest group.
`Your work in producing the Nottingham Tool, to allow practices to         estimate prevalence of MUS         was of great value to the programme, and informed much of the national         thinking on this very         important topic' l.     Finally, Morriss's continued work on this topic continues to be cited as       important in informing       the thinking of health-care decisions, in particular in the domain of       mental health.
Publications are       on-going with new advances being made in 2012 (e.g.
Morriss: Role of       mental health professionals       in the management of functional somatic symptoms in primary care).
The       chair of Sainsbury       Centre for Mental Health commented on these on-going contributions.
`I have no doubt that your work has advanced national and         international knowledge and practice,         and continues to do so; I am currently a CCG Governing Body Member,         leading on mental health -         but I am still asked regularly for advice on this subject, part of my         reply usually references your         work'l.
