     Commercial impact     The introduction of earthworms into degraded or newly restored land is       known to promote soil improvement.
However, obtaining the most appropriate       species in the large numbers required can be costly and time consuming.
Development of the Earthworm Inoculation Unit (EIU) technique has proved       successful and has led to long-term monitoring of sites in the UK and       overseas, with on- going academic and commercial activity.
Specific       post-industrial work took place at Calvert Landfill site, Buckinghamshire       in collaboration with the Forestry Commission (FC), including &#163;24,000       funding (Short Rotation Forestry and earthworms: Impacts and responses).
Here interactions between earthworms and trees were investigated and work       established that earthworm communities could influence tree growth.
This       has led to further collaboration (0.5 funding of a PhD) with the FC, where       work examined the effects of earthworms on short rotation forestry       production.
In the late 1990s at the rehabilitated Hallside Steelworks       site, Scotland, earthworm inoculation was used to assist incorporation of       sewage sludge and colliery spoil to build new soil.
This was linked with a       consortium of interested groups (including Scottish Natural Heritage) and       the results from here and elsewhere have convinced managers of a large       disused ordnance site in Scotland to investigate potential commercial       applications.
The EIU technique has also been employed by MTT, Agrifood       Research in Finland to enhance soil fertility in heavy clay soils.
This       work is on-going and links with soil drainage, cereal production and       further organic waste (boardmill sludge) use in an agricultural setting.
In an urban setting, composting and vermi- composting (using       litter-dwelling earthworms) has been employed and funded through       Lancashire Environmental Fund (Landfill Tax).
A current PhD, again jointly       funded by UCLan and the FC, is examining effects of earthworms on tree       establishment at Thames Chase in Essex.
This project once more links       trees, reclaimed land, organic wastes and earthworms.
Previous soil restoration operated primarily in terms of the physical and       chemical constituents of the soil and did not consider the structure and       function of biological components.
Following major landform corrections,       development of a living soil can proceed once the major components have       been brought together.
Constructing soils usually requires the use of a       subsoil and addition of organic matter (OM) which is not new, but the UK       National Building Specifications (2011) now dictate that consideration       should be given to earthworm augmentation or inoculation to enhance       topsoil function.
This long-awaited recognition thus takes note of       research undertaken by this group through the development of the EIU       technique.
Funded earthworm monitoring has also been undertaken on translocated       grassland at Manchester Airport since 1998 (including &#163;20,000 funding from       Manchester Airport).
This followed Runway 2 construction and relates to       the presence of food (earthworms) for legally protected vertebrates       (badgers and great-crested newts).
Results from this work have also       influenced the recently commissioned commercial work in Scotland, to be       developed 2012-27, at the Bishopton ordnance development, managed by BAE       Systems (including &#163;3,500 Initial Earthworm Survey).
Public engagement     UCLan staff have been involved in increasing the reach of this research       by involving the public wherever possible.
For example, we were involved       in a National Open Air Laboratories (OPAL) campaign.
Here, the general       public were encouraged to explore the outdoors and investigate       biodiversity.
This was assisted through production of a simple-to-use       field identification guide for earthworms in collaboration with the       Natural History Museum (NHM) in London.
This earthworm identification       guide has now been distributed to 50,000 individuals/groups, particularly       school children, and is assisting in production of distribution maps of       the more common species across Britain (something currently lacking).
Over       4,200 individual public surveys have been conducted and recorded on line.
Furthermore, English Heritage (Down House in Kent) permitted the ERG to       sample "Darwin's Garden" and have allowed long-term experiments to be       established, replicating those of Darwin (relating to stone burial by       earthworms in Great Puckland's Meadow).
This has assisted English Heritage       in providing material on their activities at Down House for public       education.
This has also (and will) received much media coverage and links       historic scientific endeavours with current research.
Members of the ERG       have also contributed to numerous "Bioblitz" events, where the public are       exposed to biodiversity at selected natural history locations across the       country.
These and further aspects of the ERG work have been disseminated       to the public through the media.
Most notably two television programmes       have allowed the research to be widely appreciated.
The BBC showed a       section on research undertaken in "Darwin's Garden" and a French       organisation (Gedion TV) featured even lengthier exposure of the group in       a documentary entitled "Superworm".
