     Summer Scientist Week is a research and public engagement event for       families with children aged between 4 and 11 years and has been running       annually since 2007.
Summer Scientist Week was developed in order to       create a cycle of involvement, engagement and education in psychological       research within the local community.
The two key aims of Summer Scientist       Week are:     i) to stimulate interest and excitement in how the mind and brain work     ii) to support informal learning about the research process and research       outcomes in the fields of psychology and cognitive neuroscience.
Families visit the University of Nottingham for a three-hour session       during which time they take part in a range of fun activities with a       psychology theme.
Each session brings together up to 50 children in a       single location with a mixture of hands on psychology games and       experiments.
Researchers and postgraduate students run a range of studies       informed by the previous underpinning research described above, which       showcase the research questions and methods involved.
Parents experience       the research process first-hand by watching their child take part in the       studies and by talking directly with the researchers.
They are also       informed about findings from the underpinning research, in addition to       current studies, through posters displayed at the event, student helpers,       a newsletter sent out to all families in December each year and a booklet       summarising the research undertaken by the group.
This allows parents and       children to link the findings to the research they experienced, gaining a       deeper understanding of the outcomes as well as how it links to the       process of carrying out psychological research.
As this is an annual event       the participants are able to learn about continuing developments within       the field.
It is particularly interesting for parents to see that some of       the research they learn about at the event has arisen from data collected       at previous SSW meetings and has led to scientific publications.
In       2012/13, five journal articles were published using SSW data in journals       including Development Psychology and Current Biology7       (available upon request).
Since 2007 over 1,000 children aged between 4 and 11 years from the       Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire area have attended the event with their       parents.
The event attracts people from a range of backgrounds       (Deprivation Index range from 0% to 100%, mean = 64.7%).
The majority of       attendees are of white ethnic origin (81.5%).
Over a quarter of       participants have attended more than once (26.3%).
The event is       sustainable and has a lasting legacy, as evidenced by the steady increase       in registrations each year (from 120 in 2007 to 550 in 2012)a.
See Facebook page for updated registration detailsb.
Parent evaluation data from 2012c showed that 99% of parents       rated their experience at the event positively (68% very positive, 31%       positive; 2011d: 67% very positive, 33% positive; 2010e:       73% very positive, 27% positive) and 100% of children enjoyed taking part.
Moreover, 99% of parents and 100% of children would come to Summer       Scientist Week again, and 100% of parents would recommend it to a friend       (2011: 100%; 2010: 100%).
In addition, demonstrating increased engagement       with research developments, 68% agreed that they had become more       interested in psychology/child development news items and programs in the       media and 40% agreed that they have attended more University or       science-based events in the local area due to their involvement with       Summer Scientist Week.
Together this demonstrates that Summer Scientist       Week has led to increased engagement with science and research by the       families who take part.
Summer Scientist Week has increased public understanding of research, as       evidenced by the fact that in 2012, for example, 92% of parents stated       that the event itself had improved their understanding of psychology       research at the University of Nottingham (2011: 80%; 2010: 84%).
For the       newsletter, 93% of parents agreed that it had increased their       understanding of psychology researchc,f.
At Summer Scientist       Week 2012 parents also indicated how much individual posters had increased       their understanding of the research topic covered, on a scale of 1 to 5       from `not at all' to `a lot'.
From a total of 149 responses to 17 posters,       the average rating was 4.5, indicating that their understanding had been       increasedc,g.
Qualitative feedback received from parents and children, such as the       comments below, illustrate their increased understanding of psychological       research and engagement with science and research.
[source: 2012       evaluation forms, available on request]     "I have enjoyed bringing my child; not only for his experience but         also for the knowledge I have gained from attending the event, looking         at the website, and reading the newsletter."
"Fantastic!
Both my boys loved it and had a great time.
The research         `games' are pitched really well so that they enjoy playing them and had         lots of fun.
I've found the whole morning really informative too.
We'll         definitely come next year!"
"Tom aged 7: `Today was super.
I learned a lot about science and words         I didn't know.
I liked collecting the token.
It was awesome!
I'm glad we         came.'
