     Context As a literary written language, Welsh has a rich and       unbroken tradition which extends       back to the middle ages.
However, in the socio-political circumstances of       the Victorian era the       domains of Welsh remained largely confined to those of religion and       literature and English was       enthroned in Wales as the prestige language of education, commerce, public       administration and       law.
It was not until the second half of the twentieth century that the       need to enhance the use of       Welsh beyond its Victorian domains became, first of all, a matter of       political agitation, and finally,       by the close of the century, a matter of political consensus in Wales       (5.3).
At the level of corpus planning, the enhanced use of Welsh in a growing       number of domains (e.g.,       education, law, broadcasting and technology) has necessitated a continual       process of linguistic       elaboration and terminological modernisation (5.3).
BU's research in the       areas of lexicography and       terminology is at the heart of this process (5.3).
Since 2008 BU has also       transformed the delivery       of such research to non-academic users through the creation of open-access       on-line databases       and through the use of other technological platforms (4.5).
(4.1) Throughout the assessment period of 2008-13, The Welsh         Academy English-Welsh         Dictionary (3.1) has been a corner-stone for the diversification of       the use of Welsh in contemporary       Wales.
It fulfils the need for a major work of reference that has the       ability to mediate between       English, the dominant world language, and the growing use of Welsh outside       the traditional       domains of religion and literature.
The Dictionary provides a standardized       lexicon extending from       public administration to nuclear physics.
For bilingual public       administrators, educators,       broadcasters, editors and translators in Wales, it is the most essential       of tools to support the use of       Welsh in dynamic modern contexts (5.3).
In offices and homes in Wales, and       on library shelves       throughout the English-speaking world, the Welsh Academy English-Welsh         Dictionary remains the       standard work on modern Welsh lexicon.
In 2008, the Dictionary was       described by a former editor       of Geiriadur Prifysgol Cymru (the historical Dictionary of the       Welsh Language) as `undoubtedly the       single greatest influence on present-day Welsh vocabulary' (5.5).
(4.3) As a tool that enhances the general use of Welsh, the       fundamental importance of the       Dictionary was recognized by the Welsh Language Board, which obtained a       licence from the       editors to publish a digital version.
The Board, a statutory public body,       was created through the       Welsh Language Act of 1993 and its primary legal obligation was to promote       and facilitate the use       of Welsh in Wales on the basis of the equal validity of both Welsh and       English.
In the Board's       Annual Review for 2008-9 it was stated that the `publication of a digital       version of this dictionary will       be a very important step in facilitating the use of Welsh, especially in       the bilingual Workplace' (5.6).
The fact that this highly prestigious and nationally important       digitisation project was entrusted in       2009 to LTU provides clear evidence of the unit's pre-eminence in the area       of language       technology.
In February 2012 the open-access digital version of the Dictionary (3.2)       was launched.
The       event was marked by news reports on S4C and BBC Radio Cymru (28 February       2012), an article       in the weekly journal Golwg (23 February 2012), further coverage       in Y Cymro (2 March 2012), and       also an extended item as part of S4C's Pethe series (2 April 2012)       (5.11).
At the time of the launch,       the Welsh Language Board's Chief-Executive stated that the Dictionary is       `an essential companion       to anyone who wishes to use Welsh' and that the digital version moved `the       Welsh language into a       completely different modern age' (5.10).
This statement accurately       reflects the significance of the       impact of this work: between 13 March 2012 and 31 July 2013 the online       version of the Dictionary       received 1,756,000 searches, with an average of between 4,000 and 6,000       recorded during every       working day.
(4.4) As a result of the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure of 2011       the Welsh Language Board was       abolished on 1 April 2012 and its duties divided between the new Welsh       Language Commissioner       and the Welsh Government.
The licence to produce a digital version of the       Dictionary was       transferred to the Commissioner who has assumed full responsibility for       maintaining and       developing the on-line Dictionary.
The importance of this lexicographical       on-line resource is further       evidenced by A living language a language for living (2012), the       Welsh Government's Welsh       Language Strategy for 2012-17 which aims to see `an increase in the number       of people who both       speak and use the language'.
The strategy states (p.49) that `the Welsh       Government will ensure       that the language can benefit from a standardized online Welsh language       dictionary, based on the       significant investment it has already committed to this project over time'       (5.8).
(4.5) The Termiadur: Standardized Terminology (3.3) was       commissioned by the Qualifications,       Curriculum and Assessment Authority for Wales       which became part of the Welsh Government's       new Department         for Education, Lifelong Learning and Skills in 2006.
The volume       provides       standardized Welsh terminology for the provision of Welsh-medium education       in Wales and       provides standardized forms that are to be used in all curriculum       materials and external       examinations in Wales (5.1).
Supported by the Welsh Government, the       greatly enhanced on-line       electronic version (3.4) now covers terms from the primary level right       through to further education       and it continues to grow.
At the time of its launch in 2012, the Welsh       Government's Minister for       Education and Skills hailed the new electronic version as `a great boost       to Welsh-medium       education and to the language in general' (5.7).
The Termiadur Addysg is an essential tool for the provision of       Welsh-medium Education (5.1).
In       the Welsh Government's Welsh-medium Education Strategy of 2010 the       need `to ensure that up-to-date,       standardized Welsh-language terminology is available to support all       aspects of Welsh-medium       provision' (p.18) was identified as a strategic objective (5.9).
The Termiadur       in its various       print and electronic guises meets that objective.
Its standardized       terminology is officially sanctioned       and used by the Welsh Joint Education Committee &#8212; Wales's national       examination board &#8212; in all its       educational and examination activity (5.1).
Throughout the REF assessment       period, the Termiadur,       therefore, has enhanced the ability of teachers to deliver Welsh-medium       education with       terminological exactitude and competence and has enriched the educational       experiences of all       pupils in Wales who study their subjects through the medium of Welsh (that       number stood at       100,884 in January 2013: 63,192 primary / 37,692 secondary) (5.1).
The Termiadur also places Welsh in the technological world of       young people.
As specified in A         living language a language for living (see above and 5.8) it is       `important .
.
.
to facilitate the use of       Welsh in all aspects of public life, such as in the field of technology'       (p.49).
Since 2012 a free app       version of the Termiadur has been available from the App Store,       Google Play and the Amazon App       Store for mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, that run on       iOS (iPad/iPhone) or       Android.
Y Termiadur Addysg is also available within the `ap         Geiriaduron app that also includes a       general language dictionary.
Since its launch in March 2012, there have       been 197,394 searches of       the on-line Termiadur deriving from 33,883 visits.
The Termiadur       has also been downloaded to       13,486 mobile devices, a statistic comparable with at least 1,500,000       downloads in an UK-English       context.
(4.7) Throughout the assessment period of 2008-13, BU's research       in the areas of lexicography       and terminology has been of fundamental importance to all professional       translators/editors in       Wales.
Cymdeithas Cyfieithwyr Cymru (The Association of Welsh Translators       and Interpreters) is       the national professional association of Welsh/English translators and       interpreters.
It has, at       various accreditation levels, 337 members who work in both public and       private sectors, including       SME's such as Cwmni Cymen in Caernarfon, Prysg in Cardiff, Trosol in       Castellnewydd       Emlyn/Cardiff, and Trywydd in Carmarthen (5.4).
All professional       translators and editors use the       Dictionary on a very regular if not daily basis and it is listed among the       bibliographical items       recommended for use by translators by the Association (5.4).
For example,       since its establishment       in 1999 the National Assembly for Wales adheres to a rigorous bilingual       policy.
Its Translation and       Reporting Service employs 41 translators/editors and they are responsible       for the translation of       text, simultaneous translation and for producing and editing the       Assembly's Record of Proceedings       (5.2).
During the 2012/13 financial year they translated 3,353,500 words       of text, recorded and       edited 699 hours of Plenary and Committee deliberations and provided a       simultaneous translation       service during 2,180 hours of Assembly business and other formal Assembly       events (5.2).
Their       work, which is given public visibility through National Assembly for       Wales's bilingual website,       enhances the use of Welsh in all of the policy areas of devolved power in       Wales: agriculture,       economic development, education, health, heritage, housing, industry,       local government, social       services, transport, tourism, and the Welsh language.
Throughout the       working day they will       continually consult the Academy Dictionary.
Their ability since 2012 to       conduct electronic searches       of the Dictionary has greatly impacted upon their working practices (5.2).
In the words of the Head       of the Assembly's Translation and Reporting Service, `it is difficult to       comprehend how the       professional translator in Wales could function without this dictionary'       (5.2).
