     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S6.
Context       Non-steroidal AIs are now the standard of care for hormone       receptor-positive breast cancers in post-menopausal women, nationally and       internationally (S1).
Our research established that AIs are, however,       associated with increases in osteoporotic fractures and increased bone       mineral density loss (1, 2).
Almost 30,000 post-menopausal women in the UK       develop breast cancer annually, 50% of whom already have significant bone       mineral density loss before starting treatment.
Prior to the research       carried out at UoM, 2.3% of those treated with AIs annually developed bone       fragility fractures.
Pathways to impact       UoM research has led to the following standards of care now adopted       internationally:            Routine assessment of BMD using a DEXA scan prior to AI therapy in         post-menopausal women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer;       Bisphosphonate therapy for all women with a T score &lt; -2;       Discontinuation of HRT as a therapeutic intervention after breast         cancer diagnosis;       Contraindication of HRT in breast cancer patients with menopausal         symptoms/bone loss.
Reach and significance of the impact       The research has had a substantial influence on clinical guidelines       governing the treatment of breast cancer in the UK and internationally.
Use of DEXA scan and bisphosphonates       As a result of the research, national and international consensus       guidelines were issued which indicate the need for pre-adjuvant therapy       bone mineral density DEXA scanning to identify patients already       osteoporotic or at risk of bone loss (S1-S4).
The guidelines ensure       commencement of intravenous or oral bisphosphonates where bone loss has       been identified or patients have had previous osteoporotic fractures.
The research was cited and adopted in NICE CG80, Early and locally         advanced breast cancer: Diagnosis and treatment (2009).
One of the       key priorities identified in these guidelines is that: `Patients with       early invasive breast cancer should have a baseline dual energy X-ray       absorptiometry (DEXA) scan to assess bone mineral density if they are       starting adjuvant aromatase inhibitor treatment/have treatment-induced       menopause/are starting ovarian ablation/suppression therapy' (S1, p. vi).
The guidance in the NICE document on treatment with bisphosphonates cites       our research, stating: `Evidence from RCTs (Brufsky, 2006 [S5 below] and Bundred       et al., 2008 [reference 2 above]) have indicated that in women who were       receiving adjuvant letrozole, immediate treatment with zoledronate       compared to delayed may prevent loss of BMD at both lumbar spine and total       hip.
There is evidence that immediate treatment with zoledronic acid       maintains the baseline osteopenia status of patients compared with delayed       treatment at 12 months [S6 below].
Furthermore, Bundred et al.
(2008) showed no evidence to suggest a difference in the occurrence of       fractures in immediate versus delayed treatment with zoledronate and that       there was no difference in breast cancer recurrence when comparing       immediate and delayed treatment with zoledronate.
There are no significant       acute adverse effects with zoledronate.'
(S1, p. 68)     The US guidelines (ASCO, S3; NCCN US Task Force Report on Bone Health in       Cancer Care, S4) cite our research and advise the use of DEXA scanning and       bisphosphonates in patients on aromatase inhibitor therapy after breast       cancer treatment.
The guidelines ensure that assessment of BMD using DEXA scan prior to AI       therapy is now routine for women with hormone receptor positive breast       cancer.
Bisphosphonate therapy is now offered to all women with a T score       of &lt; -2.
The addition of bisphosphonates has led to a 5-fold reduction in fracture       rate to 0.5% annually in patients being treated with AIs.
This change in       practice, adapted worldwide, has significantly decreased the morbidity and       suffering associated with the use of AIs in breast cancer.
HRT use after breast cancer treatment now contraindicated       The NICE guidelines recognise that Tibolone and HRT should not be       indicated for the vasomotor symptoms of women with breast cancer and,       importantly, that HRT is a less effective treatment than bisphosphonates       for women on AIs with breast cancer (S1).
The research has contributed to the discontinuation of HRT as a       therapeutic intervention after breast cancer diagnosis.
HRT is       contraindicated for breast cancer patients with menopausal symptoms or       bone loss.
