 See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S7.
Context Dysphagia after stroke affects at least 40,000 patients annually in the UK alone, increases mortality (x2.7 relative risk of death) and prolongs hospital bed stay by 10 days.
The consequence is that dysphagia in stroke has an estimated &#163;400m cost burden to the NHS each year.
Despite this, the treatment of swallowing problems remains difficult, with very few treatments being shown to have any major effect on swallowing disability (S1).
The general goals in dysphagia therapy are to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with aspiration and chest infections (6% of all strokes), improve nutritional status and return patients to a normal diet with resultant reductions in complications and improvement of quality of life.
This is recognised in the UK National Stroke Strategy (2007), in which the aim of `the life after stroke' strategy section is for patients to `achieve a good quality of life and maximise independence, well-being and choices' (S2).
The report goes on to identify seven target outcomes that contribute to achieving this goal.
Restoration of swallowing function has the highest impact in almost all of the seven outcomes identified.
Pathways to impact From these observations, the innovation was created and has progressed to an automated bedside, patient-friendly, battery operated intra-luminal throat (pharyngeal) stimulator for use in patients.
Two patent applications for the UK and Europe have been approved.
Through a spin out company (Phagenesis Ltd &#8212; see below), the innovation has started to lead to improved patient outcome, shorter hospital stays, and significant financial savings for the NHS.
An analysis of phase 2 study data shows that pharyngeal stimulation produces a 25% reduction in aspiration compared with standard therapy and that catheters are well tolerated by patients and are easily operated by carers.
Reach and significance of the impact Research at UoM funded by MRC and then NIHR RfPB has led to new evidence that pharyngeal stimulation is an effective treatment in stroke.
Over the last 7 years, in collaboration with the University of Manchester Intellectual Property Ltd, Hamdy has become the clinical scientific officer of a UMIP spin out company, Phagenesis Ltd (S3).
Funded initially by &#163;220,000 of pump priming venture capital money from UMIP and The Liverpool Seed Fund, Merseyside Investment Group, Phagenesis Limited is now managing and leading the programme of work in the area.
As industry lead, Phagenesis is now managing and delivering the commercial business based on the technology.
Indeed, the company entered into an exclusive funding round arrangement with Angloscientific in 2010, a technology based investment company, and has secured 2 tranches of finance.
Phagenesis Ltd, having successfully raised ~&#163;10m in VC funding, has now commenced implementation of the technology (PhagenyxTM), gained CE marking in 2012 (S4), has been awarded the BioNow healthcare product of the year 2012 and is achieving sales in the UK, Europe and the Middle East.
The medical technologies panel of NICE and Health Horizons are currently looking at the product with a view to providing the NHS with clinical recommendations (S5-7).
Over 100 patients have now been treated.
Sales are now estimated at &#163;2m with orders from the Middle East (&#163;1.5m), UK Hospitals (&#163;0.25m), RoI (&#163;0.3m) and Germany (&#163;0.1m).
