     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S10.
Context and pathways to impact     Statistics published by DUK show that CVD is the cause of death in 52% of       people with type 2 diabetes and 44% with type 1.
Within 5 years of its       onset (and many people are not diagnosed until then) CVD risk in type 2       diabetes is the same as in non-diabetic people who have already had a       myocardial infarction.
The additional risk is higher still in diabetic       compared with non-diabetic women.
Within 5 years of diagnosis stroke risk       is doubled.
The publication of CARDS in 2004 (1) therefore attracted great       interest both in scientific journals and lay press.
The initial Lancet       report has over 2500 citations, and DUK set new target levels of LDL       cholesterol of &lt;2mmol/l, to be achieved with statins if necessary,       which were widely broadcast.
Reach and significance of the impact     Impact on national and international clinical guidelines     Following publication of the findings, DUK rapidly ensured that new       guidelines for statin use in diabetes were incorporated in the Joint       British Societies second recommendations (JBS2, 2005) (S1).
The       recommendations state that all type 2 diabetic patients aged &#8805;40 years       (and also some younger patients with particularly adverse risk factors)       should receive statin treatment to achieve an LDL cholesterol &lt;2mmo/l.
The DUK recommendations were further extrapolated to include type 1       diabetes, but this was on the basis of their CVD risk and the practicality       of implementation when the distinction between the two types was often       blurred in general practice.
The British Heart Foundation endorsed the JBS2 recommendation (S2), but       the Association of British Clinical Diabetologists (ABCD) was one of a       number of groups to challenge the CARDS conclusions.
The arguments were       that the patients randomised in CARDS were atypical, particularly in their       high CVD risk.
In fact, they were subsequently shown to be at high risk,       but no more than typical diabetic patients.
There was initial reluctance       to accept that an apparently low LDL cholesterol target for statin       treatment was justified by CARDS.
In fact, in CARDS the mean LDL       cholesterol had been decreased from around 3mmol/l (the average in       middle-aged Britons is 3.7mmol/l) to under 2mmol/l.
These arguments were overcome and the guidance issued by ABCD, NICE and       SIGN (2007-2010) (S3, S4) is essentially the same as JBS2       (S1).
The guidance was strengthened by a meta-analysis by Kearney and       colleagues largely drawing on data from CARDS and the Heart Protection       Study, which was a mixed primary and secondary trial of the less effective       simvastatin, and which included a diabetic cohort (S5).
North American guidelines were modified to take account of the new       evidence provided by CARDS (S6) and European recommendations rapidly       followed (S7, S8).
Improved management of diabetes     The acceptance of the CARDS findings is now universal and statins are an       essential part of diabetic management.
Indeed statin targets are generally       easier to achieve than recommended goals for glycaemia or blood pressure.
Proof of benefit and evidence of cost-effectiveness is stronger for statin       therapy than any other aspect of type 2 diabetes management (S9).
The full impact of CARDS on global health is difficult to evaluate       precisely, but it is likely to be vast.
Many of the 400 million people       with diabetes globally inhabit countries that are not affluent.
However,       now that both simvastatin and atorvastatin are out of patent, many more of       the 2 million CVD deaths occurring annually in diabetes worldwide should       be preventable (S10).
