     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S6.
Context       Children with ALL in the UK (~450 pa) now benefit from one of the highest       cure rates in the world.
During 1980-2000, however, UK success rates fell below other international       groups.
At that time it       was unclear as to why this was the case and both Eden and Saha       were instrumental in initiating       changes that have turned this around, so that our clinical outcomes in       2013 are among the best in       the world.
The changes included the introduction of risk stratification       using MRD, optimising drug       schedules and the testing of drugs hitherto not used widely in children       with ALL.
Pathways to impact       Eden's national leadership has been pivotal to the improvement in       outcome in children with ALL in       UK.
In 1999, he introduced risk stratification (2), incorporated modern       therapeutic blocks, the use       of dexamethasone and PEG-Asparaginase (ALL99) (1), which evolved into the       ALL2003 trial.
Similarly, between 1990 and 2003, there had been little improvement in       outcome in relapsed       childhood ALL worldwide.
Saha used a novel design for a relapse       trial in childhood ALL (3) and       developed strategies for high risk ALL in collaboration with international       groups (5, 6).
Based on       the observations made in the clinical trials, Saha designed       translational research to understand the       biological mechanisms for the variations in therapeutic response (4)       leading to further refinements       in therapy now being tested in frontline ALL trials in UK.
Reach and significance of the impact       These clinical trials in childhood ALL have led to an improvement of       outcome in children with ALL       in the 2008-2013 period in the UK and shaped treatment strategies       worldwide.
As a result of the       changes initiated by Eden, in the period of 2008-2013, the       survival rates in newly diagnosed       childhood ALL in UK are now over 85%, among the best in the world (2).
ALLR3, the trial designed by Saha has improved by 10% the outcome       for children with relapsed       ALL in the UK, Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand and identified a       role for the drug       Mitoxantrone in childhood ALL (3) (S1-S3).
The Vice-Chair for Relapse, ALL       Committee, Children's       Oncology Group and Professor of Paediatrics at The University of Toronto       underlines the       importance of these findings: `the outcomes achieved with the mitoxantrone       arm of the R3       regimen, as published in the Lancet Oncology by Parker et al [reference 3       above], represent the       best published results to date for the first relapse of childhood ALL.
The       R3 regimen thus       represents a new standard of care for children with first relapse of       childhood ALL, and has been       adopted as such at a number of leading institutions around the world for       children with first relapse       of ALL, including my own institution, the Hospital for Sick Children.'
(S4, S5) Mitoxantrone       improves the outcome of all categories of relapses, compared to the       traditionally used Idarubicin.
However MRD levels in both arms of the trial were identical, suggesting       that the effect of       Mitoxantrone is not explained by direct cytotoxicity.
Thus MRD cannot be       used reliably as a       surrogate marker for outcome.
The trial shows that MRD levels can be used       to identify patients       with relapsed ALL who do not need an allogeneic transplant.
The ALLR3 trial design underpins the current international trial in       relapsed disease funded by the       European Union FP7 programme.
This is the largest study of its kind in the       world running across       20 different countries (IntReALL, http://www.intreall-fp7.eu/)       and incorporates the MRD       stratification for transplantation.
As chair of the International study       group on Relapsed and       Resistant Disease in Childhood ALL (I-BFM-SG), Co-Chief Investigator for       IntReALL and an       advisor to the European Medicines Agency, Saha has been able to       initiate studies utilising new       agents in relapsed childhood ALL by collaborating with industry e.g.
IntReALL will use the drug       Epratuzamab (ImmunoMedics).
The standards of procedures developed for the       ALLR3 cell bank       now form the basis of an IntReALL cell bank.
The ALLR3 cell bank also led       to the centralisation of       the UK childhood leukaemia cell bank to Manchester Biobank (funded by       LLR).
The EsPhALL study has shown the benefit of a targeted drug (imatinib) in       conjunction with       conventional chemotherapy, in this high-risk population (5).
Moreover the       use of imatinib has       resulted in a dramatic decrease in MRD levels, and we now only transplant       those with high MRD       levels.
Thus currently imatinib is given to all children with Ph+ ALL in       Europe and other countries.
Less than half of the children previously transplanted now require one,       considerably reducing the       burden of therapy.
The trial has led to the further development of this       group with the inclusion of       the Children's Oncology Group (USA).
A current collaborative study,       between USA, Italy and UK is       investigating the role of Dasatinib on the EsPhALL chemotherapy backbone       (NCRN 350) (S6).
This study is being replaced by a 20-country collaborative effort in 2015.
In the era 1993-2013, Manchester investigators have led the way in       setting standards for the       improvement of outcome in childhood ALL.
During the period 2008-2013, the       ensuing research of       that period has led to a greater than 10% improvement in the cure of both       de novo and relapsed       ALL.
Prompt dissemination of our results has enabled international       colleagues to rapidly       incorporate the knowledge gained from our trials thus benefitting patients       worldwide.
