     In many developing countries, less than half of the population has access       to formal financial markets (World Bank, 2008).
The programme of research       has addressed this concern, and has made significant contributions to       understanding the impact of financial innovations (such as microfinance       and microinsurance) on low-income households.
Following this, we have       researched the nature of regulation among microfinance institutions,       examining how regulation contributes to intended impacts.
Professor Arun's research asserted the positive contribution of       microfinancial services among households through extensive data-based       analyses in various countries.
The study in India (2010a), based on a       nation-wide sample, addressed the impact of microfinancial services on       household poverty, utilizing an Index Based Ranking (IBR) method, which       correctly captures the multidimensional aspects of poverty.
The study       established the poverty-reducing effects of access to microfinance and       loans used for productive purposes.
We have found evidence (2010b, 2012a)       in Sri Lanka that microinsurance has provided greater opportunities for       the diversification of financial-risk exposure for the poor and enhanced       their capabilities in financial management.
Based on a household survey,       supported by British Academy, this research found that the probability of       taking up financial services increased with rising household perception of       risk.
The ESRC research project in South Africa employed a combination of       models and variable selection methods to reveal the effect of financial       perceptions and behaviour on access to, and use of, different types of       financial services.
The findings reveal a robust relationship between       financial perception and behaviour on (a) access to and use of general       accounts and services, and (b) access to and use of insurance/assurance       products.
Our research has enabled us to generate significant impact at       two levels - (1) impacts on practitioners and services (2) impacts on       international development and public policy debates.
(1)Impacts on practitioners and services          As part of a DelPHE project financed by The British Council, we       collaborated with Yaalex Microfinance Limited in Ghana (http://ww.yaalexfinance.com/joomla16),       one of the `A' category organisations in the Ghana Association of       Microfinance Companies (GAMC) Ratings; The research examined the       risk-coping mechanisms adopted by women entrepreneurs.
Our research and       training collaborations have impacted on Yaalex as an organisation,       contributing to the expansion of the business and the development of       enhanced professional standards and training.
Yaalex clients have been       enabled to take better financial decisions (Contact 3) with demonstrable       benefits in the areas of education and health.
Our involvement with Yaalex       has facilitated the diffusion of research knowledge and current       best-practice throughout both the company and microfinance institutions       within this region of Ghana.
(2)Impacts on international development and public policy debates       Our research evidence has stimulated policy debates and international       agencies have been influenced by our research.
We have been invited by the       European Commission to contribute a background chapter on "Microfinance       and Social Protection" for the European Report on Development (Source http://erd.eui.eu/media/BackgroundPapers/Arun-Murinde.pdf).
We have argued for sector-specific regulations in the microfinance sector,       to enable the distinctiveness of this sector to be captured.
We have       advocated for the enhanced mobilization of savings and for developing       linkages with the formal sector.
These findings have featured in the       report (4;5).
Arun has been invited to provide evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary       Group (APPG) on the impact of Microfinance as one of the three academic       expert members (Sources 1 and 3).
The evidence has contributed to the APPG       report "Helping or hurting: What role for microfinance in the fight       against poverty?"
(http://appg-microfinance.org/inquiry.php,2;       Contact 1 and 2).
The report acknowledged Arun's contribution and       referenced Arun's work (2010c).
The report set out to generate greater       interest and understanding amongst the legislature and there is evidence       to confirm that this has been the case (http://appg-microfinance.org/parliament.php,       part of 2; Contact 1 and 2).
The microfinance related parliamentary       questions have nearly doubled since 2011, compared to 2007-11 period as       per the data available in the website.
Further to this, Arun has been invited by Dr. Duncan Green, strategic       adviser for Oxfam GB, to reply to Dr. Milford Bateman's criticism on the       impact of microfinance in the very popular blog `From Poverty to Power'.
Arun's critical engagement on this issue argues that the "one size fits       all" strategy does not work in relation to microfinance and that concepts       of microfinance need to be flexible and incorporate enhanced       understandings of the diverse needs of the poor.
(http://www.oxfamblogs.org/fp2p/?tag=microfinance       ;3).
