     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S8.
Context       Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness and affects about 1% of the       population, mostly before the       age of 35.
Psychosis often becomes a chronic condition and it has       substantial economic and social       costs, reducing life expectancy by 15-20 years and costing the UK economy       more than &#163;12 billion       per year.
Prior to the development of new psychological treatments for       schizophrenia, the first line       treatment was hospitalisation and medication.
However, only approximately       two thirds improve       despite optimal medication, with the rest experiencing persistent and       distressing hallucinations and       delusions and repeated relapses.
These often result in lengthy       hospitalisations, high service costs       and great distress for the individuals and carers concerned.
Psychological       treatments developed       at UoM have significantly improved outcomes and complemented existing       treatments, resulting in       improved functioning and fewer relapses for the individuals, economic       savings and reduced burden       of care for relatives and carers.
Pathways to impact       The impact has been achieved through wide publication of high quality,       international peer-reviewed       publications (over 500 publications on this topic by the group).
Publication has disseminated the       findings to a worldwide audience who have implemented the approaches using       our treatment       approaches.
Members of the group have contributed to large numbers of       international       conferences, provided over 200 workshops worldwide, produced over 100 book       chapters on the       topic in books for clinical and professional audiences, contributed to       policy and other bodies (e.g.
NICE clinical guideline groups, Schizophrenia Commission, Implementation       of Psychological       Therapies for Severe Mental Illness group) and worked in close liaison and       collaboration with       mental health charities on research and dissemination (e.g.
MIND, Rethink)       to disseminate the       findings.
Reach and significance of the impact       Improved assessment, treatment and outcomes for people with         schizophrenia       Psychological treatments for people with psychosis, developed by the UoM       group, have had a       major impact on outcomes for patients and their carers.
Significant       benefits have been       demonstrated on the core symptoms of schizophrenia: functioning, anxiety       and mood (ranging       from 15-20% over standard treatment).
For carers, significant benefits       have been shown on       wellbeing, burden and functioning.
Health economic benefits have also been       demonstrated:       implementation of psychological treatments has been shown be highly cost       effective (i.e cheaper       with better clinical outcomes) (S1).
We have developed clinical assessment       tools which are in       regular use in the NHS.
For example, the PSYRATS tool, a multi-dimensional       assessment of       psychotic symptoms, has been translated into 18 languages in Europe, Asia       and Africa and has       been adopted by the NHS as a national resource for clinicians (Haddock       et al., 1999).
It is widely       used all over the world and is included in the UK Government policy on       Improving Access for       Psychological Therapies (IAPT, a national initiative to improve the       delivery of psychological       therapies) for severe mental illness as a core outcome tool throughout the       UK.
Although the work       has focused primarily on schizophrenia and psychosis, the groundbreaking       innovation of       psychological treatments for schizophrenia at UoM has paved the way for       the adoption of these       treatments into other conditions such as suicidality, bipolar disorder and       personality disorder.
National and international clinical guidelines       Work from the group has contributed directly to NICE guidance for       schizophrenia (2009) (S2) and       for people with schizophrenia and substance misuse (2011) (S3).
The       guidance specifically refers       to treatments developed by our group, namely individual CBT and family       interventions relating to       outcomes from the trials reported above (see section 2).
In addition, the       recent National       Schizophrenia Commission (2012) report (S1) specifically recommended the       implementation of       psychological therapies for people with severe mental illness and their       families, again directly       linked to the therapies and treatment manuals that we have developed.
Psychological interventions developed by this group are recommended in       the Australia and New       Zealand Clinical Practice Guidelines for Schizophrenia and by the American       Psychiatric       Association (S4).
Clinical manuals, outcome measures and other publications       Our treatment manuals and outcome measures are widely used by mental       health practitioners       throughout the world.
For example, the group has published over 20 books       which are used as       clinical handbooks for mental health practitioners and we have contributed       numerous book       chapters describing the clinical interventions developed.
The books and       outcome measures are       core materials in mental health professional training, and are widely       reprinted and translated into       over 15 languages.
Similarly, multiple treatment manuals have been       produced and these methods       have been implemented in the UK and many countries throughout Europe, USA,       Asia, Australia       and Africa.
National standards for clinical practice       The group has contributed directly to the setting of national standards       for practice of psychological       therapies in collaboration with the Department of Health (e.g., The       Department of Health Improving       Access to Psychological Therapies programme) and through charitable       organisations such as the       BABCP, MIND and Rethink.
The standards were developed by members of our       group and have       been implemented nationally and incorporated into more than 40       postgraduate training       programmes with ~3000 trainees.
For IAPT (2013), the group also       contributed directly to the       development and production of core competencies for the practice of       cognitive behaviour therapy       for people with psychosis.
These guidelines form the basis for a national       curriculum for all mental       health staff working with people with schizophrenia and their carers in       the UK (S5, S6).
Members       of the group have a longstanding record of involvement in the leading       organisation for CBT in the       UK (the British Association for Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies;       BABCP) which is       responsible for the promotion and standards of psychological therapies in       practice.
The group       includes three former presidents of this charitable organisation attesting       to the leadership of the       group in this topic (S7).
National and international training       Our research has impacted on the skills of the workforce delivering       psychological treatments.
The       group has developed numerous training programmes for staff in       collaboration with the NHS and       academic institutions (e.g., the Thorn Initiative, developed from funding       awarded to UoM and       London by the Sir Jules Thorn Trust, has delivered 11 courses in the UK       since 1992, resulting in       ~3000 trained staff) (S5).
All of these training programmes have been       rolled out nationally in order       to train mental health staff to deliver individual and family       psychological treatments for people with       severe mental illness, with the potential to impact on up to 60,000       patients and their carers.
We       have delivered more than 200 additional workshops and training programmes       (with attendees of up       to 100 in each event) in the UK, Europe, Asia, USA, Australia, with       potential impact on ~600,000       patients and carers worldwide.
These vary from 1 day to year-long training       programmes.
We have       collaborations in relation to training in several international       universities and health facilities.
New       collaborations include Japan, Russia, Lithuania and Maldives.
Awards for the impact of our research       The group has hosted two NIHR senior investigators (Tarrier, Lewis)       and all group members are       NIHR fellows, i.e., all currently holding funding for their work from the       Department of Health.
The       group has won several prizes including awards from the British       Psychological Society (Shapiro       Award &#8212; Tarrier, May Davidson award &#8212; Haddock, Morrison)       and international prizes (Tarrier &#8212; for       the American Association of Behavior Therapy Trailblazer award, 2008).
The       group has a       longstanding history of service user involvement in research and       implementation, resulting in a       recent prize awarded to members of the group by the national Mental Health       Research Network for       service user involvement in a psychological treatment trial (S8).
