     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S10.
Context     Psychosis is a serious mental illness characterised by delusions,       hallucinations, disordered thinking, disturbed behaviour and poor social       functioning.
Psychosis is common; about 1% of the population develop       psychosis in their lifetime, mostly before the age of 35.
Often psychosis       becomes a chronic condition and it has substantial economic and social       costs.
For example, it reduces life expectancy by 15-20 years and costs       the UK economy &#163;6.7 billion per year.
Typically people who develop       psychosis experience lengthy delays (months to years) before receiving       treatment.
Our research has indicated that the outcome of psychosis could       be considerably improved if these lengthy delays were reduced.
Pathways to impact     Our research has arrived at its impact, in the UK and abroad, by       influencing:     (a) national policies that funded early psychosis services to reduce DUP;     (b) national clinical guidelines that emphasised the need for clinical       services to target reductions in DUP;     (c) radical changes in aspects of best clinical practice at the level of       the individual clinician.
Reach and significance of the impact     Impact on mental health policy, leading to improved outcomes     a) England     Our research was presented to the DH during the implementation of the NHS       Plan (2000).
The NHS Plan required the establishment of 50 early psychosis       services covering the whole of England.
A member of the DH mental health       policy team (2004-12) confirms that `[t]he research demonstrating the       linkage between shorter DUPs and better outcomes was a crucial       underpinning of the policy case for early intervention services.'
(S1) The       research thus contributed to what is described as `a huge expansion in       early intervention services' between 2000 and 2008, `so that by 2008 the       planned comprehensive coverage set out in the NHS Plan of 2000 had been       achieved.'
(S1) The advisor confirms that support for early intervention       services has been maintained under the current government, as evidenced in       the cross-government mental health outcomes strategy published in 2011       (S2).
The Chair of the Early Intervention in Psychosis (IRIS) Network,       which brings together elected regional early intervention leads, also       underlines the importance of the research to recent service development:       `The strengthening evidence base which correlates DUP with improved       outcomes has been vital in energising the whole direction of service       development' (S3).
The 2012 IRIS Guidelines, which cite our research,       describe in detail how to organise an Early Intervention Service and are       endorsed by Rethink, the national mental health charity and the NHS       Confederation (S3).
In 2010-11 in England alone, Early Intervention Teams       served 10,311 new cases of psychosis.
Independent research into the       economic impact of Early Intervention Services in England has shown a       saving of &#163;4972 per year per person treated, due to better outcomes (S4).
Our Expert Briefing Paper (2) was also utilised by the DH in support of       one of the key targets of the NHS Plan: reducing DUP to a median of 3       months.
Our research from the National Eden project, a large, multi-centre       follow up study of new patients being cared for by early intervention       teams, shows that as early intervention services are introduced the       proportion of patients with a short DUP increases from 55.6 to 77.4% (Marshall       et al., 2013, submitted) (S5).
The DH requires the reporting of DUP as part of the National Mental       Health Minimum Dataset for all NHS Mental Health Trusts.
As a result of the strong link between DUP and outcome, the DH is       considering using DUP as a metric in the Quality and Outcomes Framework       for Payment by Results.
This would ensure that NHS Trusts have a strong       financial incentive to respond quickly to a first episode of psychosis.
Marshall       has been acting as an advisor in these deliberations (S1).
b) International reach     The Australian Government's Department of Health and Ageing cited our       research in its Early Psychosis Feasibility Study Report, which underpins       the Fourth National Mental Health Plan 2009-14.
The Australian Government       allocates $AUS 220 million to fund early detection of psychosis services       under the 2009-14 National Mental Health Plan (S6).
The US National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) is considering a       national programme to reduce DUP and is currently issuing calls for       research into the impact of reducing DUP.
Marshall is acting as       advisor.
The director of the Division of Services and Intervention       Research at the NIMH confirms that the NIMH committed $US 2m in the fiscal       year 2013 to support initiatives to test reproducible strategies to reduce       DUP among those with first episode psychosis in the USA, with plans to       commit similar sums for research into DUP in the fiscal years 2014 and       2015.
It is noted that the `seminal meta-analysis of DUP studies (2005)'       (ref 4 above) is cited in both recent funding calls (S7).
State Governments in Canada that are promoting Early Intervention       Services have cited our research in policy documents, for example the       Ontario Programme Standards for Early Intervention (S8).
This       document acknowledges the contribution of the UoM research, noting that       `There is evidence that longer DUP is associated with poorer outcome once       treatment is initiated (Marshall et al., 2005' [reference 4 above];       Norman et al., 2005)' (p.6).
It then identifies as a key objective the       need to `reduce the duration of untreated psychosis through early and       appropriate detection and response, thereby potentially reducing the       severity of the illness' (p. 7).
Impact on clinical guidelines and practice     a) England     Our research is cited in the British Association for Psychopharmacology       guidelines for the treatment of schizophrenia.
New NICE National       Schizophrenia Guidelines for Adults (CG82, 2013; currently out for       consultation) now recognise the importance of prompt treatment of       first-episode schizophrenia.
Marshall is a member of the       Guidelines Development Group, invited for his expertise in this area.
Our       research is also cited in the NICE guidelines on Psychosis and       Schizophrenia in Young People (CG155, 2013).
The director of the National       Collaborating Centre for Mental Health writes that Marshall       `demonstrated that the clinical outcomes for people following a first       episode of psychosis, even up to 15 years later, were harmed by there       being a prolonged period during which no treatment was provided.
[Marshall's]       paper also highlighted the possibility that the early period of psychosis       is the most important period during which most of the long term harm       associated with psychoses occurs.
This understanding, that the duration of       untreated psychosis correlates with worse outcomes for people with first       episode psychosis, has been highly influential on our overall approach to       the treatment of first episode psychosis and on the recommendations for       the suite of NICE guideline[s] identified above [CG82, 2013; CG155, 2013].
The duration of untreated psychosis has, since this paper and the various       guidelines have been published, fallen substantially'.
(S9) Clinicians       working in the NHS are required to abide by the NICE guidelines described       above.
b) International reach     The research has been cited in: the Italian national guidelines for early       intervention in schizophrenia; the World Federation of Societies of       Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP) Guidelines for Biological Treatment of       Schizophrenia, Part 1: Update 2012 on the acute treatment of schizophrenia       and the management of treatment resistance; and the National Guidelines       for prevention of mental disorders in children issued by National Research       Council and Institute of Medicine of the National Academies in United       States (S10).
At least 117 professional articles around the world (e.g., Russia,       Germany, France, Spain, Japan and the USA) draw on our review to advocate       a more urgent response to first episode psychosis.
The key international       textbook on the clinical management of first episode psychosis devotes a       chapter to our research.
It is also cited as critical evidence in the Clinical         Manual of Prevention in Mental Health (Compton 2009): `DUP is       recognized as a critical variable in the light of evidence associating       longer DUP with poorer outcomes...Marshall and colleagues (2005)...       found a significant association' (p. 144).
