     The programme of research outlined above has been undertaken in an       economic and political context in which issues of workplace conflict       resolution and downsizing have been central to public policy concerns.
This has included a range of consultations over the UKs system of dispute       resolution and arrangements in relation to redundancy consultation within       the broader scope of the government's `Employment Law Review' and `Red       Tape Challenge'.
A number of themes generated by the research resonate       with public policy priorities, particularly the potential of mediation to       facilitate dispute resolution and transform employment relations and also       the capacity of managers to handle difficult issues such as downsizing and       grievance and discipline.
Furthermore by informing the work of Acas, which       plays a pivotal role in shaping British employment relations, the research       has had a significant impact on both practice and policy in three key       respects:     Firstly, it has played an important role in shaping the future strategic       direction of Acas.
As illustrated by the attached letter from Susan Clews,       Acas Director of Strategy, this has resulted in the new Acas strategic       plan being reformulated to emphasise the importance of promoting conflict       management alongside their longstanding mission to improve dispute       resolution.
This is clearly significant as conflict management now forms,       for the first time, one of Acas's core objectives.
In the longer term,       this will affect the way in which Acas delivers its services, advises key       stakeholders (including government) and trains its staff.
Secondly, iROWE research has resulted in new and revised guidance       published by Acas.
Ashman's work on downsizing was integrated into a new       guidance booklet on redundancy handling for managers (Acas, 2012).
The       work led by Saundry informed the development of new guidance provided on       `Representation at Work' (Acas, 2010:18) and was used to highlight the       positive role played by representatives in disciplinary and grievance       hearings.
In addition, research into the role of unions in workplace       mediation (Saundry et al., 2013) informed the development of `Mediation -       a guide for trade union representatives' which was launched at the 2010       TUC Congress at a seminar featuring one of the main participants within       the research.
Saundry's programme of research into workplace mediation was       also widely cited in the reformulated guide to workplace mediation       produced by Acas and the CIPD in February 2013.
Thirdly, the UCLAN research has informed the development of policy.
The       broad impact of the programme of research set out above was also       demonstrated by its influence on an Acas Policy Discussion Paper which       explored `The Future of Workplace Relations' (Podro, 2011).
This paper       cited iROWE research to suggest that tensions between the approaches of       line managers and HR practitioners could undermine informal dispute       resolution (10) and also to highlight the role that mediation can play in       underpinning improved workplace relations (15).
Consequently, this       informed the Acas response to the government's consultation on `Resolving       Workplace Disputes' (Acas, 2011).
The research was cited by Acas to       support four key questions posed by the consultation: the applicability of       mediation to disciplinary issues; the cost of mediated settlements       compared to conventional processes; the wider impact of mediation on       conflict management; and the role of unions in embedding workplace       mediation.
In addition, the iROWE research programme was cited by the       government in the response to consultations over the use of contributory       no fault dismissal for micro businesses (BIS, 2012) as evidence that       changes would increase uncertainty for SMEs (9) and could have the impact       of undermining employee engagement (15).
Most recently research into the       participants' experience of mediation has been cited in advice provided to       the Australian Fair Work Commission in relation to the implementation of       mediation in bullying and harassment cases.
Ashman's work has also been important in informing the Acas response to       changing government policy in relation to redundancy consultation.
The       Acas response to the government's call for evidence on this matter was       contained in a letter dated 31st January 2012.
This highlighted       the early findings of Ashman's as yet unpublished envoys research which       pointed to the impact of redeployment in the public sector on the length       of consultations and suggesting that any consideration of the time needed       for consultations depended on the expected outcomes.
On 6 April 2013, new       government legislation came into effect relating to redundancy       consultation.
Acas were asked by the government to accompany these changes       with new guidance for managers and organisations `to help employers       understand their legal obligations and sets out the principles and       behaviours behind a good quality consultation to help employers manage       collective redundancies more effectively' (Acas, 2013).
Within this       guidance, on p.37 of the booklet (Acas, 2013)., advice as to how managers       should deal with conveying the news of redundancy is drawn directly from       Ashman's research.
Finally, the work led by Ashman and Saundry has raised awareness and       informed practice.
The revised guidance on redundancy handling (Acas,       2012), featuring Ashman's work was downloaded from the Acas website 37,000       times in the 12 months following its publication in July 2012.
Ashman also       worked with Acas to produce a video discussing his research which was       embedded in a page on the Acas website which has been visited 246,000       times between August 2012 and July 2013.
Furthermore, findings from       Ashman's work have been integrated into training programmes for managers       on redundancy handling and has attracted coverage in 46 media outlets       including the Sunday Times, London Evening Standard and People Management       magazine.
Saundry's research into conflict management has been presented at a       number of practitioner forums across the UK including seminars organised       by: Acas in the North West and East of England Regions; CIPD in Cumbria;       EEF in the North West; and the TUC in Yorkshire and Humberside.
Saundry       also conducted a number of conflict resolution `master-classes' delivered       to networks of SMEs across Lancashire as part of an ESRC funded programme       of knowledge exchange (`Knowledge Network for Business').
Saundry was also       a keynote speaker at a seminar `Effective Conflict Management - What       Works' hosted by Acas and held at the British Library on 8th March 2011,       at which leading practitioners, policy-makers and academics were present.
These issues have been further explored within an ESRC funded Seminar       Series (led by Richard Saundry) entitled `Reframing Resolution - Managing       Conflict and Resolving Individual Employment Disputes in the Contemporary       Workplace'.
The series comprised of six seminars held at the Universities       of Central Lancashire, Warwick, Strathclyde, Queen's Belfast, Swansea and       Westminster.
They involved leading academics from the UK, USA and       Australia and sought to develop a new agenda for research and policy       development.
The series was co-sponsored by Acas involving approximately       350 participants from a wide range of practitioner and policy-making       organisations such as Acas, CBI, CIPD, EEF, FSB, IPA and the TUC.
This has       not only helped to develop awareness of research into conflict management       but develop new approaches to policy and research will be synthesised in a       major policy paper to be published by Acas in 2014.
