     Context     The on-going international accounting harmonisation process through IFRS       adoption or       convergence seeks to improve accounting quality and comparability across       the world.
Starting from       2005, the European Union (EU) mandated IFRS across all listed firms.
This       was hailed as a key       milestone in international accounting harmonisation process because a       large group of western       economies made a concerted commitment to IFRS adoption.
Since then IFRS       has propagated       worldwide.
IFRS is expected to bring about the benefit of greater       corporate transparency and       cross-border capital flows, although there have been concerns that the       adoption of such standards       has served to exacerbate the volatility of reported performance, and       varying costs depending on       the institutional background of adoption countries.
The debate over IFRS is expected to continue with the USA being       indecisive over whether it       should converge toward IFRS as Europe did in 2005 and China did in 2007.
As the largest       economy in the world, the reluctance of the US to endorse IFRS invoked       uncertainty and doubts       for the international accounting harmonisation effort.
Therefore, we       expect this debate to persist       and as long as it does, the evidence provided by the MBS research in this       area will continue to       make impact.
Evidence that the MBS research informs this aforementioned       debate and has been       taken up in the negotiating position of several key bodies is as follows.
UK Impact     First, the MBS team collaborated with the ACCA, which is one of the       largest professional       accountancy bodies in the world.
The two reports that ACCA commissioned       and funded [1, 3]       analyses IFRS impact on cost of capital in Europe, and were both presented       in front of wide       audiences of practitioners, policy makers, media, and academics at two       separate dissemination       events.
Following these successes, the ACCA has since commissioned another       funded project for       MBS team to study the impact of IFRS adoption in China.
This is further       recognition by a prominent       professional accountancy organisation that our research evidence is       relevant to their worldwide       members.
Second, one of the MBS studies [3] has been explicitly cited by the       official policy document of the       ASB [C] in 2010.
Since the ASB is the leading accounting standard setter       in the UK, this document       is highly influential on the future direction of UK accounting.
The       findings of the MBS study was       used to justify continued application of IFRS among UK quoted companies: "The         ACCA Research         report 105 `Mandating IFRS: its impact on the cost of equity capital in         Europe', put the UK as the         only country with a maximum score for its financial reporting         environment.
At the other end of the         scale various other countries scored zero.
The conclusion of the ACCA's         research is         that......improved cross-border comparability could benefit such         companies."
Grant Thornton, one of the largest accountancy firms in the world, issued       a response [D] to the       ASB document, and cited the same MBS study to support the argument that       IFRS in the UK should       be further promulgated to unlisted firms: "We would like to draw the         Board's attention to a research         report prepared by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants         (ACCA Research Report         No.
105: RR105 &#8212; Mandating IFRS: Its Impact on the Cost of Equity         Capital in Europe) which         concluded that in countries with high financial reporting incentives and         enforcement, such as the         UK, a significant reduction in the cost of equity capital was observed         following the implementation         of IFRS."
These are factual evidence that the MBS researches have       informed the discussion       between policy makers and practitioners.
International Impact     Last but not least, the MBS researches have also been considered in       policy debate outside the UK.
For instance, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which is the       regulator of US stock       exchanges, has recently back-tracked from committing to US convergence to       IFRS.
One piece of       research from MBS [4] has been cited in the October 2012 response by the       IFRS Foundation [F] to       this SEC decision: "The point has also been taken up by IFRS         researchers, notably Christensen et         al.
(2008) who argue that firm incentives are more important than the         accounting standards         themselves in understanding IFRS effects."
This response used the       MBS research to argue that       disclosure incentives are more important than standards in determining       IFRS impact.
Another MBS       research [3] has been cited by a research report issued by ACCA [B] also       in October 2012, which       surveys US investors' perceptions of IFRS.
This report cited the MBS study       to back the argument       that IFRS benefits capital markets with high institutional quality.
Prior       to the recent debate on US       convergence to IFRS, our research [4] was also cited in the 2009 response       [A] of the American       Accounting Association (AAA) to the SEC on potential US converge toward       IFRS.
This response       used the MBS research finding to argue that institutional reform is needed       along with IFRS to       promote corporate transparency.
In a report to the European Commission       [E], the Institute of       Chartered Accountants of England and Wales (ICAEW) also cited two of the       MBS studies [2, 5] to       support their argument that the financial reporting quality under IFRS is       dependent on disclosure       incentives and that statements issued under IFRS have incremental       information.
These provide       factual evidence that the MBS studies have provided policy relevant       evidence that practitioners       and policy makers on an international level find informative.
In conclusion, MBS studies are distinctive relative to prior relevant       literature because they       demonstrated early on, that IFRS invokes heterogeneous effect.
Since the       international accounting       harmonization is an issue of global instead of local scope, policy makers       tend to consider a wide       range of evidence to formulate their opinion.
Responsible decision-making       of important issue as       such is expected to be informed not by single but by a collection of       evidence.
A search of Google       Scholar as of 30/10/2012 using the keyword "IFRS" returns 64,900 results       of studies on this topic       area.
Given such a large and competitive pool of researchers worldwide,       the fact that this set of       MBS researches have been funded by a world leading professional       accountancy organization and       cited by policy makers and practitioners in the around the world provides       factual evidence that       these studies are informing a global debate.
