     Context       Our impact arises from contributing to the agenda of holding government to       account.
By its nature       it is therefore critical of government policy.
Consequently governments do       not cite our work       directly.
Instead we demonstrate our impact through our influence on       public debate, and related       pathways to impact, with evidence that this has led to change in       government policy.
We are the only international academic researchers carrying out this type       of systematic critical       financial analysis.
Since 2008 we have built on and extended our previous       research to provide       new independent accounting evidence relating to public accountability and       governance issues in a       wide range of PPP/PFI projects in health, transport and education.
Whilst       we have particularly       focused on the UK, and to a lesser extent Spain, our findings have       international relevance as the       UK has been at the forefront of PPP development for many years.
We have       called for changes to       be made in terms of better guidance to public authorities, improved       quality of information provided       by both public and private partners, and improved scrutiny of projects on       an ongoing basis, so that       the public may be kept better informed as to the costs and risks of these       projects [5.1].
Pathways to Impact       We have worked with stakeholders to urge policy makers to consider our       evidence on the high cost       and lack of transparency of PPP projects.
These include Unison, who has       cited our work in       evidence submitted to a parliamentary committee [5.2] and the National       Alliance Against Tolls, on       whose behalf we gave evidence at the Mersey Gateway public hearing [5.3].
In Quebec, Canada,       public sector trade unions SCFP, CSQ, CSN, FNEEQ, and FSSS sponsored two       speeches sharing       the UK's experiences of PPPs in February 2013 [5.4].
We have influenced public debate through interaction with oversight       bodies.
We have taken part in       invited seminar debates with Audit Scotland, the Director of the Scottish       Futures Trust and the       Northern Ireland National Audit Office, have explained our findings to the       UK National Audit Office,       the UK Office of National Statistics, the Dutch Court of Auditors and the       New South Wales Audit       Office.
Our evidence has been cited in opinion articles in the press, e.g.
in the Economist, by       George Monbiot and others [5.5], and we have contributed as experts to       media investigatory       programmes such as the BBC's `File on Four'.
We have therefore influenced       the change in public       opinion about the cost and transparency of PFI.
The reach and significance of our impact:       The significance of our impact is that our work is part of a body of       evidence that has changed       policy makers' perspectives about the cost and transparency of PPP.
We       give one specific       example in relation to the additional cost of PFI for the first 12 English       PFI hospitals.
We showed       that by 2005, private finance was 61% higher than would have been the case       under public debt       [3.2].
Out of the 12 hospitals, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Greenwich and       the Bromley hospital       had the highest percentage of PFI payments to income at 18% and 22%       respectively for 2005.
Thus we highlighted affordability problems, with Bromley's problem       exacerbated by its on-balance       sheet accounting treatment.
A statement [5.10] from the Head of Public       Sector at ACCA on this       research impact reads: "In our view the research was instrumental in         influencing public policy in         this area.
It provided evidence to critique economic and political         theories such as market forces         and private sector efficiency that underpin public policy."
Building       on our previous work we have       recommended [3.3] that there needed to be more transparency of financial       information so that the       public could easily see the full cost, and also the profits being earned       by the private sector from       PFI [5.1].
In June 2012 when the South London Healthcare NHS Trust, of which these       two hospitals are part,       was put into administration due to the size of its deficit, the press       reported that this was in part       caused by its large PFI payments.
The government now accepts that PFI has       been an expensive       way of doing business that does not necessarily provide value for money       and that greater       transparency of financial information is needed.
HM Treasury recently       renegotiated existing PFI       contracts, saving the taxpayer &#163;2.5billion over their lifetime, and it       will in future publish more       information about PFI liabilities.
In the UK our work has been cited in evidence to the Economic Affairs       Committee House of Lords       on their report `Private Finance Projects and Off-Balance Sheet Debt'       (Session 2009-10) in relation       to the high additional cost of PFI which leads to affordability gaps as       well to the lost capital charges       flowing out of the system [5.6].
Our work has similarly been cited in       evidence to the Treasury       Committee House of Commons report `The Private Finance Initiative'       (Session 2010-2012) [5.6],       where the Committee concluded that PFI should be used infrequently until       cost and value for       money problems had been tackled.
Following these reports the UK government       has now issued a       new PPP policy PF2 which takes account of these points.
Long term       operation and maintenance is       excluded from new contracts and private sector partners must demonstrate       more transparency by       disclosing their profits earned from the contract [5.7].
Our work on the       high cost of shadow tolling       and the lack of transparency around the cost of PFI was cited in evidence       to the Welsh Affairs       Committee report on the Severn Crossings Toll [5.6], which recommended       there was a strong case       for significantly reducing the cost of the tolls at the end of the       concession period projected for 2017.
Our work has contributed to the development of PPP policy       internationally, as demonstrated by two       further examples:     (i) The Western Australia (WA) Public Accounts Committee (PAC) requested       us to act as an expert       witness as part of their study visit to the UK while investigating the       letting of a PPP contract at a       WA hospital.
Their report [5.8] makes several positive references to       unnamed UK sources, with       numbers 5,6 and 8 out of their eight recommendations being consistent with       our evidence as       presented [3.5].
(ii) We were invited by the International Transport Forum (ITF), an       inter-governmental organisation       within the OECD, a think tank for global transport policy, to give one of       four introductory       commissioned papers to a Roundtable of 30 experts deliberating on PPP       transport policy       (September 2012).
The Roundtable's brief was to provide the basis for       discussions between       transport Ministers of 54 member countries at their Summit on Funding       Transport in May 2013.
The outcome of the Roundtable is a summary paper authored by the chair       [5.9].
