     The findings of DWDW are reflected within laws and legal policy debates       at both the international       and national levels.
The research has provided rationales for legal       intervention, made the case for       new legislation, and offered legal models and techniques that have been       incorporated into national       laws.
The research findings have been incorporated in specific provisions       of international law, and       have shaped the content of national laws and the global policy debates       through dissemination by       the United Nations, direct intervention by national-level policy actors,       and the raising of awareness       among academics and other experts.
The programme has ultimately       contributed towards ensuring       safe and decent working hours for domestic workers, improving the lives of       working women, and       designing new regulatory techniques suited to the informal economies of       low-income countries.
At the international-level, the research fed into the ILO (United       Nations Specialist Agency)       `Domestic Workers Convention and Recommendation'.
The ILO identified a       need for guidance on       `identifying, limiting and appropriately calculating' working time in       domestic work, within the initial       meeting of the committee responsible for drafting the international       treaty.
McCann and Murray       were subsequently asked by the ILO to author a report [D] that would       respond to this demand       which provided the theoretical grounding for the working time elements of       new international       standards (treaties) on domestic work: the ILO Domestic Workers       Convention, 2011 (No.
189) and       Recommendation (No.
201) [1].
Suggestions for legal drafting contained in       the `policy report' were       incorporated in the drafts of the Convention and Recommendation put before       the ILO International       Labour Conference (Decent Work for Domestic Workers, July 2011).
The       `policy report', alongside       a summary version, was widely circulated by the ILO including to Committee       delegates, with the       ILO noting that "Dr McCann's study has been indispensable to the ILO.
It shaped the international         standards and is influencing ILO policy at the international-level and         in countries across the world"       [2].
The research underpins key provisions within international laws,       specifically Article 10 of ILO       Convention 189 and Articles 9-13 of Recommendation 201:            the requirement for equal treatment in hours limits       compensation and rest periods       the 24 hour weekly rest period       the classification of `on-call' hours as working time          At the national level, the Convention standards are binding on       ratifying states (i.e.
the provisions       of the Convention must be reflected in national laws), with the convention       having thus far been       ratified by: the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Italy, Mauritius,       Nicaragua, the Philippines and       Uruguay.
The Recommendation provides additional context and guidance for       legislators.
These       international norms therefore directly influence the content of new legal       standards adopted in       domestic jurisdictions, such as in the Philippines &#8212; `An Act       Instituting Policies for the Protection and       Welfare of Domestic Workers (Republic Act 10361)' [3].
In addition, the       research is shaping policy       debates and substantive legal reforms at the national level, in part       through the ILO's efforts to       promote ratification and implementation of the new Convention and       Recommendation to Ministries       of Labour, national-level employers' organisations and trade unions.
The       `policy brief' [C] and       subsequent guide to designing labour laws [4] is used by the ILO's network       of regional offices       (Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, Arab States, Asia and the       Pacific, Europe and Central       Asia) when advising governments on how to reform their laws [2].
Accordingly, the provisions of       the Convention have been incorporated into national legislation even in       countries that have yet to       ratify the Convention, including in the `Spanish Royal Decree 1620'       (2011) on work in private       households [3], and `Thailand Ministerial Regulation No.
14 (B.E.
2555)' [3].
The Principle of       Universality devised by McCann and Murray [D] (p.14) and incorporated in       Convention No.
189,       Article 10(1), is also inspiring legal reform in Chile where       statutory hours limits traditionally exclude       domestic workers.
On the advice of the ILO &#8212; derived from the research &#8212;       this exclusion has: "been         determined by the government to be discriminatory and therefore in         breach of the Convention.
A         Bill pending adoption in the Chilean Parliament will extend the general         weekly hours limits to         domestic workers" [2].
In Hong Kong: "the ILO's guidance         on unpredictability and intensity of         working hours, drawn from the policy brief [C] is informing an ongoing         debate... the Hong Kong         administration is considering a new regulation that would establish a         limit on normal weekly hours"       [2].
Additionally, the research has been used by influential policy       organisations, most notably in the       joint work of the WageIndicator Foundation &#8212; an independent non-profit       organization active in more       than sixty countries that promotes transparency in conditions of work &#8212;       and Decisions For Life (a       campaign of the International Trade Union Confederation), which raises       awareness of employment       and career opportunities for young female workers in 14 developing       countries (including Brazil,       India and South Africa).
These organizations promoted the research       findings as a model for       national laws and working life in publications that disseminated to a       range of policy actors (national       governments, trade unions, national-level NGOs, etc.)
[5]     The research is having a particularly substantial impact in Australia       as part of efforts at both the       federal and state levels to design regulatory frameworks for       `non-standard' work.
In particular, the       report [D] was utilised by the United Voice union as part of its wage       justice campaign for workers in       the aged care sector [6].
The union used the Model Law in determining its       position on the first       review of the modern awards [labour standards] by the Australian Fair Work       Commission (January       2012, onwards), specifically, the `Aged Care Award' and `Social Community       Home Care and       Disability Services Award'.
The research also informed the work of the       Australian Council of Trade       Unions' (ACTU) `Independent Inquiry into Insecure Work' [7].
The inquiry       was conducted by a       panel of experts and community members, and was chaired by former Deputy       Prime Minister Brian       Howe.
A submission, drawn from the DWDW program, informed the Committee's       support for the       principles of decent work and universality of protection and the       associated call for an expansion of       the Australian National Employment Standards [8].
As a member of the panel       of experts attests: "I         used McCann and Murray's Model Law extensively &#8212; both in the discussion         and on the panel &#8212; to         advocate for minimum standards on non-standard work...
I believe that         the Decent Work for         Domestic Workers research is invaluable as a benchmark against which to         assess how effectively         labour laws protect domestic workers, other care workers as well as         non-standard workers more         generally.
It has also been particularly valuable in developing concrete         international norms that can         be used in the development of national level regulation" [9].
The research has also been drawn upon by Australian policy actors to       influence legal policy       debates in less economically-developed settings in the region.
In Timor-Leste,       the legal policy       advice outlined in the `policy report' was disseminated in September 2011       to the fourth Women and       Industrial Relations Conference `Our Work Our Lives' (Dili).
As a result:       "findings subsequently         entered the debates on the 2012 Timor-Leste Labour Code and its         potential extension to domestic         workers through the efforts of the Working Women's Centre Timor-Leste"       [9].
The Working       Women's Centre Timor-Leste is a not-for-profit community organisation       supporting female workers.
The centre seeks to encourage female labour market participation, thereby       improving both income       and quality of life.
The `policy brief' has been successfully incorporated       into the centre's campaign       work, including in their discussions with government, labour organisations       and other NGOs.
Finally, the research findings have been circulated to a wide       range of policy actors.
Firstly, the       research was disseminated through the Regulating for Decent Work (RDW)       Network, a global       interdisciplinary network of researchers and policy-makers co-ordinated by       Dr McCann.
The       findings were presented at the RDW Network's 2011 Conference &#8212; organised       by the ILO, in       collaboration with UoM's Fairness at Work (FaW) Research Group and the       University of       Melbourne's Centre for Employment and Labour Relations Law (CELRL) -to       around 300       participants, including representatives from governments and social       partners from regions involved       in domestic legal reform [10].
Secondly, the findings have been presented       in a range of settings, to       mixed research and policy audiences, including: University of Oxford,       University of Melbourne       Centre for Employment and Labour Relations Law, Australia National       University College of Law       and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem Minerva Center for Human Rights.
