     Influence on the courts and on practitioners.
Blackstone's       Criminal Practice (BCP) is available in all Crown Courts, and is widely       used and referred to by practitioners and judges both in everyday practice       and in trial courts and in appellate courts creating new law.
A Westlaw       search in March 2011 produced over 100 cases where Blackstone was cited in       reported cases since 1993, 29 of these being in the period since 2008.
The most relevant recent evidence of this impact is in R v Gnango       [2011] UKSC 59 (a Supreme Court decision on a complex complicity and       murder problem), where Blackstone was referred to on two separate points       and (Taylor's) Chapter A2.11 designation of transferred malice as being       better expressed as transferred mens rea, referred to approvingly.
This is       not put forward as a particularly significant doctrinal issue in itself       but as an example of the way in which BCP is taken seriously right up to       the very highest levels.
A further, more pervasive, example is found in the comprehensive 2010       Revision of the Judicial Studies Board Crown Court Benchbook, which       consistently refers to the relevant parts of Blackstone at the end of each       section (a large number of these references being to Taylor's material) so       that Judges are constantly being referred to BCP for further analysis       where needed to cater for the particular aspects of the case before them.
In the summer of 2010 (Taylor's) Chapter B1 on Homicide covering the       changes to partial defences to murder brought about by the Coroners and       Justice Act 2009 was distributed to judges authorised to try murder at a       judicial college serious crime course, in preparation for the       implementation of the Act as from October 2010.
(See Asmelash       [2013] EWCA Crim 157 for a recent example of BCP being cited, in this case       by Lord Judge CJ in interpreting the new partial defence to murder of loss       of control).
This ongoing process of impact on substantial doctrinal issues is also       evidenced through highly significant appellate decisions which have       effectively created new law, and which continue to have impact albeit some       of the decisions themselves were prior to 2008.
Such cases are exemplified       by Millward 1994 Crim LR 527 (see REF2 output 2 for more on       development of this principle); Gilmour 2000 2 Cr App R 407 (at p.       414) ; and Bryce [2004] 2 Cr App R 592 (paras 49, 62, 63 and 70).
In each of these, the Court of Appeal adopted very substantial passages       from Taylor's work in Blackstone, in creating principles to deal with       contentious issues in complicity which are still live today, for example     a) where or when an accessory can be liable even though the principal is       acquitted (ongoing impact illustrated by the fact that it is referred to       in a leading text also frequently cited in appellate courts, Smith and       Hogan, as "the rule in Millward");     b) where or when an accessory can or should be liable for manslaughter       where the principal is liable for murder despite divergent mens rea;       (Gilmour)     c) the meaning of intention to encourage or assist in accessory liability       generally.
(Bryce)     See, in relation to b), the case of Carpenter 2012 Crim LR 296       for a recent example of the application of the principle first expounded       in Gilmour and further debated by Taylor and Prof Sir John Smith       in 2001 Crim LR at 333-335 and in the commentary to R v Day at       p984.
(See also footnote 300 at page 225 of Smith &amp; Hogan's 13th ed       2011.)
Taylor's work, not just in BCP, continues to be relied upon and cited in       practice and in appellate courts post 2008, as is shown not only by Gnango       above but also by cases such as R v T 2009 1 AC 1310 HL relating       to the abolition of doli incapax, where counsel in the House of       Lords referred at p1320 both to "Blackstone's Criminal Practice 2009, para       A3.39" and also at page 1325 to one of Taylor's chapters in "Leng Taylor       and Wasik, Blackstone's Guide to the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (1998),       pp 55, 60, 61".
Impact on the Murder and Complicity Law Reform Agenda.
This impact is ultimately evidenced within the period in the Ministry of Justice       Consultation Process in 2008 - 2009, leading up to the Coroners and       Justice Act 2009, which was the culmination of the Murder Review Project       referred to the Law Commission by the Government in 2005.
Taylor has been       involved in this process throughout in a number of ways, as a result in       particular of his articles on homicide and complicity, (outputs iv), v)       and vi) in part 3 above).
Output iv) had already been the main basis of       the contents of Appendix H of the Law Commission's CP on Homicide in the       first stages of the Review in 2005 (see para H3 for express       acknowledgement).
Outputs v) and vi) were critiques of the Law Commission       Reports on Murder and Complicity respectively, critiques which led to       constructive email and other discussions with the then Law Commissioner       for Criminal Law (Professor Jeremy Horder) and subsequently to invitations       from the MoJ to participate in and contribute to the stakeholder workshops       in 2008 dealing with complicity and homicide which influenced the final       content of the 2009 Act.
Taylor was sole academic participant in the first by-invitation       stakeholder workshop on complicity and murder prior to the issue of the       MoJ's Consultation Paper in 2008; and along with three other academics       (Professors David Ormerod, Ian Dennis and John Spencer) he participated in       a further stakeholder workshop to consider the published proposals, the       other invitees including representatives of the judiciary, CPS, CCRC, MoJ,       Law Commission and other agencies and stakeholders.
The discussions at the       workshops persuaded the MoJ that, given the government's decision not to       progress for the time being with the reforms to the law of murder, an       attempt to reform the law of complicity as applied to murder (in isolation       from reforms to the more general law of complicity) would create more       problems than it would solve.
The substantial section in Professor       Horder's 2012 book referred to at the end of section 3 of this case study       is further evidence of the impact of Taylor's work on the thinking of law       reform bodies.
A more recent example of ongoing impact is to be found in the       acknowledgement of Taylor's assistance (alongside that of ten other named       individuals) at para 1.42 of the Law Commission Consultation Paper No 213,       June 2013, Hate Crime: The case for extending the existing offences.
(Taylor first wrote about the existing offences when they were first       introduced in one of the chapters he was responsible for in Blackstone's       Guide to the CDA 1998 -output ii) in section 3 above.)
