     Context     Before research at UoM, protein sequence annotation was largely done       manually, and the gold- standard repository, Swiss-Prot, had become a       bottleneck, preventing early access to genomic data.
To tackle this       problem, TrEMBL was established at the EBI as an unannotated Swiss-Prot       supplement.
Attwood and her research team established InterPro, the       world's first integrated protein family repository, following on from       PRINTS.
Its creation made possible the implementation of robust,       high-throughput annotation workflows for TrEMBL and also for complete       genomes.
In turn, this led to the development of new drug-discovery       pipelines and global usage of InterPro.
Pathways to impact     PRINTS has been maintained at UoM for 14 years.
Attwood re-established       the umbrella website, DbBrowser (the access point for PRINTS and its       analysis/annotation tools) in March 1999, and set up an FTP site for their       anonymous download.
InterPro has grown in size and complexity, now having a dozen partner       databases focusing on gene- and domain-families, protein folds,       architectures and superfamilies.
Hosted at the EBI, with continued input       of new diagnostic signatures from its partners (including PRINTS),       InterPro has become the pre-eminent instrument for analysis and functional       annotation of uncharacterised genomic data.
Since 2008, InterPro has       featured in ~30 educational national and international workshops, and is       covered in two EBI online e-learning courses: InterPro: Quick tour       and Introduction to Protein Classification at the EBI.
The       audience for these workshops includes clinicians, researchers,       technologists and industrialists.
Various PRINTS- and InterPro-specific       modules are also available as part of GOBLET, a global, community-based       organisation providing a centralised public facility for sharing       educational materials.
The creation of GOBLET was led by Attwood, who is       the current Chair.
Reach and significance of the impact     Establishing one of the world's largest resources for protein           family annotation:     InterPro was quickly adopted as part of the TrEMBL (now part of UniProt)       annotation pipeline, and continues to contribute to the rule-based       automatic annotation system for protein sequences in UniProtKB/TrEMBL [A].
Sequences in UniProt include fingerprint annotations, with hyperlinks back       to PRINTS, making PRINTS one of UoM's most heavily used resources, e.g.,       since 2008, traffic to PRINTS and its services has grown from ~2.5 million       hits/annum to &gt;3.4 million.
In 2010, InterPro accounted for 12% of all       Web visits to the EBI: it now draws ~45 million hits/annum from the       UK/Europe, USA, Canada, Japan, etc.
(typically, ~3 million of       these from industry), and supports ~2 million searches/month.
New sequencing technologies will assure both a major ongoing impact on       InterPro usage statistics, and a continued role for this pivotal database       in genome- and proteome-annotation programmes [e.g., B-D].
In 2011,       InterPro contributed to the annotation of ~13 million proteins, making it       one of the world's largest, most successful publicly available protein       family annotation resources, on a par with the NCBI's Conserved Domain       Database, and resulting in its recognition as one of ELIXIR's core data       resources [D].
The advantages of using protein fingerprints:     Fingerprints uniquely provide hierarchical `superfamily to subfamily'       diagnoses, so users of PRINTS, InterPro and UniProt benefit from more       fine-grained functional insights than are given by InterPro's `catch-all'       methods: e.g., PRINTS classifies GPCRs and ion channels (the most       cited and downloaded 3D structures, owing to their pharmaceutical       relevance) into ~400 families and subfamilies.
Such functional       `fine-tuning' improves the specificity of Gene Ontology (GO) mapping       within InterPro, mappings that are now cross-referenced &gt;66 million       times in UniProt and provide functional terms for &gt;11 million proteins.
GO annotation provided by InterPro is the largest source of automatic GO       annotation for proteins from all organisms [E].
Providing valuable information to pharmaceutical and commercial           organisations:     Around 10% of PRINTS &gt;1,200 and InterPro's &gt;3,100 cumulative       citations are by authors from commercial organisations (including       pharmaceutical companies like GSK, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Pfizer,       AstraZeneca, Intervet and agricultural, agrifood and agrichemical       companies like BASF).
Approximately 1.3 million webpages have been served       to visitors from commercial domains from Jan-June 2013 [F].
InterPro developments have fuelled tangible outcomes for pharmaceutical       industries, including:            Identifying specific genes and signalling pathways that may contribute         to motor neuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [G]         (authors affiliated to Genentech).
Identifying gene families that play a critical role in chronic skin         infections caused by Trichophyton rubrum (e.g., athlete's         foot) [H] (author affiliated to Proctor &amp; Gamble).
Providing evidence that combined inhibition of simultaneously active         receptor tyrosine kinases can lead to an added anti-cancer effect [I]         (author affiliated to Novartis).
One purpose of the American Recovery &amp; Reinvestment Act of 2009       was to increase economic efficiency by spurring technological advances in       science and health.
A project was developed to sequence individual human       genomes for $1,000, and hence translate sequencing into a viable clinical       tool, underpinning the worldwide goal of `personalised' medicine.
Efforts       to achieve this goal are now generating data on an unimaginable scale,       most of it useless without annotation.
InterPro harmonises world-wide       sequence-annotation projects and therefore provides an efficient platform       for transforming raw data into pharmaceutically and clinically useful       information; it thereby helps to realise both the global financial       investment in, and the future clinical outcomes of, these transformative       new sequencing technologies.
