     Context       MicroRNAs are ~22 nucleotide non-protein-coding genes found in all animals       and plants.
They       were discovered as a class in 2001.
MicroRNAs act by binding to mRNA       transcripts to trigger their       down-regulation.
They represent arguably the most widespread and important       mechanism of post-transcriptional       gene regulation.
The human genome has over 1500 annotated microRNA genes       and it is predicted that over half of all human genes are regulated by       microRNAs.
The microRNA       field is a rapidly expanding one; more than 75% of the data has been       deposited and curated since       2008.
Commercial organisations, including large pharmaceutical companies,       have been quick to       adopt microRNA research programmes.
miRBase is the primary source of microRNA sequence data.
All microRNA       research globally is       therefore impacted by the production, development and availability of       miRBase.
Pathways to impact       miRBase was created by Griffiths-Jones and was initially hosted and       supported by the Wellcome       Trust Sanger Institute.
UoM hosts and maintains the miRBase from 2007 to       date.
Reach and significance of the impact       The primary use of miRBase data is via the website and by bulk data       download from the FTP site.
Since 2008 the miRBase website has consistently received 40,000-50,000       visits per month from       20,000-30,000 unique users viewing 120,000-150,000 pages.
Empirical data       shows that ~10% of       email queries are from commercial users.
The miRBase database development       and use is       described in a series of publications from 2004 to date.
In total, these       manuscripts have been cited       over 4200 times since 2008.
Of these citing journal articles, 10% (424)       list commercial       organisations as author affiliations (according to Scopus).
Derived commercial and monetary benefits:       The impact on the pharmaceutical industry of miRBase has been       considerable.
It has allowed new       products and significant research gains to be made every year since 2008.
A number of companies, such as Exiqon [A], LC Sciences [B], Comprehensive       Biomarker Centre       (formerly Febit) [C], Agilent [D], Sigma-Aldrich [E], ABI, Exiqon,       GenoSensor, Invitrogen and many       others, make microRNA microarrays and other experimental resources from       sequence data       sourced from miRBase.
For example, Exiqon sell 20 different products that       rely on data from       miRBase, including qPCR assays and LNA microarray technologies for       identifying microRNAs.
These products are built using miRBase sequence data, and are the most       significant contributor to       Exiqon's life science business which reported more than 110 million DKK in       revenue in 2012 [F].
The Vice President for Research and Development at Exiqon stated: "From         interaction with our         customers we understand that everyone in the miRNA research community         consider the miRNA         content of miRBase to represent the golden standard miRNA repository.
Over the years, Exiqon         has used miRBase as a reference for further development of new products         and updating of         existing products.
Coverage of miRNAs in a given miRBase version has         always been a central part         of the product information accompanying products in the different         portfolios like the miRCURY         microarrays" [F].
ABI manufacture and sell Taqman microRNA PCR assays at an off-the-shelf       cost of around &#163;250       for sequences that are in miRBase, and custom-designed for around &#163;400 for       those which are not.
Other companies follow a similar model.
These commercial tools produced by       third parties from       miRBase data underpin experimental studies of microRNA genes in academic       and industry labs,       and curation of microRNA sequences lowers the cost of experimental assays       for the user.
Companies aim to update their products as quickly as possible after a       release of a new miRBase       version; the schedule of production and sales of these companies is       therefore partly governed by       miRBase updates.
For example, Exiqon "plan timely product updates and         new product         developments taking the update and release of new miRBase versions into         account" [F].
Clinical applications:       MicroRNAs have been implicated in a wide range of disease processes and       have been shown to       act as biomarkers for cancer types, stages, disease prognosis and drug       performance.
Pharmaceutical companies, including AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline, have       active research       streams investigating the use of microRNAs as biomarkers.
For example,       AstraZeneca has a       number of lines of research into the roles and pharmaceutical relevance of       microRNAs in oncology.
A 200er Ase200et s Acr200ercA sArs200ees200eirseec ce200erses r200esnes: "we         use miRBase microRNA sequences to         design primers for PCR in order to validate specific microRNAs as         potential biomarkers.
We also         explore links from miRBase to up-to-date predicted and validated         microRNA target sites, in order to         identify pathways and functions" [G].
Drugs that target microRNAs are also showing clinical promise.
For       example, miRagen       Therapeutics Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to developing       therapies that target       microRNA in disease areas of high unmet medical need.
Drugs for chronic       heart failure (mir-208),       post-myocardial infarction remodelling (mir-15/195) and cardiometabolic       disease (mir-378) are in       the pre-clinical phase [H].
Santaris Pharma also has a phase IIa clinical trial drug (miravirsen)       that acts by inhibiting miR-122.
The Associate Director states that: "Santaris has so far conducted drug         discovery projects to find         drug candidates against &gt; 30 specific microRNAs.
In all cases these         projects started from the         sequence of the target microRNA as annotated in miRBase" [I].
Miravirsen is the first microRNA therapy for hepatitis C. At the 2012       International Liver Congress, a       renowned professor from the Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,       University       of Amsterdam, stated in a press release issued by Santaris: "Due to         its ability in targeting miR-122,         miravirsen has the potential to change the way hepatitis C is treated."
Further trials are planned to test miravirsen in people with all HCV       genotypes, using longer       durations, and in combination with direct-acting antivirals.
The success       of these and newly       emerging programmes and the downstream benefits to health are dependent on       the availability of       miRBase.
Influencing policy:       miRBase is held as the official arbiter of microRNA gene status and       annotation by the following       bodies: the human (HUGO/HGNC) and mouse (MGI) gene nomenclature       committees, RefSeq at       the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and the       International Union of Basic and       Clinical Pharmacology (NC-IUPHAR).
miRBase datasets are also distributed       by the NCBI, the       University of California, Santa Cruz and Ensembl genome browsers.
These       resources and bodies       have their own substantial user bases which are also significantly       impacted by miRBase work.
