     Impact on UK and European Prisoners' Rights     In the Dickson case heard by the Grand Chamber of the European       Court of Human Rights, Codd's       work was cited before the court as a core element of the barrister's       application on behalf of a       married couple who were seeking access to artificial insemination       facilities because the husband       was a serving prisoner and they wished to try to conceive a child whilst       the wife was still       biologically able to conceive.
As there are no permitted conjugal visits       in UK prisons, they sought to       use artificial insemination, but were denied access to these facilities.
The barrister's argument       relied on Codd's analysis of the previous legal decisions in this and       similar cases.
The Grand       Chamber held that it was a breach of Art.
8 ECHR for the state to refuse       access to artificial       insemination facilities to the non-imprisoned female partner of a       prisoner, as had happened in the       case of the applicant and his wife, on the grounds that the prisoner's       wife had not been convicted       of any offences and thus retained all the usual rights recognised under       Art.
8.
Codd's work was       cited in the final judgment of the Court as part of its summary of the       successful applicants'       submissions.
As a direct consequence of this judgment, the UK Ministry of       Justice had to       reconsider its policy immediately in order to comply with the decision of       the Court.
The precise       impacts of the decision are being monitored by the Parliament Joint       Committee on Human Rights.
In February 2013 the Justice Secretary (Chris Grayling) instigated a       review of the policy, with the       intention of banning all access to fertility services for prisoners       (Rojas, 2013).
Impact on International Human Rights     Codd's work with Alice Mills (2008- reference 4 above) was cited in the       United Nations Office on       Drugs and Crime (2012) Handbook on the International Transfer of         Sentenced Persons (UNODC,       United Nations, New York) as evidence of the importance of family contact       in preventing       reoffending and thus supporting the transfer of prisoners to their home       countries so as to be nearer       family members.
The Handbook is intended to be both a reference document       and a training tool,       explaining how transferring persons to another State to serve their       sentences can contribute to       dealing with them fairly and effectively, and helping to ensure that       applicable UN principles are       applied and implemented.
Her research (Codd, 2008) was cited ten times in Stanley, E. (2011) Human         Rights and Prisons: A         review to the Human Rights Commission, Auckland, New Zealand, in       order to explain the impacts       on families of imprisonment and to identify good practice in maintaining       and promoting human       rights.
This review has been used subsequently to inform the development       of the Commission's       report on the status of human rights,Human Rights in New Zealand,       which in turn has led to a       national debate around new policy initiatives in order to promote and       protect human rights.
Impact on Prisoner Resettlement Policies and Good Practice     Helen Codd's research with Alice Mills (2008) has been instrumental in       the development of the       `Family Man' accredited prison programme, a drama-based prison educational       programme.
The       idea of social capital leading to a pro-social identity, as explored and       analysed by Mills &amp; Codd       (2008), is identified as a key aspiration of the `Family Man' programme       and is cited as part of the       published theoretical underpinning document.
Her research, particularly       that with Alice Mills, is a       key reference point in the published literature relating to the importance       of families in prisoner       resettlement, and she is recognised as a leading world authority on issues       relating to good practice       in relation to prisoners, resettlement and families, and also on good       practice in working with       prisoners' children.
She is a member of the Evidence and Research Advisory       Group of Action for       Prisoners' Families, and contributes to the development of policy and       practice in relation to       prisoners' families on a domestic and also international level.
