     Context       The Timburi-Cocha research station is located in the Sumaco National Park       (a UNESCO       Biosphere Reserve).
The combination of mountain and lowland habitats means       that this area has a       high level of endemism (i.e.
species specific to the location).
The       Payamino River is a major       tributary to the Amazon and, unlike many other rivers in the area, has       remained unpolluted by oil       spills, mining, human waste and erosion.
Before the research station provided employment opportunities in 2010,       the Payamino community       were making money by selling bush meat and through harmful logging [B].
Areas were deforested       to allow for agricultural expansion and many members of the community left       to find work in       neighbouring areas [B].
Gold companies were operating in the area and had       shown an interest in       Payamino, and oil companies had also bought concessions nearby for up to       $10,000 [B].
The lowland Kichwa people, including the Payamino community, are among       the poorest in       Ecuador.
They generally have poor public health with an average 50%       mortality rate for children up       to the age of 2 years and high adult mortality from disease.
The eldest       community member is 53       years old.
Pathways to impact       Establishment of a charity to support local people and the research           station:       Aalborg Zoo (Denmark) sponsored the initiation of a field station in       Sumaco in 2002 and provided       financial support until December 2011.
Recognising the research potential       and importance in       preserving the area, Preziosi established a funding stream for the       Timburi-Cocha research station       by making it an independent charity in 2010.
Universities and individuals       pay into the charity to use       research station facilities and the money is reinvested in the research       station or used to support       the indigenous people.
Preziosi is chair of the charity and Rowntree is       the charity secretary [B].
Preziosi holds the research permits for the field station.
Disseminating information to policy makers and the general public:       Preziosi and colleagues sent an advisory policy document to the Ecuadorian       Ministry of the       Environment to outline research showing the need for local institutions to       control the use of       undeveloped forest.
It is anticipated that monitoring data will form       baseline information for the       development of future policies.
To increase public understanding of biodiversity and the need for       conservation, thousands of       specimens from the research station are made freely available to the       Ecuadorian Museum of       Natural History.
The museum sends samples to leading experts for       identification, for example, a       new beetle has recently been identified by a taxonomist in France [A].
An exhibition on the complex relationships between humans and the       environment in the       Ecuadorian Amazon was held at Manchester Museum from September 2012 to       June 2013 called       `All Other Things Being Equal'.
This involved photographs, sounds,       graphical representations of       socio-economic data and specimens provided by Oldekop.
Reach and significance of the impact       The activities at the research station affect all 300 members of the       Payamino community, as       discussed below.
The Timburi-Cocha research station is used by teaching       and research groups       from Ecuador, Colombia, USA, Canada and Europe.
UK researchers come from       UoM, Glasgow,       Sheffield, York, Royal Botanical Gardens Kew and the Natural History       Museum.
Facilities have expanded to accommodate larger numbers of researchers.
The research station       has grown from the original three buildings to 11, including a large       dormitory for 30 students, a       smaller dormitory for six teachers, a lab for biodiversity monitoring, a       kitchen and a storage       warehouse.
Changing behaviours and local attitudes to conservation:       Preziosi wrote and coordinated the signing of a general Memorandum of       Understanding in March       2011 with the Ecuadorian Ministry of the Environment, the Ecuadorian       Museum of Natural History,       Chimborazo high school and the Payamino community [C].
This led to a       formal agreement being       signed on 14 August 2012 between UoM and the Amazon State University of       the Republic of       Ecuador (UEA) [D].
The Payamino community also signed an agreement with UoM to specify that       they will not allow oil       or gold exploration, or exploit the forest and animals for financial gain       (i.e., fishing with dynamite,       hunting primates, selling plants, wood and meat) [E].
The community had       the confidence to sign       such an agreement because of the financial security offered by employment       opportunities at the       research station.
The Timburi-Cocha Research Station Manager stated that, `The         Timburi-Cocha Research Station         has changed the attitude of the people of the community in terms of how         to obtain an income         without hunting, logging or indiscriminate fishing practices' [B,       translated from Spanish].
Similarly,       the Payamino Community President states that `The Timburi research         station is now a thriving         community project that had helped to keep oil companies and illegal meat         hunting at bay, while         enabling the Payamino community to preserve their culture and way of         life' [F, translated from       Spanish].
Providing employment opportunities and income for the local           community:       Over 100 university researchers and more than 400 students visited the       area in 2008-2012 to       study biodiversity.
The annual turnover of the research station is $65,000       with 100% surplus being       invested in the local community or the research station itself.
The       research station provides `at       cost' visits for local university groups.
Members of the local community are employed at the research station to       monitor biodiversity, act       as expert guides and to maintain and develop the research station       (drivers, cooks etc.)
[G].
The       research station actively promotes the conservation of cultural identity       and gender equality, being       the first employer of women in the area.
The Research Station Manager describes the benefits to the community: `Members         of the         community have obtained additional economic income by students,         scientists and tourists visiting         the station.
These revenues have been invested to buy school supplies,         purchase medical         equipment and for loans to members of the community due to illness,         accident, or damage to their         homes, etc.'
[B, translated from Spanish].
In May 2013, an agreement was signed by UoM and UEA to secure the future       of the research       station until 2018 [H].
UEA hire a senior administrator, six members of a       support team and a       community coordinator to manage the research station.
UoM provide       mobilisation and living costs       and insurance for these members of staff [H].
This agreement was made with       the approval of the       Payamino community, who also signed an agreement with UoM [E].
Enabling access to medical clinics:       The research station charity provides money and transportation for       employees to use western       medicine, complementary to services provided by the local shaman [B].
Free       water filtration       systems have been provided for the local school and medical clinics have       been established, with       an average of 3 - 6 patients per day [I].
The medical clinics play an       important role since the       nearest medical centre is a few hours away [F].
The research station       doctor (hosted by and       travelling with UoM researchers) conducts home visits and accompanies less       able patients to town       for medical care, liaising with anaesthetic and surgical teams on their       behalf as necessary [I].
The       doctor obtains blood from the Red Cross for transfusions [I].
Providing education bursaries for the local community:       The research station charity provides education bursaries for employees       and their families to       attend courses that enhance career prospects.
The President of the       Payamino Community was       awarded two bursaries totalling $90 to complete an ecotourism course at       Loretto College of       Tourism and to attend leadership training at the School of Leaders before       taking up his current       post.
