     The NSPCC study has achieved a wide reach assisted by dissemination       through regional,       national and international conferences attended by practitioners, policy       makers and       researchers from social work, health, the police and the voluntary sector.
Managers in local       authority children's services in Croydon and Lancashire have reported       using the study       findings to inform restructuring of their service response to domestic       violence.
The research       was cited in the House of Commons and House of Lords Joint Committee on       Human Rights       (2010) [A] in its report on the Children, Schools and Families Bill in       relation to the proposal to       introduce protection orders in England and Wales; these are currently       being piloted.
The       findings in relation to relaxing the time restrictions on the timing of       assessment were       discussed with Jacky Tiotto, Director of the DCSF's National Safeguarding       Delivery Unit, and       these proposals were included in Munro's (2011) Review of Child Protection       [B]: Tiotto was a       member of the DfE team supporting Munro.
The Munro Review also cited the       study's finding       that separation should not be the goal of intervention since domestic       violence occurred post-       separation in over half the cases studied.
The policy changes resulting       from the Munro       Review have impacted on the organisation and delivery of social work in       England in       domestic violence cases and consequently on the experience of children and       families in       contact with social workers.
The Men's Talk study was commissioned to inform a social       marketing campaign aimed at       abusive men and its findings were used directly in the campaign which was       delivered across       Hull in 2009 and 2010 using a range of media.
An evaluation of the impact       of the campaign       (Francas 2010) found that 60% of Hull men surveyed had noticed the       campaign and one in       three exposed to the campaign described their thinking on domestic       violence as changed by       the campaign.
The research can therefore be said to have played a       significant role in shifting       attitudes to domestic violence in the local population and in preparing       the targeted group to       utilise the new service for abusive men.
This was the first social marketing campaign to be targeted on male     perpetrators of domestic     violence in England and Wales and it was cited by government as a model of     good practice     [C].
The research and the ensuing campaign have been widely disseminated at     national and     international conferences including presentations by invitation at Peking     University;     University of Melbourne and Griffith University.
The study informed the     design of the     Strength to Change Service for male perpetrators of domestic violence     which has been     operating in Hull since 2009 and which, in its first 18 months, was     contacted by 210 abusive     men providing a service to 37% of these.
The evaluation of the service     identified a need for     service developments including intensification of programme delivery and an     increase in     staff (both recommendations were implemented); and the evaluation has been     key to     securing continuing funding for the service.
The social marketing campaign     and the     Strength to Change service embody a new public health model for engagement     with     perpetrators of domestic violence which has influenced similar campaigns     such as the     national `I'm a Real Man' campaign run by Women's Aid in 2011.
Stanley's review of research on children experiencing domestic violence       was distributed to       all Directors of Children's Services and a briefing study for lead members       for Children's       Services in England and Wales was produced.
The review has been       disseminated at       national conferences &#8212; in Scotland and Northern Ireland as well as England       &#8212; for       practitioners, managers and policy makers and has attracted considerable       interest.
Directors of Children's Services have used the review to assist       commissioning and       restructuring local services (see Jones) and it has informed planning for       implementation of       the Domestic Abuse (Wales) Bill and national guidance produced by the       Health Service       Executive in Ireland [D] for health and social care professionals in 2013.
The review has       therefore contributed to the management and delivery of social work with       children and       families experiencing domestic violence and to children's and families'       experience of those       services.
As a consequence of this body of work, Stanley was appointed to the NICE       Programme       Development Group developing guidance for health and social care services       on domestic       violence.
The research described here was included in the evidence       reviewed in the draft       guidance [E] and has ensured that the needs of children experiencing       domestic violence are       at the forefront of the guidance due to be published in 2014.
This has       enabled the body of       research described here to achieve both reach and significance.
