     Context     Forecasting by the original Met Office's NAME model of the transport and       deposition of particulate material is crucial to the modelling of natural       and man-made chemical releases, and nuclear accidents.
Without accurate       representation of particle loss to the surface accurate prediction is       impossible.
The Met Office has national responsibility to provide       specialist advice about the atmospheric dispersion of chemicals and       pollutants.
NAME is used to provide predictions of release incidents, for       example the Fukushima nuclear plant failure after tsunami damage in 2011,       and is used to provide pollutant deposition maps across the UK for DEFRA.
Low visibility, snowfall and rainfall impact on road, rail, marine and       airborne transport.
Improved prediction of low-visibility events is       valuable in safety and economic terms.
For example, winter-time fogs cause       flight cancellations due requiring increased spacing between take-off and       landing slots.
To provide such prediction the Met Office has developed a       simple visibility diagnostic that is computationally efficient for use in       operational forecasting, routinely used in the transport sector.
Accurate short-range numerical weather prediction forecasts and       climatological climate projections of cloud-cover and precipitation are       central to the Met Office core mission.
Inaccurate forecasts of       stratocumulus cloud cover have a large effect on short range surface       temperature forecasts, which are important to many customers for Met       Office models.
They are also of great importance to the climate system due       to radiative effects and potential feedback mechanisms in a perturbed       climate.
Boundary layer clouds are also one of the largest uncertainties       in current climate models, owing to both physical processes and aerosol       indirect effects.
Pathways to Impact     Enhanced wet, dry and cloud deposition parameterisations were developed       from our research on UK wet deposition, taken up by the Met Office and       included in the operational NAME model.
Verified as efficient and       effective, they have been at the heart of NAME since the 1990s       (Corroborative statement A, below; p302, "Choularton's group measured and       provided suitable rates for use in the NAME model...Representative       coefficients ...were measured ...in extensive field and modelling       experiments carried out by T. Choularton's team at UMIST").
NERC and the Met Office jointly support the UK research aircraft from       which airborne aerosol measurement research is largely delivered by       NERC-funded Manchester scientists.
Through the shared facility, Manchester       aerosol and cloud physics research has been closely linked to Met Office       providing considerable synergy for many years.
By aligning these       activities with Met Office model development and testing objectives we       have used our data to directly test the products in the Met Office       operational model and improve the process descriptions in it.
In response to Manchester's novel measurements of aerosol composition       around the UK, the Met Office implemented a new emission source inventory       and used it to show that the revised predicted aerosol has a significant       effect on the visibility prediction in the model.
This tool was tested and       shown to operationally robust and is now providing significantly improved       visibility forecasts compared to the previous model.
Reach and Significance     The Met Office is the national weather service provide for the UK and       services the needs of Government in the areas of Defence, Government       Services and the Public Weather Service.
It received &#163;172m in revenue from       Government for these activities and is measured annually on its ability to       meet service targets for its products.
Forecasts of rain and snowfall are       core Met Office model products and Manchester has worked closely with the       Met Office to ensure that model improvements are tested against measured       data and strategically developed from such observations.
Manchester's       relationship with the Met Office has been developed over the last decade       to be the main provider of airborne cloud and aerosol measurements to the       Met Office for this task.
Implementation of Met Office model development       into the operational products has led to significant improvement in       predictive skill over this period and this in turn has allowed the Met       Office to drive growth in commercial revenue in 2011/12 by 6% to &#163;33m,       largely in the Commercial Aviation, Utilities, Road and Rail sectors       (statement B).
This revenue can be used as an indication of the worth of       the operational products to the commercial end-user.
Furthermore, the       worth of Public Service Weather forecasting to the UK economy was       independently estimated to be &#163;634m in 2007 (statement C) and is not       foreseen to have reduced across the REF period.
Manchester research in atmospheric particulate measurements have directly       fed Met Office models in all relevant processes at all relevant scales.
In       each of the cases detailed below our input has made a major contribution       to the development of parameterisations within the relevant Met Office       model and has been evaluated as improving the model performance and       representation of the underlying physical process beyond the previous       process treatment.
As emphasised by our corroborating Met Office project       partners, the improvement in model skill attributable to any single       process improvement is impossible to quantify owing to model complexity.
However, rigorous stability and accuracy criteria are applied before       adoption of any process description in Met Office models and each of the       following have been widely adopted in the appropriate scale of model.
Impact from the development of the NAME model     The research contributed to the development of the original Met Office's       forecasting tool NAME.
NAME is used to model a wide range of UK and       European scale atmospheric dispersion events including chemical and       radiological releases, pathogen dispersion, greenhouse gas emissions and       air pollution trend analyses.
Customers of the information include Fire       Brigade, Police, Health Protection Agency, Health Protection, Scotland       Environment Agency Scottish, Environment Protection Agency, Food Standards       Agency (statement D)     Impact of improved Visibility and Precipitation forecasts     In collaboration with the Met Office, CAS have produced a description of       the snow size distribution and hence improved the parameterisation within       the 1.5 km resolution operational NWP model.
This new model has produced       improvements in the forecast skill for snowfall and precipitation issued       to a wide range of public and private sectors.
In recent tests (statement       E) this new model has been delivered skill scores 30% better than the       North Atlantic European model and also significantly better than the UK4       model (statement F).
These improvements in forecasting, routinely       available to the UK population of 70 million, are of major benefit across       a wide range of activities and public and private sectors.
For example the       cost of the snow to the UK economy was estimate at &#163;500M per day in       January 2013 (statement G) and improved forecast skill enhances mitigation       strategies to offset these costs.
The CAS airborne aerosol measurements (described in the pathway)       contributed to testing and improvement of the predictive capability of       atmospheric visibility in the Met Office Operational 1.5 km and 4 km       resolution NWP models, used since 2008 (statement H).
Thus they have been       able to provide visibility forecasts that are based on the most up to date       assessments of chemical composition of the aerosol for a host of public       and private sectors such as military low flying aircraft operations,       search and rescue, aviation, fisheries, sea freight, coastguard,       mountaineering, hiking and other recreational activities (statement B).
One of the stated targets reported annually by the Met Office is the       accuracy of the Terminal Airfield Forecasts (TAFs), which are made       available to both civil and military airfields.
The improvements to the       visibility model over recent years have meant this performance target has       been consistently met.
