     Context     Despite the advantageous electroluminescent and photoluminescent       properties of quantum dot nanoparticles, their incorporation into       next-generation consumer electronics has been precluded by the absence of       a means to manufacture both sufficient quantities and materials that are       free of toxic heavy metals in-order to comply with `Restriction of       Hazardous Substances' (RoHS) legislation.
Pathways to impact       The research conducted at the University of Manchester enabled the       preparation of bulk quantities of quantum dots free of toxic heavy metals,       which led to the spinout of Nanoco Technologies in 2001-2 from the School       of Chemistry based on its proprietary technology covered, by 19 patents       [4,5].
Whilst located within the School of Chemistry building, Nanoco grew to       10-12 workers before moving to dedicated premises where it experienced       extraordinary growth between 2004-2013.
Currently, Nanoco operates from       the company's headquarters and R&amp;D facility in Manchester, a       production plant in Runcorn and sales offices located in Japan and the       United States.
[A]     Impact.
During the period 1st January 2008 to 31st July 2013, Nanoco Technologies       established itself as the world's leading manufacturer and supplier of       commercial quantities of RoHS compliant (RoHS 2002/95/EC) quantum dots,       employing approximately 95 staff at a total cost of over &#163;3m per year and       generating over &#163;10.5m revenue since 1st August 2008 [B].
On the 1st May 2009 Nanoco Group plc began trading on the Alternative       Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange and since this time has       grown its market capitalisation to &#163;384m (31/7/2013).
Nanoco's strategic partnerships have generated significant secondary       impact through job creation throughout its associated supply chain and       within its partner companies.
Currently, Nanoco's quantum dot's are being       developed with its strategic partners in several areas including displays       and photovoltaic solar cells as follows:-     1.
Displays       Display technology has progressed from bulky cathode ray tubes to plasma       screens, liquid crystal displays and more recently to energy efficient       organic light emitting diodes (OLED).
OLED technology has provided low       power, lightweight, thinner displays of improved user experience through       wider viewing angles and improved contrast.
However, OLED       display technology is limited to the fabrication of small displays       employing wasteful and energy inefficient evaporation procedures with a       high discard rates.
Quantum dot electroluminescent display technology (QD TV&#8482;) offers a       tremendous advantage over existing OLED-technology.
Quantum dots have been       printed using facile low cost techniques into various sizes of lightweight       flexible displays.
High photoluminescence quantum yields render the       displays energy efficient, narrow emission band-width provides displays of       superior optical resolution, whilst the high stability of inorganic       quantum dots provides displays with improved lifetimes.
Since 2011, Nanoco has delivered 1kg batches of both red and green       coloured quantum dots worth &#163;2.5m and achieved performance milestones that       have generated an additional &#163;1.1M.
In January 2013 Nanoco entered into an       exclusive licensing agreement with Dow Electronic Materials' who are       opening a production facility in the far-east to manufacture quantum dots       and have exclusive worldwide rights for the sale, marketing and       manufacture of Nanoco's quantum dots for use in electronic displays [C].
2.
Photovoltaic solar cells       The world's growing demand for power is met predominantly by the       combustion of fossil fuels (13TW, 87%).
As fossil fuels become depleted       and the demand for cleaner, greener energy increases it is imperative that       renewable energy becomes a more significant proportion of our energy mix.
Currently, solar power contributes a negligible 0.03% toward the global       energy mix despite the earth receiving sufficient energy from the sun to       meet its current and future energy demand (&gt;120,000 TW).
The widespread       adoption of solar power has been impeded by the high cost of cells,       principally of silicon fabricated by expensive methods.
In partnership with a Japanese automotive firm that has invested       approximately &#163;1m and `Tokyo Electron' who have invested an undisclosed       amount, Nanoco has exploited its proprietary intellectual property and       expertise to prepare a range of novel copper indium gallium diselenide and       copper indium diselenide quantum dot inks that have been fabricated into       solar cell devices of good efficiencies using conventional low cost       printing techniques [D].
