     The following exemplifies OMIC impact in teems of policy and up         skilling industry as well as         two examples of economic impact based upon research with SME deriving         from basic         research performed within the UoA.
OMIC [A,B,C,D]     Context: The Organic Materials Innovation Centre (OMIC) was       established by initial funding of       &#163;4.25m from the Department of Trade and Industry in 2002 to the University       of Manchester for       work on knowledge transfer from academe to industry in the thematic areas       of Complex Fluids,       Organic Electronics, Biomaterials and High Performance         Materials.
Its success [A] led to an award       from the North West Development Agency of over &#163;8m (ca.
&#163;3m to       Manchester) in October 2008       to start the North West Knowledge Centre for Materials Chemistry (KCMC,       2008-2012) [B].
In the       first four years of operation (2008-12), the KCMC in Manchester has       carried out 100 projects with       industry for a value of over &#163;5.4m which includes over &#163;3.2M of industry       income [C].
Pathways to Impact: OMIC enables effective knowledge transfer to       industry through a flexible       engagement model, which is attractive for the smallest SME through to the       largest multinational.
Flexibility is enabled through the ability to engage in projects as short       as a few weeks with the       ability through UoM procedures to put in place agreements between parties       on a very short time       scale.
Projects have included embedding industrial researchers in the OMIC       laboratories as well as       OMIC scientists into industrial laboratories.
Knowledge transfer is also       facilitated through tailored       CPD and training events for industry in thematic areas where OMIC has       recognized academic       excellence.
Impact: Through its position as one of the UK's four academic,       plastic electronics centres of       excellence, as recognised in the House of Commons Select Report in 2008       [D], OMIC is a       founding member of the Plastic Electronics Leadership Group and these       activities are helping to       advocate and shape the UK strategy in this emerging field and direct TSB       funding in the area.
Internationally, OMIC through Professor Yeates was invited to contribute       as experts to the       international White Paper from the Chemical Sciences and Society Summit       (CS3) on `Organic       Electronics for a Better Tomorrow: Innovation, Accessibility,       Sustainability' 2012 and also the EU       project on developing the roadmap for digital fabrication `Diginova'.
As       part of this advocacy, OMIC       has hosted inward investment missions from Finland, Korea and Belgium as       well as providing       training to over 250 people in industry since 2008.
Events have included       `Future generation solar       cells' in 2008, `Opportunities in printed solar cells', 2009, and       `Chemicals and materials for printed       electronics', 2011.
A recent survey by the Plastic Electronics Leadership       Group confirmed that       while the industry is still in its infancy, there are now over 150       businesses in the UK with activities       in this field, more than double that of four years ago.
Most of those are       SMEs developing materials       and devices but there are already some end-users such as De La Rue and       Reckitt-Benckiser       working to apply the technology in their products.
ACAL Energy [E]     Context: Fuel cells produce electrical power directly from       chemicals and offer the potential to be a       more efficient and clean way to generate power when compared to the       combustion of fuels.
Hydrogen-fuelled 10-100 kW fuel cells provide a cost-effective method for       power production       particularly at sites where lower life-cycle costs, cleaner and quieter       operation, longer runtimes,       and lower maintenance requirements are important.
However concerns over       cost and lifetime have       limited their adoption.
ACAL Energy is an UK SME developing a novel       approach to the fuel cell       cathode &#8212; the FlowCath&#174; technology.
Pathways to Impact: ACAL Energy collaborated with the Collison and       May (2) group by       embedding a company scientist within the group and by consultancy from       2006, because of their       expertise on polyoxometallates.
This research led to the initial FlowCath&#174;       technology.
Collaboration       with the Turner and Proctor groups (5) through a combination of the       flexible OMIC model, KTP and       PhD funding on novel nitrogen-containing ligands is enabling more       efficient fuel cells to be       developed.
Impact: Since 2008 ACAL Energy has received &#163;15m of venture       capital investment, created in       excess of 20 jobs and won the Carbon Trust's Polymer Fuel Cell Challenge.
ACAL Energy's       patented FlowCath&#174; technology is the first example of a non-Pt       based fuel cell cathode system and       the first installation is now located in at the Solvay Interox Chemical       Plant, UK.
ACAL Energy fuel       cells using a polyoxometallate catalyst compete with conventional       electricity generators by       reducing the platinum content by up to 80% which represents 20-25 % of the       total cost of a system.
These fuel cells show no deterioration in performance after 10,000 hrs of       rigorous automotive test       cycles (equivalent to 300,000 miles).
This is comparable to the best       light-weight diesel engines       (100kW equivalent to a 2 L diesel engine) and exceeds the 2017 US       Department of Energy (DoE)       industry target for fuel cell powered vehicles.
The durability of the fuel       cells allows the system to be       applied to stationary power applications where 40,000 hrs (10 years of       product lifetime) operation       is required.
As a result ACAL Energy fuel cell units will be installed at       the UK's first open access H2       refuelling station to be located at Honda's manufacturing site in Swindon.
Byotrol [F]     Context: Cleaning products, such as bleach and alcohol-based       products, stop working as soon as       they dry, which allows bacteria and other microbes to quickly recolonize;       a single surviving       bacterium can produce up to 8 million descendants by the next day.
In       contrast, Byotrol technology       which is based upon surfactant-polymer mixtures kills and destroys       instantaneously bacteria and       viruses and then dries to form a long-lasting antimicrobial barrier that       stops germs from       re-populating for up to 24 hrs.
Pathways to Impact: In 2007, Byotrol approached the University of       Manchester based upon our       previous work in the area of complex aqueous surfactant mixtures [3], and       our then unpublished       work on complex aqueous polymer-surfactant mixtures [6] with the aim of       understanding the       mechanism of long-lasting antimicrobial performance and of developing more       effective and       reproducible formulations which in turn could lead to a stronger IP       position in this highly       competitive market.
This resulted in the filing of patent WO2010043863,       which covers and       exemplifies novel formulation classes, addressing the dual challenges of       effective antimicrobial kill       coupled with long term follow-on performance.
This was continued by a one       year Molecular       Engineering Translational Research Centre (METRC) proof of concept grant       in 2009-2010 and       supported by a direct funded iCASE PhD 2009-13.
Impact: The research performed under the above engagement modes       has contributed to the       technology being further developed and optimized to provide reproducible,       fast acting and powerful       performance across all microbial classes [E]: bacteria, viruses, fungi,       moulds &amp; algae killing up to       99.99% of germs in 30 seconds when tested against the most stringent test       methodologies       including BS:EN 1276 Standard, BS:EN 13697 Standard, BS:EN 1650 Standard,       BS:EN 14476       Standard and Residual Abrasion Testing methodologies.
In 2013, Byotrol       reported sales of &#163;2.19m       with a year-on-year growth of 12% per annum.
Byotrol technology has been       introduced into a wide       range of consumer products across the healthcare, food and beverage and       consumer goods       sectors [E], through both direct sales and partnership with some of the       world's leading brands       including Boots, PZ Cussons, Heinz, Kimberley Clark, Marks and Spencer and       Rentokil Initial       Group (UltraProtect&#8482;).
