     Bilson's international research focusses on developing social work and       gatekeeping (alternative services and better decision making) for children       in or at risk of entering institutional care and his research       substantially informs UNICEF analysis [E].
Bilson and UCLan colleagues       (Buffin, Cox, Westwood, Roy and Young) have provided advice and research       for government and NGOs in 13 countries and senior government       representatives (often at ministerial or deputy ministerial level) have       been involved in all these projects.
In several countries this has       influenced national policy, led to new community-based services and helped       to reduce the number of children placed in institutions.
Specific examples of changes that can be attributed, at least in part, to       research and consultancy on gatekeeping include the development of       national and regional community services and gatekeeping systems in       Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Kyrgizstan, Moldova, Sri Lanka and Ukraine.
See EveryChild's evidence to the Committee on the Rights of the Child's       Day of General Discussion in 2007 outlining developments in services and       gatekeeping based on Bilson's model in Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine (all       countries where Bilson led research or consultancy) [A, B, C, E, Contacts       1 to 3].
For example, the Ministry of Women's Empowerment and Social Welfare in       Sri Lanka accepted the recommendations of Bilson and Cox's advocacy       document and outlined plans to "reach an agreement consensually on these       best practices to ensure uniformity in practice."
[B, 1] The government of       Sri Lanka made changes in their approach to children in need of care with       the Ministry for Women and Children as well as the Ministry of Justice,       which introduced diversion programs for child offenders following advocacy       by Save the Children using Bilson and Cox's report with other evidence.
Bilson's 2010 report for UNICEF influenced the Bulgarian government's       strategy to close all its large institutions.
Bilson's recommendation to       OAK Foundation led to a grant of $500,000 to establish the Know How Centre       on Alternatives to Care for Children at the New Bulgarian University which       supports the government's implementation of deinstitutionalisation and       disseminates good practice.
He continues as international consultant       having co-led a team evaluating the early institutional closures to       identify good practice, using the toolkit developed from.Bilson and Westwood's literature review.
Bilson is leading one section of       the Centre's &#8364;900,000 project to establish and evaluate models for       preventative services in two Roma communities [Contact 1].
Examples of the reach of this research include Bilson's current work       helping the Ugandan government develop a vision for social care [Contact       2] and in Lithuania where, following national newspaper coverage of his       key speech at Kaunas university, Bilson made a presentation in Parliament       (broadcast on the internet with extracts on national television) to the       Minister of Justice and other government and presidential advisers.
This       stimulated wide public debate on institutionalisation.
Bilson also       supported Gelb&#279;kit Vaikus (Save the Children) in establishing the first       pilot projects to implement gatekeeping entry to institutions in 15       municipalities.
The government has made a commitment to close all its       large institutions, and Bilson continues to support this, including giving       a presentation to the deputy minister and advisory team responsible on       5/8/2013 [Contact 3].
The Evaluation of Social Work Practices has achieved significance and       reach of impact in determining both the form and shape of the `second       wave' of SWPs in children's and adults services and the long-term future       of this model.
Senior DfE officers noted that the Evaluation contributed       to Government policy on SWPs and to cabinet policy on mutuals, the `right       to challenge' and `right to provide'.
The evaluation identified the       weaknesses of the SWP model and provided messages for future contracting       out of children's services.
These officers noted that the evaluation       highlighted the central role of local authorities in supporting SWPs and       found that most SWPs never achieved full independence.
As a consequence of       the Evaluation, future government policy was described as more likely to       focus on contracting out rather than `spinning off' children's services       [Contact 4].
The DfE consultation [F] on the future of SWPs cited the       `mixed findings' of the evaluation and proposed arrangements offering       local authorities flexibility to delegate social care functions to SWP       providers should they choose to do so.
At the time of writing, Government       is developing regulations to permit this and the evaluation has been cited       in both the Government consultation on these regulations and in UNISON's       response to it.
The optional nature of these proposals contrasts       significantly with government plans for the probation service which is       being substantially privatised; this reflects the significant impact of       UCLan's evaluation.
