     Context       Vascular disease is a major cause of morbidity and the leading cause of       death in the UK.
Most deaths caused by vascular disease are premature and       preventable, through earlier diagnosis, lifestyle changes and better       management of the condition.
Life expectancy at birth in Greater       Manchester is one of the lowest in the UK; addressing the problems caused       by vascular disease is one step towards improving this.
This involves       bridging the gap between known best practice and actual care delivery.
Primary care quality and performance and data indicate that vascular       related conditions are under-diagnosed; hence individuals do not receive       appropriate preventive care.
Pathways to Impact       Applying our model of knowledge mobilisation, we have worked across a       range of primary care trusts and general practices in Greater Manchester       to assess, address and improve the gap between current practice and what       research evidence indicates is best practice in the care of people with       chronic kidney disease (CKD) and impaired glucose tolerance (IGT).
Knowledge Transfer Associates, employed by and supported by the wider       CLAHRC team, have worked as facilitators with locally established       improvement teams to develop, implement and evaluate context-sensitive       interventions to improve the management of CKD and IGT.
Reach and Significance     i.
Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD)     CKD affects 5 to 10 per cent of the adult population.
In the earlier       stages, the disease is largely asymptomatic, but significantly increases a       person's likelihood of a cardiovascular event, hospitalisation or death.
Thus, early identification and management of the condition is recommended.
In 2009, data collated by the CLAHRC team suggested a gap of around 2 per       cent between recorded local prevalence of CKD and the estimated national       prevalence, equating to approximately 41,000 undetected cases of CKD in       Greater Manchester.
The same data also indicated that of those patients       diagnosed, around 30 per cent were not receiving optimal disease       management, such as blood pressure monitoring or testing for proteinuria.
Two sequential implementation projects have been undertaken within the GM       CLAHRC to tackle this apparent gap between current practice and known best       practice, informed by clinical guidelines from the National Institute for       Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) on the identification and management       of adults with CKD.
In the first project (September 2009 to September       2010), the CLAHRC team worked with 19 General Practices in NHS Ashton,       Leigh and Wigan, NHS Salford, NHS Stockport and NHS Bolton.
In 12 months,       the number of patients on practice CKD registers increased by 1324 (from       4185 to 5509) and blood pressure management improved from 34 to 74 per       cent of patients on practice CKD registers having a recorded blood       pressure within recommended NICE guidelines.
The learning from this       project was collated into a CKD improvement guide, which is promoted by       organisations such as the UK National Kidney Federation [A].
In the words       of the National Clinical Director for Kidney Disease [A]: "The         impressive local impact and learning from this project was incorporated         into a CKD improvement guide which was spread through the UK National         Kidney Federation and was the first of its type to be produced."
The guide has been used a resource for practices in the second CLAHRC       implementation project (March 2011 to March 2012), working with 10 General       Practices from NHS Ashton, Leigh and Wigan [B] and 1 from NHS Salford.
In       this second phase of work, we have also collaborated with the NIHR CLAHRC       for Leicestershire, Northamptonshire and Rutland (LNR), specifically to       apply an audit tool they developed to identify patients with possible CKD       on practice registers.
In a 12 month period, the 11 practices have       increased CKD prevalence on their registers by 1.2 per cent (539 new       patients with CKD identified) and improved the management of blood       pressure from 60 per cent to 83 per cent.
Over both phases of work (30       practices in total), 1863 patients have been identified, and re-audit of       those in the first phase shows that register size has remained stable,       demonstrating the sustainability of the learning and way of working.
Ongoing collaboration with LNR CLAHRC has resulted in the development of       a CKD improvement programme known as IMPAKTTM[C].
Uptake of the       IMPAKTTM programme has spread beyond the original development       sites as confirmed by the National Clinical Director for Kidney Disease       [A]: "This approach to improvement has now been incorporated into a         software package (IMPAKTTM), which is being         used more widely across the UK, including in Yorkshire, London and         Wales."
ii.
Impaired Glucose Tolerance (IGT)     In the UK, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is predicted to increase due       to the rising prevalence of obesity.
IGT describes a condition with raised       blood glucose but not high enough to warrant a diabetes diagnosis.
Research shows that without any lifestyle or medical intervention, about       50% of people with IGT will develop type 2 diabetes (accompanied by       increased risk of cardiovascular disease) within five to ten years.
Lifestyle changes have been shown to delay or prevent the onset of type 2       diabetes in people with IGT.
This type of intervention has also been shown       to be cost-effective, particularly when targeting those within the IGT       population who are thought to be at highest risk of developing type 2       diabetes.
The GM CLAHRC has applied UoM research in partnership with NHS       Bolton (August 2009 &#8212; December 2010) and NHS Salford (April &#8212; December       2010) to improve the quality of care for people with IGT who are at high       risk of progression to diabetes.
In both cases, the focus was on offering       advice to effect lifestyle changes and improve health outcomes.
In NHS       Bolton, this advice was provided using the existing Health Trainer service       and in NHS Salford via a telephone-based support service (Care Call), run       by trained health advisors.
In both cases, evaluation findings suggest       that the projects enabled patients with IGT to attain personal health       goals, including changes to diet, increased exercise and weight loss.
This       in turn, resulted in improvements in a repeat 2h oral glucose tolerance       test (OGTT), which is used as an indicator of IGT.
For example, in NHS       Bolton, 134 patients from 15 GP practices participated; of these 89 per       cent achieved or partly achieved their personal health goal.
70 per cent       lost weight, with an average of 4.8kg, and 65 per cent showed an       improvement in the OGTT.
Since then, over 2500 people with IGT have seen a       Health Trainer in Bolton [D].
In NHS Salford, 55 patients from 7 GP       practices participated; 77 percent achieved and sustained an overall       lifestyle goal, 74 percent achieved a weight loss of an average 4.9kg per       person and 75 per cent improved their OGTT score [E,F].
The Clinical Lead       for Diabetes in Salford CCG [F] states: "The project has been         successful in improving the health of targeted patients, reducing the         number of IGT patients in the Salford area who could progress to type 2         diabetes."
Follow up 6 months after the end of the project       demonstrated that changes made and improvements to health outcomes were       sustained.
The IGT Care Call project has won the Quality in Care (QiC) award for `Best         Type 2 Diabetes Prevention Initiative' in 2011 [G] and was highly       commended in the diabetes category of the 2012 Care Integration Awards [H].
