     (See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S10.)
Context       Clayton's research group has demonstrated, using a very rare       population in Brazil as an exemplar, the effect of severe growth hormone       deficiency on hormone profiles and phenotype and, using discovery science,       how new molecular aetiologies for growth disorders can be found.
The       impact of this in clinical practice is that standards have been set       against which milder forms of GH deficiency commonly treated in first       world countries should be compared.
The research has brought about       improvements in the management of growth disorders and has paved the way       for new diagnostic tests.
Pathways to impact       Clayton's research provided important insights to inform the       construction of consensus guidelines for less severe growth disorders &#8212; in       particular which tests should be carried out and in which circumstances.
He was selected by International Societies to chair and/or sit on the       steering/organising committees of five growth-related workshops (S1-S5).
These meetings brought together experts representing the global       paediatric endocrine community (with European, North American, Canadian,       South American and Asia-Pacific Societies invited), the Pharma Industry       and Regulatory Bodies (US FDA) to generate guideline publications for       clinical use.
Reach and significance of the impact       Improved management of growth disorders       The consensus guidelines (S1-S5) have been cited ~700 times, have been       used internationally to guide clinicians in pragmatic management, to       support licensing applications (e.g.
recombinant human (r-h)GH licence for       treating short small for gestational age children in Japan), to guide       Medical Insurance Company funding for r-hGH treatment and have been       scrutinised extensively by Pharma.
Estimates of the worldwide spend on       r-hGH are difficult to make, but it is known that r-hGH prescriptions in       the UK total ~&#163;30m per year (5000 children on treatment) and in the US       (for paediatric indications) ~$1bn (~50,000 on treatment).
Clayton's work in severe growth hormone deficiency provided him       with the appropriate expertise to write (with Patel) evidence for       NICE technology appraisal guidance 188, Human growth hormone         (somatropin) for the treatment of growth failure in children (2010;       review of NICE TA42, 2002) (S6).
Clayton's evidence for TA188, a       review on treating a child with GHD, was prepared on behalf of the British       Society for Paediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes (BSPED) and informed the       NICE guidance (S6, TA188, p. 45; BSPED submission acknowledged; source       authors not directly credited in the NICE TA process).
Clayton       also produced evidence on behalf of BSPED for the NICE TA42 process in       2002 (S6, TA42).
The NICE guidance determines the criteria for children       who should receive r-hGH, how much benefit should be derived from the       treatment and guidelines on how the treatment should be monitored.
This       relates to ~5,000 children treated with r-hGH in the UK, including ~800       new prescriptions each year (S7).
The international paediatric endocrine community has always considered       evaluation of the long-term safety of recombinant human GH as a major       priority (considering issues such as the potential link between use of       rhGH and cancer and the occurrence of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease associated       with the use of pituitary-derived GH), and thus safety has always been a       part of Consensus guidelines (in particular S2).
Long-term (post-GH)       pharmacovigilance had not been directly addressed; a consortium from 8       European countries were awarded an EU grant (2009-2011) to focus on this       issue (S8).
A cohort of ~25,000 r-hGH users, now adults, are under       surveillance, including ~4,000 in the UK.
R-hGH is a `high-cost' drug: ensuring r-hGH is used as effectively as       possible is a priority.
One approach is to predict response at initiation       of treatment.
It is recognised that pharmacogenomics can be used in the       management of growth disorders treated with GH (see, e.g., Clayton P       et al., Eur J Endocrinol.
2013 Jul 29;169(3):277-89).
MerckSerono       has invested an estimated &#8364;15m in PREDICT (S9), an international (14       countries) research programme to investigate further the role of       pharmacogenomics in managing growth disorders.
Clayton is Co-Chief       Investigator with Chatelain from Lyon, France.
PREDICT is relevant to all       children worldwide treated with r-hGH, and aims to identify the ~10% of       children in whom r-hGH is ineffective and should be stopped, thereby       significantly enhancing the cost-benefit ratio.
(The estimated incremental       cost per quality adjusted life-year (QALY) for r-hGH treatment in the UK       is currently &#163;23k for GHD and &#163;33k for the short SGA child).
Making molecular diagnoses in primordial growth disorders       Following its identification of genes associated with 3-M, Manchester has       become a recognised centre for referral of potential 3-M cases both for a       clinical opinion and a molecular diagnosis (from the UK and ~10 countries       worldwide).
Manchester receives requests at ~1 per month, has assessed       ~100 families, and has now developed new techniques (Haloplex Next Gen       Exome Sequencing on targeted genes) for routine clinical use.
The       commercial sector has recognised the need for molecular testing in 3-M,       and companies in the US are now offering to sequence 3-M genes (www.ctgt.net/       Sequencing Costs: CUL7 $1830, OBSL1 $1680, CCDC8 $595).
A 3-M website has been established to provide information on UoM work on       3-M (http://3msyndrome.com/), and       over the 8 months during which detailed visit statistics have been       collated, there has been a total of 1,896 views from 40 countries, with       30-40 visits per month and 70-160 page views.
Contact from parents also       led to the genesis of grouped growth data on their 3-M children.
The interest in making specific genetic diagnoses has led Pharma       companies that market r-hGH to develop programmes that evaluate genetic       contributions to short stature of as yet undefined aetiology (ISS).
One       example is Ipsen's EPIGROW, a pharmacoepidemiological study across 8       European countries to identify genes related to ISS.
Clayton was       invited to be the Chief Investigator and at completion of the study (S10)       has received all the data from the study for further data mining under a       Material Transfer Agreement between Ipsen and UoM.
