 Early research analyses by Spandler, Ridley and Newbigging served to highlight gaps and inequalities in provision, and barriers and facilitators to increasing uptake of DPs.
All of the cited research was commissioned by, and designed to meet the needs of, government policy makers in England and/or Scotland, and as such was used by them to develop policy or law.
The work contributed a more nuanced understanding of the potential, as well as the limits, of progressive social policies.
Research in 2002 (Ridley 2006), which identified the importance of publicity and information to increase uptake, was used by the Scottish Executive with Scottish local authorities to promote strategies to improve DP uptake in mental health.
The numbers of people with mental health problems receiving a DP in Scotland increased from six in 2002 to over 500 in 2012.
In England, Spandler's action research provided detailed case studies that have been used to directly tackle the pervading scepticism that DPs are possible in mental health, thereby contributing to improved access and takeup.
For example, case studies were used in presentations and workshops delivered by the leads for DPs in mental health at CSIP National Institute for Mental Health in England (NIMHE) (Contact 2).
Examples from the research were referred to in the NIMHE/Dept of Health document Direct Payments and Mental Health: A Guide To Action (DH 2006).
Case studies from the research (eg the example of service users pooling their DPs to pay for a creative arts worker in a community centre) are regularly cited nationally as examples of good practice &#8212; in text books (Gardner 2012), by the DH (2006), by national organisations like Mind (Heslop and Williams 2009, Heslop 2010) and in regional and national training events by appointed `Personalisation Leads', service user organisations and SCIE (Contacts 3 and 4).
A Joseph Rowntree Foundation grant was awarded to directly build on the study's findings and investigate stakeholder perspectives on implementation with a particular focus on BME communities.
Illustrative case studies from the research (Newbigging and Lowe 2005) were used in subsequent JRF reports providing real life examples for training.
Spandler's critique of DPs has been influential in broadening knowledge and awareness around the limitations of DPs.
It has been drawn upon and developed by more recent critiques and debates about personalisation, and used to suggest alternative ways forward (91 citations including Lyons 2005, Foster et al.
2006, Ferguson 2007).
For example, it is regularly used in HE social work and social policy national curricula and her work was referred to specifically by DH Putting People First Team to consider how to embed personalisation within the social work curriculum nationally.
Her work has also been used to build upon more recent critiques of, and debates about, personalisation and to suggest alternative ways forward (over 40 citations including Lyons 2005, Foster et al.
2006, Ferguson 2007, Dodd 2013).
It is also regularly used in HE curricula for social work and social policy teaching (Leece and Bornat 2006, Gardner 2011).
This work, therefore, has had conceptual and socio-political impact in relation to social policy critique.
Newbigging's work was innovative in focusing on the opportunities to promote culturally sensitive provision and identify the specific barriers faced by people from BME communities in accessing and using DPs.
It has provided a focus for engagement with local authorities and local community organisations, for example in identifying action at a local level to promote uptake through the West Midlands Delivering Race Equality programme and cited in relevant equality impact assessments (e.g.
in relation to Putting People First).
The findings were noted by the Future Vision Coalition for mental health (a partnership between the NHS Confederation, Local Government Association and national mental health voluntary sector organisations) in promoting their vision for the future of mental health care (Sainsbury Centre for Mental Health, 2006).
The evaluation of SDS test sites in Scotland (Ridley, Spandler et al.
2012) met a very specific need of the Scottish Government for evidence to contribute to current policy making.
The Scottish Government Strategy Implementation Group in 2011 considered the learning from the evaluation about the use of tools and processes for matching Individual Budgets (IBs) to meeting positive outcomes and has incorporated this in a questionnaire now used to routinely gather information from all Scottish local authorities about implementation of SDS policy.
Ridley was invited by Scottish Parliament during 2012 to give evidence to the Health and Sports Committee considering passage of the SDS Bill, which was televised and a written report produced (Scottish Parliament 2012).
Key findings regarding the evolving concept of SDS as more than DPs, and the related difficulty in measuring SDS options especially when support is selected for the individual, were noted; this has been clarified in subsequent legislation (Social Care (SDS) (Scotland) Act 2013) and Scottish Government work with local authorities on national data collection (Contact 1).
The SDS Policy Team in Scottish Government made direct reference to the research in the legislative Bill for Scotland, which Scottish Parliament accepted as the Social Care (SDS) (Scotland) Act in January 2013.
The Strategy Implementation Group incorporated lessons from the test sites evaluation in its implementation timeline up to 2015.
In this respect, the research directly impacted on the work of policy makers at governmental level, on increasing awareness and understanding of practitioners in local authorities and voluntary organisations, and ultimately (though this is harder to measure) on the individuals who receive social care support who will be the beneficiaries of the learning from the test sites (Contact 1).
Scottish Government launched the findings from the first evaluation to all 32 local authorities in Scotland in September 2011 and sent a press release to Directors of Social Work.
The event was chaired by the Director of the Institute for Research in Social Services (IRISS), whose mission is to promote positive outcomes for people who use Scotland's social services by enhancing the capacity and capability of the workforce to access and make use of knowledge and research, thus widening the reach of this work.
IRISS has actively promoted this and the follow up evaluation report amongst its members and through its website for example, a radio interview with Ridley has been posted and links to the Scottish Government website thus increasing dissemination of findings to health and social care professionals.
Ridley has been invited onto an Expert Group to advise on a high level national project, PilotLight, to further promote SDS and improve outcomes (Contact 1).
