     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S9.
Context     While individually uncommon, rare diseases as a group represent a major       public health issue.
By       definition each individual rare disease affects fewer than five in 10,000       people, but taken together       they are common, with one in 17 people affected in the UK by a rare       disease (S1, p. 7).
Although       there are many thousands of different rare diseases, they frequently share       a number of       characteristics.
These include a severe, chronic, often degenerative and       sometimes life-threatening       course.
Most rare diseases are incurable and lack effective treatment.
Pathways to impact     The identification of the genetic basis of a rare disease by UoM       immediately allows for       diagnostic/confirmatory testing in suspected cases, as well as carrier and       prenatal diagnostic       testing for individuals and couples worldwide.
Reach and significance of the impact     Since 1993, researchers at UoM have identified the molecular basis of 29       genetic diseases.
Testing for these conditions is now offered in more than 140 laboratories       in more than 30 countries       worldwide.
As specific examples, testing of PAX3, TCOF1, IRF6       and C9ORF72 is offered in, respectively, 42,       28, 39 and 36 laboratories officially registered in Europe and the USA       (S2, S3).
Considering individual tests in the UK only, for which numbers are most       easily collated, screening       for mutations in TCOF1 has been undertaken in more than 500       patients in the Manchester and       Oxford NHS diagnostic laboratories since 1997 (S4, S5), for mutations in BEST1       in more than 250       patients in the Manchester NHS diagnostic laboratory since 2008 (S4), for       mutations in IRF6 in       more than 170 patients at Great Ormond Street Hospital since 2005 (S6),       for mutations in       SAMHD1 in more than 80 patients in the Leeds NHS diagnostic       laboratory since 2009 (S7), and for       mutations in C9ORF72 in more than 170 patients in the UCL and       Cardiff NHS laboratories since       2011 (S8).
The availability of a genetic test can obviate the need for other more       invasive, expensive, and time-consuming       investigations.
Thus, in a recent report from Rare Disease UK (S9, p. 9),       of 597       patients affected by a rare disease, one in five (20%) waited over five       years, and over one in 10       (12%) waited over 10 years for a diagnosis.
Related to this delay in       diagnosis, over two thirds       (68%) of patients saw three or more doctors before their final diagnosis       was made, and over one in       five (22%) saw six or more doctors.
Of extra significance, close to half       (46%) of patients were given       incorrect diagnoses before receiving their final diagnosis, and almost one       third (30%) had received       three or more misdiagnoses.
These delays and misdiagnoses can be prevented       for the 29 genetic       diseases which UoM researchers have identified on a molecular basis.
Delays in diagnosis and multiple visits to doctors are a drain on       health-care resources, which can       be more efficiently used where the genetic basis of a disease is known,       and a gene test is       available.
It is obvious, but worth stating, that the tortuous pathway to       diagnosis described above       can be tremendously stressful for patients and families.
Not only does the identification of the genetic basis of a disease allow       for diagnostic testing, it also       enables appropriate counselling of parents and other relatives and the       provision of prenatal testing       where that is considered relevant and appropriate.
The importance of       offering choice to families       and couples in this situation is not easily measured, but must be       understood and emphasised.
Consider a couple with a child affected by a severe neurological condition       (e.g.
Aicardi-Gouti&#232;res       syndrome now known to be due to mutations in SAMHD1).
Prior to       2009, the parents would have       been told that there was a 1 in 4 chance of having another similarly       affected child in a future       pregnancy, but that no testing was available.
They could either decide to       have no further children,       adopt, or `take their chance' &#8212; a terrifying possibility for many couples.
The advent of a genetic test       allows couples in this situation to make informed choices &#8212; an advance the       benefits of which are       difficult to quantify but of undoubted importance.
