     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S10.
Pathway to impact     The epidemiological work on NF1 and NF2 at UoM in the 1990s (Evans       and colleagues) and       consensus guidelines on NF1 (6) and NF2 (4) in 2007 and 2005 respectively       led to the       development of national services.
Evans wrote the application for the national services, holding       meeting with stakeholders over a 6-month       period to secure support from colleagues in neurosurgery and ENT       nationally, as well as       liaising with the National Commissioning Group.
The epidemiology and       mortality data published by       Evans, in particular the statistically significant improved       survival in specialist centres, was pivotal       to the success of the application.
Work on ABI led by Ramsden was       also critical to this success.
Reach and significance of the impact     The national NF1 service (annual funding &#163;2.5m) was commissioned in 2009;       the NF2 service       (annual funding &#163;7.5m) followed in 2010.
Manchester is the lead centre of 4 UK centres for NF2 (S1), and is led by       Evans.
Huson (with       Evans) runs the English complex NF1 service (S2), which is one of       just two centres.
Since the       inception of these services, epidemiological mortality predictions have       been confirmed (S3, S4),       with evidence of an improvement in survival from NF1/NF2 from specialist       management in       Manchester from 1990 (S4).
All 850 patients with NF2 in England and the ~800 complex NF1 patients       are managed through the       national services.
The Neuro Foundation, which provides support nationally       in England for NF       patients, has confirmed that it is `fully supportive of the work being       undertaken by the team in       Manchester' (S5).
UoM through Ramsden developed both Cochlear and Brain Stem       Implants (ABI) and pioneered       this service in NF2.
Manchester is only one of two centres providing this       service in the UK.
The       Managing Director of the principal provider of implants, MED-EL, has       confirmed the expertise and       leadership in Manchester: `MED-EL hearing implants have been implanted by       the Manchester       Cochlear Implant Programme since the late 1990s and as such we have been       privileged to be       involved with one of the world's leading centres as both Cochlear       implantation as well as Auditory       Brain Stem implantation have moved from pioneering treatments to       established medical       techniques.'
(S6) The impact of the UoM research on treatment and services       in the UK and       internationally is also noted: `the University research base into NF2 is       equally acknowledged to be       world class.
This research base underpins the appropriate provision of       treatment as well as       driv[ing] advances for the UK's national ABI service.
Indeed, I may also       comment [that]       Manchester's ABI specific research expertise has been drawn upon in       respect of [the]       establishment of the South African National ABI Programme' (S6).
The UK model for management of NF is highly regarded in Europe and North       America.
The French       network is in the process of trying to establish a similar initiative in       France.
The director of the       French NF2 centre acknowledges the improved prognosis associated with       specialist management       of NF2 and affirms that he is working with Evans in order to       `convince the French medical       community [...] to try to develop the same organization' (S7).
The impact arising from this work is continuing, with Manchester       centrally involved in taking       forward new initiatives on medical treatment of NF.
Evans       co-chaired the first international initiative       and authored the publication on developing clinical trials (S8) and also       co-chaired the second       initiative (S9).
An international state-of-the-art conference was held in       Manchester in 2012 and the       Manchester group continues to lead translational collaborative research.
The US-based Childrens'       Tumor Foundation sponsored these meetings and the Chief Scientific Officer       of the Foundation       confirmed that: `Dr Evans has been an opinion leader on behalf of       CTF, leading Consensus       conferences on schwannomatosis and NF2.
The members of Manchester's team       are considered to       be key opinion leaders in Europe for NF: Dr Evans for NF2 and       Schwannomatosis, and Dr Huson       for NF1' (S10).
Since the original 2008 meeting, when there were virtually       no clinical drug trials in       NF, there are now over 20 in progress or closed to recruitment.
