     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S9.
Context     Approximately 70% of breast cancers express oestrogen receptors (ER).
Endocrine response is       obtained by blocking the ER and/or by reducing exposure of the tumour to       oestrogen.
Endocrine       therapy increases survival by reducing the growth of advanced metastatic       breast cancer.
It also       cures approximately one third of women after surgery for breast cancer by       eliminating occult       metastatic disease.
In the early 1990s, tamoxifen (developed in the early       1970s by Cole and Todd       at the Christie Hospital in Manchester) was used to block the ER.
Oestrogen was lowered by       blocking adrenal steroid biosynthesis with the relatively toxic agents       amonoglutethimide and       megestrol acetate.
With colleagues at AstraZeneca UoM researchers have       successfully improved       on these treatments so that more women presenting with early breast cancer       are cured, remissions       in advanced disease last longer and survival is prolonged.
Furthermore, we       have demonstrated       that approximately half of breast cancer is preventable.
Pathways to impact     Howell devised the laboratory and translational research strategy       to bring fulvestrant to the clinic in       collaboration with Bundred (Surgeon) and DeFriend (Research       Fellow).
Laboratory work on       tumours was followed by a phase I preoperative study (1), followed by a       phase II trial (2) and an       international phase III study also led by Howell.
After phase III trials in advanced breast cancer, anastrozole was       introduced into adjuvant therapy       in a multicentre international study with Howell as one-time       chairman of the trial steering       committee (4).
In order to establish tamoxifen and, later, anastrozole for       prevention, two       international randomised controlled trials were performed with Cuzick and       Howell as joint principle       investigators (5, 6).
Reach and significance of the impact     The studies outlined above have been instrumental in changing the       endocrine treatment and       prevention of breast cancer to the benefit of the more than 1.5 million       women annually who       develop breast cancer worldwide.
As a result of these studies, anastrozole was approved by the FDA for the       first line treatment of       advanced breast cancer in 2000 and for the adjuvant treatment of breast       cancer in 2005 (S1).
These approvals have been followed by anastrozole becoming the first line       treatment for both early       and advanced breast cancer.
The presentation of the comparison of       anastrozole with tamoxifen in       2005 (4) as adjuvant therapy caused considerable impact worldwide.
It       resulted in a steep increase       in anastrozole use.
Called a `blockbuster' by AZ, it has grossed over $1       billion per year, indicating       the extent of its use and replacement of tamoxifen as the major endocrine       therapy (S2).
The chief       of the Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology at the Harbor-UCLA       Medical Center       emphasises the importance of Howell's work on the ATAC trial for       breast cancer patients: `In the 8       years since that initial Lancet report, anastrozole has maintained       its leadership position as the       most commonly prescribed adjuvant breast cancer therapy for postmenopausal       women with       hormone receptor positive disease in Europe and United States.
The       development and       implementation of this new hormone therapy intervention has resulted in       tens of thousands of       women with early stage breast cancer remaining free of breast cancer       recurrence' (S3).
UoM studies led to the approval of fulvestrant by the FDA for the       treatment of advanced breast       cancer in 2002 and the new dosing was approved in 2010 (S4).
The early       studies indicated that       500mg of fulvestrant was the dose which maximally down-regulated the       oestrogen receptor.
However because of perceived problems of administration of 500mg (it       requires two intramuscular       injections), the 250mg dose was used which was shown to be equivalent to       other endocrine       therapies such as tamoxifen and the aromatase inhibitor, exemestane.
However the 500mg has       now been introduced clinically and recent studies (conducted outside UoM)       indicate that, at this       dose, it is the most active endocrine therapy for breast cancer (S5, S6).
As a result of prevention trials with tamoxifen, NICE (June 2013) has now       indicated that this drug       and a similar selective oestrogen receptor modulator (raloxifene) can be       prescribed for prevention       of breast cancer in women at increased risk of the disease (S7, S8).
Howell       presented the       background on BBC Breakfast Television on the day of the guideline launch       (21st June 2013).
The       Director of Research for the Australia and New Zealand Breast Cancer       Trials Group affirms the       importance of Howell's contribution to the research (6) driving       the new recommendations.
He       writes that Howell was `heavily involved in the trial of tamoxifen       for prevention (IBIS I).
The recent       recommendation by [NICE] for tamoxifen to be offered as a standard of care       to women at       increased risk of breast cancer was substantially influenced by the IBIS I       trial results.'
(S9).
We       now have the results of effectiveness of anastrozole as a preventive agent       indicating its superiority       to tamoxifen (6).
