     Context:       Social significance has been increasingly important in international       heritage conservation charters and conventions over the last 3 decades.
However, in the UK and other European countries, the social significance       of the historic environment was poorly understood, and remained a       negligible aspect in routine heritage management.
Conservation decisions       were primarily based on professional expertise regarding the historic and       scientific significance of historic monuments and places.
Whilst these       aspects of significance are still privileged, Jones' research has led to       important changes.
The sustained body of primary research that she and her       collaborators have carried out has transformed knowledge and understanding       of social significance, and its implications, in the professional heritage       sector.
The research has also shaped and influenced conservation policies       and professional practice, both in regard to specific groups of monuments       (early medieval cross-slabs, carved stone, the Heart of Neolithic Orkney       World Heritage Site), and more generally in terms of the wider treatment       of social significance of the historic environment.
Pathways to impact:        The primary pathway to impact is the research       itself, which has consistently combined `pure' and `policy-related'       investigations.
The original research on early medieval sculptured stones       was grant-aided by Historic Scotland with the aim of increasing       understanding of the forms of conflict surrounding such monuments.
The       results were published by Historic Scotland in their Research Report       series [3.1] and widely circulated to professionals (since 2010 it has       also been freely available electronically, and is also directly referred       to in Historic Scotland's guidance on carved stone [A].
Likewise,       McClanahan's doctoral research was funded by Historic Scotland with the       aim of incorporating social significance into The Heart of Neolithic         Orkney World Heritage Site Management Plan.
Jones' research has       involved further sustained collaboration with Historic Scotland, as well       as work with the National Museums of Scotland, the Nova Scotia Highland       Village Museum, and most recently the National Trust for Scotland.
Discussions with professionals in these organisations both frame the       research and provide a mechanism for discussion of the results and       implications.
Seminar papers have been presented at Historic Scotland and English       Heritage, and summary articles published in professional publications such       as The Archaeologist and English Heritage's Conservation         Bulletin.
The research was also presented at leading national and       international conferences (by Jones and collaborators) and used as a       source of case studies by senior Historic Scotland managers.
Jones'       membership of two AHRC/EPSRC Science and Heritage Research Clusters, both       of which included heritage professionals, provided additional pathways to       impact.
Finally, Jones recently produced a Discussion Paper on Social       Significance and the Historic Environment for the Historic Environment       Policy Review conducted by Historic Scotland on behalf of Scottish       Ministers.
Reach and significance:       Early medieval sculpture and carved stone.
The research [3.1, 3.2,       3.4] has had a direct impact on Scottish Government policy and guidance.
In his Foreword to Jones' research report [3.1], the Chief Inspector of       Ancient Monuments emphasized its importance for policy development, and       "its wider methodological, practical and political implications".
The       Chief Executive Officer of the Royal Commission on the Ancient and       Historic Monuments of Scotland (RCAHMS) also stresses that the work "was       paradigm-shifting in its effect on the Scottish historic environment       sector"[J].
Jones' "innovative research on the social value of early       medieval sculpture" is referenced in the current Scottish Executive's         Policy and Guidance on Carved Stones [A].
Her work led to a change       in emphasis from monuments being in situ to being in a place         of significance, which can also be see in Historic Scotland's       current Guidance Note on the Scheduling of Carved Stones [B] and Practice         Note for Designation of Moved Monuments [C].
The Head of       Scheduling 2007-10, notes that heritage managers regularly use the       research when making an argument for the importance of social significance       in the designation and conservation of carved stone monuments (e.g.
medieval market crosses).
She also attests to regular discussion of the       implications of Jones' work with the Chief Inspector of Ancient Monuments       [D].
Wider impact on the assessment of social significance.
The reach       of Jones' research is demonstrated by its extensive impact on approaches       to social significance in heritage conservation and management more       generally.
Here it has stimulated practitioner debate, as well as informed       policy documents and practice guidelines.
For instance, the research is       widely cited in an internal review of the assessment of significance by       Historic Scotland in 2009 [E].
former Head of Access and Understanding,       emphasizes its importance: "This research fed through to the way we look       at cultural significance and [...] the way we write and evidence the       Statements of Cultural Significance that we have for the 345 properties       that we have in our care.
These are dynamic, functioning documents, which       underpin our decision-making about actions, which have an impact on the       properties.
[...] Professor Jones' research was of direct relevance and       improved that process" [F].
The research also "contributed to the       intellectual context of English Heritage's Conservation Principles"       particularly, as one Inspector of Ancient Monuments attests, in the       guidance on social value and authenticity [G].
The impact is thus       significant and wide-ranging, because Conservation Principles,         Policies and Guidance for the Sustainable Management of the Historic         Environment provides "a comprehensive framework for the sustainable       management of the historic environment" [G], and guides English Heritage's       work as the Government's statutory advisor on the historic environment.
Most recently, Jones' Discussion Paper on Social Value, produced for       Historic Scotland's review of Scotland's historic environment policy       (2012-13), "has been extremely helpful in taking forward discussion of a       complex area, allowing a high level of debate "both at a philosophical       level and at the practical level in terms of how we manage and interpret       properties in the care of Scottish Ministers" [I].
The Head of Review and       Development at Historic Scotland, attests that "the Policy Review was       directly affected by the outcomes of Professor Jones' work" [I].
As the       Chief Executive of the RCAHMS, puts it, "at the highest policy level,       Professor Jones' work was important in making the case for intangible       heritage to be accommodated in the very definition of `the historic       environment'", and "social values are therefore now destined to be firmly       embedded within policy and delivery" [J, emphasis on original].
There has also been an extensive impact on operational practice.
The       former Head of Scheduling 2007-2010 notes that "a growing generation of       policy makers and caseworkers is aware of, and would take into account,       Jones' work in relevant casework", and that this permeates beyond       archaeologists "to architects, interpreters and conservators" [D].
In       terms of post-designation operational practice it has impacted on       development control casework and approaches to properties in state care       within both Historic Scotland and English Heritage.
Specifically, it       provides an evidence base that is used in debates and decisions relating       to the conservation and management of monuments [D,F,G,I], many of which       are of international significance and in some cases are designated World       Heritage Sites (as in the case of McClanahan's doctoral research and the       management of the Heart of Neolithic Orkney World Heritage Site [H]).
Most       recently the international reach of Jones' research impact has extended as       far as Japan, when she was consulted about the development of a World       Heritage Nomination for a series of industrial sites associated with the       Meiji Restoration.
Finally, through her research, Jones' work has been influential in terms       of defining best-practice methodologies.
The Chief Executive of the       RCAHMS, states that "ethnographic and anthropological methods used by       Professor Jones will be an important part of the mix [in future policy];       her outstanding research in this area has already won the argument" [J].
Furthermore, the Head of Review and Development at Historic Scotland,       states that Jones' discussion paper provides important models for the       development of resourceable methods for capturing and assessing social       values [I].
Conclusions.
The immediate beneficiaries of the research are       heritage organizations, such as Historic Scotland and English Heritage,       and their staff.
These state organizations are responsible for       safeguarding aspects of the historic environment that are of national, and       often international, significance, and it is important that they develop       robust and systematic conservation and management policies based on       research findings.
Jones' research has led to improvement in significance       assessment, which is central to the informed and sustainable management of       the historic environment, particularly in contexts of change.
More       broadly, by contributing to a greater recognition of, and emphasis on,       social significance in heritage conservation and management, Jones' work       has a wide-ranging public benefit.
It means that the values people attach       to heritage places are increasingly taken into account by professionals.
