     "Without a doubt, the strong and close working relationship that exists       between the University of Manchester and the Met Office was a significant       benefit to the Met Office, the CAA, the aviation industry and the general       public as it allowed swift state-of-the-art validation of model forecasts       and satellite retrievals."
Dr Jim Haywood, Met Office supporting         letter [A]     Context     On April 14 2010, the eruption of Iceland's Eyafjallaj&#246;kull volcano       intensified and large quantities of ash began to be ejected into the       atmosphere, reaching UK airspace on the morning of April 15.
During this       period, the Met Office's London Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre (VAAC) was       tasked with delivering information on affected regions of the atmosphere       to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) using numerical dispersion       modelling.
As a result of these model predictions, the International Civil       Aviation Organization (ICAO) guidance, based on a zero threshold for ash       in air, was that it would no longer support service to commercial air       traffic into the affected region.
As a result of the impact on the       industry, the VAAC predictions became the subject of intense scrutiny from       the airlines and it became imperative to verify the accuracy of the       forecasts.
Pathways to Impact     The Centre for Atmospheric Sciences has a long track record of developing       ground based and airborne instruments for sensing aerosol and cloud       properties and it has applied these to a wide range of atmospheric       research problems over the last decade and more.
This leading research has       meant CAS hosts the aerosol and cloud physics measurement capability for       the NERC National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS) on the FAAM       aircraft in Manchester and was therefore central to the volcanic ash       response during the eruption.
The combination of the development of cloud       physics probes and lidars and their application has placed this group as       international leaders in the field and it is this research strength and       experience that enabled the group to rapidly respond to the National Civil       Emergency through the novel application of instrumentation and       interpretation of the data and having the capability to develop the       methods rapidly at the time of the crisis to apply them to a new research       problem.
Prior to the deployment of the FAAM aircraft for the response, the first       British detection of the ash cloud over the UK was from Manchester's LiDAR       system at Cardington on 15 April [B].
The data was immediately relayed to       the Met Office's London Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre.
At the Capel Dewi       field facility, the Raman and mobile DIAL lidars were operated by       Manchester for NCAS [F] alongside a Met Office sun photometer to derive       ash mass throughout the eruption.
To verify the model predictions during       the first week of the eruption, the NERC Dornier 228 aircraft was       mobilised but initially did not have the measurement capability to detect       ash particles.
NERC asked Manchester's Centre for Atmospheric Sciences to       install and operate its cloud physics probes for this purpose [F].
From       April 16 until April 23 the Dornier flew five flights into the ash plume.
These measurements provided initial verification of the Met Office model.
During the first week of the eruption there was no safe operating limit       for ash and therefore the no-fly zone was extensive, severely restricting       air traffic.
On April 20 the Civil Aviation (CAA), in cooperation with       engine manufacturers and regulators, was able to agree new procedures       which allowed flights into areas of ash with concentrations predicted by       VAAC to be below 2000 03bcgm-3, with extended maintenance       procedures to be applied for concentrations above 200 03bcgm-3.
The CAA technical report [C] details how the technical basis for the       decision was significantly influenced by the data from Manchester's Centre       for Atmospheric Science (CAS) airborne and LiDAR measurements.
The introduction of this safe operating limit set further challenges for       the Met Office model, which from this point on needed to deliver accurate       and verifiable ash mass forecasts.
CAS performed intensive LiDAR       monitoring from the Aberystwyth site throughout the period of the       eruption.
These measurements were used by the Met Office, in conjunction       with its sun photometer, to deliver estimates of ash mass.
This ultimately       provided the main verification of the Met Office model, although as the       methodology was indirect, direct measurements were still required to       provide evidence that the approach was robust.
The Facility for Airborne Atmospheric Measurements (FAAM) had its       aircraft operational by April 20 and flew five flights up until May 18.
CAS, using the FAAM aircraft, delivered measurements of the size       distribution of the ash particles and used this to develop a method with       the Met Office of assessing ash mass.
This data, coupled with shape       analysis delivered by analysis of ash on filters by the Manchester       researchers, was used to confirm the assumptions made using the ground       based and satellite remote sensing retrievals of ash mass and so verify       the Met Office model development.
This work increased the model       reliability and the CAA was able to vastly reduce the region of closed       airspace, allowing commercial air traffic around northern Europe to be       effectively re-routed and to return to near full operation.
Reach and Significance     Manchester data saves airline industry billions     The ability of CAS to rapidly respond and provide robust verification,       allowed policy change to be implemented quickly, leading to a reduction in       the number of days affected, the total financial losses and also       disruption to the lives of UK nationals at home and overseas.
The shutdown       of airspace was estimated to cost the airline industry worldwide $400m per       day at the height of the closures and caused a total loss of revenue to       the industry of $1.7bn [D].
From April 20 onwards, the new procedures had       the immediate effect of re-opening airspace and it remained substantially       open up to the end of the eruption around 21 May except for a brief and       predicted period between 3 and 5 May.
It can be estimated that the       implementation of the new ash thresholds produced a saving of up to $10bn       to the global airline industry, based on extrapolating the average daily       financial losses during the first 6 days before the new thresholds were       introduced throughout the remaining active phase of the eruption.
The       University of Manchester measurements played a vital role by providing the       Met Office with verification of their forecast model to allow such a       threshold to be implemented.
Manchester team advises Government     Throughout this time Manchester provided advice directly to the       Government as Professor Coe was a member of the Government Office for       Science's Scientific Advisory Group in Emergencies (SAGE), which reported       through the Chief Scientist to COBRA and the Cabinet Office throughout and       following the event [E].
SAGE advised the Government of the issues and       risks surrounding the on-going volcanic ash event, the necessary       predictive capability at the time and in the future and sought to       establish the risk of future events.
Since June 2012, the responsibility       for reviewing volcanic ash threat on behalf of the Government has passed       to the Volcanic Ash Observation Review Group (VAORG), which reports to the       Department for Transport.
Professors Vaughan and Coe are members of VAORG.
Professor Vaughan has also advised the Met Office on the specification of       their lidar network and is evaluating the tenders as an external advisor.
Manchester measurement capability taken up by Met Office Volcano         Response Aircraft Facility     An outcome of the SAGE reports was the need for a ground based lidar       network and an airborne volcano response facility that was capable of       delivering a similar response to that provided by the FAAM aircraft on a       continuous, year on year basis.
The Met Office has taken on this role and       commissioned lidars and an aircraft for the purpose.
The technologies       employed are exactly those supplied by Manchester during the response and       the developed capability is now being maintained operationally should       further eruptions affect airspace over the UK VAAC region [A].
