     The team's research into Osteoarthritis was first reported in a paper       published in The Knee in 2004 that led to subsequent development       of "proofs of concepts" through to our current work.
This led to the       development of new methods of movement analysis and biomechanical       modelling techniques that we are now using in our current work.
With a       mission to improve the quality of life of patients treated by Allied       Health Professionals, our work pursues this goal by performing basic and       applied research, and by developing new techniques in the assessment of       musculoskeletal and neurological conditions.
The team also advises medical       staff on methods of conservative management of knee pain through invited       talks to clinical groups internationally.
The applied clinical nature of the work is firmly rooted in the every-day       world of clinical practice.
Although some of the tools used in this       research are very advanced and only available in specialist research units       the focus has always to be to produce results that are clinically useful.
When considering clinical utility the aim is to provide clinicians with       evidence about patient management or new tools to assist in patient       management.
By helping to optimise clinical practice the health and       well-being of patients attending for conservative management of       musculoskeletal conditions is improved.
The findings of the research team suggest that there are many benefits in       terms of joint stability and control that had gone previously undetected       which had led many clinicians to doubt the therapeutic benefit of some       conservative management.
The research team at the University of Central       Lancashire has now developed a program of work to systematically assess       the effectiveness of different levels of conservative and surgical       management.
The effect of surgical management of knee osteoarthritis using       total knee arthroplasty was initially tested by Dr Dominic Thewlis (a       former PhD student and now a senior lecturer of University of South       Australia).
This has now been followed up by considering a spectrum of       conservative and surgical managements to give comparative guidance of what       biomechanical and clinical outcomes clinicians could expect.
Dissemination of these research findings has been to academic and       professional conferences but often, more importantly, through specific CPD       activities which are particularly effective at influencing clinical       practice.
Some of this research has been translated into other languages       including Persian, Flemish and Chinese, and is cited by other       international research groups.
It appears that a wide international       audience of clinicians and academics have been influenced.
From this research evidence base key members of staff have delivered       expert advice to clinical groups in Europe (1995 onwards), USA (2007       onwards), China (2010 onwards) and South East Asia (2011 onwards), South       America (2012 onwards), and receive invitations to speak at conferences       worldwide on a regular basis.
This has included over 150 invited talks to       clinical groups, professional sports clubs, commercial companies, academic       groups in over 20 different countries between 2008 and 2013.
This       dissemination has helped the acceptance of conservative treatment before       surgical management in Europe and the US and is now being used throughout       China and South East Asia, which has improved the clinical options of       Allied Health Professionals and Orthopaedic Surgeons.
This has led to more       than 1,000 patients worldwide now receiving conservative management for       Knee Osteoarthritis and Patellofemoral pain since 2010 as a direct result       of this work who would not of otherwise been treated conservatively       (source DJO Global inc.).
Since 2007 the research team have been directly       involved in prototype development and testing of new knee braces and other       conservative managements for many companies including DJO Inc., Vista       California, USA with the focus being on maximising patient benefits.
The reach of our work can be further evidenced by the authoring of       relevant books and being invited to contribute book chapters including;       Clinical Case Studies in Physiotherapy (2008), Biomechanics in Clinic and       Research (2008), Biomechanics in Clinic and Research: Chinese edition       (2011) and the new edition of Whittles Gait Analysis (2012), Tidy's       Physiotherapy 13th, 14th and 15th editions (2006 -       2012) and Mercer's Textbook of Orthopaedics and Trauma (2012).
As a result       of these academic contributions patients with complex musculoskeletal and       neurological disorders are regularly referred from around the UK by GPs,       Orthopaedic surgeons and Allied Health Professions for advanced       biomechanical assessments to assist clinical decision making in their       treatment.
