     Context     Traditionally SIMS was limited primarily to the analysis of inorganic       materials due to the aggressive       nature of the primary ion beam employed, which caused significant damage       to the underlying       surface of the material and restricted the amount of meaningful       information that could be obtained       to less than 1% of the sample surface.
In addition the low yield of       diagnostic secondary ions       limited the spatial resolution available in SIMS imaging of molecular       materials     Pathways to impact     In 1998 Professor Vickerman at the University of Manchester secured       3-years EPSRC funding       (&#163;190k,) to develop a primary ion beam based on buckminsterfullerene C60+.
Between 2000-2003,       in collaboration with Ionoptika a commercial C60+       ion beam system was developed that is protected       by 3 patents.
The C60+ ion beam system has both       enabled the development of the next generation       of secondary ion mass spectrometers and Ionoptika to establish itself as       the world leading       manufacturer and supplier of commercial C60+ ion       beam systems.
In addition, further funding from RCUK and Ionoptika Ltd was secured to       evaluate the capabilities       of the C60+ ion beam and more recently to develop a       high-resolution time-of-flight SIMS instrument       that fully exploits the unique capabilities of C60+       for the study of biological and similarly complex       chemical systems.
The C60+ primary ion beam       technology experienced immediate and rapid growth       from a specialist academic research interest to influence the whole       direction of SIMS and XPS       analysis and establish a whole new field of organic materials depth       profiling in life-sciences and       materials science.
Applications for chemical imaging of tissues and in       disease research have       brought intense interest from the medical community, according to the       Director of the National       ESCA and Surface Analysis Centre for Biomedical Problems in the USA [A].
Such was the       paradigm shift in the research field that within 5 years of our       introduction of the C60 source almost       every SIMS lab in the world was seeking to follow our lead [B].
Impact     Commercial C60+ primary ion beam systems for SIMS       that were developed at Manchester in       collaboration with Ionoptika have led to the sale of ~70 C60+       ion beam units during 2008-2013 with       revenue &gt;&#163;2m that created 5 employment positions [D].
Furthermore, the       new ion beam       technology has been incorporated into a completely new type of Secondary       Ion Mass       Spectrometer that fully exploits the capability of the C60+       ion beam system.
In 2012 two new C60+       SIMS instruments were sold to the US and Sweden with associated revenues       of &#163;2.5m [D]     Additionally, technology transfer to Ulvac-Phi inc, a Japanese       manufacturer of XPS and SIMS       instrumentation also included the C60+ ion beams in       their systems at an early stage, giving them an       initial competitive advantage in the organic surface analysis market and       contributing towards       instrument sales of several &#163;10m's of instrument sales [C].
C60+       bombardment resulted in new,       enhanced analysis protocols adopted across many sectors including the       semiconductor industry,       chemical industry, biotechnology industries, automobile companies, and       drug companies, in       addition to governmental and academic research labs.
The CEO of Omicron       (formerly from Ulvac-Phi)       is of the opinion that all of these organisations were able to use cluster       beam analysis to       develop new products that could be life-changing for many people.
(D).
Subsequently all other       manufacturers of SIMS instruments for molecular analysis have adopted C60+       beams in their       systems.
The breadth of impact is illustrated by the diverse range of important       application areas including       tissue and cell imaging, atmospheric sciences, drug delivery,       anti-bacterial coatings, polymer       composites, biomaterials, microelectronic fabrication, organic electronics       and nanoparticles,       according to a Fellow at the National Physical Laboratory [E]     "The pioneering work at Manchester has revolutionised the imaging         capability, especially in 3D, for         SIMS and XPS.
It has had a diverse impact on many industrial sectors as         well as fundamental         scientific understanding and has led to an important boost in the UK         instrument sector."
[E]     As a direct result of the success of C60+ ion beams       for SIMS analysis a number of alternative       second-generation polyatomic ion beams are under development including Arn+       and (H2O)n+       (where 10&lt;n&lt;5000).
We are currently developing this technology with       Ionoptika Ltd.
