     Context       Prior to the dissemination of this research, it was generally accepted       that the formally codified       prestige variety (Hochdeutsch) was the only acceptable basis for teaching       GFL.
The significant       impact of this research has been to stimulate debate about whether this       variety of German is       actually the only appropriate form of the language to be taught to       non-native speakers, whether in       school or for adult instruction.
The essential conclusion, which has now       become generally       accepted, is that it is no longer appropriate to teach German as it should       be spoken (i.e.
as       prescribed by the strict codifications laid down in authoritative       publications, which are widely       ignored by native speakers), but as it actually is spoken.
Pathways       This conclusion became more widely disseminated internationally through       encouragement by the       Professor of German Studies at the University of Wuppertal and a senior       colleague in German       Linguistics and Translation Studies at the Copenhagen Business School and       their invitation to       contribute to a conference in 2004 [5.1] on the status of German and the       teaching of the language       organised by the DAAD in Berlin and attended by some two hundred scholars       from across Europe,       as well as to a special issue of Der Deutschunterricht (the       leading publication aimed at teachers of       German language within Germany [3.5], as well as to a collected volume of       papers on the       principles which should underlie the teaching of German as a foreign       language [3.2].
This volume,       of some 550 pages, contains 36 papers by leading scholars (30 of       professorial status) from 12       European countries, and Japan.
The views put forward in these papers and presentations of the early- to       mid-2000s were initially       rejected by the conservative teaching establishment within Germany, which       held to the opinion that       it was the duty of teachers only to impart 'correct' German to non-native       learners.
This opinion had       informed all previous textbooks despite claims in them that they presented       actual current usage.
However, the conclusions were broadly welcomed by secondary and tertiary       level teachers of GFL       in other European countries and have proven to play a central role in the       development of curricula       [5.2; 5.8].
This is confirmed by the further references to Durrell's       papers in the volume edited by the       Professor of German Studies at the University of Wupperta l5.3] in respect       of changing teaching       practice at the Goethe Institute in Glasgow.
The Goethe Institute is the       organization which in turn       influences the teaching of German across the globe.
Reach and Significance       In the last few years, the discussions underpinned by the research have       had increasingly       substantial impact as the conclusions become more widely accepted for the       practice of teaching       GFL.
The papers on the language variety to be used in teaching were in       particular taken up in       2009 (with a precursor in 2007) as the basis for a debate in the journal       Info-DaF ] between Werner       Roggausch, the former head of teaching at the DAAD, and P&#233;ter Maitz       (Augsburg) with Stefan       Elspa&#223; (Sakzburg) [5.4].
The debate informs the Project "Gesprochenes       Deutsch f&#252;r die       Auslandsgermanistik" (Spoken German for the study of German outside       Germany) at the       University of M&#252;nster [5.5].
This is funded by the DAAD in order to       assemble a corpus of authentic       spoken language material which can be used by teachers of German as a       foreign language.
Systematic account is now being taken of the need to base the oral       component of second       language instruction in German on the variety which German native speakers       actually use in       everyday communication and introduce this variety as well as the prestige       variety of formal writing.
Teaching manuals are now being produced which reflect this, notably the       new textbook Menschen       which was published in early 2012 by Hueber in Munich [5.6; 5.7].
Hueber       is the leading publisher       of instruction manuals for teaching German, and its products are most       frequently adopted by the       Goethe-Institute.
The impact of Durrell's work in stimulating the       reassessment on which these       developments have been based is confirmed by the Heads of the Herder       Institute in Leipzig (the       leading university-based institute for Deutsch als Fremdsprache) noting       the `profound impact on       German studies and GFL/GSL' worldwide [5.2] and the Head of the Department       of Deutsch als       Fremdsprache at the University of Munich [5.10].
Publications by the lead       researchers on the       University of M&#252;nster project, confirm the impact of the research in       stimulating these developments       and forming the initiative for the project [5.9].
