     Context     Everett's findings about the Pirah&#227; language has two salient claims that       were to have impact on a       non-academic audience -- that Pirah&#227; syntax lacks the Chinese-boxes       structures of `recursion',       and that the language lacks a way of counting or referring to number.
This       challenged current       beliefs about the defining properties of human language and about the       relation between human       language and cognition.
Backed by Everett's explorations and hypotheses,       this meant that it       touched on what it means to be human and this naturally created curiosity       amongst a wide public.
Debates around Everett's work continue to change the ways in which       language and cultural       difference might be thought about.
Pathways to impact     Professor Everett has carried out fieldwork on the Pirah&#227; language in the       Amazon region since the       1980s and more recently also on other Amazonian languages.
The work has       progressed through       the research outputs and public events (e.g., at University of Manchester       10 May 2006, with the       participation of Suya indigenous leaders from Brazil), on into the popular       success of Don't Sleep,       There are Snakes (Profile Books/Pantheon Books, 2008) through to Language:       The Cultural Tool       (Profile Books, 2012).
It has incrementally contributed to public       discourse and enhanced the public       understanding of a range of cultural and linguistic issues.
Reach and Significance     The reach of Everett's research is clear in the sales figures, which also       represent a contribution to       economic prosperity.
Don't Sleep... had sold nearly 100,000 copies by       autumn 2011 and was       nominated for US National Book Award.
A wide range of people whose work in the media involves initiating public       debate and challenging       existing conceptions were influenced by the academic work.
The fact that       they decided to pick it up       in media aimed at the public is evidence of the scope of the work and the       significance of the       impact.
The sheer breadth of such activity around this case can be       considered indirect evidence of       further impact: coverage in the UK newspapers (e.g., The Guardian [5.1]       and on the BBC [5.8]) are       matched internationally with coverage, for example, on the Finnish       Broadcasting company YLE (1       June 2007), in The New Yorker [5.2] (in 2007) and in a full-page article       on Everett and his work in       Frankfurter Algemeine [5.3] (in 2010).
The surprising facts relating to numeral expressions and recursion are       referred to on individuals'       webblogs around the world and in many languages [5.4].
A range of websites       aimed at shaping       public opinion by making public facts and views have included articles       about or interviews with       Everett [5.4 - 5.6].
Many of these interviews are picked up on other       public debate websites or those       of individuals.
A documentary film has been made based around Everett's experiences and       discoveries entitled       The Grammar of Happiness (Essential Media &amp; Entertainment production       with ABC Australia and       Arte France.
ABC1, 21 January 2013) [5.7].
The film has won three awards,       including the `Jury of       Young Europeans Prize' at the FIPA Festival 2012 [5.7, Awards section].
This award, created to       raise awareness of our political, economic, or social environments,       encourages young citizens to       take a personal stance on current affairs.
Don't Sleep... has been widely reviewed and translated into French,       German, Japanese and       Mandarin.
As Book of the week on Radio 4, via an episode posted on       YouTube, it generated over       50 pages of comments on language, human nature and religion [5.8].
As one       commentator in the       keeperofthesnails blogspot encapsulates it, `[this] forces you to take a       fresh look at the world       around you' [5.4].
Language: The Cultural Tool (as hbk, pbk and e-book) has likewise been       widely reviewed in the       general press [5.9] and had an impact on awareness and the exchange of       scientific and       philosophical ideas (for example, the commentary by Churchland, Professor       Emerita of       Philosophy, University of California, San Diego.
[5.5]).
