     This case study's wider impact has been to modify accounts of the       changing status of the       broadcast media in Russia and Europe more generally (Key Findings, Section       2) by (a)       complicating notions of the Russian public sphere held by relevant       government agencies; (b)       reshaping the approach taken by European policy makers and NGOs to       inter-ethnic and inter-faith       tensions; (c) changing public perceptions of media, diversity and free       speech in Russia.
The work has exerted influence on policy-makers, through a series       of (i) consultancy activities and       (ii) workshops, (iii) debates and (iv) training:     (i) In February of 2008 the US State Department commissioned a       consultancy with Hutchings       about the role of new media technology in promoting the Kremlin's       political agenda.
The       consultancy was informed by the work leading up to Hutchings &amp; Rulyova       (2009) and improved       policy makers' knowledge of about how Russian government communication       strategies are       responding to the uncertainties of the new media environment.
A consultancy with representatives of BBC Monitoring in June 2009 enabled       better tracking of web-based       political pressure groups in Russia.
This led to further collaboration,       including     (ii) two workshops (on the Russian media and the European `crisis in       multiculturalism', in April       2011 and October 2012) which enabled BBC Monitoring to contextualise its       work on the reporting       of current ethnic tensions in the Russian .
One analyst for BBC       Monitoring, notes that the       collaboration has had a direct impact on his work, and has `helped inform       reports [he has] written       on the controversy over illegal immigration and the role of nationalism in       Russia's political       opposition' [5.1].
In a related workshop based on the article,       `Faultlines', a senior analyst at the       FCO's East European Desk commented on insights gained into the influence       of inter-ethnic       cohesion issues on Russian public discourse.
She refers to the research       Hutchings and Tolz       produced on television depictions of ethnic relations in Russia as       `proving vitally important in       enabling the wider world to understand what ordinary Russians think',       confirming that it is       benefiting policy makers by ensuring that they gain `a more nuanced view       not only of media-state       relations in Russia, but also of the implications of how Russia conducts       its international policy'       [5.2].
(iii) NGOs, journalists and public broadcasters play an essential role in       underpinning civil society.
The director of the SOVA Centre for Information and Analysis in Moscow,       states that Hutchings's       and Tolz's research on Russian media coverage of inter-ethnic relations (a       core concern of the       Centre) has `deepened our appreciation of its significance for our work'       and that the collaboration       `has enabled [...] a fruitful dialogue with journalists, academics and       others, thereby enriching our       understanding of issues of importance to us' [5.3].
There was a strong       journalist presence at a       number of policy debates organised by the research team.
The topics       covered were media       freedom in post-Soviet Russia, and European Multiculturalism (Manchester,       February 2007; March       2012); new media and democratic culture in Russia and the West (University       of Birmingham,       March 2007); the roles and responsibilities of the media in reporting the       international 'War on       Terror', and the Russian media and ethnicity (Frontline Club, London,       April 2007; October 2012).
Participants included prominent national journalists such as Vladimir       Pozner of Russia's Channel       One and The Independent's Chief Editorial Writer, Mary Dejevsky.
Comments       received via       questionnaires distributed to the journalists present at the last debate       [5.4], and a follow-up       interview given to the BBC World Service (5 March 2007), confirm that the       sharing of cross-national       perspectives on free speech, terrorism and multiculturalism has raised the       awareness of       journalists working in these sensitive areas.
A BBC journalist attending       was struck by the extent to       which the Russian `media follow social agendas' set by the public rather       than political dictates.
Other comments by attending professionals included an Open Society       Foundation representative       on journalistic ethics and the director of the Equal Rights Trust on free       speech and radical       nationalism.
However, the wider public constituted the majority of the       audience in the debates and       an AHRC-commissioned Price Waterhouse report on the impact of the media       and free speech       debates [5.8] confirms that public views on these issues have gained in       sophistication as a result.
(iv) Research team members' skills have been effectively transferred.
The       Research Associate on       [3.4], was appointed as Programme Manager for Research (Social Science) at       the European Union       Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA) in Vienna in 2011.
Ongoing       collaboration with him ensures       that research team findings are embedded in the policy of the Agency;       reference to key output [3.3]       is made on pp.
21 and 33 of the FRA's annual report of 2012 [5.5].
His       letter of support [5.6] states       that the Islam project led by Hutchings `had a great impact on' his work       with the FRA, `enhancing       [his] ability to tease out important nuances and subtleties in a broader       analysis of issues relating to       inter-ethnic cohesion', a skill he confirms as `particularly important in       an EU context'.
He further       acknowledges the `invaluable' contribution of Hutchings's project to his       own key role in       `coordinating and working on all aspects of the FRA Annual Report'.
Another Research Associate       on [3.4] was selected as one of the AHRC's `New Generation Researchers' in       2012, and made two       Nightwatch and Free Thinking programmes for BBC R3 (July and November       2012), drawing on the       underpinning research to reflect on the Beslan tragedy, and issues of       migrant identity respectively.
She has subsequently been invited by BBC television to make a short film       on her own work.
The research has also informed public debate through a series of media       interviews to national and       international broadcasters and contributions to BBC current affairs       programme-making.
Interviews       with the BBC and Al Jazeera on the 2006 Litvinenko murder and the 2011       Moscow airport bombing       deepened the British public's understanding of the complex cultural roots       of terrorism.
A Today       Programme interview on January 25, 2011, on the Moscow bombing was       broadcast at peak time       (7.50 am), extending its reach to 6 million listeners, as was an       appearance on BBC Breakfast (8.10       am) in connection with the Boston Marathon bombing on April 27th       2013, with ratings of       approximately 1.5 million viewers [5.7].
Contributions to other programmes       and broadcasters       include Radio 4's four-part `Islam, Mullahs and the Media' series (20       &amp; 27 August, 3 &amp; 10       September 2009: 9.30 a.m. slots) indicating producers' perceptions of the       likely benefit to       audiences.
Three reports [5.8, 5.9] corroborate the benefits to users, including       policy-makers and researchers,       of the impact and dissemination strategies of this composite project.
A       report on GRANT 2 [3.5]       highlights its `impact on non-academic constituencies' and how Hutchings's       `consultancy work with       the BBC and the US State Department might be thought to provide a model of       `impact'.
