     Context       Professor Matras' research has made a major contribution to raising       awareness and promoting the       study of the Romani language among general audiences worldwide.
The Romani       are one of the       most vulnerable and marginalized populations in Europe and the UK and       little research has been       carried out into their language.
The work of Professor Matras fills a       significant gap and directly       contributes to education by informing individuals and authorities about       Romani cultural heritage       and language.
He has also influenced policy making in European       organisations in regard to the       status, regulation and promotion of Romani.
Pathways to Impact       The results of Professor Matras' research have been disseminated through a       number of online       education tools, DVDs and broadcasts on the BBC.
The main pathways to       policy impacts are to be       found at the European level and are based on research published in a       peer-refereed journal and in       a monograph, among other outlets.
The importance and visibility of the       results made European       policy makers aware of its potential impact.
In October 2005 the Expert       Committee for the       European Charter on Minority or Regional Languages adopted Matras'       recommendations to       encourage the recognition of Romani by member states and to support       regional codification [5.1].
The results of Professor Matras' research into linguistic pluralism in       Romani were also       disseminated widely within the community of Romani cultural activists via       the publication Roma         Rights Quarterly.
Reach and Significance       International impact on Romani language education and preservation       In 2006 Professor Matras launched the Romani linguistics website [5.2] to       preserve the       endangered language and culture of one of the world's most marginalised       and maligned       populations.
The site contains transcriptions of the many Romani dialects       for the first time and       allows people to locate different dialects on a world map and listen to       examples of them.
Since the       launch it's been accessed by an average of 25,000 individuals every year       and visitors have IP       addresses from over 40 countries.
An educational DVD-ROM called `Romani: An interactive journey' was       created by Professor Matras       and his team.
Over 8,000 hard copies have been sent to educational outlets       in the UK and abroad       including 6,500 since January 2008.
Over 35,000 have been directly       downloaded from the website       since January 2008 and overall 40,000 have been downloaded since its       publication in May 2007.
The online Romani dictionary `Romlex' which was developed in       collaboration with partners at Graz       University in Austria has become the major reference resource for writers       and learners of Romani.
It has been accessed by an average of 70,000 users each year since its       launch in 2005.
By       simultaneously covering multiple dialects, Romlex has supported the       process of de-centralised,       regional codification and language planning by lending support to       teachers, translators and       interpreters of the Romani language.
The Romlex project also ran a trainee       programme between       2003 and 2007 which saw more than 40 individuals of Romani origin receive       training through work       placements on projects at the universities of Manchester and Graz.
Two of       these trainees       continued to postgraduate studies at The University of Manchester in 2007       and around 10 continue       to work as part-time research and fieldwork assistants for both       universities.
They set an example       and a precedent for the integration of young people of Romani background       into academic research       on Romani themes at the highest level.
Impact on national Romani language education and preservation       Professor Matras' research into Angloromani has raised the awareness and       promoted the inclusion       of information on Romani in the media and the education curriculum in the       UK.
In 2007 the BBC       published a contribution by Professor Matras on Romani on its `Voices'       website [5.3].
The Audio-CD 	  `Romani Soundbites' produced by Professor Matras and associates was       broadcast by BBC       Three Counties Radio in December 2008.
From 2008 to 2009 outlets of the Ethnic Minority Achievement Unit and the       Traveler Education       Services adopted Professor Matras' audio-visual educational tools to       promote awareness of the       Romani language for use in schools and other educational and training       activities.
Many thousands       of pupils have since had access to these tools [5.4].
Testimonies from       English Romani Gypsies       collected during the annual fair at Appleby in June 2012 [5.5] document       the impact that Professor       Matras' CDs and CD-ROM productions have had on encouraging members of the       community to       explore the origins, history and structure of their ancestral language.
Impact on Policy       The main impact on policy has been at a European level.
As a direct       outcome of the Expert       Committee's adoption of Matras' recommendations, annual reports submitted       as part of the       monitoring process by national governments of member states who are       signatory to the Charter       have since 2008 made regular reference to Romani.
The Council of Europe's Language Policy Division adopted Professor       Matras' recommendation to       support ongoing polycentric and pluralistic approaches to the codification       of Romani.
This includes       using written forms based on different dialects and with a variety of       spelling conventions [5.1].
In       response to Professor Matras' report to the Language Policy Division, it       set up a working group       which delivered the European Curriculum Framework for Romani in 2008       [5.6].
The Framework is       currently serving as a basis for the development and delivery of Romani       language programmes in       10 different countries.
The European Union has sponsored two separate       implementation projects       devoted to the design of teaching and learning materials on the basis of       the Framework via its       Lifelong Learning Programme: RomaniNet (2010-2012) and QualiRom       (2011-2013) [5.7, 5.8].
