     Context       The research supported a range of activities that helped raise awareness       of, and promote public       discourse on language diversity in the context of immigration to urban       centres.
The resulting       activities supported local public services that were seeking access to and       communication with       ethnic and linguistic minorities in Manchester.
The authorities were       seeking to improve the quality       of their services to this target population through a better understanding       of the social, cultural and       emotional aspects of bilingualism.
Pathways to impact       The research has been published in leading journals and presented at key       events.
In 2008       Professor Matras delivered a keynote address at the opening event of       UNESCO's Year of       Languages activities [5.1].
An inaugural public event for Multilingual       Manchester (MLM) (November       2010) [5.2], in which Matras has a leading role, attracted around 100       participants from local       services and city council agencies.
An interactive exhibition on       multilingualism was organised by       Professor Matras' research team at the Manchester Histories Week at       Manchester Museum in       February 2012 [5.3], attended by some 300 people.
Responses in social       media to MLM's work       have built steadily since 2010 [5.4].
Impact on the provision of data to agencies and policy makers       Data on multilingualism in Manchester collected by undergraduate and       postgraduate students was       processed by the research team and included in an online archive [5.2].
Set up in 2010 it aims to       document, protect and support the languages spoken in Manchester and it is       now one of the       world's largest online language archives.
It contains over 100 reports on       multilingualism and       language minorities in Manchester covering a diverse range of dialects,       including Chitrali from       North Pakistan, Konkani from Western India, Dagaare from Ghana and Burkina       Faso and Uyghur       from NW China.
Since its launch in October 2010, the research-driven archive has been       consulted by some 3,000       individuals, 80% of them external to The University of Manchester, via       some 850 service providers.
Access statistics from Google Analytics [5.5] show interest in the       resource from Manchester City       Council, the NHS, and the European Commission as well as academic       institutions and private       access through commercial service providers.
Impact on health care in Manchester       In July 2012 NHS Manchester consulted Professor Matras on prioritising       languages for information       on access to health care.
This allowed the underpinning research to form       the basis of decisions       taken by the NHS in producing a series of online videos and animations in       various languages that       contain health care advice.
An interactive exhibition on multilingual       community issues was       displayed at Manchester Royal Infirmary as part of Language Awareness Week       (May 2013) [5.6].
Impact on education and communities       Awareness of the research, through the pathways described, led Gorton       Mount Primary School to       consult Professor Matras on surveying and identifying language needs and       strengthening literacy       acquisition skills among pupils of multilingual background.
The launch of       a website on the Kurdish       language [5.7] by Matras in September 2011 was followed up by an event in       the Kurdish       community of Greater Manchester (November) and the distribution of       information leaflets about the       project in the community.
As a result, several community members came       forward to offer their       assistance in carrying out Kurdish language documentation, either as       speaker consultants or       fieldwork assistants.
The project has also received attention from the       Kurdish Regional       Government and its representatives in Europe.
Matras was invited on       several occasions to visit the       KRG offices in London and in Paris, and to give a talk at the Kurdish       Institute in Paris, where the       project was presented to a large audience in October 2011.
Reach and significance       Following on from the initial Pathways, a second public event on       multilingualism in Manchester in       October 2012 attracted keynote participants from the education sector,       Greater Manchester's       police and fire services and the NHS [5.8] and received local press       coverage [5.9], adding to the       pre-existing national coverage [5.9].
All these agencies publicly       acknowledged the contribution of       Professor Matras' research into multilingualism in Manchester and the       impact it has had on the       delivery of their services especially to ethnic and linguistic minority       communities.
Press coverage of       the event has prompted debate in the national press which takes the       project forward:by 15 January       2013, 270 comments were posted in reaction to coverage in the Daily         Mail &#8212; many of these       invigoratingly polarised &#8212; and 176 comments to the Guardian's       coverage, and 66 responses to that       in the Manchester Evening News, reporting on how `the findings       reveal the incredible diversity of       Manchester &#8212; with Somali, Urdu, and Yiddish being commonly spoken, along       with more exotic       dialects including Yoruba, Aramaic, and Armenian' and how `the [project]       team have interviewed       hundreds of community groups, businesses, and local people' [5.10].
