     Context     Romani migration from Eastern European countries to the West triggered       huge public debate in the       early 1990s.
Very little research has been carried out into the causes of       and patterns of this       migration.
Professor Matras' work with Romani communities in Greater       Manchester has made a       direct contribution to policy making at local and European levels by       underpinning a new approach       to Romani migrants.
This approach seeks dialogue and special consideration       of their vulnerability       as a marginalized minority that is quick to consider migration as a       conflict-evasion strategy in the       face of stigmatization and social exclusion.
Pathways to Impact     In 1996 Professor Matras was commissioned by the Council of Europe's       Population and Migration       Division to compile a report and offer policy recommendations arising from       his ongoing research       into Romani migrations.
The report [5.1] was adopted by the European       Committee on Migration       (CDMG) at its meeting in April 1997 which invited the Secretary General of       the Council of Europe       to examine its conclusions.
The key recommendations were subsequently       adopted by the       European Committee of Ministers.
A further report was commissioned by the       Council of Europe in       1998, focusing on the immigration of Czech and Slovak Roma to the UK       [5.2].
Reach and Significance     The work has had an impact on European policy.
The above reports       led to a fundamental       change in the discourse on European Romani migrations and provided a       cornerstone for the       consideration of Roma migrations in policy papers issued by the Council of       Europe (for example,       the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Right's report from February       2012 and the EU's       Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA) report from 2009).
In June 2012, the       Parliamentary Assembly       of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation on `Roma migrants in       Europe' in which it       directly took up the points first raised in Professor Matras's earlier       research outcomes from 1996       and 1998 concerning the distinction between `nomads' and `migrants' and       the `de facto expulsion'       of Roma.
The desire to manage the migration of Roma led to an intense       discussion process within       European institutions, which culminated in the European Commission's call       in April 2011 for a       European Framework of National Roma Integration Strategies.
Professor       Matras' reports on Roma       migration formed the basis of his keynote speech at the first academic       forum devoted to Roma       Migrations at Oxford University in January 2008 [3.3].
It was there that       the initiative was introduced       to establish a new mode of providing academic research input into the       policy debate on Roma at a       European level.
This was directly followed by the creation in 2010 of the       European Academic       Network on Romani Studies, of which Professor Matras is a founding member       and presently an       elected member of the Scientific Committee [5.3].
The Network is sponsored       by the European       Commission and the Council of Europe and its purpose is to advise       policymakers on Roma-related       research, to increase the visibility of the scientific knowledge available       on the European Roma, and       improve the planning and implementation of the policies related to Roma on       European, national       and local levels.
Matras's work bridges these levels and is attested to by       the Head of Policy       Development Unit [5.4].
Impact on Romani in Manchester and on community cohesion     In 2009 Manchester City Council's Regeneration Team and other community       services adopted       Professor Matras' recommendations to facilitate targeted training for a       group of young Romani       immigrants to act as mediators and interpreters for the community of       Romanian Romani       immigrants in east Manchester [5.5, 5.6].
The report inspired the creation       of two positions for       Romani outreach workers, funded by Manchester City Council's successful       bid to the government's       Migrant Impact Fund.
It also led to the part-time employment of Romani       support workers by       Greater Manchester Police, the International New Arrivals Team and two       local schools.
It provided       the blueprint for an eight-month training programme for young members of       the Romani community,       sponsored by the Big Life Company and carried out in conjunction with the       Government's Sure       Start scheme and The University of Manchester.
In the second half of 2011,       as a direct outcome of       this training programme, ten young members of the Romani community took up       roles as       interpreters, mediators and classroom assistants within Manchester       services and schools.
