     Context     The Manchester dance scene has many talented choreographers and there is       a dedicated body, Dance Initiative Greater Manchester (DiGM: set up       November 1999), devoted to promoting dance in the area.
However Manchester       has been poorly served for dance relative to comparable cities.
When       members of the Watching Dance research team were invited to lead a       discussion event at the Green Room following the Turn prize for new       choreography in March 2011 [5.2], it became apparent that there was a need       for greater collaboration between choreographers and between       choreographers and audiences in order to create a truly supportive and       dynamic environment for dance in the Manchester area and to grow       audiences.
The Manchester Dance Consortium was set up to this end in 2011       [5.1].
Pathways to impact     Since 2011 the Consortium has been working to implement aspects of the       underpinning research in ways that can benefit the Manchester dance       community.
It was designed to provide support and development for the       dance scene, and to augment the impact of choreographic practice in       performance on audiences.
Comprising choreographers, dance spectators and       representatives of dance venues and local bodies, of which the first       meeting was held in June 2011 [5.1; 5.2], with 25 invited participants       from different local dance constituencies and led by Reynolds, Joseph Lau       (choreographer) and Karen Wood (formerly PhD student on the Watching Dance       project and now postdoctoral lecturer, researcher and choreographer).
Following the March 2011 Green Room event Reynolds and Wood were       commissioned to carry out audience research and produce a report on a new       experimental dance piece by Julia Griffin at Victoria Baths, Manchester       (April 2012) [5.3].
This fed into the Consortium's approach to the impact       of its projects on audiences and dancers and into the design of       questionnaires for subsequent events, and the planning of those events       (see below).
The principal beneficiaries of the research are: choreographers, dancers,       audiences and dance venues who are able to engage through the formal       infrastructure that the Consortium has set up [5.1].
A Working Party       includes choreographers (e.g.
Fiske, Griffin, Patrick, Platt, Say) along       with dance audience members and representatives of agencies and venues       (DiGM, Z-Arts, Contact).
This led to a pilot event, Platform Zero [5.5] in       March 2012.
This gave 6 selected artists (performing 3 duets) the       opportunity to show work in progress and gain feedback.
Selection criteria       included ability to reflect on processes of making and involve audiences       and the Consortium worked with artists to structure audience       questionnaires [5.4].
In October 2012 the Consortium obtained funding (&#163;10,250) from Arts       Council England to support its activities with a part-time administrator.
On 29 November 2012 the Consortium held its second performance event,       Platform 0.1, again supported by partners DiGM and Z-Arts.
Reach and Significance     The Platforms are creative collaborations between choreographers and       audiences.
Choreographers present short works in progress and receiving       written feedback from audiences on their responses.
The Consortium's       webpage brings together the projects activities, enables audience       collaboration, and acts as a networking portal [5.8].
At Platform 0.1 the Consortium decided to extend its networks to include       music artists.
This time the selection criteria stipulated a sound       component (an important aspect of the underpinning research).
The Arts       Council funding enabled the provision of mentoring for participating       choreographers by a distinguished composer, Alan Williams.
Platform 0.2 took place on 14 May 2013 at Contact Theatre, Manchester (45       feedback forms returned).
An on-line review noted how ``All three works       are great demonstrations of the variety and experimentation, which the       Manchester Dance Consortium encourages' [5.6].
A 3-day Micro-Choreolab was       held on 4-6 July 2013 (led by professional artists Niku Chaudhari and       Emilyn Claidand) with the aim of fostering exploration between dance       artists and musicians of how to enhance performance and optimize impact on       audiences and their understanding of the interactions of body, movement,       feeling, and involvement [5.8: MDC Events/Past MDC Events link].
One       choreographer remarks on the uniqueness of the Platforms' contribution to       dance regionally and is benefit for North-based artists generally.
A       reviewer, a regular attender, speaks of Platforms as contributing to 'the       region's growing and diverse community of dance artists and [giving] dance       makers [...] a valuable new space for showing their work to interested       audiences in the city', resisting 'the conservative and commercial mould       that increasingly characterises regional theatre and dance especially'.
The impact of this work is on cultural life, generating new ways       of thinking about dance and watching dance that influence creative       practice and change audience sensitivities, and inspiring and supporting       new forms of expression in dance.
The reach of the impact activities is       local and regional through support to the dance community (choreographers,       dancers, audiences, venues and agencies) in the Manchester area, and       through attracting and channelling funding.
Through creative interactions       between choreographers and audiences and also between dance artists and       artists in other media (beginning with sound artists) the Consortium has       generated a new optimism, openness and dynamism in the Manchester dance       scene and provided new performing opportunities (and thus employment;       as also for the part-time administrator) for emerging choreographers, e.g.
at the three new Platform events.
It is artistically and culturally       significant as it is generating new ways of thinking that       influence dance and its audiences, who continue to engage with the issues       between performances through blog entries, comments, and networking       opportunities [5.7; 5.8, Events/Networks links].
