     Context:       The Cairo Genizah manuscripts were found in a storeroom (Genizah) in       Cairo's Ben Ezra       Synagogue in the 19th century.
They include new texts which       revolutionize our understanding of       the history of Judaism.
The Jewish community now regards the Genizah       manuscripts as a precious       part of its cultural patrimony; Jewish Foundations such as Safra and       Friedberg have invested in       making them accessible.
The Genizah manuscripts also constitute a       significant element of the       cultural assets with which the UK finds itself entrusted.
Pathways to Impact and Impact:     (1) Conservation.
Pathways to impact: The Rylands Genizah       manuscripts are in a physically       poor condition.
The Project conserved them: (a) materially:       manuscripts were cleaned,       flattened and encased in melinex by the conservation unit at the Rylands       Library; and (b)       digitally: digitization reduced the need physically to handle them.
Impact: Without this       conservation work substantial parts of the collection would have been       lost, and a significant       cultural asset would have been diminished and degraded.
(2) Presentation.
Pathways to impact: Presentation was       achieved primarily by posting high-resolution 	  digital images on the University of Manchester Library website       (5.1).
Selected       images are also available on the Princeton Geniza website (5.1), and,       since 2013, the       whole Rylands collection has been uploaded into the Friedberg Genizah       Project (5.1)       database which is not part of any HEI and is concerned with the assembly       on one server for       public use of this major cultural asset.
Impact: This high       international exposure has opened       up the collection to journalists, writers, documentary makers,       school-teachers, and the       educated public for their own purposes (5.2)     (3) Interpretation.
Pathways to impact: Interpretation is       achieved in three ways: (a) By       searchable English catalogue records attached to each image identifying       its content &#8212; thus       allowing users to discover texts relevant to any topic.
(b) By a popular       website, explaining       the nature and importance of the Genizah in general, and the Rylands       Genizah in       particular.
(c) By publications and lectures.
Impact: The       Project's scholarly workshops       always included well-attended public lectures (5.3).
In addition the       Project published a       newsletter and a blog, and the University issued press releases.
These       have been       responded to in press and radio reports (both in the UK and abroad), and       by invitations       from a variety of public bodies, to address popular audiences (5.7).
(4) Capacity building.
Pathways to impact: The Project       has built capacity to conserve and       disseminate other culturally significant artefacts.
Impact: (a)       The in-house conservation       work has enhanced the capacity of the Rylands conservation unit to       conserve other delicate       artefacts.
(b) The Project's personnel and state-of-the-art equipment laid       the foundations for       a permanent photographic unit within the Rylands Library, which is now       digitizing other       culturally significant artefacts (further below).
(c) As one of the first       in the field of digitizing       Genizah manuscripts, the Project's adoption of rigorous standards of       metadata (based on       the Dublin Core) has provided a model for other libraries to follow (e.g.
Bodleian and       University Library Cambridge) (5.4 and 5.5).
Reach and significance of impact:       The research addresses two main constituencies beyond academia:     (1) The Jewish Community.
Impact was first felt locally in the       sizeable Jewish community of       Manchester (`The Jews of Manchester regard themselves as very fortunate       that the       University is the custodian of an important repository of fragments which       comprise the       Rylands Cairo Genizah project', President, Zionist Central Council,       Greater Manchester;       [5.6]).
The impact was delivered through public lectures at the Rylands       Library, and through       talks at communal educational events (e.g.
Limmud; `Making the material       accessible       supplements the work that has already been done by the Department in       reaching out       beyond the University in making available this great stock of material to       the Jewish       Community and beyond in numerous educational projects, lectures and       forums', Trustee of       the Manchester Great New and Central Synagogue; [5.6]).
From there the       impact rippled       out nationally and internationally.
The pattern is illustrated by the       Dybbuk Exorcism: the       report on the University Website was picked up by the local Jewish       newspaper, the Jewish         Telegraph (5.7).
The national Jewish Chronicle picked it up       from the Telegraph, and the       Jewish Daily Forward (New York) and the mass-circulation Israeli       papers, the Jerusalem         Post and Ha-Aretz, picked it up from the Chronicle.
The combined readership of these       papers runs into many tens of thousands.
(2) The Heritage Community.
Following a pilot project funded by       JISC (2009-11) which       established the need for a North West regional centre of excellence for       heritage digitisation,       the Rylands converted the Genizah Project photographic unit into a         Centre for Heritage         Imaging and Collection Care (CHICC) (2011; 5.8).
This now serves on       a commercial basis       a wide range of clients from different sectors, including other       universities, museums,       libraries, historic houses and individuals (as of 12.07.2013, the       estimated turnover for       CHICC 2012/13 will be &#163;34,600, with a further &#163;25,000 invoiced; 5.9).
CHICC has rapidly       established itself as a leader in the field of heritage digitization, and       its staff members are       invited to advise and make presentations on the subject in both the UK and       abroad.
The       Centre's blog has an international following.
