     The reach and significance of the impacts we have achieved via our       research lies in the applied clinical nature of the work and is firmly       rooted in the every-day world of clinical practice.
The focus of the       research has always been to be producing results that are patient focused       and clinically useful.
We have challenged existing clinical paradigms and       helped to optimise clinical practice by focussing on previously       unrecognised clinically important factors associated with local       circulatory disturbance.
This has improved the health and well-being of       patients attending clinics for conservative management of sports injuries       and general musculoskeletal conditions.
Our publication strategy has       targeted journals that are credible academically and also widely accessed       and read by clinical colleagues from a diverse variety of health and       sports professions.
We have also significantly impacted on clinical       practice internationally through our Continuing Professional Development       (CPD) activities that have highlighted to practitioners the importance of       circulatory disturbance and the use of cooling products.
Since 2006 our       group has been invited to deliver in excess of 30 keynote lectures and CPD       sessions throughout the UK and Scandinavia (Finland, Denmark, Sweden) on       the assessment of the `cold' sub-group of patellofemoral patients and on       the results of our "efficacy of cryotherapy" studies.
These sessions cover       a broad spectrum of health and sports practitioners and locations from       Rehabilitation Centres in rural Finland through to the English Institute       of Sport in Manchester.
We have also built in local public-engagement       activities.
For example, we have demonstrated some of our thermal-imaging       techniques and presented our scientific results to over 2,000 school       children and members of the public at the 2010 &amp; 2011 Lancashire       Science Festivals.
In addition we have also used the thermal imaging       camera as part of an outdoor public display at the January 2011 Charity       `Firewalk'.
One of the key drivers that motivates my research work is in       understanding the `Real World of Clinical Practice' and informing       practitioners and the public about that work.
We have taken a significant leading role in both of the International       Patellofemoral Pain Research Retreats (2010; 2012) and will be       co-hosting/organising the next retreat in 2015.
The mission of these       International Research Retreats was to bring together scientists and       clinicians from around the world who were conducting research aimed at       understanding the factors that contribute to the development and,       consequently, the treatment of PFP.
We contributed a number of formal       presentations of our research at each of the Consensus Conferences and we       were also active participants in developing the consensus statements.
The       consensus statements play a significant role in guiding clinical practice       around the world and have provided clinicians with a new clinical paradigm       with which to assess and manage PFP.
The conference proceedings and the       Consensus Statements that were formulated at each conference have been       published in the internationally influential Journal of Orthopaedic and       Sports Physical Therapy, which is read by practitioners around the world.
In addition to our work on PFP, our studies on the efficacy and safety of       Cryotherapy modalities has contributed to the development of the PRICE       Guidelines (2010), in which three of our papers are cited.
These       guidelines provide detailed practical information on the clinical       application of PRICE and facilitate clinicians in critical reflection on       the pathophysiological rationale for using PRICE.
The guidelines were       developed through extensive systematic review and rigorous critical       appraisal of original research and consensus from an international, expert       group of clinicians and academics.
The executive summary of the PRICE       guidelines has been distributed to all members of the Association of       Chartered Physiotherapists in Sports Medicine, approximately 1,600       clinicians.
In recognition of my impact on the physiotherapy profession I was awarded       a Fellowship in 2008.
"It is recommended that a Fellowship of the         Chartered Society of Physiotherapy be conferred upon Professor James         Selfe for his outstanding contribution to musculoskeletal physiotherapy,         particularly in the field of patello-femoral pain dysfunction for which         James is known internationally as a leading authority.
James has         proposed new theories and developed new techniques around thermal         imaging and proprioception testing and his investigations into common         physiotherapy modalities for patello-femoral pain has enlightened         physiotherapy knowledge and more importantly has changed the clinical         practice of many physiotherapists in this country and overseas."
Our research groups reputation in the field has developed to the extent       that commercial partners are now approaching us to test the safety and       efficacy of their products and equipment.
These include physicool       (featured on Dragons Den - was successful in gaining funding); BOC (Linde)       (testing optimal exposure times inside a mobile cryochamber set at -135&#176;C       in collaboration with Wigan Warriors Rugby League 1st Team);       Swellaway (testing the efficacy of their newly developed heating and       cooling device).
