     The impact and benefit of the research on the scrolls at Manchester takes       several forms; pathways to impact are sometimes indirect, sometimes       direct.
Three are noteworthy.
First, there is impact in terms of the influence on the public         imagination and publishing industry.
Alexander's and       Brooke's contributions to television (e.g., in 2013 for World Media Rights       on "John Allegro" for the Yesterday Channel) and radio and numerous       popular speaking engagements in museums, synagogues, and churches show       that their research is deemed (by those inviting them to speak) to be       changing popular perceptions of the character of Judaism from which       Rabbinic Judaism and Christianity derive.
Brooke has given 29 public       lectures in the 2008-2013 assessment period, both nationally and       internationally, often on the Scrolls and the New Testament, one of his       research specialisms; some talks have been recorded for general public       access on legacy websites (5.1).
Such changes in perception are       encouraged, e.g., in the popular introduction co-authored by Brooke: The       Complete World of the Dead Sea Scrolls (London: Thames &amp; Hudson,       2002), which has been translated into Dutch, German, Hungarian, Japanese       and Spanish, and sold widely (hardback 52,799 plus 7,954 paperback Book       Club editions in Germany and the USA) (5.2).
Allegro's photographs,       catalogued by Brooke, are used extensively throughout the volume.
As an       indication of the reach and significance of the work, a quotation from it       appeared on the wall at the entrance to the 2010 Scrolls exhibition at the       Science Museum of Minnesota.
The book has sold so well that it is now in a       revised paperback edition (2011).
Production/sales figures (Sept 2013)       from Thames and Hudson for paperbacks since 2011: UK/Europe 2,123; North       America 2,700; Foreign editions: 1,500 = 6,323.
The book has thus       generated substantial income for publisher and booksellers alike (5.3) and       has become widely used on university and college syllabuses (5.4).
Second, the research group at Manchester is a point of reference for the       national and international funding of research and other activities       on the Scrolls.
Though much of this impact concerns HEI, in three matters       there has been engagement with bodies outside HEI.
(a) Brooke has been a       board member of the Dead Sea Scrolls Foundation which is involved in       raising and disbursing funds for activities involving the scrolls (5.5).
(b) Brooke has written confidential reports for the funding of museum       building projects and other activities, notably for a UK Foundation       intending to support a multi-million pound museum project in Israel       (2008).
(c) As part of his role as advisor to the Nordic Network in Qumran       Studies, Brooke has had advice accepted concerning the identification and       publication of a private manuscript collection (the Sch&#248;yen Collection,       Oslo) (5.6); a comprehensive catalogue is forthcoming in 2014.
Third, the research at Manchester and beyond has had a significant direct       impact on heritage conservation and debates about how best to       treat fragile artefacts (5.7).
The reach and significance of the analysis       of the Manchester fragments for impact on conservation have been taken       forward notably by two groups in relation to debates about conservation       and exhibiting policy.
(1) With respect to parchment conservation       (including the Domesday Book) the work on the collagen of the Manchester       scrolls fragments was undertaken jointly with the Department of       Ophthalmology of the University of Wales, Cardiff: the ongoing impact of       this was referred to, e.g., by Prof Tim Wess on BBC 4, "Material World,"       April 2008.
(2) The conservation implications of the chemical composition       of the fragments have been taken forward especially by Dr Ira Rabin and Dr       Oliver Hahn and their collaborators.
Their ongoing observations on other       Scrolls are compared with the relatively stable Manchester fragments to       reveal rapid and accelerating deterioration in several cases (5.8).
They       have incorporated their finds into reports that have influenced policy       changes (5.9) at the Shrine of the Book, Israel Museum, on the       conservation and exhibiting of the Dead Sea Scrolls with the overall aim       of reducing stress on ancient artefacts and enhancing their material       stability.
`In the face of a growing body of research presented by Ira       [Rabin] and conservation scientists, The Shrine was faced with the       unavoidable decision to cease all IAA conservation treatment and loans       abroad' Hasia Rimon (5.10).
The Shrine no longer uses the facilities of       the Israel Antiquities Authority.
The 2012 policy decision, its research       basis, and its implications were showcased to all interested parties at       the three-day Green Symposium at the Israel Museum in April 2013.
