     Context       Taithe's research on the history of humanitarianism, medicine, conflict       and disasters has altered understandings not only of the past but also of       the present.
His analysis of the ways in which humanitarian relief is       organised and carried out, particularly in terms of the technologies of       humanitarian aid which he argues continue to be steeped in colonial and       religious legacies, is crucial to a modern conception of humanitarianism.
The influence of his reinterpretation of humanitarian response outside       academia is evident in the take up of his research by policy makers in       NGOs, governments and other bodies including those from the international       medical community.
Pathways to impact       Taithe has presented his research at numerous non-academic fora since       2008, including the Berlin International NGO congress and M&#233;decins sans       Fronti&#232;res' anniversary conference.
His research has also been       disseminated through the Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute       (HCRI) at UoM.
The networks he established, both as part of the HCRI and       apart from it, have ensured that his research has achieved significant       reach and impact.
They have also resulted in his involvement in a series       of collaborative projects with NGOs.
Professor Taithe is a founding member       of the Scientific Committee of the Humanitarian Policy Group (HPG)'s       project on the global history of humanitarian aid.
Reach and significance of the impact     Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute       Alongside his Manchester colleague Professor Peter Gatrell, Taithe is the       co-founder and first director of the interdisciplinary HCRI.
Launched in       2008, the HCRI has engaged with representatives of governments; NGOs       (including MSF, Oxfam, the Humanitarian Policy Group and the British Red       Cross); think-tanks such as the Overseas Development Institute; medical       practitioners; and members of leading research institutions.
Recent HCRI       conferences on the future of humanitarian aid in November 2012, and on       Darfur and Haiti in 2010, have attracted participants from governments;       political opposition groups; the major NGOs active in these areas; and the       World Health Organisation.
The British Academy identified HCRI as a       significant example of interdisciplinary work worthy of notice in its       response to Sir John O'Reilly (Director General for Knowledge and       Innovation at the Department for Business, Innovation &amp; Skills) in May       2013 [5.4].
The HCRI is one of only five academic partners with whom the British Red       Cross and the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent       Movement have developed a research programme and a humanities-informed       portfolio of training courses.
This online course has around 80 students       from 44 countries and offers a Masters qualification.
HCRI has been chosen       by UoM to provide one of its four MOOCs (Massive Online Open Courses).
Impact on M&#233;decins Sans Fronti&#232;res       Taithe's research on French universalism and humanitarianism led to his       involvement with MSF in 2004 when he was invited to contribute to the       reform of international governance of the MSF international movement along       with 19 other scholars [5.7].
His contribution on humanitarian autonomy       and independence as key principles for action was part of the La Mancha       process which involved a debate on the principles and values of MSF.
Following this consultation, MSF and its worldwide branches fine-tuned       the coordination of its national networks which led to a new constitution       of the Federation in 2006-2007.
The La Mancha process in effect not only       re-founded the structure of MSF international but primarily re-asserted       its fundamental values and principles, the area on which Professor Taithe       was asked to comment [5.7].
MSF is one of the largest global charities, delivering emergency aid in       65 countries.
Professor Taithe's research has helped to shape its       operation.
He has been asked to contribute to the MSF reflection on       `Medical Care Under Fire', a research and communication campaign, and to       internal debates on security and humanitarian aid, notably by contributing       to the training week for mission leaders in 2013 and by participating in       the first published document outlining the challenges of security in       humanitarian context [5.5].
The Director of Unit&#233; de Recherche sur les       Enjeux et Pratiques Humanitaires (UREPH), a section of MSF, attests that       `Professor Taithe.....has provided us with a very valuable historical       perspective on our policies and practices and has thus had an impact on       our understanding of them' [5.6].
In 2013 Professor Taithe was asked to       join the scientific committee of the Fondation MSF in Paris [5.10].
Impact on NGO policy debates and policy formation       The contribution to the reform of MSF led to invitations to contribute       plenary lectures to the Berlin International NGO congress in 2007 and       2012.
On both occasions the Congress was attended by some 650 NGO       volunteers, logisticians and medical staff.
In 2012 Taithe spoke on the       theme `Tough Choices &#8212; Ethical Challenges in Humanitarian Aid'.
He remains       the only historian to have been invited twice to the Berlin Humanitarian       Congress which is now the largest in Europe [5.7].
He also attended the MSF anniversary conference of MSF Holland in       Amsterdam as a respondent in October 2010 and he contributed to NGO       conferences in Geneva and the World Conference on Humanitarian Studies at       Tufts, both in 2011.
These focused on specific and practical humanitarian       issues to facilitate the exchange of policies between often uncoordinated       agencies.
Taithe was also invited in 2012 to contribute to the training of       NGO officers at the Geneva Center for Education and Research in       Humanitarian Aid (CERAH).
His more recent publications on French missionaries, humanitarian       faith-based organizations and the relationship between religion and       humanitarian work since the 1860s (items 3.2-3.4 under `references to the       research') have also led to his participation in several Overseas       Development Institute (ODI) and Henry Luce Foundation conferences attended       by Faith Based Organizations such as Islamic Relief, Caritas and the       Muslim Charities Forum.
ODI confirms `Professor Taithe has had a direct       impact on our understanding of the history of French humanitarianism in       particular and of the legacy of colonialism for modern humanitarian       action, but also more broadly in terms of historical approaches to the aid       sector' [5.9].
The Luce seminars led to an Oxford University Press book in       2012 (3.5) which raised many issues on the role of religion in       humanitarian aid.
The debate is ongoing and involves secular and religious       NGOs.
This work contributes to a complex reform trend in the world of NGO       governance and the professionalization of humanitarian aid.
In 2011 Prof       Taithe was asked to become part of the steering group for the ODI project       `A Global History of Modern Humanitarian Action' [5.9].
Professor Taithe       has contributed to these debates through his scholarship, publications and       participation in conferences and also through the HCRI which is now one of       the leading institutes in the field alongside those at Tufts, Harvard and       Geneva.
Impact on surgical interventions in disaster areas       The findings of Professor Taithe's research into surgical interventions in       Haiti following the 2010 earthquake have fed directly into current debates       on the provision and professionalization of humanitarian aid.
Handicap       International attested that Taithe's work not only `had an impact on our       understanding of what are the typical behaviours of international relief       organisations in setting up a response, but also what are key determinants       leading victims to search for initial relief, and even more, literally       "choose" what they assume would be the best services and NGOs to provide       them with care and support' [5.8].
The results of Taithe's research were       discussed at medical conferences such as the World Conference on       Humanitarian Studies and referenced in medical publications as part of an       ongoing campaign for professionalising medical units.
The resulting       articles were published in prestigious medical journals like The         Lancet and The Journal of Pre-Hospital and Disaster Medicine       [5.2, 5.3].
These articles have been cited in journal debates concerning,       for example, the creation of trained surgical units ready for deployment       [5.1].
The impact of this campaign is witnessed by the creation of a UK       International Emergency Trauma Database, funded by the Department for       International Development, which lists internationally accountable expert       teams that can be called upon to attend situations of extreme emergency.
This model is now emulated in several countries in the world, and the       World Health Organisation is working to extend it.
