     Context     There has been considerable research on immigrant experiences in Greater       Manchester both by       local councils and by migrant groups themselves.
Brown's project       introduced a new way of       understanding and analysing this material by using GIS visualisations to       connect existing       archives with original research and oral interviews.
Brown's research has       a dual focus: on the       impact of immigration on Manchester, and on how migrants were transformed       by social change       within the city.
The pathways to impact and the reach and significance of       the impact are       described below in relation to each of the three main strands of the       project: the 2009 and 2012       Manchester Histories Festivals, the 2011 Caribbean Carnival, and briefings       for Oldham Council       in 2012.
The social consequences of immigration: Manchester Histories Festivals         2009 and 2012.
Pathways to impact       The project provided one of six thematic displays at the 2009 Festival, in       the Manchester Town       Hall.
The display featured maps made by the project analysing immigrant       settlement since       industrialisation as well as archival images.
A project website "Migrant       Manchester" [5.8] carrying       material from the exhibition was launched in September 2009.
During the       second Festival in       February 2012 Brown delivered a public lecture to high school students on       'Migration and the       Transformation of Manchester' [5.4].
He also delivered related lectures on       migrant settlement in       Britain at Aquinas Sixth Form College in Stockport and Loreto College in       Manchester during 2012       and 2013.
Community participation in the research for the exhibition, webpage and       school activities was       developed through a series of public events, including:            a 2007 workshop on local history held at the Windrush Centre in Moss         Side in         collaboration with the Ahmed Iqbal Ullah Race Relations Resource Centre         and the         Greater Manchester County Record Office;       an information stall at the 2007 Manchester Caribbean Carnival;       a collective discussion featuring leading Caribbean scholar Erna         Brodber on Caribbean         identity and history on Peace-FM, a community radio station based in         Moss Side that was         established by CARISMA (Community Alliance for Renewal, Inner South         Manchester         Area) in 2009.
Reach and significance       The 2009 exhibition at the Town Hall was visited by over 4,000 people and       the webpage       registered almost 300 page views in a month.
Two-thirds of 41 feedback       forms described the       2012 lecture as the highlight of that year's Histories Festival.
Positive       comments from the school       students stated that the lecture helped with gaining "more knowledge of       Manchester", "learning       more about migration" and "finding what and when different culture[s] came       to Manchester" [5.7].
The 1981 Riots: the Caribbean Carnival and Project `81     Pathways to impact       In 2011, the Caribbean Carnival of Manchester received HLF funding to       deliver Project `81, a       community history project exploring the impact of the 1981 riots on       Manchester's Caribbean       Community.
Brown acted as advisor to the project, providing research       advice and support based       on his research on Caribbean migration and the experiences of migrants and       their children in late       twentieth-century Manchester [5.3].
A Project `81 exhibition was held in       Moss Side in August 2011       and the exhibition then toured various sites in the city, going to the       Windrush Centre in Moss       Side/Hulme, the University of Manchester, the Greater Manchester Police       Museum and the Zion       Centre in Hulme.
Archival research by Brown provided key extracts of       historical evidence that       were used in the exhibition, and Brown developed this material into a       teaching pack that he used in       workshops at two South Manchester high schools.
Brown also created a       website about the history       of the Moss Side riots in Manchester.
[5.5]     While conducting research on the 1981 riots, Brown co-organised an open       meeting between       academics from Manchester and Harvard with religious leaders and community       workers from Moss       Side in June 2011.
This was staged as part of the Institute for Social       Change's summer workshop       on "Hard times: The Social and Political Consequences of Global Recession"       and drew on the       relationship established with CARISMA (see MHF above).
Brown also       presented his research on       the 1981 Moss Side riots to the Historic Society of Lancashire and       Cheshire in an event at the       Museum of Liverpool in April 2012.
Reach and significance       The Project '81 media tent at the 2011 Manchester Caribbean Carnival       attracted 2,509 people       over 2 days and the associated website received 920 views in 2011.
The       Project '81 impact       mapping exercise demonstrated that a high number of visitors to the Media       tent were       encouraged to learn something new about the 1981 riots: 86%       agreed/strongly agreed that       Project `81 gave them an opportunity to reflect on the riots; 88% of       visitors agreed/strongly       agreed that they gained new knowledge or understanding about the riots.
The majority of survey       respondents (91%) agreed that Project `81 would leave a valuable legacy in       conserving local       heritage.
The Project was noticeably successful in drawing in `hard to       reach' groups: specifically       younger, male visitors from minority ethnic backgrounds [5.2].
The Project '81 workshops at secondary schools in which Dr Brown was a       key presenter drew       positive comments from the schoolchildren who took part (many of whom were       from British       minority ethnic backgrounds), for example: `We knew that riots happened       but we didn't know       anything about them.
We didn't know how Moss Side had got to how it is       today' (Pupil at       Manchester Academy) and `We learnt about the riots and what happened and       the different       reasons why people started the riots' (Pupil at Chorlton Academy) [5.2].
Teachers corroborated       this impact.
For example, the Curriculum Area Assistant for Humanities at       Manchester Academy       writes: `Dr Brown taught year 8 students how to create maps to show       population density of       different immigrant groups in Manchester which directly progressed their       learning in this topic.
He       also held a workshop with the students which allowed them to gain a deeper       understanding of       the causes of immigration and the effects immigration can have on       Manchester.'
More generally       she states, `I can confirm that project-based learning at Key Stage 3 was       directly affected by the       outcomes of Dr Brown's work'.
[5.6].
Ethnic Geographies: Briefings with Oldham Council     Pathways to impact       In April 2012, Brown and Cunningham co-hosted a workshop at the University       of Manchester on       "GIS and the Spatial Dynamics of Ethnic Segregation" which resulted in an       invitation to       collaborate with the Research and Intelligence section of the Oldham       Council in developing new       visualisations of the changing ethnic geographies of Oldham.
This resulted       in two discussion       papers for Oldham Council focused on (1) mapping Oldham's changing ethnic       geographies and       (2) analysing the relationship between the built environment, housing       tenure and internal       migration flows in Oldham.
The briefings used areal interpolation through       GIS to analyse South       Asian internal migration and population growth in the central wards of       Oldham.
Reach and significance       Brown's research provided the Council with vital information on which to       base its policies.
The       Corporate Research and Intelligence Manager at Oldham Council states that       Dr Brown's briefing       provided `understanding of population movement within Oldham and confirms       local anecdotal       evidence that recent immigrant groups are likely to live in areas with       high population churn.
On the       evidence presented it is apparent this work is valuable and will be useful       in helping Oldham       develop future models of population growth and change.'
More generally,       speaking on behalf of the       Council, she confirms that: `Dr Brown's research into the spatial dynamics       within Oldham's South       Asian heritage (and other minority) populations, against changing economic       circumstances locally       and beyond, was seen as a valuable contribution to our understanding of       the drivers behind       Oldham's population shifts over four decades.
Oldham Council's Population       Spatial Dynamics       Project Group has worked closely with Dr Brown to ensure the research is       useful in informing and       influencing public policy.'
[5.1].
