     Context     Prior to the publication of Gatrell's research on `refugeedom', the       extent and significance of population displacement in Russia and Eastern       Europe during and after the First World War were little known and poorly       understood.
The historiography has now been transformed.
Together with       scholars with whom he has collaborated and some of whom he trained, his       research went on to produce a clearer understanding of the upheavals       following the Second World War.
More broadly, the research into displaced       populations has clear contemporary relevance, not only by establishing the       contours of humanitarian relief efforts but also because it foregrounds       the experiences of refugees and provides answers about refugees'       engagement with their history.
The impact of this research outside the       academy is apparent in three distinct settings: in schools, in exhibitions       particularly to commemorate the relief work undertaken by Quakers, and in       the dissemination of his research findings to NGOs and other bodies       involved in the movements of displaced peoples.
Pathways to impact     This research has been incorporated into the school curriculum for 11-14       year olds.
In 2011-12 Gatrell and Carson produced a 44-page teaching pack       for the Key Stage 3 curriculum in both History and Citizenship, in       collaboration with the Ahmed Iqbal Ullah Education Trust and with       contributions from colleagues at Nottingham University.
This pack is being       rolled out in schools across the North-West and the East Midlands,       following a pilot project in 2012 from which we received feedback from       experienced and trainee teachers.
A separate resource pack (180pp.)
focusing on Quaker Service similarly includes lesson plans and worksheets       suitable for photocopying, 35 flashcards displaying carefully selected       archive photographs and a DVD containing video interviews with Quaker       relief workers, contemporary photographs, archival documents (translated       where necessary), and stills and clips from documentary films.
We worked with the Quaker Service Memorial Trust to mount two public       exhibitions at the National Memorial Arboretum (NMA), Staffs, one in June       2012 and one in April 2013 in connection with the inauguration of the       permanent memorial.
Carson followed this up with talks to Quaker audiences       at Friends House, London, and the Wiener Library, as well as at the NMA.
Other major public exhibitions took place at Nottingham Castle in autumn       2012, and at Friends House (London, Edinburgh etc.).
Additionally Gatrell       has spoken to several bodies including an audience of 100 at the Yorkshire       Philosophical Society (January 2011); Carson has spoken at the Quaker       Yearly Meeting (c. 1000 attendees) and at the West Midlands History Forum       (c. 100 attendees).
Research engagement with NGOs specifically includes the creation of a       `History of Humanitarianism' timeline which is being disseminated via the       new Histories of Humanitarianism consortium and website in collaboration       with the ODI [5.6].
Reach and significance of the impact     Schools       The school pack includes both historical background information on the       refugee crisis in post-1945 Europe and a series of activities that are       designed to stimulate imagination and empathy.
These activities are linked       to the curriculum, specifically `the         changing nature of conflict and cooperation between countries and         peoples and its lasting impact on national, ethnic, racial, cultural or         religious issues, including the nature and impact of the two world       wars and the Holocaust, and the role of European and international       institutions in resolving conflicts'.
We trialled the pack at Newall Green       High School, Wythenshawe and with a group of 25 trainee teachers in the       East Midlands.
One school student fed back that: `I realised that refugees       come from more places than first thought and that they come from many       different backgrounds &#8212; not just poor people'.
Interactive sessions with       iPads were particularly appreciated.
The Head of Humanities at NGHS writes       that students in History, Geography and Citizenship classes became aware       of `wider groups of refugees' [5.1].
The research material also       contributed to curriculum development in 17 schools associated with the       Schools Linking Network (Stockport) where the `Model UN' project focused       on refugees in the modern world.
The Schools Linking Manager confirms that       `students had been prompted to consider these issues in interesting and       thought-provoking ways; they enjoyed learning about them because they had       never really considered these issues before, and their views of refugees       had been challenged in a positive way' [5.4].
Wider public       The key initiative here is the series of exhibitions supported by the       Quaker Service Memorial Trust demonstrating the role of the Society of       Friends in post-war Germany, Korea and elsewhere.
These started with two       at the NMA and a related exhibition was mounted at Friends House, Euston       Road, London.
One outcome according to the Resources Development Officer       at Friends House has been a greater awareness of the rich holdings in the       Quaker archives; she adds that donations of new material have been made as       a result.
The exhibitions have contributed to a better understanding of       Quaker history.
She comments, `our profile has been raised' and they       `bring to the forefront the massive contribution Quakers made along with       other relief/aid agencies.'
[5.2].
The exhibition panels have been       displayed in Coventry, Leicester, Leek, Manchester and Stourbridge [5.7].
The Clerk to the Quaker Service Memorial Trust (QSMT) notes that       `Visitors' books allow for a couple of short lines of comment &#8212; all of       which have been supportive' [5.3].
Gatrell's research has been picked up       by the Today programme (16 July 2009, audience c. 7 million) and by The         Independent (24 July 2012).
The Clerk to the QSMT adds: `Working so       closely with Dr Carson and Professor Gatrell has been a privilege, as we       have learned much about the tradition which we have inherited and were in       danger of losing'; and observes `that the exhibition may have contributed       to Coventry becoming a City of Sanctuary, with a particularly welcoming       atmosphere for asylum seekers' [5.3].
NGOs       The empirical and conceptual findings of this research resonate with       refugee/migration policy-makers and practitioners who are being introduced       to the history of humanitarianism via our collaboration with the Overseas       Development Institute (ODI).
The Senior Research Associate at ODI confirms       `The historical research on population displacements and the humanitarian       responses to them carried out by Professor Gatrell together with Dr Carson       represents a significant addition to the history of humanitarian policies       and practices in relation to displaced people.'
[5.5] An anonymous       Palgrave referee of Warlands stated that it `should certainly be       read and pondered not only by academics [...] but also by members of NGOs       and international agencies confronting the forced movement of peoples on a       global scale in the twenty first century.'
Gatrell has spoken on his       research to audiences including UNHCR staff in Geneva, and his work has       been recommended by the Head of the Policy and Evaluation unit at UNHCR to       the Deputy High Commissioner and Assistant High Commissioner (information       supplied by The Executive Director, Programme for the Study of Global       Migration, The Graduate Institute, Geneva) [5.8].
Carson engaged with NGOs       at a conference in Bergen (2011); both have contributed to events       organised by UoM's HCRI attended by the British Red Cross and other       organisations.
The exhibition on Quaker relief was displayed at the HCRI       conference (`Humanitarianism: past, present and future') in November 2012       where participants included delegates from MSF, ICRC and CAFOD.
The Senior       Research Associate at ODI states: `By establishing the contours and       mainsprings of humanitarian relief efforts in different sites of crisis,       in Europe and further afield during the course of the twentieth century,       their research has clear relevance to NGOs, UN agencies (such as UNHCR,       WFP, UNICEF and IOM) and think-tanks such as ourselves' [5.5].
