     Context:       Public understanding of Scott of the Antarctic was previously conditioned       by the idea that Scott's story was a `myth' created by the British       establishment to conceal Scott's shortcomings and to justify imperialism       and war.
Jones's interventions challenged this view by emphasising the       scientific value of Scott's expeditions, by demonstrating that a phoney       heroism was not created through the censorship of Scott's journals, and by       showing that Scott's reputation was the product of a consensus on the eve       of the First World War, that manliness was forged through struggle.
Pathways to Impact:       Jones undertook to influence the public view of Scott in four principal       ways after publishing his monograph: 1) public lectures; 2) school talks;       3) radio and television broadcasts; 4) involvement in museum exhibitions.
His work has also inspired a stage play.
Publications [3.1] and [3.2]       established his reputation among polar experts as the leading academic       historian of Scott's last expedition [5.10], generating invitations to       lecture, broadcast and collaborate, in particular from the two       institutions that led the extensive centenary celebrations 2010-13, Royal       Geographical Society (RGS) and Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI).
Reach and Significance of the Impact:       Jones's books on Scott are popular, with sales of over 10,000 and 20,000       copies respectively [3.1 and 3.2].
Since The Last Great Quest       appeared in 2003 [3.1], Jones has delivered 23 public lectures on Scott,       over half since 2008, and they have commanded large audiences.
More than       2,000 people listened to Jones lecture at the RGS and during the       subsequent regional tour.
The Head of Research and Higher Education at RGS       stated: `Based on the quality and success of the lecture, Dr Jones was       selected [by the RGS] as the one speaker for the regional theatre tour in       the summer of 2011, presenting extended versions in Brecon, Darlington,       Keswick, King's Lynn, Southampton and Stamford' [5.6].
Jones also lectured       to schools and local history societies, and spoke about the promotion of       science in Scott's last expedition (specifically his collaboration with a       Manchester scientist) at the Manchester Histories Festival (MHF) in March       2012.
Eighty two people attended, journeying from as far as Staffordshire       and Wales, with 85% awarding 5 stars (out of 5) and 37% saying the lecture       was the highlight of their Festival.
`One of our main aims is to reveal       hidden narratives of Greater Manchester's history', writes the Festival       Director, `and this talk definitely helped us to reach this goal' [5.8].
In addition to delivering the keynote lecture at the 3-day `Antarctic       Visions' international conference in Hobart, Tasmania (June 2010), Jones       also staged a public `In Conversation' event about Scott and was       interviewed on Hobart radio.
Jones has been in demand by broadcasters to advise on and contribute to       media representations of Scott, Antarctic exploration, and the history of       masculine heroism.
He acted as the consultant on BBC2's The Secrets of         Scott's Hut TV documentary.
The producer confirms that `Max's book       inspired me to pitch a documentary about Scott to the BBC' [5.7].
Jones       was then approached to discuss heroism during World War Two for the Radio       4 series Amanda Vickery on Men, following which the producers       restructured the series in line with Jones's suggestion that they dedicate       an episode to explorers [5.9].
The ensuing broadcast included an interview       with Jones at `Scott's Last Expedition' at the Natural History Museum.
This exhibition was stimulated by Jones's emphasis on the scientific aims       of Scott's last expedition in his publications and public lectures.
Jones       served as an adviser to the organisers, as well as contributing commentary       on permanent loop in the museum space and on the exhibition website.
The       Exhibition Interpretation Developer states that `87,000 people attended       the Natural History Museum's exhibition in London alone' [5.5].
The       exhibition subsequently went on tour to Australia and New Zealand.
Jones's publications have also inspired a theatrical production.
A       British playwright has written a play inspired by Jones's monograph [3.1],       the first stage-play ever commissioned by the Wales Millennium Centre in       Cardiff.
He states, `My decision to write a play about Captain Scott       resulted directly from my reading of The Last Great Quest' [5.1].
The significance of the impact lies particularly in the three major       changes to public discourse about Scott that have followed these events.
The first concerns Jones's contribution to retrieving Scott's scientific       aims from neglect and placing the scientific achievements of the       expedition at the centre of Scott's remembrance.
The Director of the Sir       Alaster Hardy Foundation for Ocean Science and former Director of the       British Antarctic Survey confirms that `Max's work makes it quite clear       that science was the primary motivation and that there is a significant       scientific legacy' [5.4].
Secondly, Jones has made a major contribution to       the rebuttal of Huntford's extreme representation of Scott as incompetent,       and to the presentation of Scott as a figure who, while not without flaws,       deserves greater respect.
The writer, lecturer and co-ordinator of the       `Scott 100' Centenary Events states that Dr Jones has produced two of the       `3 or 4 key texts' that have challenged Huntford over the last decade.
He       emphasises that Jones's academic credentials enable him to produce       `authoritative research which is accurately footnoted' and has `energised       the field and substantially contributed to the subject' [5.10].
The       Director of the SPRI confirms that Jones's work has played a key role       through `the rebuttal of the Roland Huntford thesis that Scott was an       inept bungler', making a major contribution to the public reappraisal of       Scott over the last decade [5.2].
The Chair of the Friends of SPRI       likewise concludes that `Dr Jones's compelling research is a timely       reminder for those minded to believe Huntford of Scott's remarkable       achievements in Antarctic exploration and science over a significant       number of years at the turn of the 20th Century.'
[5.3].
Thirdly, Jones has made a major contribution to educating the public about       ideas of masculinity and heroism, emphasising the centrality of sacrifice       and struggle to conceptions of heroic masculinity.
A leading historian and       broadcaster confirms that Jones's input `added a new dimension' to her       radio series, revealing how, in Scott's case at least, the fa&#231;ade of the       tough, heroic explorer concealed romantic longing and vulnerability [5.9].
The playwright developing a play on Scott writes, `Inspired by the book,       my play attempts to convey the veneration of sacrifice in Edwardian       culture before the First World War, which Max draws so compellingly'       [5.1].
