     As indicated in section 2 relevant impact relates to two national sport       museums in England and Australia, referred to by the respective       abbreviations NFM and NSM.
Recognition of Hughson's research expertise in       regard to the connection between sport and art in the monograph The         Making of Sporting Cultures has resulted in an honorary consultancy       role with the NFM in regard to the acquisition and display of artworks.
A       significant example is the sculpture Footballeur by Pablo Picasso,       acquired by the NFM on loan in October 2012 for temporary display over a       period of twelve months.
Ahead of the NFM's relocation to the Urbis       Building in Manchester in July 2012, Hughson worked closely with the NFM       Director giving advice on which art and design items to prioritise for       display within relevant sections of the Museum.
Hughson's research on       Nevinson's painting Any Wintry Afternoon in England (1930) was       instrumental in this artwork being sought by the NFM for a period of       temporary exhibition from October 2013.
The painting, normally located in       the Manchester City Art Gallery, was released for public display to the       NFM for a period of one year.
Upon the unveiling of the painting at the       NFM, on 23 October 2013, Hughson gave a welcoming public address, drawing       upon his research, to speak of the painting's cultural significance.
The       display of this painting within the NFM serves an educative role by       bringing the painting to the attention of a section of the public that may       not otherwise see it in the more conventional location of an art gallery.
Hughson's research, with Kevin Moore, into the symbolic significance of       the football shirt worn by Diego Maradona during the controversial       semi-final match between Argentina and England at the 1986 FIFA World Cup       Finals in Mexico has informed the way in which the shirt is now displayed       within the NFM since its relocation to Manchester.
The shirt, on permanent       loan to the NFM from its owner, former England player Steve Hodge, was       that worn by Maradona when he scored two of football's most famous goals,       commonly known as `the hand of God' and the `goal of the century'.
Developed in a way pertinent to a popular audience, the display signage       draws on the argument in the research regarding the `polysemantic' nature       of shirt, i.e.
it is interpreted differently according to the cultural       positioning of the viewer.
The aspects of Hughson's research pertaining to       clothing resulted in an invitation to guest edit and write the       introductory essay to a special issue of the academic journal Costume.
This, in turn, led to an invitation to join the advisory committee for the       NFM's touring exhibition `Strike a Pose: 50 Years of Football and       Fashion'.
Two further aspects of Hughson's research within the monograph The         Making of Sporting Cultures have had an impact outcome in relation       to the NFM.
His discussion in the book of the relevance and justification       of the NFM being located within the Northwest of England informed the       decision-making at the subsequent time when discussion was held regarding       the relocation of the Museum from Preston to Manchester - rather than       London.
Hughson's research in The Making of Sporting Cultures in       regard to the identification of heroes within the history of sport has       underpinned his appointment by the NFM as a historian adviser to the       selection panel for the National Football Hall of Fame.
The impact in this       regard involves Hughson's recommendations for players of the pre-WWII and       immediate post-war era for induction to the Hall of Fame being put to the       selection committee, made up of famous football players, for their final       deliberations on an annual basis.
In September 2013 the NFM became the       only sport museum and collection to receive `Designation' status from the       Arts Council England.
Hughson's active research engagement with the       Museum's collection was highlighted within the successful documentation       submitted in the application.
Hughson's research on Olympic posters, as       outlined in section 2, had an impact benefit in regard to the Call to         the Games: Olympic Posters exhibition held at the NSM during the       time that London staged the Olympic Games in 2012.
Hughson's research       impacted upon the way that school and public educational information was       prepared for the exhibition and during July/August 2012 Hughson visited       the NSM for a three week period as an honorary research consultant, during       which time he gave two public lectures on Olympic posters based on his       research and pertaining to the exhibition.
