     Context: This case focuses on the difficulties faced by the       Lebanese government in drafting a UN-       initiated National Sustainable Development Strategy (NSDS) in July 2011.
It is based upon Obeid's       involvement in this process, both in terms of formal analysis [D] as well       as the utilisation of her       wider approach to studying the state, state-processes and sustainable       development.
Her role was       described by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western       Asia (UN-ESCWA)       as "important in that she was instrumental in bringing the right         stakeholders to the table and         facilitating productive discussions which resulted in a clearer         framework and pathway for inter-ministerial         collaboration in sustainable development in Lebanon" [1].
Like many       countries emerging       from conflict, Lebanon faces the challenge of working towards a national       strategy that integrates       sustainable development alongside peace-building approaches.
Since the       assassination of former       Prime Minister Hariri in 2005, Lebanon's political and social divisions       were exacerbated and this is       reflected in the (in)stability of governments.
Since 2009, two governments       have collapsed before       their expiry date.
These swift changes mean that new governments often       discount the work of       predecessors and set `new' priorities, either replicating efforts or       simply neglecting previous work.
The previous government (2009-2010) had signed an agreement to       collaborate with two UN       organisations &#8212; United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs       (UN-DESA) in New       York [2] and UN-ESCWA in Lebanon &#8212; in the drafting of an NSDS for Lebanon.
However, this       project was neglected with the collapse of the coalition government in       2010.
The new government       remained polarized and the NSDS lost traction.
The key problem was that,       at its inception, the new       government was keen to carry on with national planning in a sound and       sustainable manner, yet       the officials in charge were new to the process and had not yet scoped       previous efforts in this       domain.
When the UN launched a series of meetings with experienced       stakeholders from the civil       service and non-governmental sectors, to proceed with discussions around       the NSDS, there was       little response.
The NSDS required reiterative and cross-sectoral       participation in order to ensure       citizen ownership.
The process was therefore brought to a halt.
Pathways to Impact: Based on background research on the existing       National Strategies since       1991 in the various line ministries [D], and after scoping the processes       undertaken to develop and       draft them, Obeid's first input was to recommend anthropological       approaches and methods that       would `give voice' to the people who are `active agents' in the making of       the state.
Engaging with       them, and exploring their understandings and experiences of state       processes and the sustainability       of planning, would shed light on the steps needed for their ongoing       participation.
Meeting with       several state and non-state actors &#8212; some associated with previous       governments and thus feeling       side-lined -over a period of one month (July 2010), led Obeid to suggest       in her report that various       actors &#8212; particularly civil servants within the government &#8212; were       sceptical of the prospect of drafting       a unified integrated national strategy in the absence of an official       inter-sectoral body that would       monitor the process and mediate the uncertain Lebanese political climate.
There was a fear that       work accomplished under one government would not be recognised by the next       &#8212; which could       discount strategies, plans and even committees as invalid &#8212; unless they       were undertaken within an       infrastructure that was recognised by high-powered office (such as that of       the Prime Minister).
This       situation was primarily due to a schism between higher rank officials and       lower rank civil servants,       an issue that was endemic as the former invariably change when governments       fall, whilst the latter       do not.
Impact: In order to guarantee commitment to contribute to the       process of drafting the NSDS by the       relevant experienced stakeholders (civil servants from line ministries and       representatives of       NGOs), Obeid's report recommended that the UN liaise with the Lebanese         government to         formalise the process by introducing an institutional mechanism that         would ensure that         sustainable development outlooks were respected beyond each change of         government and         that the taskforce would be endorsed officially by the PM's Office in         order for it to have         credibility [1].
Indeed, Obeid and the UN team met with the PM's       representatives, conveying the       need to establish a specialised task-force as a `recommendation to       proceed.'
As confirmed by the       Associate Programme Management Officer, UN-ESCWA: "The Prime Minister's         Office         subsequently assigned a representative who was to attend the scheduled         consultation meetings,         and who announced at the second of these meetings that the Prime         Minister had pledged to create         an official body in due course" [1].
The role played by Obeid, alongside the UN, was henceforth centred upon       attempts to create       appropriate conditions for the drafting of an NSDS for Lebanon.
Once       official support was secured,       Obeid successfully brought together a team of experts from a range of       sectors &#8212; 12 Ministries,       three umbrella NGOs (comprised of NGOs from various regions of the       country), three UN       organisations, the EU and three national environmental NGOs &#8212; most of whom       had been involved       in previous national strategies and were experienced in the area of       planning.
Through two       consultation meetings (September 2010 and May 2011), Obeid and the UN       facilitated a wide-ranging       conversation around the mechanisms needed to work towards an NSDS.
The       experts       were first brought together for a training workshop on sustainable       development planning (as       opposed to the conventional sectoral planning in Lebanon that favoured the       economic pillar).
This       was conducted by Obeid alongside a chosen Consultant, who outlines Obeid's       contribution:     "Obeid recommended that the UN liaise with the Lebanese government to         introduce an         institutional mechanism... Obeid's contribution was important... she         successfully... convened         a broad range of Lebanese stakeholders and ensured that their myriad of         interests in         development are being considered by their peers and their leaders.
And         because of her         expert grasp of development challenges and needs in Lebanon she ensured         that the         technical support of the United Nations provided to the Lebanese NSDS         process was         prudent, appropriate and impactful."
[3]     In a later meeting (September 2011) which Obeid facilitated, the same       group was invited to       highlight national sustainable development priorities.
Recommendations       from the meeting [4] -which       utilised Obeid's report [D] &#8212; fed into a regional Arab Report presented at       the Rio+20 UN       Conference on Sustainable Development in July 2012 [2].
Finally, as the       Sustainable Development       Officer (Division for Sustainable Development), United Nations Department       for Economic and       Social Affairs (UN-DESA) recounts:     "In May 2012 the Prime Minister's Office identified the Ministry of       Environment as the host for       a sustainable development and multi-sectoral taskforce that would take the       lead in identifying       steps to mainstream sustainable development concepts in Lebanon, and to       begin to consider       a National Development Plan... Dr Obeid played a main and instrumental       role in       implementing the UN Secretariat project in Lebanon.
Her research on past       and existing       national policies and strategies relating to economic, social and       environment objectives in the       country along with her recommendations on steps, components and entry       points to       sustainable development planning that fit Lebanon's specific conditions       and circumstances,       and her support to the organization and facilitation of a National       Training Workshop and a       regional awareness workshop ... in the MENA [Middle East and North     Africa] region highly       contributed to the successful implementation of the UN-DESA/ESCWA capacity       building       project in post-conflict Lebanon."
[2]     In conclusion, the impact claimed through this case is a product of       Obeid's research, which was       able to introduce an inclusive participatory process that shed light on       state and non-state actors'       understandings of and relations to state processes.
The       group of experts represented, in       microcosm, a larger constituency in Lebanon that would have to be involved       in the process of       sustainable development planning for it to be conducive to ongoing       peace-building efforts.
Obeid's       recommendations ultimately led to the `making official' of a task-force       that would outlive political       upheavals and the collapse of governments.
