     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S10.
Context     In the 1980s, most asthma patients took short-acting beta agonists, but       by the 1990s treatment of asthma with inhaled corticosteroids and       bronchodilators was fairly well established.
However, little was known       about dosing of inhaled corticosteroids or combining inhaled       corticosteroids with novel long-acting 03b22-agonists.
The       impact of allergen avoidance on allergic diseases was poorly understood.
In COPD, even less was known and no long-term intervention trials with       inhaled therapy had been carried out.
UoM researchers have safely carried out &gt;250 clinical studies.
They       have: played a key role in bringing 15 different inhaled formulations to       the market; managed the switch to CFC-free inhalers for many millions of       patients; and led guidelines that have been very influential for both       physicians and patients (e.g.
Global Initiative for Asthma website had       12,586,493 hits in 2012).
The first Charity-owned 36-bed dedicated       asthma/COPD clinical trial unit, the Medicines Evaluation Unit (MEU,       Director Singh) (S1) is located in Manchester and employs over 80       people.
Discussing the importance of the work carried out at UoM, the       Chief Executive Officer of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) comments: `it is obvious       that a significant contribution to human health has been delivered.
Importantly this contribution has benefited patients in the UK and       globally' (S2).
The key impacts are detailed below.
Reach and significance of the impact     Treating asthma     There are an estimated 300m individuals with asthma worldwide.
The trial       work on inhaled therapies by Woodcock and Singh, as well       as the work on allergen avoidance by Woodcock (with Custovic),       has had significant impact on both the latest revision of the asthma       guidelines from the Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA), published in 2012       (S3) as well other national and international guidelines, including those       of the British Thoracic Society, also published in 2012 (S4).
Woodcock leads the Salford Lung study, the world's first pragmatic       double-blind randomised controlled trial (DBRCT) targeting ~7,000       asthma/COPD patients, to provide data on overall health benefits of       inhaled therapy.
Woodcock with Custovic led the only large       DBRCT on house dust mite avoidance in asthma (2).
This single study       convincingly showed no benefit, and prevented patients and health services       worldwide from wasting &#163;billions on measures (covers ~&#163;200/set; 2m       mite-sensitive asthmatics; 25% uptake; estimated saving &#163;100m/annum in UK       alone, for last 10 years).
Understanding and treating COPD     WHO estimates that there are 210m individuals with COPD worldwide.
The       number is increasing as smoking rates rise in developing countries.
Large       pivotal trials in COPD, many of them led/co-authored by Vestbo,       form the basis for modern management of COPD as reflected in the Global       Initiative for Obstructive Lung Diseases (GOLD) Strategy Document, revised       in 2011 (S5) and the current NICE guidelines for diagnosis and management       of COPD, published in 2010 (S6).
The GOLD guidelines website had over 13m hits in 2012 alone.
Traditional       guidelines focussed on measurements of lung function but current       documents, influenced by Vestbo's research, reflect today's view       of COPD.
Vestbo was appointed head of the Science Committee for       the 2011 revision of the GOLD Strategy document.
This document is changing       the way COPD patients are managed worldwide with a focus on risk       reduction, detection, symptom relief, and management of comorbidities.
This document has inspired numerous national COPD guidelines worldwide       with implications for millions of patients.
The Executive Director of GOLD       underlines the importance of Vestbo's work for patient       care: `[Vestbo's] work has stimulated research scientists and benefitted       patients around the world, including many in the United States.
It has       been a privilege for me [...] to be associated with Dr Vestbo in the GOLD       program where I find his knowledge of airway biology to be outstanding but       perhaps even more important his commitment to take findings from research       to impact on improved care of patients with these chronic lung diseases       sets an example for other clinical scientists.'
(S7)     UoM studies exploring and characterising airways diseases have impacted       on current management of COPD.
Early work from Singh and Vestbo       led a stratified medicine approach to `phenotyping' COPD in 2009-11.
This       change from a `one size fits all' strategy has changed the way the       pharmaceutical industry designs randomised clinical trials in COPD.
For       example, they defined an `exacerbator' phenotype, leading to targeted       preventive strategies with macrolides and novel anti-inflammatories.
Recent COPD guidelines reflect this stratified approach, with treatments       tailored to the patient's clinical phenotype.
In this growing disease       area, these changes are impacting the treatment of millions of patients.
Drug development     Singh's work has directly influenced the drug discovery processes       of many pharmaceutical companies.
For example, his work on p38 MAPK       inhibitors in 2009-12 (S8), in collaboration with industrial partners, has       been pivotal in refocusing the development of these drugs on COPD rather       than other inflammatory diseases; these drugs have progressed to phase 3       studies.
This basic science research, coupled with scientific and       leadership skills in early and late phase clinical trials, has increased       the number of clinical trials performed by the spin-out Medicines       Evaluation Unit (S1), with annual turnover increased from &lt;&#163;2m in 2007       to &gt;&#163;7m in 2012 and staff employment rising from 35 to &gt;80 in 2013.       Notable successes include conduct of the first ever study of inhaled       glycopyrrolate as a bronchodilator (for a UK biotech company) in 2005,       with close involvement in subsequent full development by a major pharma       (2009-2012).
Senior representatives of the pharmaceutical company Almirall       comment that: `the Medicines Evaluation Unit has rapidly become a centre       of reference for early studies with new compounds and mechanisms, and is       highly regarded for its focus on timely delivery and doing good science.'
(S9)     Singh has also been pivotally involved as an investigator and advisor     regarding clinical development and regulatory issues for the bronchodilator     aclidinium in 2007-12.
Both of these medicines are being licensed worldwide     for COPD, and are already impacting on the lives of many millions of     patients.
UoM research and leadership has led to 15 different inhaled drug     formulations getting to market; these treatments are used by most of the     &gt;500m asthma and COPD patients worldwide.
Ensuring safe inhaled medications and protecting the environment     Woodcock's leadership of the Medical Technical Options Committee       to the UNEP Montreal Protocol since 1995 has had a huge impact globally,       with 2015 projected to be the last year of CFC use in inhalers worldwide.
With a final global ban on CFCs, ozone recovery will occur by 2060 and the       worst effects of this chemical on the climate will be prevented.
For these       efforts, Woodcock, as a member of the International Panel for       Climate Change (IPCC), shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.
The Executive       Secretary of the Ozone Secretariat at the United Nations Environment       Programme underlines the importance of this work: `[Woodcock] has       helped the efforts of the international community to promoting effective       cooperation between science, politics, environment and human health.
Prof       Woodcock's contributions to such cooperation has [sic] also helped       the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the       Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, to promote       sustainable development and protect the global environment.
These       contributions have indeed salient benefits for the present and future       generations.'
(S10)     This major step in environmental protection and recovery has taken place       without any harm to the users of inhaled medications.
Indeed, as a result       of the underlying research, ~200m patients with chronic airway disease       have been safely transferred to CFC-free inhalers and can receive even       better inhaled therapy today.
