     Context     Because it established a new generic approach to image interpretation,       our research has achieved       significant impact reaching across multiple domains.
Here we highlight       three:            Printed Circuit Board inspection (with spin-off to Number Plate         Recognition)       Face image analysis       Medical image analysis          In each case, solutions based on statistical models of shape and       appearance offered significant       advantages over previous approaches &#8212; which generally took the form of       expensive to develop and       maintain `hand-crafted' solutions to specific problems.
By learning shape       and appearance from       examples, our approach allows solutions to new problems to be developed       quickly, whilst dealing       reliably with the variability inherent in real data.
Pathways to Impact     Because of the broad potential of the research, we pursued multiple       pathways to impact.
The key       ideas were published and have been adopted widely by the research and       product development       communities.
Some specific developments were patented to provide       protection for       commercialisation partners.
Potential routes to market were explored by       Visual Automation Ltd, a       knowledge exchange incubation company, wholly owned by the University and       embedded in the       research group.
This resulted in University spin-outs Kestra (PCB       inspection), imorphics (medical       image analysis), and Genemation (face image analysis), which between them       raised around &#163;4       million in external investment.
In addition, spin-offs Image Metrics and       Optasia were established       independently by staff and students from the group.
Kestra was       subsequently acquired in a trade       sale by CyberOptics Corporation, a manufacturer of PCB production       equipment, who provided a       route to market.
Printed Circuit Board Inspection and Number Plate Recognition     Surface mount technology (SMT) is one of the key enablers of the consumer       digital electronics       revolution &#8212; driving miniaturisation and cost reduction, through       automation.
Component mounting       errors are, however, relatively common, so virtually all production lines       incorporate automated       optical inspection (AOI) of the finished printed circuit board.
Prior to       our work, AOI systems used       large libraries of handcrafted algorithms to deal with different component       types, with parameters       that had to be tuned carefully to deal with variation in appearance.
Our       technology allowed the       inspection task to be learnt from good examples, dramatically simplifying       set-up and improving       true/false positive ratios.
The technology is now fundamental to       CyberOptics Corporation's AOI       systems, which generated revenues of $28.5m in 2011-2012 inclusive &#8212;       having roughly doubled       over the REF period &#8212; with around 750 new installations between 2008-2012       [A].
Starting in 2010, 4Sight Imaging, a spin-off from the       University-Cyberoptics team, has adapted the       AOI technology for use in automatic number plate recognition.
Although       this is a relatively mature       market, the superior performance of their model-based system saw the       installed base grow to       around 100 systems (~&#163;1m revenue) by February 2013, more than 60 in the       year 2012/13 &#8212; with       applications in police intelligence and parking management [B].
Medical Image Analysis     Sophisticated medical imaging methods have become ever more widely       available, resulting in a       flood of data and creating a demand for medical image analysis methods to       extract information       automatically.
Image segmentation &#8212; identifying and extracting the       boundaries (surfaces in 3D) of       specific anatomical/pathological structures &#8212; is a key underpinning       technology.
Our research       established a new segmentation paradigm, exploiting anatomical knowledge       learnt from training       images, which has been applied by major medical imaging companies       (Siemens, Philips, GE) [E,       F] and specialist SMEs &#8212; with both economic and healthcare benefits.
We       provide illustrative       examples.
Imorphics: Orthopaedics and Image-Guided Intervention     Spin-out imorphics has a turnover of around &#163;1m pa &#8212; based directly on       our research &#8212; and       works       with major companies in pharma, orthopaedics and image-guided       intervention.
In Rheumatoid       Arthritis it currently provides the image analysis technology underpinning       critical drug trials for four       global pharmaceutical companies, including a trial of a potential       blockbuster drug.
Here the use of       automated model-based analysis achieves levels of sensitivity and       specificity not previously       available, allowing inferences regarding treatment effect to be made from       much smaller trials, with       significant time and cost savings.
In orthopaedics, a global supplier of       prostheses has invested       around &#163;2m with imorphics over the assessment period to develop technology       for designing       patient-specific surgical jigs from 2-view radiographs, for a knee       replacement system due to enter       clinical service in late 2013.
In image-guided intervention, global       engineering company Renishaw       is using imorphics technology routinely in robotic stereotactic       neurosurgery &#8212; to provide navigation       from MRI scans to place deep-brain stimulation electrodes in the       sub-thalamic nuclei and, currently       in clinical trials, to provide targeted delivery of pharmaceuticals       directly into brain.
More       fundamentally, a leading medical device company is using imorphics       technology as the basis for a       comprehensive image-guided surgical planning package for a new generation       of surgical robots       due for high-profile launch in 2014 [C].
Visiana: Bone Age Measurement     About 5% of children attend a paediatric endocrinology clinic, at some       point, for investigation of       possible growth disorders.
Of these, around 1 in 50 receives expensive       treatment with Human       Growth Hormone, typically increasing quality-adjusted life years by around       5.
Bone age (BA &#8212; a       measure of developmental age), relative to chronological age, is a key       factor in the decision to       treat.
The standard clinical work-up involves visual assessment of BA from       a hand radiograph, but       can easily involve errors of 1.2 years (2 SDs).
The poor precision, and       need for specialist       expertise, limit the confidence with which treatment decisions can be       made, and inhibit the       development of assessment services.
Visiana's BoneXpert system, which       automates the       assessment of BA from hand radiographs, depends critically on the use of       AAMs.
It produces       more reliable estimates of BA, reducing errors to around 0.4 years (2       SDs), without requiring       specialist expertise.
It was launched in September 2011, and by April 2013       had been adopted by       22 major childrens' hospitals across northern Europe (increasing by around       1 per month), currently       conducting around 13,500 diagnoses per annum [D].
Siemens: 3D Cardiac Ultrasound     Advances in medical image acquisition have been dramatic over the past       decade.
In order to       exploit new capabilities effectively, leading medical imaging companies       increasingly embed       automated analysis facilities in their systems, and have made extensive       use of ASM/AAMs.
A       concrete example is 3D/4D (real-time 3D) cardiac ultrasound.
The       technology for imaging the 3D       structure of the beating heart, in real-time, reached maturity around       2005, but the raw data is       exceptionally difficult to interpret.
Consequently, embedded image       segmentation is essential to       realising a clinically usable system, allowing structured visualisation       (via surface rendering), and       providing quantitative information (eg ejection fraction).
Because it       provides a non-invasive method       of accurately assessing cardiac function, this has become the       investigation of choice for cardiac       patients &#8212; with significant healthcare benefits (that are, however,       difficult to quantify).
The Siemens       3D/4D cardiac ultrasound product uses image segmentation based directly on       ASM/AAMs [F].
The       company has a 12% share ($150m pa) of the rapidly growing global 3D/4D       market of $1.25bn pa &#8212; with       cardiac imaging the dominant application.
Face Image Analysis     AAMs and ASMs have been used extensively for face tracking and       recognition, where the ability to       model variability due to person, viewing conditions and expression are       critical.
Below we provide       illustrative examples.
Microsoft Kinect and GE     Microsoft Kinect for Windows (KfW &#8212; a variant of the Xbox Kinect 3D       sensor) was launched in       2011, targeting companies developing interactive products and services.
Current partners include       Nissan, Boeing, Pepsi, Siemens, Bloomingdale's, and Mattel, and the device       is sold in 39       territories world-wide.
Microsoft supply a software development kit (SDK)       for the KfW, providing       access to high-level user interface functions, including AAM-based face       tracking.
By February       2013, there had been 500k downloads of the SDK [G].
GE have also used AAMs       in face tracking       and analysis in contracts for GE businesses and government customers [E].
Film and Computer Game Production     Image Metrics (now Faceware Technology), established by PGR students       Gareth Edwards and       Kevin Walker, uses ASM/AAM-based technology for facial motion capture in       film and video game       production.
Examples over the assessment period include feature films The         Wolfman (2010), The         Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor (2008), Meet Dave (2008),       The Curious Case of Benjamin         Button (2009 &#8212; Academy Award for Visual Effects), and computer games       Grand Theft Auto IV       (2009 - $500 million sales in first week) and Red Dead Redemption       (2010 &#8212; more than 5 million       copies in its first two weeks).
In 2011 (most recent accounts publicly       available) Image Metrics'       revenues were $7 million pa [H].
Similarly, researchers at Carnegie Mellon       University (Baker, now       Microsoft; Matthews, now Disney), who developed efficient implementations       of the AAM, licensed       their work to Weta, where they developed the facial motion capture for       feature films Avatar (2009 &#8212; Academy       Award for Visual Effects), The Adventures of Tintin (2011), and Rise         of the Planet of the         Apes (2011) [I].
