     Like spoken languages, sign languages can become endangered and extinct       due to several factors       such as language contact and lack of recognition.
The endangerment of sign       languages, previously       largely ignored, has been brought to the forefront of attention through       work at iSLanDS.
The EuroBABEL project "Endangered sign languages in village communities"       (2008-2013) has led       to engagement with international bodies at the highest levels.
In June       2011, the project led to PI       Zeshan being invited to join a meeting of experts on language endangerment       hosted at UNESCO       in Paris.
The expert group had been working since 2003 and had produced       the important Atlas of         the World's Languages in Danger (in print and as a web database).
However, no sign languages       were represented, and most members of the expert group were not aware of       sign languages also       being endangered.
After Zeshan gave a plenary presentation on sign       language endangerment at       UNESCO, it was decided to include sign languages in the online database       and the next print       edition with a dedicated chapter, to be authored by Zeshan.
Consultancy on       endangered sign       languages for UNESCO is channelled through the Foundation for Endangered       Languages (FEL),       and the first data sets have been submitted for inclusion in the online       version of the Atlas.
This       activity has since expanded to include urban sign languages, some of which       are becoming       endangered too.
Through the international committee coordinated by       iSLanDS, an increasing       number of concerned sign linguistics and deaf organisations have been in       contact to provide data       for inclusion in the Atlas.
The committee ensures the academic       rigour of these data and their       classification into categories of increasing endangerment, as inclusion in       this project under a       UNESCO umbrella can be a very valuable campaigning and lobbying tool for       concerned deaf       communities.
This work proceeds in consultation with the World Federation of the Deaf,       facilitated by the fact       that several iSLanDS members serve on WFD expert committees.
In November       2011, Zeshan and       Dikyuva were invited to present at a conference on "Sign languages as       endangered languages"       hosted by the World Federation of the Deaf (WFD) and the European Union of       the Deaf (EUD) in       Al, Norway.
Zeshan then worked with the sign linguistics expert group of       the WFD, as well as with       other colleagues in sign linguistics, to adapt the UNESCO questionnaire on       language       endangerment to the particular situation of sign languages.
This       questionnaire was used to gather       data on endangered sign languages and to analyse them before preparing       them for inclusion in the       UNESCO Atlas.
In addition, iSLanDS has been using a range of channels to raise public       awareness about the       issue of sign language endangerment.
This has included media engagement       (e.g.
article in the       Boston Globe, interview with BBC Radio 4); a video display on sign       language endangerment at the       iSLanDS 5-year anniversary, which was organised for the general public;       and organisation of an       exhibition at the EuroBABEL final conference in Leiden, NL, which was       attended by both       academics and policy-makers.
The iSLanDS team twice participated with a       stall in the Endangered       Languages Week, a public event organised at the School of Oriental and       African Languages in       London, and Zeshan gave a public lecture at one of these occasions.
It has also been important to publicise the value of these minority sign       languages in those       countries where iSLanDS members have been engaged in fieldwork.
In the       village of Alipur in       South India, Panda organised several workshops for the local community,       which led to the opening       of a School for the Deaf, and the broadcast of Alipur signs on the local       TV channel.
In 2013, he       visited the village with a documentary film maker, and the raw footage for       a documentary film about       the community, the deaf people in the village and their sign language, has       been shot.
Dikyuva and       Zeshan held several internal workshops with the users of Mardin Sign       Language (MarSL) in Turkey       to raise their awareness about the value of their language, including       plans for a MarSL website.
In       February 2013, they presented results of the MarSL project together with       five elderly users of       MarSL at Ankara University; this was the first time that the MarSL       community members were       instrumental in presenting their own language and culture to the public.
Dikyuva also presented a       session on MarSL to 70 deaf delegates at a national meeting of the Turkish       National Deaf       Federation.
In the village of Chican on the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico,       fieldwork researcher       Escobedo Delgado consulted with the local community on practical outcomes       from the EuroBABEL       project, and as the community wished to produce a dictionary of Chican       signs, he has been       working with the Ishara Press in the Netherlands on a dictionary project.
In the village of Alipur in India, we were drawing on the experience of       de Vos in Bali, where, prior to       her post at iSLanDS, she had been instrumental in setting up a deaf       classroom within the local       primary school, in order to provide basic education to the village's deaf       children.
Panda emulated       this model and has worked with the community elders in Alipur, with the       aim to provide schooling       for deaf children in Alipur.
The Unity School for the Deaf was established       in 2010 with 17 deaf       children, providing access to education for deaf children for the first       time within Alipur.
The village       is now considering a different model, integrating the deaf children into a       larger school by setting up       a specialist deaf classroom.
The acquisition of literacy by the deaf       children has enabled significant       benefits in their lives and this has filtered through to deaf adults too,       who are now able to use SMS       messaging.
One of the deaf young men who has worked with Panda as a       research assistant for       several years is now looking for options for admission to university.
This       kind of local capacity       building is at the heart of our approach to social impact of our research.
We aim to work with deaf       academics from the target countries where we work so that they can take       leading roles in local       empowerment initiatives.
