     Context     An oilfield reservoir has soured when an increased concentration of       hydrogen sulphide H2S is observed in production fluids.
This foul smelling       and corrosive `sour gas' is toxic to life and liable to cause cracking and       pitting of susceptible steels [S1], leading to the failure of hydrocarbon       pipelines both on land and subsea which can have a catastrophic impact       upon both the environment and the Operators' (oil companies) public       reputation.
Reservoirs are categorised as either `sweet' or `sour', and       the origin of H2S from an erstwhile sweet reservoir is linked to secondary       oil recovery, in which (sea)water is injected into the reservoir to       maintain pressure.
Prior to our mathematical modelling the phenomenon of souring was not       understood and, accordingly, remediation measures were poorly targeted,       expensive and usually ineffective.
Only after the advent of our robust       physical and numerical model was it possible for the Operator to identify       the appropriate, targeted, prevention methodology and/or remediation       treatment.
By 1993, the results of a previous statistical analysis of Oilfield       Reservoir Souring had demonstrated strong correlations between seawater       injection parameters and subsequent souring; more specifically those       conditions which created a `downhole' environment in which anaerobic       sulphate-reducing bacteria could live.
This was reinforced by field       evidence.
Based on these data, our research led to the development of a       biogenic souring model to explain unexpected increasing concentrations of       H2S in produced fluids.
Pathways to Impact     The initial modelling work was carried out as part of the UK Oilfield       Reservoir Souring Programme at CAPCIS (Dr Robert Eden) and UMIST (Prof       Patrick Laycock) and funded by the oil and gas industry.
The very nature       of the project ensured a swift introduction of the souring prediction       algorithms based on our models into the industry.
The early model       forecasts were subsequently validated through field evidence and lead to       the model's wider dissemination and use.
In 2000 Rawwater Engineering Company Limited was established and the       originators of the DynamicTVS&#169; model, Laycock and Eden were granted title       to commercialise it.
The research has followed a continuous development       line funded by Operator money initially through the multiclient programmes       and the UK Department of Energy, and then by single client studies.
The sponsors are now well represented in the Forbes 500 companies, and       beyond, including BP, BG Energy Holdings Limited, Braspetro Petrobras       Internacional S.A., ConocoPhillips, Chevron Corporation, Hoang Long JOC,       Ithaca Energy UK Ltd, Lundin ASA, M&#230;rsk Olie og Gas AS, Nexen Inc,       Petro-Canada Inc., Rhodia UK Ltd, Saudi Aramco, Statoil ASA, Tullow Oil UK       (Ltd) and Yara International ASA.
Much of the work is necessarily confidential and so has unfortunately not       been available for publication.
However, the track record and positive       reputation of the model and the technology has enabled Rawwater       Engineering Company Limited to market the model's on-going development and       exploitation through industry contacts and its internet presence [S2].
Reach and Significance of the Impact     The founding of Rawwater was a direct consequence of the understanding       gained from our research.
The company has built and operates the World's       largest facility to study biogenic souring under simulated reservoir       conditions using a suite of pressurised, flowing, sand-packed bioreactors,       whose design was directly influenced by the research.
The only two souring forecasting models in common usage in the Oil       Industry today are Rawwater's DynamicTVS&#169;, a direct consequence of our       research, and a more recent model SourSim&#169;, released in 2006, which uses       many of the ideas that we developed, and data from Rawwater's bioreactor       suite.
SourSim&#169; is only available to a restricted set of Operators for       incorporation in their existing reservoir simulation packages, but       DynamicTVS&#169; is commercially available to the entire global community (and       therefore all potential beneficiaries of the research).
The research has had impact in the period 2008 - 2013 by providing       revenue for Rawwater, with 10 associated jobs, and also by providing the       Operators with assistance in souring management.
One of the `big five'       Operators reports that today the cost of souring and its control consumes       1/3 of the production budget, and this same company has set aside $50M for       souring research over the next ten years [S3].
With respect to impact of the DynamicTVS&#169; model upon the Operators, the       figure is difficult to calculate.
For example, the specification of sour       service materials, which resist cracking, will add 10% to the pipeline       inventory costs (typically an additional US$1m per well).
Since 2008,       DynamicTVS&#169; has been used by 12 Operators to either save costs against       unnecessary treatments or to identify appropriate mechanisms to control       souring (costs can be in the range of US$1M &#8212; US$10m per annum per       `typical' reservoir).
This, in turn, has a direct impact upon `lifting       costs', oil quality and profit margin, but the precise details are       commercially sensitive and not available for public scrutiny.
Nonetheless       an approximate calculation gives a net saving over the REF period of 12       operators x 6 years x US$5m /year = US$360m.
We can also describe an illustrative case study: in 2012 the output of       the model was used to demonstrate that an Operator should not take       delivery of a US$100m sulphate-removal plant allocated to the field for       biologenic souring control.
The model forecast that the field would not go       sour and hence this sulphate-removal technology was inappropriate, despite       the Contractor's insistence to the contrary.
At a high level internal       Operator meeting, the results of the model were endorsed by Contractor       representatives and the sulphate-removal plant remained unsold [S2, S3].
