     Context       The life of Mieczys&#322;aw Weinberg illuminates our understanding of cultural       responses to the mass migration provoked by the Second World War.
Following his flight from Poland to Soviet Belo-Russia, Uzbekistan and       finally Moscow, Weinberg's experiences led him to produce vocal and stage       works that number among the finest musical commemorations of the       Holocaust.
Weinberg's music is now recognised to be of far greater range,       social resonance and intrinsic value than had been previously realised       thanks to the work of Professor Fanning and the performances by Quatuor       Danel.
The important influences that Weinberg had on his friend and mentor       Shostakovich and others are also now recognised.
Pathways to Impact       The research was disseminated and promoted through a wide variety of       sources, including scholarly publications such as a monograph (796 copies       sold June 2010-December 2012), essays and conference papers.
It has also       been published in CD booklet essays and newspaper articles.
There have       also been various recordings and performance events in national and       international venues.
All performances referred to here were given to       non-academic audiences in commercial settings.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     Impact on public knowledge of Mieczys&#322;aw Weinberg       Before Professor Fanning's research there was just one book on Weinberg &#8212;       a specialised study in Russian, dealing with 10 symphonies &#8212; and no       scholarly articles.
Recordings of his music were also limited in number.
Roughly four times as many CDs are now available, of which most are       directly or indirectly connected to the research.
Professor Fanning's       publications on Weinberg are seen as essential sources.
Gramophone       said his work "Will serve as the key reference point for enthusiasts and       skeptics alike" (February 2011) and BBC Music Magazine wrote "A       totally sympathetic yet balanced appraisal of this highly significant       figure... Fanning's book is a voyage of discovery... his enthusiasm is       vividly conveyed" (December 2010).
Professor Fanning has also contributed to commercial documentaries by       &#214;sterreichischer Rundfunk (2010) and Neos (DVD/BluRay issue of Weinberg's       opera, The Passenger &#8212; NEOS 51005, 2010).
Broadcasters and journalists routinely refer to Professor Fanning's       writings as their principal source of information.
For example, a       journalist from The New Yorker says: "It is difficult to think of       another example of scholarly work having such immediate impact on the       repertory of ensembles and opera houses around the world... only when I       came across Fanning's researches, the quartet performances that the Danels       executed under his supervision, and, perhaps, most importantly, the       masterly Holocaust opera The Passenger, which Fanning translated and       helped to ready for performance, did I take the measure of Weinberg's       extraordinary gifts."
[5.1] Fanning's public talks relating to Weinberg's       work have occurred with Quatuor Danel at the University of Manchester.
There have also been talks with Weinberg's friend Tommy Persson [5.5], the       composer Reinhard Flender and at the Royal Northern College of Music and       Opera North.
His talks on Weinberg have also proved popular at the German       festivals Bregenzer Festspiele and Gohrisch Festival.
[5.8]     Impact on music       The Quatuor Danel's performance of Weinberg's 17 string quartets in       November 2009 attracted an audience of 751 people from Sweden, USA,       France, Belgium, Holland, Germany and the UK to the University of       Manchester's Martin Harris Centre of Music and Drama [5.2].
The       group also performed the complete cycle in Belgium in 2011.
Before that       Quatuor Danel performed Weinberg's quartets individually at the University       of Manchester from 2008-2011 (10 concerts, averaging 125 attendees each       [5.2], including 10 UK and 5 world premieres) and then more widely in 57       European and UK concerts (2008-11).
The University of Manchester Quartet cycle (and Lady Magnesia)       were nominated as the `most adventurous programming [in the UK] of 2009'       by Ivan Hewett in The Daily Telegraph.
The first volume of CD       recordings of the cycle (2007-2012) was nominated by BBC Music Magazine as       `Chamber CD of the month' (March 2008, p. 72; magazine circulation       47,091).
Record companies in the UK, Germany, Sweden and Switzerland (Chandos       [5.3], CPO, BIS, Divox, and Toccata Classics [5.4]) have published booklet       essays by Professor Fanning accompanying their CDs of Weinberg's music.
BIS and Divox reported sales of 1390 and 993 units respectively, as of Oct       2011.
The companies have also drawn on his advice over repertoire and       scores, described as "a vital element in the success of the recordings".
[5.4]     Impact on musicians       The significance of the research is evident through its promotion of, and       influence on, performances of Weinberg's works.
It has enabled       professional music organisations to provide innovative programmes for       their audiences.
For example:            Professor Fanning's translation was used in preparation for the world         premiere of Weinberg's Requiem by the Royal Liverpool         Philharmonic Orchestra (RLPO) in 2009 [5.7].
His singing translation of Lady Magnesia led to the world         premiere of this opera [5.7], conducted by Clark Rundell (RLPO, 2010).
His literal translation for the opera The Passenger formed the         basis of David Pountney's libretto for the English National Opera's         production in 2011.
[5.8]       His research on Weinberg's The Portrait influenced the         Bulgarian conductor Rossen Gergov's approach to this opera which was         performed by the Bregenzer Festspiele in August 2010 and Opera North in         February 2011.
Professor Fanning's research has also impacted on performers' choice and       interpretation of repertoire.
For example, the American pianist Allison       Brewster Franzetti has recorded the complete works of Weinberg's piano       music on four Naxos CDs [5.6].
Recent and forthcoming premieres of operas in Germany and Houston (where       Professor Fanning is an invited speaker) testify to the growing       international reverence for Weinberg.
A large part of this new-found       interest is as a result of the Manchester research.
