     Context     Professor Cooper's Beethoven work embraced both biography and musical       interpretation.
It has       adopted an entirely fresh approach, often operating at the interface       between these two areas,       where previous studies were shown to be inadequate in many ways.
His       sonatas edition provides a       good example.
Subsequently his research widely impacts upon music making,       professional       practice and public appreciation and understanding of Beethoven's life and       work.
Pathways to Impact     The research has appeared in leading publications in the field and has       fed into numerous       programme notes, CD liner notes, lectures, pre-concert talks, radio       programmes and       performances.
As well as incorporating expert knowledge these outputs       often include Professor       Cooper's own insights, making a significant difference to the accuracy and       depth of the available       Beethoven knowledge.
His research has also impacted on the public       perception of Beethoven and       his music, in particular through his highly distinctive edition of 35       piano sonatas.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     Impact resulting from a new performance edition     The biggest impact of Professor Cooper's research has resulted from his       work on Beethoven's       piano sonatas, published in his own edition and with commentary.
The       edition was launched in       December 2007 at the Wigmore Hall in London to an audience of well over       200 people.
The       significance of its impact can be judged partly from the award of `Best       Classical Publication 2008'       from the Music Industries Association, the award of `Best Sheet Music       Edition 2008' from       International Piano Magazine and a half-page article on Professor       Cooper's work in The New York         Times in 2008.
[5.10]     The main impacts of the edition are:            Since 2009 an acclaimed British pianist has been recording the         complete cycle of 35 sonatas,         not just the usual 32, using Professor Cooper's edition.
He states that         "this edition is now the         benchmark for all other editions of these works, as the meticulous         scholarship of [Prof] Cooper has         brought to light many important details hitherto glossed over."
[5.1]       It has been used as the basis for live performances of all 35 sonatas         in London by another         acclaimed British pianist during 2011 and 2012 (he states that "Cooper's         research has undoubtedly         influenced and informed my own performance practice of Beethoven's         works, as well as that of my         students, colleagues and amateurs") [5.3] and for a series of         master-classes led by Professor         Cooper at the Musikeon in Valencia, Spain in 2010 and 2012.
Two movements from Professor Cooper's edition were included in ABRSM's         Grade 8 piano         exam syllabus for 2009-10 and another two for 2011-12.
ABRSM's graded         exams are taken in over         90 countries, meaning that children and adult learners of the piano         around the world are benefiting         directly from the research by having a better text and performance         advice available.
[5.2]       Professor Cooper's edition as a whole, or portions of it, has achieved         substantial sales.
It has         also been published in German, and a Chinese edition published under         licence by the Shanghai         Music Publishing House in 2010 generated additional income for ABRSM         [5.2].
Impact on recordings and performances     Professor Cooper's reconstruction of the original slow movement of       Beethoven's Quartet Op.
18       No.
2 was reported around the world when it was performed by the       Brussels-based string quartet       Quatuor Danel in September 2011.
It featured in 19 radio and television       broadcasts, including       reports by the BBC, CBS and PBS, and in more than 100 global newspaper       articles.
The coverage       recognises the significant cultural impact that making an extra Beethoven       piece available for       performance and recording has.
A recording was broadcast in full on BBC       Radio 3 on the day of       the first performance, with excerpts presented on other radio stations       including Radio 4 [5.4].
Several ensembles have requested sets of parts to enable them to perform       the piece, notably a       leading British string quartet, the Belcea Quartet, who hold concerts       around the world [5.5].
Professor Cooper's discovery and performance of Beethoven's hymn `Pange       lingua' in 2012 had       similar media coverage and cultural impact.
Impact on the public knowledge of Beethoven     Concert Programme notes     Since 2008 Professor Cooper has contributed many sets of programme notes.
For example, in       2008 his notes appeared in programme booklets for eight BBC Promenade       Concerts at the Royal       Albert Hall.
The hall capacity is 5,544, and that year average attendance       was 90% of capacity, so       the programme booklets were read by potentially 40,000 people.
Excerpts       from the printed       programme are often summarised in the radio announcements too, reaching a       potential audience       of around 16 million, who benefit from the increased understanding of and       insight into the works       they were listening to [5.6].
Proms programme notes were also written from       2009-13.
Other notable       programme notes have been written for the Brighton Festival 2010, the 2010       Three Choirs Festival       in Gloucester, the Halle Orchestra and the Edinburgh International       Festival.
CD liner notes     CD liner notes written by Cooper have appeared for over a dozen       recordings, including those in       boxed sets, within the specified period.
Two of the most notable are the       complete Beethoven       symphonies as conducted by Osmo V&#228;nsk&#228; and the complete Beethoven piano       concertos played       by Ronald Brautigam, conducted by Andrew Parrott and issued by BIS Records       between 2008 and       2011 (more than 137,000 copies sold) [5.7].
Public Lectures     Professor Cooper's research on Beethoven's life and works has had a very       extensive reach,       interpreting cultural heritage for the benefit of many audiences external       to universities.
Key       examples include the 2008-9 year-long celebration `Beethoven Unwrapped' at       Kings Place in       London.
19 lectures were given by Professor Cooper, supported by other       specialists of his choice.
Professor Cooper has also held pre-concert talks for Manchester Camerata       and other orchestras.
Further afield he has spoken at concerts given by the Vanbrugh Quartet in       Cork, the BBC Scottish       Symphony Orchestra in Glasgow and the City of Birmingham Symphony       Orchestra ("Cooper's two       talks were each attended by at least 300 members of the general public       [several of whom]       commented to our staff about how helpful and interesting they found the       talks, and urged us to       book him again") [5.8].
Cooper was invited to be one of the main speakers       at the 2012 Musical       Brain "The Beethoven Question: Can Art Make Life Worth Living?"
conference at the Southbank       Centre, London.
In feedback questionnaires, numerous attendees cited       Professor Cooper's       contributions as their highlight [5.9].
