     Context: Prior to the GMC concerns had been raised and various       strategies used to improve       educational standards in the region, particularly amongst children and       young people from       disadvantaged backgrounds.
The GMC was a three-year project, involving a       partnership between       ten local authorities and 1,150 schools, with an investment of &#163;50       million, and as such it was a       major political, financial and symbolic investment to improve urban       education.
The programme of       research developed over time by Professor Ainscow and colleagues       demonstrated the       effectiveness of strategies that could be used within schools, networks of       schools, and the larger       school system to improve learning outcomes in areas of economic and social       disadvantage.
Pathways to impact: following the approach outlined in REF3a, this       case study illustrates       primarily a constructivist change model, which produced technical evidence       that was       communicated to and used by local and national governments, and the       profession.
Consequently,       design and development was in partnership with professionals and/or       policymakers in ways that       were intended to contribute directly to improvements within particular       sites, whilst at the same time       generating understandings that could be communicated and contribute to       system wide       development.
A number of projects were funded by the UK government with       team members in       regular dialogue with civil servants and in occasional discussions with       ministers.
The production of       written reports supported by meetings enabled the translation and       transmission of the partnership       process and outcomes to funding teams in the Department and/or National       College, and       importantly the connections between projects through building a cumulative       evidence base could       be made.
This approach to research legibility enabled the government as       `user' to engage       productively with the research and this impacted on decision-making.
Professor Ainscow was       invited by ministers to lead the GMC and support for this continued under       the Coalition from 2010       until 2011.
The major investment in the GMC was directly focused on making       interventions informed by the       research undertaken by the team at Manchester.
Projects involved local       interventions [2.1, 2.2, 2.3,       2.4, 2.6] and the Nottingham project [2.1] was a city-wide initiative that       focused on school-to-school       collaboration and so helped to develop the `learning through enquiry'       approach adopted in the       GMC.
Dissemination through reports e.g.
to the Department as funders [2.4,       2.5, 2.7], and talks at       professional conferences has enabled this research to be accessible to       decision-makers at       national and local levels.
Once the GMC was set up, pathways to impact       were planned through       research and development activities.
These plans were developed and       enacted through meetings       where research evidence was examined, and new interventions where planned,       monitored and       evaluated.
Recognition of the value of these approaches led to a decision       by professionals to       commit to and invest in the continued use of structured collaboration that       have been sustained       after the completion of the GMC.
The effectiveness of the change model has       been confirmed: "...in       Greater Manchester, a great deal of effort was made to secure local buy-in       and a willingness to       collaborate across the whole area... this preliminary work generally paid       off in terms of local       commitment to the Challenge [5.12, p10].
The outcomes from the GMC have       been disseminated       and used to improve practice and have helped shape on-going national       policy.
Reach and Significance: the research reached national government       and importantly led to a       major policy commitment and financial investment in the GMC, and the       outcomes of the GMC have       continued to influence national government policy, and regional       professional collaborations and       practices.
This is presented in four inter-linked impacts:     Policy Impact 1: the decision to set up the GMC was informed by       the `learning through enquiry'       approach to the generation and use of research undertaken at Manchester.
Specifically, the       Labour Government showed a commitment to evidence informed policy and       practice, and witness       statements show that decision-making in regard to the leadership and       design of the GMC was       influenced by the programme of research [5.1,5.2,5.3].
A government       minister states "I was       involved in the appointment of Professor Mel Ainscow as Chief Adviser for       the Greater Manchester       Challenge, a decision that was informed by the research findings and       impact strategy of the team       at the University of Manchester" [5.3], and a second minister states: "I       worked closely with       Professor Ainscow who took up the role of Chief Adviser.
This led him to       co-ordinate the       development of our strategy for improving the performance of schools       across the city region.
This       drew on extensive research that he and his colleagues had conducted at the       University of       Manchester regarding the improvement of urban schools" [5.2].
Educational impact: the research within the GMC led to overall       improvements; for example,       primary schools now outperform national averages on the tests taken by all       children in England.
In       2011, secondary schools in Greater Manchester improved faster in Key Stage       4 examinations than       schools nationally, with the schools serving the most disadvantaged       communities making three       times more improvement than schools across the country.
During the same       period, the number of       schools below the Government's floor standard decreased more than it did       in other areas of the       country.
In addition, the proportion of `good' and `outstanding' schools,       as determined by the       national inspection system, increased, despite the introduction of a more       challenging framework       [5.11].
To ensure the continued inter-relationship between research       evidence and educational       interventions after the GMC a Partnership Board was established, which       includes University       representation.
An agency led by 25 outstanding headteachers, `By Schools       for Schools', is now       responsible for managing these activities, and they are building on       research evidence in order to       develop a self-improving system.
There is strong political support within       the city region, and each       of the ten authorities has redesigned its arrangements for supporting       school improvement [5.4,       5.6].
For example, a Director of Children's Services confirms that "from       discussion with my       colleagues across Greater Manchester I am aware that many continue to take       into account       Professor Ainscow and his team's work" and "this has also led to the       creation of a Partnership       Board that continues to co-ordinate collaboration across Greater       Manchester" [5.5].
Professional impact: research within the GMC led to the movement       of expertise through the       `Teaching Schools' strategy [5.11].
Analogous to teaching hospitals, these       provided research-based       professional development programmes focused on bringing about improvements       in       classroom practice.
Between 2010 and 2011 over 1,000 teachers from across       the city region took       part in these programmes [5.11].
Importantly, there is strong evidence of       mutual benefit in this       approach &#8212; it had a positive impact on the quality of classroom practice       and student learning in both       the schools receiving support and within the teaching schools themselves       [5.11].
A further       professional impact has been on the attitudes and roles of headteachers,       particularly those who       lead successful schools, indeed a headteacher states "my personal       experience is that there is a       widespread awareness of Professor Ainscow and his team's research across       the education system       where it impacts daily on the quality of classroom practice and student       learning" [5.4].
Some 170       became formally designated as system leaders, supporting the improvement       of other schools,       particularly those facing challenging circumstances [5.4, 5.6].
For       example, a headteacher states:       "in developing these innovatory approaches, Professor Ainscow encouraged       and supported us in       using research in order to learn from these experiences and draw       conclusions that could be used       to strengthen our efforts.
As a result, the Greater Manchester education       system has developed an       increased capacity to analyse contexts and mobilise available resources to       support interventions in       challenging circumstances" [5.4].
Policy Impact 2: the lessons from the use of research evidence to       inform the setting up and       development of the GMC have shaped thinking and discourse within national       policymaking across       the political divide.
A Labour minister acknowledges the importance of       "research-based       professional development progammes focused on bring about improvements in       classroom       practice" and how "the lessons from Professor Ainscow and his team's       research were significant".
The minister goes on to say that "subsequently the ideas from the Greater       Manchester Challenge       have influenced national policy" [5.2].
This includes the Coalition       government from 2010 [5.7],       where many research informed strategies, e.g.
`school-to-school       partnerships', `teaching schools',       `system leaders' and `families of schools', are mentioned in the 2010       White Paper [5.8].
On 11th       June 2011 the Secretary of State for Education, Michael Gove, gave a       speech where he argued       that, in order to address the issue of educational underperformance,       particularly amongst       disadvantaged groups of learners, there is a need to develop a `culture of       collaboration' &#8212; an idea       influenced by the programme of research.
With this in mind, he noted that       it was good to see the       development of more networks of schools and the expansion of teaching       schools, and to see how       efforts are being made to `embed the success of the Greater Manchester       Challenge' [5.9].
Echoing similar ideas, in a speech on 13th November 2012, the       former Shadow Secretary of State,       Stephen Twigg, also made reference to building on the progress in Greater       Manchester,       emphasising in particular the idea of `evidence-based collaboration'       [5.10], and a former Under-Secretary       of State states: "many of the strategies used, such as school-to-school       partnerships,       teaching schools, system leaders and families of schools are now seen to       be important to Labour's       future education policy" [5.1].
In summary, the research by Professor Ainscow and team has had reach and       significance within       and beyond Greater Manchester.
The research ensured that the University of       Manchester is       recognised as a field leader in educational, school and systemic       improvement and so led to       Ainscow being appointed to lead the GMC.
Furthermore, the GMC enabled the       relation between       ideas and action to be developed in ways that brought about measurable       improvements and new       ways of working amongst the region's headteachers.
The most important       outcome, however, is the       evidence that school-to-school partnerships can be a powerful means of       fostering improvements in       respect to schools serving disadvantaged communities.
Most significantly,       the GMC led to striking       improvements in the performance of some 200 schools facing the most       challenging circumstances.
However, reach goes beyond these schools, as there is evidence that their       progress helped to       trigger improvement across the education system in England [5.11].
Significantly, too, it was found       that such arrangements do have a positive impact on the learning of       students in all of the       participating schools [5.11].
This is an important finding in that it       draws attention to a way of       strengthening relatively low performing schools that can, at the same       time, help to foster wider       improvements across the system.
