     Context: the policy landscape prior to the publication of the       research findings was one in which the SEAL programme was viewed as       integral to school improvement (for example, the National Strategies       website made reference to its ability to `transform' schools).
By       contrast, the AfA pilot was viewed as a rather costly (&#163;31 million)       experiment.
The publication of the research findings challenged both of       these views, where rigorous evidence demonstrates the failing of SEAL and       the success of AfA.
Pathways to impact: following the approach outlined in REF3a this       case study illustrates an instrumental change model based on the direct       reporting of commissioned research to the UK Department for Education.
A       two-staged reporting process was used with written and oral feedback in       interim and final reports.
This enabled the transmission of findings, with       the opportunity to discuss and clarify.
The robust evidence base combined       with expert reporting facilitated research engagement by users,       particularly through supporting interpretations.
This approach to research       legibility ensured that the research was effectively translated and       transmitted to ministers, and so impacted on decision-making with major       changes to policy.
Two witness statements from civil servants confirm       this: "the final report was very well received by the Department and       Ministers...the research on AfA was very robust but the report was written       in a way that helped people turn it into practical use", and a second       reports that the DfE values research relationships with higher education       and "Professor Humphrey's research is a good example of this mechanism       working well" [5.1].
Additional pathways included media interviews, e.g.
BBC Radios 4 (2010)       and 5 (2011) in relation to the SEAL research, and presentations at       regional conferences hosted by the National College for School Leadership       (2010) in relation to the AfA research.
Wider professional engagement with       schools and local authorities was established through the dissemination of       project outputs, for example, Humphrey et al.
's report [3.2] has been       downloaded over 10,000 times [5.6]     Reach and Significance of the Impact: in terms of reach, the       government's decision to discontinue the SEAL programme affects all       learners of compulsory education age in England.
The decision to continue       and subsequently roll-out the AfA initiative affects all learners with       special educational needs and disabilities in England, an estimated 20% of       the school-aged population.
In terms of significance, both national policy       decisions were in direct contrast to the prevailing `zeitgeist'.
The       ending of SEAL is a reversal of a flagship initiative intended to       capitalise upon growing interest in emotional intelligence.
AfA survived a       major spending review (which saw &#163;670 million cut from the education       budget), and was prioritised for national roll-out at a time when the       Coalition government had given a clear steer that there would be few or no       centralised school improvement strategies.
Discontinuation of the SEAL programme (2011): the decision to       discontinue the SEAL programme in light of the research findings has been       confirmed by the Department: "the Coalition government's decision to cease       directly promoting the SEAL programme in 2010 is particularly       significant...The work of Humphrey and colleagues... influenced the       development of Coalition government policy in this area.
The Department's       general policy is to give further choice to schools in the approaches they       wish to use.
The results from this study reinforced the Department's       decision to make the use of SEAL voluntary, whilst adding to the       information that schools can use in their choice of this or other       approaches" [5.2].
This decision is particularly significant for several       reasons.
From its launch in 2005 (2007 at secondary level) SEAL quickly       became a dominant orthodoxy in the English education system, adopted in up       to 90% of primary schools and 70% of secondary schools by 2010 [3.2].
It       was one of the government's flagship initiatives, and was promoted as a       panacea for improving a range of outcomes for pupils and staff.
Thus, the       work of Humphrey and colleagues directly challenged this and the       Government's decision to discontinue SEAL needs to be considered in this       context.
The secondary SEAL national evaluation [3.2, 3.5] has been particularly       influential.
Indeed, statements made by the Department for Education (DfE)       regarding the future of SEAL can be seen to change in response to the       publication of the final report for the evaluation.
In autumn 2010, the       DfE told the BBC: "The Coalition is continuing with SEAL.
SEAL, and what       schools decide to include in PSHE lessons, are what the Department (for       Education) has set out in terms of encouraging emotional intelligence"       [5.4].
The secondary SEAL evaluation [3.2] was subsequently published,       reporting that the programme had no impact on pupils' social and emotional       skills, pro-social behaviour or mental health difficulties, and       furthermore that the underlying programme theory (based on a `bottom-up'       view of school-level implementation) was flawed.
Following this, there was       clear change in direction by the DfE.
In January 2011 they stated: "We       trust head teachers and teachers to decide whether schemes such as SEAL       work for their school.
Each school will have its own unique issues to       address and it is only right that these decisions are made at a local       level based on the needs of the pupils" [5.4].
By March 2011 a decision       was made to discontinue the programme entirely, stating: "the lack of         any overall positive impact from SEAL reinforces the need to prevent       further time and resource expenditure on this project" [5.5].
Coverage of       the research clearly attributed this change in policy direction to the       research carried out at Manchester: "Neil Humphrey's research seemed to       have hit home" [5.4].
Since the discontinuation of SEAL, the research has impacted on       approaches to professional practice: Hale, Coleman and Layard (2011)       published a model for the delivery of Personal, Social and Health       Education (PSHE) in secondary schools.
The document cites the Manchester       evaluation [3.2], including direct quotes focusing on the need to provide       guidance for the adoption of evidence-based practice in social and       emotional learning in schools [5.5].
Their model, "based around this call       for guidance" (p.8), developed into a collaborative project with the How         To Thrive organization funded by the Education Endowment Foundation       that is currently being trialed.
In regard to this one of the authors       states that "Professor Humphrey's work was instrumental in helping develop       a framework for the identification of evidence-based programmes" and he       goes on to say "Professor Humphrey's conclusions about SEAL helped us to       identify potential pitfalls in the development of our own programme"       [5.5].
Furthermore, in October 2012, Humphrey was consulted by the senior       adviser to Ed Miliband MP (Leader of Labour Party) in relation to the       development of the Opposition's policy proposals in this area, and impact       has been acknowledged: "Professor Humphrey's research and advice has made       and is making a very important contribution to our thinking in these areas       &#8212; including through a major speech by the Leader of the Opposition in       October 2012, through the work of our Taskforce on Mental Health in       Society (established in November 2012), and through the Labour Party's       wider policy review activity over the last year in the areas of curriculum       reform, child well-being, mental health and public health.
In summary,       Professor Humphrey's work is having a significant impact on the Labour       Party's thinking and policymaking, and also &#8212; through our interventions on       these issues &#8212; on wider public and policy debates more generally, both       within Parliament and civil society.
We will certainly be following his       ongoing and future research in these areas with great interest, and hope       to draw on his expertise again in future" [5.7].
Continuation (2010) and national roll-out (2011) of the AfA programme:       the government's decision to continue and subsequently roll out the AfA       programme at a national level in light of Humphrey and his team's research       findings [3.3, 3.5] has been confirmed: "the research evidence was so       strong in the interim report, backed up by what the SEN and schools sector       were saying, that it was clear that rolling the programme out nationally       was the right way forward" [5.1].
This is significant for a number of       reasons.
First, AfA was one of many initiatives instigated by New Labour       (1997-2010) that came under close scrutiny when the Coalition government       took office in 2010.
Second, the Coalition government gave a clear steer       that they would not be continuing the pattern of centralized approaches to       school improvement established by New Labour.
That the AfA pilot survived       the Coalition's initial spending review (which saw &#163;670 million cut from       the education budget) and was subsequently rolled out nationally needs to       be seen in this context.
The role played by evidence gathered by the       research team is recognized by government [5.1] and the AfA organization       [5.3].
A civil servant has confirmed, "the outcome of the research has       challenged long held perceptions on pupils with SEN at policy and practice       level...
It also led to Ministers committing to grow the AfA programme       along with continued government funding.
The AfA approach is now being       adopted in other countries too" [5.1].
AfA is included as an example of       effective practice in the SEND Green Paper, Support and Aspiration: A         New Approach to SEND [5.8], which directly references the first       interim evaluation report (p.44).
Statements made by the DfE since then       clearly highlight the impact of the national evaluation in their decision       to bring AfA to scale nationally.
For example, commenting on the findings       of the final evaluation report [3.3], the former Children's Minister Sarah       Teather said, "We are able to provide &#163;14 million to help fund the       roll-out of Achievement for All.
Schools can now see for themselves the evidence       that this programme works" (DfE Press Notice, 27/11/11) [5.9].
A letter       from the current DfE team states: "The evidence gathered through the       research helped provide a business case for expanding the programme beyond       the pilot, despite the change of government" [5.1].
Brian Lamb OBE, chair of the 3As Achievement for All charity that is       supporting schools in the roll out process, said, "For the first time       we have a proven intervention that can improve outcomes" (DfE       Press Notice, 27/11/11) [5.9].
This has been supported by the Founder and       CEO of AfA, who identifies the impact of the research on public policy:       "The independent evaluation, carried out by the University of Manchester       and Professor Humphrey's team, provided important evidence that children       with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) had made remarkable       progress in attainment, behaviour and attendance under a Government-funded       pilot.
As a result of this research, the Government provided &#163;14 million       to help fund the roll-out of the Achievement for All programme nationally"       [5.3].
The impact on professionals is also confirmed: "from discussion       with my colleagues I am aware that circa 2000 schools take into account       Professor Humphrey's work in their decision making process or in the       development of provision" [5.3].
We have evidence from professionals about       this impact on practice and learning: "I have been involved in       implementing a great deal of the AfA findings... and I can confirm that       policy and practice were directly affected by the outcomes of Professor       Humphrey's work" (Deputy Headteacher); and "I have been involved in AfA       since the beginning of the pilot project and I can confirm that policy and       practice were directly affected by the areas outlined in Professor       Humphrey's research" (SENCO) [5.10].
