     bracketed letters refer to sources to corroborate impacts in section 5.
Climate change predictions of global temperature rise rely on accurate       forecasts of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere.
Tyndall-Manchester's research is at the forefront of analysis on emissions       targets and carbon budgets, delivering challenging insights to policy       makers.
The conclusions from this research have countered orthodox views       of the responses necessary for tackling climate change.
Four headline areas where it has had a tangible impact on policy       development:     1) Cumulative emissions (carbon budgets) as a scientifically robust         basis for policy.
The insights gained from Tyndall-Manchester's comprehensive emission       scenarios attracted considerable political attention, leading to a major       conference in Westminster opened by the then government chief scientist,       Professor David King.
As a result, the research was highly influential in       bringing the singular importance of carbon budgets, as opposed to       long-term targets, to the forefront of political debate [A, B].
NATIONAL IMPACT: In 2008 the Climate Change Act established the UK       Committee on Climate Change (CCC), which ultimately advised the government       to introduce carbon budgets for the UK.
The Secretary of State (David       Miliband) acknowledged the "signal contribution" of       Tyndall-Manchester's research to the 2008 Climate Change Act [A]; and the       CCC subsequently adjusted their recommendation in line with our research       findings, suggesting an 80% reduction in emissions by 2050 would be       necessary to meet UK's international commitments to 2&#176;C (as enshrined in       the Copenhagen Accord).
Tyndall-Manchester research also had influence in       the Scottish parliament's formulating its own Climate Change Act.
REGIONAL IMPACT: At the regional level, Tyndall-Manchester was       commissioned by Manchester City Council (MCC) to develop carbon budgets       for the city region, subsequently adopted in the City Council's climate       change action plan, A Certain Future (2008 and 2010).
COMMERCIAL IMPACT: Research was also taken up by a leading British retail       and banking group for use in their discussions with government on the need       both for a UK climate change act and any forthcoming legislation being       premised on scientifically-informed cumulative emission budgets and not       simple 2050 targets [C].
2) The need to increase the UK carbon reduction target.
Initially through interactions with the Welsh Assembly Government       (Anderson appointed as commissioner and scientific advisor to Welsh       Government's climate change commission, 2007-date) and subsequently the UK       Committee on Climate Change, Tyndall-Manchester's work was, as noted by       the Secretary of State [A], to be pivotal in the UK basing it targets on a       cumulative approach.
Ultimately this led to a shift from an advisory 60%       reduction target to an 80% target enshrined in primary legislation     Tyndall Manchester influenced this decision through:     i.
A report commissioned by Welsh Assembly Government (Towards 2&#176;C:         emissions reduction scenarios for Wales) &#8212; Tyndall-Manchester       developed emission scenarios for Wales based on the cumulative budget       analysis undertaken by Anderson and Bows and provided formal written and       oral reports back to the Welsh Climate Change Commission and the Welsh       Cabinet.
ii.
Evidence presented to Northern Ireland devolved administration (2008)       [D]     iii.
Contributing to Prime Minister's Office report on carbon trading       (2009) [E]     3) Inclusion of shipping emissions in UK carbon budgets.
Transport contributes significantly to carbon emissions but was initially       excluded from targets in the UK Climate Change act.
Input from       Tyndall-Manchester academics was influential in the UK Committee on       Climate Change's (CCC) advice to government to include international       shipping emissions in the UK carbon budgets [F].
This advice is not       legally-binding, but the 2008 Act does require Government to respond       directly to the advice of the CCC and typically Government develops policy       on the basis of the advice (as it is with aviation and shipping)     4) Emission pathways align more with a 4&#176;C than 2&#176;C level of warming.
Tyndall Manchester research is continuing to have significant impact on       the UK, EU and Global debates on the carbon budgets and emission pathways       commensurate with 2&#176;C. This is ongoing with the impact being on framing       and informing high-level debates; including invited submissions to give       evidence to various parliamentary committees reviewing the UK's carbon       budgets and 2&#176;C commitments.
Other examples include: 	       Numerous presentations (government, parliamentary, public, business)       (2008-11) [G]     Broad media coverage (e.g.
Guardian &#8212; climate scientists warn of 4&#176;C       ... Nov. 2010) 2008-2011     Article in Parliamentary Brief (2010)     Considerable foreign media coverage (e.g.
Sydney Morning Herald &#8212; July       2011)     Anderson speaking as advisor to the Department for International       Development (DfID) on the prospects of potential emissions and impacts on       DfID's development programme.
Most recently, a `morning update' on climate       change at the behest of the director general for policy and global issues       (Michael Anderson) and video linked DfID's Asian offices [H]     Environmental Audit Committee report on Carbon Budgets, 2010-12 session       [I].
In addition to the above policy areas, Tyndall-Manchester work on       comprehensive emissions budgets has been used by the research councils to       inform the context of their future funding programme and calls.
This       impact was influenced through an invited keynote address to RCUK workshop       to frame the research councils' forthcoming ~&#163;50M investment in energy       demand research, in which Tyndall-Manchester researchers were asked to       provide the UK and international climate change context and outline       criteria for guiding the future programme and calls.
Whilst all the research included in the submission was academically and       proactively pursued, it often benefitted from close liaison and some       financial support from the Cooperative Group, several NGOs and scientists       at the UK's Committee on Climate Change and the UK's leading climate       modelling group (the Met Office-based Hadley Centre).
Furthermore,       Tyndall-Manchester work was influential in guiding the campaigning       objectives of major NGOs &#8212; for example through a commissioned review of       the first report of the Committee on Climate Change (2009) [J].
