     Improved educational attainment and professional development for         marginalised groups     The iSLanDS Institute is unique in that the vast majority of staff and       students have always been deaf sign language users, from a variety of       countries.
This approach defines our unique research opportunities and       underpins most of the impact that the Institute has had.
Capacity building       in international deaf communities is one of our aims, and all deaf staff       and students involved with iSLanDS have furthered their educational       attainment and career development.
This includes the following:     - 5 deaf MA by Research students and 3 deaf MPhil/PhD students pursuing       their studies at iSLanDS (graduations: 2 MA by Research in 2010/11; 2 MA       by Research in 2012/13; 2 MPhil/PhD and 1 MA by Research expected in       2013/14).
There are no hearing students.
- 5 deaf researchers working on various (current and completed) research       projects at the Institute (from India, Turkey, Mexico, the UK, and Japan).
In addition to professional development, most of them also have a range of       functions in international deaf organisations (see below).
Two of them are       undertaking MPhil/PhD studies as part of their personal development       programme.
- 70 deaf students from 9 countries studying in a BA programme and an       accompanying university access programme with our partner in India (Indira       Gandhi National Open University); 10 graduations in 2012/13.
There are no       hearing students.
This programme has grown out of a research partnership       and is led by a deaf Indian staff member (Panda) at iSLanDS.
The programme       is moving to a new Indian institution in 2013/14.
These students and graduates often go on to train other deaf people,       typically in short-term training programmes.
This is part of our       multi-level "train the trainers" model, whereby iSLanDS uses its       international research projects to train young deaf academics, who can       then provide training to the wider deaf communities in their home       countries.
For instance, MA by Research student Paul Scott has established       a partnership with the British Council in Jordan, which has provided       training for deaf peer tutors of English literacy (13 participants trained       in 2013 and three further groups of trainees in process of being set up).
An Indian BA graduate trained 14 deaf peer tutors of English literacy in       August 2013 at a large deaf school in India.
Through the Ishara Press, of which Zeshan is Editor-in-Chief, young deaf       academics can access opportunities to build their CVs through publishing       their work or serving on editorial boards, thus avoiding barriers often       faced with other academic outlets.
Publications in the Sign Language       Typology series have included work by five deaf authors in SLT2 and work       by six deaf authors in SLT4.
Three of the eight current members of the       editorial board of the Sign Language Typology Series are deaf.
The Sign Language Typology Research Group began organising a workshop       series in Cross- Linguistic Sign Language Research (CLSLR) in 2005, and       this has now developed into a major international conference series       re-named SIGN and now attracting ca.
200 participants regularly.
SIGN       conferences are unique in that they are held exclusively through sign       language and systematically include deaf participants from developing       countries from both academic and non- academic circles.
Thus SIGN4 was       held in New Delhi in 2009, SIGN5 in Turkey in 2011 and SIGN6 in Goa in       2013.
At the latter conference, representatives of the National       Association of the Deaf and the Goa Association of the Deaf were invited       keynote presenters.
These conferences are a major hub for international       deaf academics and for knowledge transfer to international deaf       communities.
In 2013, an international conference committee was       established with members hailing from Belgium, Germany, Nepal, China,       India and the UK.
Supporting linguistic rights for sign language users     In addition to capacity building, one of the most important activities       that sign language researchers can engage in is to lobby for the       linguistic rights of deaf sign language users through awareness- raising       and work with and for deaf organisations.
In many countries, particularly       developing countries, sign languages still do not have any recognition and       deaf sign language users are denied even the most basic services such as       accessible education and professional sign language interpreting.
iSLanDS       members are engaged in a large number of functions within international       non-governmental organisations, policy makers and professional bodies,       which highlight the needs of sign language users:     Zeshan (Director of iSLanDS)     - President of the Deaf Empowerment Foundation in the Netherlands (2004 -       present), and Director the International Deaf Empowerment Foundation in       the UK (2010 - present)     - Ambassador for Deaf Parenting UK (2009 - present)     - Consultancy on sign language endangerment for UNESCO and the Foundation       for Endangered Languages (2012 - present)     - Consultancy as member of the Expert Group on Sign Language and Deaf       Studies at the World Federation of the Deaf (2013 - present)     Panda (Lecturer, from India)     - Vice President, All India Federation of the Deaf, New Delhi (2010 -       present)     - Vice President, Indian Sign Language Interpreter Association (2008 -       present)     - Founding member and trustee, Ishara Foundation, Mumbai (2005 - present)     - Board member, Sign Language Linguistics Society (2007 - 2012)     - Member of Expert Committee, Rehabilitation Council of India (2011 -       present)     - Consultancy as member of the Expert Group on Developing Countries at       the World Federation of the Deaf (2013 - present)     Dikyuva (previous MA by Research student, from Turkey, graduated 2011)     - Board member, World Federation of the Deaf (2011 - present)     - Board member, Turkish National Federation of the Deaf (2011 - present)     Lutalo-Kiingi (current MPhil/PhD student, from Uganda)     - Consultancy as member of the Expert Group on Sign Language and Deaf       Studies at the World Federation of the Deaf (2007 - present)     This multi-level engagement provides a basis for lobbying for and       supporting the development of sign language services internationally.
For       instance, iSLanDS members have been involved in a &#163;4m initiative by the       Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment with the aim to establish an       "Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre", and in the creation       of a "Sign Language Board" at the Turkish National Deaf Federation.
The       iSLanDS Institute's MPhil/PhD student Lutalo- Kiingi gave an invited       keynote lecture at the 6th World Congress of African       Linguistics in Cologne (WOCAL 2009), which gave prominence to sign       language research in Africa for the first time at WOCAL.
The WOCAL       Standing Committee subsequently decided to organise a sign language       workshop at each WOCAL conference in the future, and has included sign       linguists on the committee.
One of the Sign Language Typology projects       overlaps with work on sign language endangerment at iSLanDS (see impact       case study on sign language endangerment for details of the impact of this       work).
