     Context: Traditional programmes in mathematics in schools,       colleges and universities involve teacher/lecturer-centred delivery, with       timed and summative test-centred assessment, leading to a high drop out       from mathematics at age 16, 17, and later.
The impact of the programme of       research by Professor Williams and his team involves changes to       professional practice, learner approaches to learning, and improvements to       the context and design of commercial texts.
Pathways to impact.
Following the approach outlined in REF3a this       case study illustrates both an instrumental change model based on the       direct reporting of findings and a constructivist approach through working       with stakeholders in schools, colleges, higher education, and publishing       companies.
This enabled both the translation and transmission of findings,       and attention to research legibility enabled the use of those findings       with various interested groups.
User engagement was furthered through       networking and the building of partnerships in the production of e.g.
textbooks, and the development of new examinations.
Specific pathways to       impact include the:     (a) development of new assessment tools for Schools and Colleges via the       Hodder-tests, MaLT project, together with the marketing and sales provided       by Hodder Murray publishers;     (b) real world mathematical modelling research was used by the       researchers in partnership with external organisations in the design of       the new `Use of Mathematics' qualifications and assessment materials and       teaching texts, and shaped the assessment and written support materials       published in texts and on websites to support teachers (partnerships with       and funded by AQA and Nuffield Foundation);     (c) Transmaths projects (2006-11) &#8212; and of particular relevance is the       fourth ESRC `Follow-on' project which is devoted to social impact of the       three earlier research projects &#8212; researched the effect of the new       qualifications and teaching of `modelling' in `Use of Mathematics' and       other qualifications in FE and in transition to HE.
The findings from this       work have been widely disseminated through the relevant professional       bodies, notably the NCETM, and HE-STEM networks, inter alia, through a set       of research briefings and edited HE-STEM books, and this has been       confirmed by the former Director of the National HE-STEM programme [5.9].
This activity involved the research team in collaborative partnerships       with professionals and publishers in originating new texts, the writing of       qualifications and assessments (e.g.
via QCA, AQA, and others) and the       development and evaluation of new resources and courses.
This has led to       an improvement in the base of resources and qualifications and assessments       that teachers and institutions can use to help provide for better       education and to widen participation.
Further research also has provided       some supporting evidence and evaluation of this impact.
The productive nature of the interactions regarding the use of research       evidence is illustrated by a witness statement: "at QCA I was the project       leader for the development of Free Standing Mathematics Qualifications.
The contract for development of these qualifications was awarded to the       team at Manchester under Professor Julian Williams and his then colleague,       Geoff Wake from your department.
Geoff Wake developed the actual FSMQ       units and the corresponding Level 3 textbooks that were funded by the       Nuffield Foundation.
These FSMQs have proved hugely influential.
Professor       Williams was also commissioned to write a special report as evidence to       Professor Adrian Smith's inquiry (commissioned by the government) on       post-14 mathematics education" [5.3].
Significance and reach.
The impact of research on new educational       provision is significant through the novel approaches to learning, and       reach is evidenced in the take up of new qualifications and access to new       texts:     (a) Materials were developed for classroom use through the MaLT project,       and published by Hodder Murray [5.1].
The Hodder Murray website states       that: "a tried and tested approach to standardised mathematics assessment       for ages 5-14, developed for Hodder Education by the University of       Manchester.
Nationally standardised on over 12,500 pupils, MaLT can be       used at any time during the school year &#8212; for screening, monitoring and       tracking progress, as well as for individual diagnostic profiling.
Available in both pencil-and-paper and interactive computer-adaptive (CAT)       formats, these nationally standardised tests &#8212; for groups or individuals -       also yield diagnostic information which will directly support individual       and whole-class teaching" [5.1].
A representative from Hodder Murray       confirms the quality and impact of the research: "the Mathematics       Assessment for Learning and Teaching (MaLT) series developed for classroom       use by Professor Williams and his team offers a ground-breaking approach       to Mathematics assessment.
The tools are designed to support better       teaching and learning for understanding and using mathematics, and hence       impact on how learners learn" and he goes on to evidence the wider       commercial impact during the REF2014 audit period: "that Hodder Education       sales (from publication in 2005 to June 2013) of printed test papers are       approaching 350,000 copies, with a total value (including supplementary       manuals and scorer/profiler CDs) of &#163;534k.
In addition, we have to date       sold 382 interactive versions (value &#163;118K) for pupils to take the tests       on stand-alone computers and school networks" [5.2].
These innovative       tools afford improved assessment practices; the detailed profiling of       pupils test responses and specific diagnostics can support better teaching       and learning [5.2].
(b) The real world mathematics modelling research was funded by       Leverhulme and the Nuffield Foundation, and led to impacts on: (i) the       development of new qualifications (Free Standing Mathematics       Qualifications) with confirmation that "from 2000 to 2010 the figures for       all levels 2 and 3 FSMQs totalled some 53,000, including permitted       aggregations into the pilots of AS and A level Use of Mathematics, which       were built up of some core level 3 FSMQs together with a synoptic final       examination paper... they (i.e.
the qualifications) have played an       important role in influencing the thinking of policymakers about less       academic routes of mathematical progression form level 2 to level 3"       [5.3].
Additionally "the significant impact of this work is evidenced by       the number of certifications in FSMQs and `Use of Mathematics'       qualifications each year.
In 2013 across all the units that have been       developed at the three major levels of the National Qualifications       Framework (i.e.
Levels 1, 2 and 3) there were over 27,000 certifications       awarded" [5.4].
The witness from QCA confirms that "unfortunately, the       present government decided, for political reasons, not to continue with       the Pilot A level Use of Mathematics" but he gives an account of       how the government is reviewing qualifications, and states: "there is no       doubt that the methods pioneered by the Level 3 FSMQs will still play a       significant role in the discussions that are about to take place" [5.3];       (ii) the development of new resources accessible from the Nuffield website       [5.5] where "the Nuffield Foundation supported the development at all       levels by providing support materials at a bespoke website...The       Foundation continues to support these qualifications in their drive to       support the application of mathematics across disciplines" [5.4].
The       research continues to influence professional development work for the       development of the `Uses of Mathematics' A-level (A2) qualification,       piloted in 2011-12 and rolling out in 2013; and, (iii) the production of       new textbooks by Haighton, Howarth and Wake: AS: The Use of Maths         Calculus (2004); AS: Use of Maths Algebra and Graphs (2003);       and, AS: The Use of Maths Statistics (2003) (Nelson Thornes), and       "these texts continue to sell in significant numbers even some ten years       after their first publication, averaging some &#163;14,000 worth of sales per       year" [5.4].
(c)The fourth ESRC, `Follow-on', project was devoted to social impact of       the three earlier ESRC funded research projects.
This `Follow-on' project       developed materials to disseminate the research findings and transmitted       knowledge about the effect of the new qualifications and teaching of       `modelling' in `Use of Mathematics' and other qualifications/courses in FE       and in transition to HE.
The findings from this work have impacted on       members of relevant professional bodies, notably HE-STEM networks, through       a set of research briefings [5.6] and edited HE-STEM books and other       materials [5.7].
The Transmaths research influenced development work on       modelling in new post-16 (AS and A2) and first year university curricula.
This work is currently impacting on HE-STEM `Mathematical modelling and       problem solving' courses currently being taken up under HE-STEM funding in       seven universities, including 13 STEM Programmes in Mathematics, Physics       and Chemistry, and several engineering schools [5.8, 5.9, 5.10].
Importantly the impact of the research is recognised by users in higher       education: "the substantive results of the Transmaths projects showed how       student learning of mathematics can be significantly affected by       `connectionist' pedagogy, which has been important in our development of       more active learning and problem solving in first year courses in science,       technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)" [5.8].
Another research       user adds that "we have been able to make the case at policy level for       investing in the development of Mathematical Modelling and Problem Solving       (MMPS) courses to aid transition into STEM across the University of (name)       in the Schools of Physics, Chemistry, Civil Engineering, Electrical       Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and the Department of Applied       mathematics.
These programmes involve between them nine academic staff and       approximately 700 first year students...this work has also been taken up       by 7 other project partners from universities across the HE sector.
Finally, it has to be emphasised that the main impact of this work is in       helping to bring about a sea-change in HE policy towards courses that       deliver key skills.
We are increasingly looking for evidence and case       studies showing how such skills can be taught within mainstream academic       disciplines.
The Transmaths research has hit this nerve well and in a       timely fashion."
[5.9]
