     Context     Fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions are integral to modern       economies and societies.
Climate policy is a relatively new area of       governance.
Historically, international aviation has been overlooked at       the national level and widely regarded as a trivial source of greenhouse       gas emissions.
For instance, the UK Aviation White Paper (2003) paid       little attention to emissions, and aviation was excluded from the       emissions reduction targets of international climate change agreements       such as the UNFCCC Kyoto Protocol.
Summary of pathway to impact     The impact is founded on Tyndall Centre research funded by       EPSRC/NERC/ESRC, from 2002 to 2010: researchers developed comprehensive       approaches to decarbonisation, from national and international energy       systems and policy frameworks through to personal energy behaviour.
Tyndall-Manchester's research had demonstrable impact in four key         policy areas:     1) Inclusion of aviation in the UK Climate Change Act &amp; Climate         Change (Scotland) Act.
The research conducted within Tyndall Manchester has significantly       contributed to climate policies in the UK and EU through formal evidence       presented by its researchers to policymakers and statutory public bodies,       including the Environmental Audit Committee [A] and HM Treasury aviation       working group.
Evidence from the research was also presented by invitation       to the Scottish Parliament during their consultation on the Climate Change       (Scotland) Bill [B].
These representations were highly influential in       securing the inclusion of aviation emissions in the UK Climate Change       Act's 2050 emissions reduction target as evidenced by statements from       David Milliband MP, former Secretary of State for Environment, Food and       Rural Affairs (2006-7), and author of Climate Change Bill [D].
Additional       corroboration is provided by statements from Tim Yeo MP [E], Chair of       House of Commons Energy and Climate Change Select Committee, Caroline       Lucas MP, Member of the Environmental Audit Committee and former Member of       the European Parliament and Colin Challen, former Member of Parliament and       Member of House of Commons Environmental Audit Select Committee.
Tyndall       researchers are on-going participants in the Committee on Climate Change       and the Civil Aviation Authority's aviation stakeholder consultations -       with the Committee on Climate Change subsequently recommending inclusion       of aviation within the UK's legally binding emission reduction target for       2050 [F].
2) Inclusion of aviation in the EU ETS       Tyndall-Manchester research contributed to the inclusion of aviation in       the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, the EU's flagship mechanism for curbing       the continent's emissions [G].
Further corroboration is provided by       statements from Mike Childs, Head of Policy, Research and Science at       Friends of the Earth and Caroline Lucas, MP.
Debate regarding the       inclusion of aviation within the EU's emissions trading system and in the       UK's own emission budgets intensified following the publication of early       Tyndall-Manchester research [1-5 above].
Tyndall-Manchester researchers       were active participants in this debate, with the public record containing       numerous instances of evidence provided by Tyndall-Manchester from 2005       onwards [H].
Whereas the decision on including aviation in the UK's       climate change budgets has yet to be taken, since Jan 2012 all       commercial airlines operating solely within the EU have to buy and       surrender emissions permits.
Furthermore, the EU policy surprised many in       intending to incorporate more than the EU 50% `fair share' of emissions.
3) Cancellation / deferment of airport expansion at Heathrow and         Stansted       Tyndall-Manchester's aviation research has generated considerable impact       indirectly through raising the public profile of the potential damage       aviation does to the environment, and the importance of passenger or       airport growth as a facilitator of such damage.
This profile raising has       in large part been through the research findings being taken up by       high-profile campaigning groups in lobbying government to halt UK airport       expansion on the basis of climate change concerns [G, I].
Groups including       Friends of the Earth (corroborating statement available [L]), WWF, Plane       Stupid and Climate Camp used Tyndall-Manchester aviation work as the       scientific underpinning of a number of their campaign tactics [C], for       which there is also photographic evidence.
For instance, as the BAA       chairman and chief executive were preparing to give evidence on airport       problems, protesters chanted "no third runway at Heathrow" and handed out       copies of a Tyndall report [2, above] to MPs and members of the public.
Plane Stupid also used the research in their campaign against airport       expansion on the grounds of damage to the climate &#8212; activists strapped       copies of Tyndall research papers and reports to their bodies and created       a banner, "Armed only with peer reviewed science".
The stunt was reported       widely in the media, and the research report presented to aviation sector       representatives on Newsnight.
Dr Bows was later called to give formal       evidence at trial for the defence of airport expansion protesters.
Such exposure unquestionably heightened the public profile of       Tyndall-Manchester's aviation research, prompting stakeholders such as       Airbus, Easyjet and the Civil Aviation Authority to contact       Tyndall-Manchester, wishing to engage (see statement from the Secretary       General of the European Low Fares Airline Association [G]).
This kept       Tyndall-Manchester's work at the forefront of the airport expansion       debate.
The impacts of the Tyndall contribution to this debate and public       profile raising finally manifest in the formal withdrawal by BAA of its       planning application for a second Stansted runway on 24 May 2010 and in       the coalition government abolishing the policy to develop a third runway       at Heathrow.
This latter retraction followed the ruling by Lord Justice       Carnwarth that the planned expansion did not properly take into account       the social costs of increased carbon emissions from aviation expansion       [I].
4) Local authority emissions accounting       Manchester City Council's climate change strategy adopted a new method for       emissions accounting [J] developed during Tyndall-Manchester's aviation       work accounting for aviation emissions in 2009 [6, above].
Tyndall-Manchester work informed the debate around the expansion of       individual regional airports, which in the Northwest have either been       overturned or delayed (corroborated by a confidential report from the       Association of Greater Manchester Authorities [K]).
