     Context     Electron beam welding and diffusion bonding are typical joining processes       (in the final stages of       aero-engine assembly) used in the aerospace industries for a variety of       components and       structures.
Insufficient bonding and defects such as porosity can occur if       the surfaces are not       perfectly clean from dirt, particles, oil/grease and machine coolants.
The       resultant cracking and       porosity leads to quality assurance failure of these very expensive parts       in this final stage of aero-       engine manufacture.
Prior to our research, the practice in use for E-beam welding of       aero-engine components was       either manual cleaning (up to 10 different steps) using chemicals and       abrasives or dipping the       components into a bath of concentrated HF (hydrofluoric acid) that is       highly corrosive and       hazardous, with chemical residuals sometimes becoming trapped (e.g.
HF) in       the material [A].
Our research has shown that laser cleaning offers great advantages       eliminating the use of       chemicals and allowing the process to be fully automated and over 20 times       faster [A].
The new       technology allows precise control of the process, so that all contaminants       are removed, without       damage to the substrate surface.
Pathways to Impact     The research work was carried out in collaboration with Rolls-Royce       (since 2003) and later (since       2009) with BAE Systems.
The companies participated in all stages of the       R&amp;D (monthly review       meetings), provided the test materials, process requirements, welding and       diffusion bonding of       laser cleaned components, and testing of laser cleaned specimens and       components to industrial       standards [A,B].
Rolls-Royce subsequently certified and implemented the       technology.
BAE       Systems is also taking up the technology for diffusion bonding surface       preparation.
This work was originally funded by Rolls-Royce (CASE studentship) and the       Northwest Science       Council (N0003200) with over &#163;1m.
Following the successful application of       the technique at Rolls-       Royce since 2008, major funding from industry (Rolls-Royce, BAE Systems)       and EPSRC and TSB       of around &#163;2m was granted (SAMULET project) to further develop the laser       cleaning process for       diffusion bonding applications (2009-2013).
Reach and Significance of the Impact     The impact of our research is demonstrated by its adoption and use by the       leading UK aerospace       company Rolls-Royce &#8212; globally the second largest manufacturer of       aero-engines.
In addition BAE       Systems is also now adopting the technology.
Rolls-Royce began introducing the laser cleaning technology, developed       through our research, for       E-beam welding of aero engine components in 2008.
By May 2013, Rolls-Royce       had approved 24       different aero-engine components such as compressor drums in almost all       the current engine       families such as Trent 700, using the laser cleaning technology in the       manufacture of commercial       aero-engines [A].
The technology has shown improved productivity and       reduced failure rate.
The       first time right rate using chemical methods was 82-90% and has improved       significantly utilising our       new laser cleaning method.
In his statement [A] the global process owner       for laser processes at       Rolls-Royce confirms "This automatic laser cleaning process has         replaced previous manual         chemical cleaning of parts for electron beam welding with significant         improvements in productivity         and first time right."
The economic impacts are multiple including cost savings in reducing       scraps at this final stage of       the aero engine assembly, estimated at several millions of &#163; per year and       elimination of the use of       harmful chemicals and their disposal, estimated at a few &#163; million per       year.
In 2013, a new in-process       monitoring system, developed at the University of Manchester, was       installed at Rolls-Royce       for the monitoring of the laser cleaning process [A].
Following the successful use of laser cleaning of Ti alloys in welding,       the research has been further       developed (2009-2013) for diffusion bonding of a wide variety of aerospace       products.
The diffusion       bonding of Trent 900 fan blades at Rolls-Royce, after laser cleaning, has       passed the quality       criteria.
A modelling tool has been delivered to Rolls-Royce and BAE       Systems for laser cleaning       process evaluations.
This tool has been successfully utilised by BAE       Systems to aid their decision-making       with regards to the installation of a laser cleaning system in the company       [B].
As a result       the laser cleaning technology is now being commissioned by BAE Systems for       military aircraft       manufacture, with the diffusion process replacing chemical cleaning [B].
