     Context     Before Sanders' research there was very little public awareness or       understanding of either the       extent of Chartist poetry or its importance within the movement.
The       research has radically       changed this: it has had an impact on the public discourse around the       relationship between poetry       and politics in the mid nineteenth century; it has contributed to       inspiring new forms of artistic       expression in the North West; and it has helped the preservation of local       heritage.
Pathways to Impact     Sanders' research into the extent of Chartist poetic production formed       the basis for articles in The         Guardian, (`Lost Voices of Victorian Working Class uncovered in       political protest poems',       15/3/2007)[5.1], and the Italian journal Left, (`La fabbrica della       poesia', 30/3/2007).
As a result of       this coverage, Sanders was invited to act as an advisor to the South Bank       Show for its `Literary       Walks' series (2008) and has been interviewed on two separate occasions by       BBC Radio       Manchester (March 2009, May 2010) as well as being featured in the Manchester         Evening News       (March 2009).
Following the discovery of the National Chartist Hymn Book in       Todmorden Public Library, Sanders'       work was featured in the Church Times (December 2010), the Times         Literary Supplement       (December 2010) and the Yorkshire Post (21/12/2010) and Lancashire         Telegraph (16/12/2010).
Sanders' research in this field was also used by Canon Garth Hewitt in a       `Pause for Thought'       feature on Radio 2 (27/6/2012) [5.2].
Since his work on The Northern Star, Sanders was asked to act as       an advisor to the Yorkshire       Chartist Choir, a community arts project undertaken as part of `Celebrate       Democracy &#8212; Halifax       Chartist Festival' (supported by the Local Heritage Initiative, a       partnership between the Heritage       Lottery Fund, the Countryside Agency and the Nationwide Building Society,       2006) [5.4].
The       Yorkshire Chartist Choir performed one concert attended by 250 people, and       recorded a CD.
Sanders assisted the choir in finding Chartist songs and provided       historical contextual information       that was used to produce a booklet to accompany the performance.
Also as       part of this festival,       Sanders gave a talk on the Chartist poet Ernest Jones to an audience of 60       people.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     Impact on creating and inspiring new forms of artistic expression     As a consequence of his research and previous involvement with the       Yorkshire Chartist Choir, Dr       Sanders started collaborating in 2009 with Corista, a choir based in the       Calder Valley in West       Yorkshire: in March 2009, Corista accompanied his talk on Chartist poetry       at Manchester Central       Library [5.7]; in 2010 he gave the Inaugural Frow Memorial Lecture (2010)       organized by the       Working-Class Movement Library, Salford, where he was accompanied both by       Corista and the       actress Maxine Peake, who is a Trustee of the Working Class Movement       Library (200 participants)       [5.6]; and in September 2011 gave a talk on the National Chartist Hymn         Book at the People's       History Museum in Manchester, attended by 80 people with musical       accompaniment from Corista       [5.7].
As members of the choir put it: `his [Dr Sanders'] research led us       to take up the words of the       newly discovered Chartist Hymn book, add music of the era consistent with       the songs, and perform       these to many audiences great and small' [5.7].
Since 2011, Dr Sanders has been collaborating with Canon Garth Hewitt       from the international       charity the Amos Trust.
They have been working with a group of folk       musicians on original       arrangements of hymns from the National Chartist Hymn Book, which       led to the creation of a CD,       recorded on July 15th 2013 and launched by Canon Hewitt and Dr       Sanders just outside the review       period on 25 August 2013 at the arts, faith and justice festival Greenbelt       (23-26 August 2013),       which attracted 600 people [5.9].
Dr Sanders provided Canon Hewitt with the lyrics of the hymns, which       Hewitt also used in his BBC       Radio 2's `Pause for Thought' on 27 June 2012.
Hewitt writes: `I am       particularly grateful to Dr       Sanders for the help he has given me [...] to understand more about the       Chartist Movement, [...]       the culture, and the context in which the hymns were written.
I am already       including two of those       hymns in my regular concerts [during 2012 and 2013] and telling a little       bit of the story around       them, but this will become a far higher profile in what I am doing as soon       as the album is released.
[...] I think that this exposure of the National Chartist Hymnbook       will raise awareness of a       distinctive Chartist theology and this will be an issue of particular       interest to the church community,       though possibly even wider' [5.2].
Impact on the presentation and conservation of cultural heritage     Invitations to speak at the Ledbury Poetry Festival (100), the Chartist       Convention Newport (200),       and the Frow Memorial Lecture (200) have contributed to the presentation       of new information       about working class cultural heritage.
Sanders' research on the National         Chartist Hymn Book has       also had an impact on the preservation of such heritage.
By `confirming       the origins of the find and       identifying that it contained 16 hymns sung by the Victorian radicals who       campaigned for       democracy and workers' rights', Sander's research led Calderdale Library       Services to produce a       digitised version of this extremely rare 1845 item, which is now available       online [5.3].
Importantly,       as a consequence of an increased awareness of the importance of this find,       the number of visitors       to the small Todmorden library increased, and put the library in a       position to preserve the pamphlet       correctly by housing it in a small acid free box [5.3].
As the Team Leader       for West Calderdale       Libraries puts it, `Thanks to Dr Sander's efforts the pamphlet is now       catalogued and accessible for       everyone to enjoy' [5.3].
Sanders' research on Chartism led to an invitation to sit on the       management committee of Wild       Rose Heritage and Arts, a community group whose aim is to `bring heritage       alive through local       voices'.
Based in Hebden Bridge, from which it takes its name, the group       began as an oral history       project and later expanded its activities and focus, working with a       variety of age groups to       understand the ways in which people both change, and are changed by, the       places in which they       live and work.
As the manager of the WRH&amp;A, writes: `The oral       histories we collect reflect       individuals' endeavours and reactions to working conditions [...].
The       Chartists' belief in equality,       for which they fought, has carried on into issues that concern us today.
And just as poetry and       song express people's real interests today, so did the Chartist Movement's       pioneer efforts.
Dr       Sanders' involvement in our organisation has given us new approaches to       understand       contemporary contexts [...] and helped inform us in our use of       socio-historical material in a creative       way, which increased the possibilities of transferring knowledge and       understanding to others, [...]       widening our audiences and appeal.
[...] The history of radical workers'       movements is prevalent in       many of the stories we've collected and is the driver for the next major       project we are undertaking       [in June 2013].'
Sanders' research has helped `re-assess how the context       of our area of interest       has been influenced by the Chartist movement and this insight is brought       to bear on our meeting       and funded projects' [5.5].
Sanders' research and his associations with the Working Class Movement       Library have also       contributed to widening public access to and participation in the       political process through his       involvement in 2012 to the film The Condition of the Working Class       by Inside Film [5.8].
Inspired by       Engels' book of the same title, the film follows a group of working class       people from Manchester       and Salford who create a theatrical show based on their own experiences       and Engels' book.
It       contextualises their struggle to get the show on stage against the daily       struggles of ordinary people       facing economic crisis and austerity politics.
Drawing on Sanders'       knowledge of the historical       context of Chartism and Engels' The Condition of the Working Class',       Deidre O'Neill and Michael       Wayne interviewed Sanders as `the only real "expert" testimony in [the]       film', for which he `provided       a personal commentary and reading on Engels' text' [5.8].
Between April       and August 2013 the film       was screened in 32 different locations, ranging from the London Labour       Festival to the Miners'       Community Centre in Moston, from Calder's Bookshop in London to Brighthelm       Church and       Community Centre in Brighton.
A DVD is available for sale on the website.
