     Context     When gangsta rap music emerged as a popular and controversial youth       cultural form in the US       (late 1980s) and the UK (early 2000s), society struggled to understand it.
In 2003, then Home       Secretary David Blunkett described the music as `appalling.'
Many       politicians and commentators       argued that the music glorified bad values, confirmed negative stereotypes       about black youth, and       lacked aesthetic merit.
These arguments were reproduced in some of the       early scholarly work on       gangsta rap, which often paid little attention to the music's complex       social, commercial, and formal       dimensions.
When some young men were arrested as suspects in violent crimes in the US       and UK, the gangsta       rap lyrics they had written were seized on by police and prosecutors as       literal evidence of violent       misconduct, with no due regard for the formulaic and fictional dimensions       of the lyrics.
Indeed such       lyrics have come to be `used with alarming regularity in courtrooms across       the country [America]       because prosecutors know they offer an easy path to conviction' (Huffington         Post, [5.1]).
In public,       legal, and scholarly fields, then, the meaning and influence of gangsta       rap urgently needed further       research-led explanation.
Pathways to impact     The publication of Nuthin' but a G Thang generated press and       public interest, including a Financial         Times review (2007) and a BBC R4 Thinking Allowed interview       with Laurie Taylor (2005), which       became a Pick of the Week in The Guardian, and a Pick of the Day       in The Independent, Radio         Times, Time Out London, Daily Mail and Daily Express.
This       press interest indicates the topicality       of Quinn's research findings, and she was also invited to participate in       public debates including at       Index on Censorship UK on popular music and violence (2003); at the       Hip-hop Archive at Stanford       University (Hip-hop Scholars meet Hip-hop Journalists) (2005); and at the       US Embassy in London       on rap and education (2007).
From this platform as the established scholar on gangsta rap, Quinn was       approached by two       separate defence counsels in 2008 and called to act as expert witness in       murder cases at the       Central Criminal Court, London (Old Bailey).
In Regina v Callum (Kaim       Todner Solicitors), the       prosecution claimed that the gangsta verses established `intent to kill'       [5.2]; and in R v Palmer       (Needham Poulier Solicitors), rap lyrics written and posted by the victim       were presented as the key       motive for the murder.
In 2009, with a developing track record, Quinn was       approached to act as       expert in the criminal trial, R v Henry (Kaim Todner), and again in the       2010 murder trial R v       Bucknor (Lloyds PR Solicitors).
In 2013, she acted as expert witness in       the case Haringey Council       v Fari (John Ford Solicitors) which concerned the promotion and       performance of gangsta rap       music as a breach of an injunction.
As David Spens QC states: `No one else       in this country has her       expertise' [5.6].
Reach and significance     Impact on criminal cases     Dr Quinn has had a substantial impact on how the justice system       interprets violent rap lyrics written       by defendants when they are presented by the Crown to adduce evidence of       bad character and as       `statement [of intent] to kill' [5.5, 5.6].
She has acted as expert       witness; persuaded a trial judge to       exclude rap lyrics in a precedent-setting judicial ruling; and her       evidence has been taken to a Court       of Appeals hearing and submitted to the European Court of Human Rights       [5.4].
As criminal       barrister Khalid Missouri asserts, Dr Quinn's research `has a hugely       important role to play in the       development of the law in this area' [5.5].
Dr Quinn's interventions in legal arguments were informed by insights       derived from her research to       do with verse form (particularly the persona device), subcultural language       and naming, the       motivation for writing violent rap lyrics, and the relationship between       violent word and violent deed.
In the 2010 R v Bucknor murder trial, the Crown claimed that the       defendant's violent lyrics related       directly to the crime, alleging that the reference to `drivebys' (`Do       drivebys in the blacked out cab')       bore relation to the actual incident which was a shooting on a moped.
Dr       Quinn explained that:       `The context of the line is important here.
This short verse is an       extended scenario based on the       first conditional clause: "Cos if you come to Baghdad."
All the violence       that ensues in the verse is       hypothetical and set in Baghdad.
Therefore, the actions in this verse draw       attention to their own       status as fantasy including the reference to "drivebys"' [5.3].
Dr Quinn       also commented on the       motivation for writing such lyrics and cited eight tracks with `drive by'       in their titles, all released by       successful rappers none of whom had criminal convictions.
This evidence at       the pre-trial legal       argument resulted in Judge Gerald Gordon ruling that the lyrics were       inadmissible as evidence.
As       the defence counsel's QC explains: `Dr Quinn persuaded the trial judge the       evidence was more       prejudicial than probative.
This was because she established the lyrics       were formulaic, their writing       and content fitting within the gangster culture, and therefore were not       evidence of participation in a       violent attack' [5.6].
In his ruling, the judge stated that `At first       blush [the rap lyrics] might be thought       to have at least a general relevance to their author's attitudes, but as       authorities have shown,       evidence of this nature requires a more careful consideration' [5.7].
The increasing use of rap lyrics in US and UK courtrooms is       controversial, with University of       Georgia law professor Andrea Dennis stating that `they allow the       government to obtain a       stranglehold on the case' (Columbia Journal of Law, 2007).
Therefore, much of the focus for       defence counsels has been on trying to get prejudicial rap lyrics excluded       pre-trial.
Within this       context, the judicial ruling to exclude the violent rap lyrics in the case       of R v. Bucknor is of broader       significance and stands as an authority for future cases.
This means that       defence counsels can       cite this decision as a precedent in their legal arguments, as in the case       Haringey v Fari (2013).
As       David Spens QC explains: `HHJ Gordon's ruling is capable of being       persuasive in other such       cases' [5.6].
According to Erik Nielsen, who has written two press       articles on the use of rap lyrics in       criminal trials: `In most cases, prosecutors are able to persuade judges       to allow these lyrics to be       presented to a jury, despite their clear (and empirically demonstrated)       prejudicial effect.
Sadly, a       significant number of young men, almost always of color, have been sent to       prison as a result.
However, in R v. Bucknor, Dr. Quinn's pre-trial testimony helped persuade       the judge to exclude the       lyrics entirely &#8212; a rare outcome to be sure &#8212; ensuring a fair trial for       the defendant' [5.1].
Prior to the R v Bucknor ruling, in the 2008 R v Callum trial, the lyrics       found on the defendant's       mobile phone were admitted as evidence, with the Crown claiming that they       were a blueprint for       the murder [5.2].
Quinn was the `principal witness' for the defence, in       the words of Judge Worsley       QC [5.2].
The prosecution tried to attribute great significance to the       lyrics, highlighting the phrase       `Ready 2 ride on a mission' because in the actual incident the assailant       had ridden to the scene on       a bicycle.
This claim was rebutted by Dr Quinn who explained that this       stock phrase was       popularized by Grand Theft Auto and gangsta culture and related to       cars (and motor bikes) not       bicycles [5.2].
The prosecution also placed significance on the       defendant's rap nickname 'Killa       Krusty' &#8212; under cross examination Quinn explained that the `Killa' moniker       should not be taken       literally, as it was quite typical of aspiring and actual gangsta rappers       (citing the names of leading       rappers Ghostface Killah and Bounty Killer).
According to barrister,       Khalid Missouri, the defense       team were of the `unequivocal view that without Dr Quinn's evidence in       this case our client could       not have had a fair trial' [5.5].
Callum, 17 years old at the time of the       incident and with no priors,       was found guilty and given a life sentence.
This conviction went to the       Court of Appeal in 2010       when Dr Quinn's evidence was put before Lord Justice Pitchford [5.4].
This appeal was lost `by the       narrowest of margins' and Quinn's evidence was part of a further appeal to       the European Court of       Human Rights (which was denied), and recently to the Criminal Cases Review       Commission to       again review the decision to allow the rap lyrics to go before the jury       [5.5].
The significance of her impact in this case is evinced on the homepage of       David Spens QC, former       Chair of the Criminal Bar Association, who, under the sub-head `Murder:       Notable Cases', states: `R       v J Callum [2010]: An unusual aspect of this case was the calling by the       Defence of the one expert       in the field of "gangsta" rap, Dr Eithne Quinn of Manchester University,       to contest the prosecution's       contention that lyrics found in the draft messages in JC's phone were a       statement of intent to kill.'
Of the `over 250 cases of murder' that Spens has litigated, Quinn is the       only Expert mentioned on       his homepage [5.8].
Quinn's research-led interventions in legal cases are       ongoing, including the       recent case Haringey v Fari in 2013.
Impact on the image of rap in media     Dr Quinn has generated media coverage in the UK and the US for her legal       impact, raising public       awareness about the controversial legal use of rap lyrics.
Her testimony       in R v Callum was quoted       in the Daily Mail (2008) and South London Reporter (2008).
Her legal work has also given rise to       press articles in the US, demonstrating the international reach of her       impact.
As Erik Nielson       explains: `It was her work on rap lyrics in trials in the UK that prompted       me to investigate their role       here in North America.
Since then, I have written two pieces on the       subject, for The Huffington         Post and for The Root (owned by The Washington Post)'       [5.1].
Dr Quinn acted as an advisor for the London Gangs series on the premiere       news programme       Today, BBC R4 (average audience of 6.94 million) in April-May 2012.
Senior reporter from Today       programme approached Quinn because `Rap seems so important in this context       that I think it's       impossible to do the story justice without looking at its use and impact       on gang culture' [5.9].
Afterwards, he wrote that Quinn's `interview was terrific' [5.9].
Dr Quinn acted as the rap consultant for ITV-1's primetime talent show Born         To Shine in 2011       (estimated audience of 7 million viewers), whittling down the shortlist of       eight young rappers to the       final two.
As the researcher explained when he first contacted Dr Quinn:       `My producers are       interested in having a rapper on the show and it has been slightly tricky       for us to gauge a good       rapper from an average one', indicating the paucity of mainstream cultural       knowledge about rap,       which Quinn can provide [5.10].
The programme went on to raise &#163;2 million       for the charity Save the       Children.
Dr Quinn conducted interviews for FM radio stations Century, Smooth, and       Real/Rock following the       English riots of 2011, assessing the much-posited relationship between       gangsta rap and youth       rioting.
Impact on public understanding     Dr Quinn has enhanced the public understanding about rap through       continuing public engagement       events.
Quinn:            teaches classes at her local school, Chorlton High in Manchester,         using rap music to develop         literacy and personal/social development skills for Year 10/11 pupils         (2010-13).
Some classes         target lower attainment pupils, engaging them in learning by looking at         the themes (such as         consumerism and inequality) and verse form of gangsta rap.
She was         awarded a Beacon         Certificate for Public Engagement (2011) for this work;       delivered a research-informed Black History Month event (October 2011)         on Hip-hop for         Manchester's British and Minority Ethnic (BME) forum.
