     Context       Prior to Professor Phillips' visits to the library (from 2003 for the       underpinning research and from 2008 for the cataloguing), no on-site       expertise was available for precise identification of the archival       material.
The archive had been donated to the library in two stages with       some prior sorting but without any further rigorous classification.
Additionally, without the provision of a sophisticated data-base following       the wholesale reorganisation of the archive by Phillips, the archive could       not have been made meaningfully available to members of the public.
Beyond       enabling physical access to the archive's contents, the cultural impact of       the catalogue lies in its status as a publicly accessible record, in a       provincial municipal library, of an aspect of historical memory often       underestimated in France &#8212; the visible presence of vibrant Catholic       cultural activity in the whole of the country, down to the remotest       villages.
In this sense, it gives rise to the interpretation and       understanding of cultural capital in linking local activity &#8212; particularly       in Auxerre and Burgundy &#8212; to grassroots participation in national and       international frameworks [5.1].
Pathways to impact     The research mapped connections between       individual, grassroots Catholics in France, theatrical activity, and the       construction of a sense of Catholic culture.
With Brochet at the centre of       this, and the presence of the resource of the fonds, a key step       was the design of a means of opening up pubic perspectives on the       construction of this culture.
Two public lectures on the work were given       in 2004 [5.2] and one in 2009.
The conceptual organisation of the       underpinning research constituted a major factor in the approach to the       material in the preparation of the catalogue and it directed the entire       physical reordering of material.
Phillips's research and scholarly       expertise, and his accrued contacts with the library and the community fed       directly into the scoping and detailed design of the catalogue as a portal       onto this core aspect of French cultural life.
In addition, the research       undertaken for publication [3.3] allowed for informed classification of       material outside France connected to Brochet.
A major benefit to users of the material is a highly organised and       informed level of accessibility.
This is enhanced by the nature of the       catalogue which is constructed according to a fully searchable data-base       with the material connected via a wide variety of links according to       person, text, nature of object, date, author, troupe and other rubrics.
The catalogue's immediate material impact lies thus in its dynamic form, a       great rarity in the world of local, even national, French archives.
As few       as four key words allow the whole archive (106 boxes of material) to be       navigated [5.3 catalogue tab].
No extensive academic knowledge is       therefore required.
As the Librarian responsible for Departmental Archives       attests, one early reader "was delighted to find quickly what he/she was       looking for, and [noted] that there were a large number of things ready       for further exploitation" [5.4].
Details and types of impact       The impact on members of the public accessing the catalogue through the       library's web site [5.3: link tab], or on-site, falls squarely in the       domain of preserving, conserving and presenting cultural heritage       in a local, national and international context.
Readers in the local       community are able to discover aspects of their municipal and regional       culture through access to the activities and writings of Brochet and those       around him, while the scope and significance is enhanced through networked       availability and easy visualisation.
An important aspect of the catalogue       as an act of conservation is the provision of illustrations of maquettes       and posters (a complete photographic record of the latter compiled by       Phillips obviates the need for physical contact with often very fragile       objects).
The archive has been made usable by amateur and professional researchers:       in the words of the Head Librarian at Auxerre, the catalogued archive "has       become a point of reference for all those interested in this particular       domain and several researchers have already consulted the archive in         situ" as well, more extensively, as on-line [5.1; also 5.2].
However, the importance of the archive lies precisely in its status as a       publicly accessible witness to local and national cultural activity of       importance to the community.
It opens up knowledge of the work and person       of Brochet as, in the words of the Deputy Mayor, a local and regional       presence of significance to "local heritage" [5.2]; and it has impact on a       wider interested audience, accessing the catalogue off-site [5.3] in the       context of a clear underpinning contribution from the University of       Manchester, with access to Phillips's work highlighted for users [5.5].
The impact relates to tourism and heritage in the local and       regional economy as well as to cultural memory.
Henri Brochet was based in       Auxerre from 1933 to his death and his house served as a reminder of the       family's artistic heritage &#8212; through exhibitions (also accessed through       the catalogue pages) of his painter/sculptor son Fran&#231;ois and of other       Burgundian cultural figures -- until 2013, and thereafter by the       commemorative plaque (part of a wider of public memorialisation of this       family in the city).
Part of the the private collections of Fran&#231;ois       Brochet is in process of being moved to V&#233;zelay (an important focus of       tourism, especially for its positioning on the Camino de Santiago) for       exhibition and archiving.
The Head Librarian at Auxerre [5.1] confirms the       significance and attraction of the archive itself, thus contextualised.
The catalogue reflects a distinctive feature of the underpinning research       represented in [3.1), by expanding historical imagination and awareness       through attention to Catholic theatre culture.
An unusual picture emerges       of the Third Republic in a provincial public institution belonging to a       continuing but at the same time changing cultural landscape, thus heavily       nuancing or even challenging the dominant narrative of modern French       history and making a powerful contribution to public education.
