     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S5.
Context       Prior to the research at UoM, it was known that wrinkling associated with       chronically sun-exposed skin (photoageing) was linked to loss of collagen       and that collagen could be restored in part by the use of the prescription       drug RA.
UoM researchers generated new insights about the role of       fibrillin-rich microfibrils in the pathogenesis and clinical appearance       of photoaged skin and the effects of RA on the skin's microfibril network.
These insights led to the development of the `Manchester Patch Test       Assay', which is now widely used by the personal care industry.
Before the       UoM research, many product claims for over-the-counter anti-ageing       products were not verified by an external, scientific source.
Pathways to impact       The research was presented at leading conferences (British Society for       Investigative Dermatology, European Society for Dermatological Research,       International Investigative Dermatology, American Aging Association,       Gordon Conferences) and published in leading scientific journals (see       above).
This exposure has led to significant interest from the       biogerontological and personal care communities, both academic and       commercial.
In 2007, the underpinning research was showcased by the BBC2 science       documentary series Horizon.
The programme highlighted the assay       and described how it had been used to demonstrate that a Boots Healthcare       over-the-counter anti-ageing product, No7 `Protect &amp; Perfect Beauty       Serum', restored the microfibril network, implying potential to rejuvenate       aged skin.
There was very significant public interest.
This interest       resulted in a sell-out of the 'Protect &amp; Perfect' product and the       retooling of the Boots manufacturing plant to meet demand.
[text removed       for publication.]
Following the showcasing of our in vivo system       by the BBC on Horizon there was a sea-change in the public's       perception of the science underpinning product claims.
This has resulted       in a consumer-driven requirement by personal care companies to support       product claims with rigorous scientific data and controlled trials of       efficacy.
Reach and significance of the impact     Commercial impact on Boots       Following the broadcast of the BBC Horizon programme at the end of       March 2007, sales of Boots No7 `Protect &amp; Perfect Beauty Serum' rose       dramatically.
[text removed for publication.]
[text removed for publication.]
In 2012-2013, Alliance Boots Ltd Health and Beauty operation (including       the No7 range) posted the highest profit growth of all Boots divisions,       with the trading profits at the arm growing 6.8% (S4).
Trading profits of       the Health &amp; Beauty operation have shown an annual increase from &#163;667m       in 2008/09 to &#163;865m in 2012/13, amounting to a 30% increase (S4).
In 2012, the American pharmaceutical company Walgreens invested &#163;4.4bn in       an agreement with Alliance Boots Ltd to create the largest global       pharmaceutical wholesale and distribution network (S3).
The No7 `Protect       &amp; Perfect' brand was reported as a `star beauty product from Boots at       its US partner' (S3).
Impact on the personal care industry       The impact of the UoM research extends beyond Boots, influencing the       product development strategies of other key players in the personal care       industry.
Several major national and international personal care companies       (as listed below) have made use of the `Manchester Patch Test Assay' to       provide confidence in product efficacy prior to product launch.
This       facilitates more cohesive development strategies, leading to significant       savings for R&amp;D departments.
The importance of the research to the industry is evidenced by       significant and sustained investment in research on both basic science and       translational studies using the `Manchester Patch Test Assay'.
The       following research contracts awarded to UoM indicate the scale of this       investment.
[text removed for publication.]
