     Context     Owen-Crocker's research on Anglo-Saxon dress and textile underpins her       roles as an expert advisor to museums and galleries, as a disseminator of       knowledge via the mass media and publicly oriented conferences, and, in       particular, as an advisor to practitioners in the increasingly pervasive       culture of heritage and historical re-enactment.
Her work is, then,       strategically situated at the crossroads between public-sphere scholarship       (museums and official exhibits, etc.)
and the realm of popular       appropriation of more officialised forms of scholarship, often via       re-enactment or narrativisation.
Pathways to Impact     Professor Owen-Crocker's research has been disseminated through       specialist as well as more general media outlets.
She appeared in a 1999       edition of the BBC's `Meet the Ancestors' as an Anglo-Saxon dress expert       and she was interviewed on the BBC Radio 4 programme Woman's Hour       in 2006 (1.185 million listeners based on the average weekly reach of the       programme according to the BBC).
A programme on `The Makers of the Bayeux       Tapestry', which she wrote and presented, was broadcast in April 2013 on       BBC Radio 3 as part of `The Essay' series (60 thousand listeners,       according to the BBC's own estimate).
Her work on the Bayeux Tapestry has led to public engagement through       conferences with significant numbers of non-academic attendees.
She was a       major contributor to `Le Colloque International de Bayeux' at       Bayeux in March 2007 and to `The Bayeux Tapestry at the British Museum:         New Research on the Bayeux Tapestry' in London in July 2008.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     Impact on the heritage industry     Professor Owen-Crocker's research has contributed to museum, gallery and       council exhibitions that reconstruct the Anglo-Saxon past.
In 2010 she advised on the design of the pall covering the coffin of King       Alfred in a Winchester street pageant commemorating the 900th       anniversary of the translation of his relics.
The group Hyde900 re-enacted       the procession that transferred the bones of Alfred the Great, his son       Edward the Elder and Alswitha (Alfred's wife) from the site of New Minster       (in the centre of Winchester) to Hyde Abbey in 1110, where the bones       remained under the ground until the 1860s (and possibly beyond).
The event       involved local schools (especially the school closest to the Hyde Abbey       site, St. Bede's Primary School), churches, the University of Winchester,       the Mayor of Winchester (who played the part of King Henry I), and was a       successful community event based on the idea of re-living local history       [5.8].
In 2011 Owen-Crocker advised an embroiderer undertaking a community       project in Guernsey on the history of the island that was inspired by the       Bayeux Tapestry.
During the `Easter Festival of Living History' (22-25       April 2010), Action Company, a group of costumed performers, retold `the       stories from Guernsey's turbulent past and wonderfully rich heritage'       [5.9].
Owen-Crocker also acted as a specialist advisor to the author of the       historical novel Shadow on the Crown (Viking/Penguin, June 2013),       the first volume in a fictional trilogy on Emma of Normandy.
The author       needed details of clothing and costume for her novel, since `the details       of apparel and furnishings are of vast interest to readers of historical       fiction', but she also believes that the role of Owen-Crocker's research       goes beyond the realm of historical data, and thinks that `there is often       something even more subtle going on in these exchanges': for instance,       Owen-Crocker's 2011 reading of the figure of the priest in the Bayeux       Tapestry as `raising the female figure from the dead' influenced both       language and plot of her novel [5.2].
In May 2013, Owen-Crocker was consulted by the Strathmartine Trust, St.       Andrews, Scotland (an independent study centre to support the study of       Scottish History) about the dress on a figure on part of a medieval seal       matrix found by metal detecting in Orkney.
In the same month, she was also       consulted by 360 Productions in relation to a BBC2 series about the life       of William Marshal (1147-1219), Earl of Pembroke.
At the International Congress on Medieval Studies held annually in       Kalamazoo, Michigan (May 2013), Owen-Crocker and her partner from DISTAFF       organized an event with `La Belle Compagnie', a living history       organization focusing on English life during the period of the Hundred       Years War.
Of the 185 participants, ca.
90 were not academics.
The company       dressed four representative English knights (from approximately 1350,       1380, 1415, and 1450) in historically accurate reproduction armour to       illustrate trends in armour design and techniques over this period.
The       presentation included documentary, pictorial, and material evidence,       supplemented by the knights' feedback on the practical experience of       wearing and working in each type of armour.
The four re-enactors, their       helpers and the narrator in the `knights' session work variously in       graphic design, IT, project management, engineering and creative sculpture       and are all members of `La Belle Compagnie' [5.9; 5.10].
Owen-Crocker was       invited in April 2013 to be a guest of honour to the large Convention       `Figments and Filaments', celebrating costuming and cosplay in Kansas       City, MO, in 2014.
Impact on the public's understanding and knowledge of Anglo-Saxon         dress     The project `The Lexis of Cloth and Clothing in Britain c. 700-1450:       Origins, Identification, Contexts and Change' provides information about       current activity, a regular newsletter and a `word of the month' item.
The       whole web-based searchable database (5,362 entries) is an open access       resource.
The site went live in January 2007; between January 2008 and       July 2013 it had well over half a million hits and currently receives an       average of 492 hits a day.
Since its inception it has had 79,265 unique       visitors, of which we estimate a minimum of 65,000 to fall in the review       period [5.4].
The database has operated as a two-way system of knowledge       exchange and public engagement.
On the one hand, it has provided members       of the public with instant access to all the words used for cloth and       clothing in all the languages of the British Isles from that period; on       the other, it has used the public's knowledge to direct some of the team's       lexical research, as two examples demonstrate: 1) A Wars of the Roses       re-enactor, got in touch with the team to gain information on the correct       recreation of an early fifteenth-century Cluniac nun for an event at       Delapre Abbey, the site of the battle of Northampton in 1460 [5.6].
This       enquiry led the team to pursue a new strand of lexical research.
2)       Another user was an expert in medieval and post-medieval dyeing and on the       committee of the London based MEDATS (Medieval Dress and Textiles       Society), who wrote of the website: `This is especially useful in finding       any references in Chaucer's work to textiles and textile dyeing amongst       all else' [5.6].
The impact of Owen-Crocker's research on the public's understanding of       Anglo-Saxon dress is also evident in her role as a public lecturer.
She       lectured at `The Bayeux Tapestry at the British Museum: New Research on         the Bayeux Tapestry' in London in July 2008.
`With 28 speakers from       around the world this was the largest gathering dedicated to a discussion       of the Bayeux Tapestry in the UK in recent times.
The conference attracted       180 delegates of which more than a half were non-academics with a general       interest' [5.1].
The British Museum conference was reported in a five-page       article in the BBC History Magazine, which also profiled each of       the six speakers, including Owen-Crocker [5.5].
The Deputy Head of       Portable Antiquities &amp; Treasure and Curator, Medieval Collections,       British Museum, makes the link between scholarship and public       understanding clear when he writes that `Professor Owen-Crocker's       attention to detail is a signature feature of her work.
This has       highlighted to both academics and the public alike the significance of       variation in the Tapestry imagery, thus changing the way we understand and       examine [it]' [5.1].
In February 2013, Owen-Crocker lectured to the Welsh Guild of Graduates       in Liverpool on the Bayeux Tapestry.
There were 50 non-specialist       participants, among whom were members of the Liverpool Decorative and Fine       Arts Society.
As the Trustee of the Makers Guild in Wales reports, The       Reverend leader of the Welsh community in Liverpool said in his vote of       thanks that he wished he had heard the lecture before he had visited the       Bayeux Tapestry rather than afterwards, as he now had a far better       understanding of the subject-matter than he had before.
This sentiment was       reiterated by many other members of the audience during the informal       socialising afterwards' [5.3].
This strand of Owen-Crocker's public       engagement activities has continued with her participation in events       targeted to non-specialist audiences: in 2010 she participated in and       contributed to the catalogue to the exhibition 1087: Costumi della         traslazione; ebrei, turchi ed armeni in Puglia (Italy) (3,000       visitors [5.6]); in 2011 she gave a public talk at the `Medieval Dress and       Textiles Society Spring Meeting' (Mixed audience, 119 people); in February       2013 she spoke on approaches to the making of dress and its production at       an Applied Art Workshop at King's College, London, to an international       audience of 70, of whom 40 were non-academic [5.7].
