     As co-curator of the Trade and Empire: Remembering Slavery       Exhibition, Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester, June 2007- April 2008       (50,000 visitors in the period Jan-April 2008), Rice provided workshops,       gallery tours and study days for the public and audiences in the cultural       and creative industries.
The exhibition was part of the Revealing         Histories initiative in the Greater Manchester region.
Rice       contributed to workshops and study days at many of the institutions for       schoolchildren, community groups and museum staff including Manchester       Museum, Museum of Science and Industry, Touchstones Rochdale, Gallery       Oldham and Manchester Art Gallery (MAG) all in 2008.
As editor (content)       of the accompanying Revealing Histories Website, he contributed over       12,000 words and expertise to its development.
He was featured at its       launch in various media including Channel M, North-West         Tonight and local radio in July 2008.
He also featured in a live       public debate on slave history and memorialisation on Radio Lancashire in       2010.
In October 2011 the exhibition catalogue was launched at the Gallery       as an advocacy document.
A related project with Nottingham Contemporary on       works curated at the Whitworth led to a talk there in January 2008 and an       essay in their catalogue in 2010.
A key part of Rice's contribution to the       exhibition related to the British sojourn of abolitionist and author,       Henry Box Brown, which inspired performances of his famous escape in a       packing box both in the educational programme and beyond.
The artist       Simeon Barclay became aware of Box's story through Rice's "impressive"       scholarship in the exhibition and a lecture given in Leeds in 2008 and       decided to recreate Box's 1851 visit in a performance at Leeds City Museum       in October 2009 that attracted a large crowd and much press attention.
Rice was invited to be a consultant for the 2012 London Olympiad       exhibition, We Face Forward: West African Art at the MAG and the       Whitworth.
This exhibition attracted over 250,000 visitors over 3 months       and over 12,000 to its public programme of events as well as substantial       press coverage.
Rice gave a public lecture in June at MAG and contributed       a catalogue essay about the history of the African Diaspora in Manchester,       which led Dr Maria Balshaw, Director of MAG, to thank Rice for his       "support and enthusiasm" in contributing to "the amazing impact (of) the       programme".
This work was showcased in two events for the Department of       Communities and Local Government (DCLG, Oct &amp; Dec 2012).
Sharone       Collins from DCLG commented: "Your lecture on `Historical Black       Presences in the North West' was the most well attended of the series and       attendees are still talking about it.
We attracted attendees from       Departments across Whitehall, including DCMS, HMRC, BIS, DfT and DfE.
The       event was an eye opener for those of us who assumed the history of blacks       in the England began in London and ended just North of the Watford Gap!"
Rice was academic advisor and on-camera commentator on the film Choc'late         Soldiers from the USA, which had its world premiere at the       Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in       November 2009.
It had a British premiere supported by Preston City Council       during Black History Month in October 2009.
This film and Rice's       scholarship underpinning it was a key influence on Front Room Theatre's       development of Natalie Wilcox's play Lie Back and Think of England,       which premiered at the Edinburgh Festival in 2012.
Rice brought together       play and film in an academic and community event with the Preston Black       History Group to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Battle       of Bamber Bridge in June 2013 (please see       http://www.uclan.ac.uk/about_us/case_studies/sollis_marks_70th_anniversary_of_battle_of_bamb         er_bridge_report.php).
Rice's research in jazz has led to contributions at both the Lancaster       and Manchester jazz festivals and as lecturer at a night of poetry, drama       and music organised in Manchester by the Human Rights organisation RAPAR       to celebrate the international sojourns of Paul Robeson in November 2010       (over 100 participants).
In 2006 Rice was appointed the external management board member of the       Centre for the Study of International Slavery at Liverpool at the new       International Slavery Museum (ISM).
The paperback version of his Creating         Memorials was launched at ISM in March 2012 and he has contributed       to a public event on Abraham Lincoln in April 2011 and was featured on a       panel discussing the new American PBS documentary The Abolitionists       at a filmed public event there in March 2013.
His work on Lincoln and the       Lancashire Cotton Famine was showcased on BBC 1's The One Show       with Dan Snow in February 2013 (4m viewers; please see       http://www.uclan.ac.uk/news/academic_set_for_national_tv_appearance.php)       and at a public symposium on Lincoln's legacy at the Wilberforce Institute       for the Study of Slavery and Emancipation in Hull in October 2013.
