     Context     Mars Drinks is the drinks division of Mars Incorporated, a global company       with a turnover of over $33bn in Petcare, Chocolate, Wrigley, Food, Drinks       and Symbioscience.
Mars Drinks was established in 1955, originally as the       Four Square Division of Mars, and now employs more than 650 Associates       across eight countries.
Operating in the UK, France, Germany, USA and       Japan, Mars Drinks have their drinks machines in over 35,000 businesses       and produce more than one billion drinks a year with their two brands: Flavia       single portion fresh beverages; and Klix in-cup beverages [A].
A       conservative estimate would value sales at &gt; US$400m per annum.
Polymers are used widely in the field of food packaging in the Mars group       and the Klix and Flavia both rely upon the performance of       their polymeric packaging and cups during the vending process.
Collaboration with the University of Manchester over many years has       enabled robust systems to be put in place to enable cost-effective and       reliable polymer-based systems to be specified.
Since both types of drinks       are produced at the level of hundreds of millions per year, this gives       major challenges in terms of materials processing, performance, and       quality control.
Pathways to Impact     The impact of the contribution of UoM to this project has been through       the evaluation of materials performance, quality control, trouble shooting       and helping direct materials specification.
This has been undertaken       though Mars-funded research projects (&#163;0.45 million over the 20-year       period) with the Manchester researchers working closely with the company       and with their suppliers, and spending time at the company premises.
Reach     Flavia freshly-vended drinks     A major achievement over the past 20 year period has been the       introduction of Flavia, which was originally only a European product, into       the export markets and more than double sales volumes [A].
Research       undertaken in the University of Manchester has had significant impact upon       the development of this product.
Heat-sealing of the different       polypropylene components has been a major challenge and the fundamental       research undertaken upon the melting and crystallisation of polypropylene       has led to a detailed specification of the properties needed in the       different polypropylene components to produce a robust and reliable       system.
For example, the problem of side bursts has now been reduced by       three orders of magnitude and so virtually eliminated.
Consequently the Flavia       single portion fresh beverage system has revolutionised the delivery of       refreshments in the office environment.
It is a simple to use, convenient,       clean and reliable drinks system that has replaced the "office coffee pot"       worldwide.
Klix instant drinks     The Klix system is now used widely in public spaces such as at       colleges and in factories, delivering a range of branded drinks, both       reliably and with consistent quality.
The research at the University of       Manchester upon the material used in the Klix cups has been of       major significance in the development of the system.
Topics studied have       included polymer blends, rubber toughening, thermal conductivity and       recycling.
A specific example of impact was in solving the problem of       environmental stress cracking (ESC) in the high-impact polystyrene (HIPS)       cups used in the Klix system &#8212; a potential safety hazard.
Polystyrene is susceptible to ESC in the presence of the fats in dairy       products.
This was found to be a particular issue for the Klix       system with milky drinks such as drinking chocolate or white coffee.
It       was demonstrated that the ESC problem resulted from the size and form of       the rubber particles in the grade of HIPS employed in the presence of       dairy products.
The relatively small rubber particles in HIPS were       susceptible to damage during processing that reduced their effective size       further.
It was found that the ESC problem could be overcome by specifying       a different grade of HIPS with larger rubber particles.
Significance     The underpinning research with the University of Manchester, that has led       to the development of the present Klix and Flavia drinks       systems has been a central and necessary component in the success of Mars       Drinks [A] through:            Better materials selection       Improved quality control       Improvements in packaging performance       Significant cost reduction          One particular problem that was encountered before the collaboration with       the University of Manchester was that the polymer-based components in Flavia       and Klix were poorly specified in terms of their structure and       properties, which meant that company was susceptible to changes in grades       of polymer by their suppliers.
This research has had significant impact in       the areas of materials selection and quality control, coupled with an       improvement in performance and an associated significant cost reduction.
