     The book's potential impact on the reading public - both outside       and inside of academe - is asserted by the pre-eminent US folk music       scholar, Ronald D. Cohen, who calls it `a fresh, challenging look at Woody       Guthrie's political life and musical contributions'.
Music historian Clark       D. Halker deems it `a much needed and extremely valuable book on Woody       Guthrie', arguing that `examining Guthrie in this broader historical and       cultural framework yields new insights into both Guthrie and radicalism'.
Kirkus Reviews calls it `an overdue rediscovery of folk music's       great agitator', whilst Utopian Studies calls it `a stunning       accomplishment and the first sustained monograph on Guthrie's political       involvements, opinions, and impacts'.
For the American Music Review       it is `unquestionably the most significant scholarly work to emerge around       the [Guthrie] Centennial'.
The publication led to an hour long interview       on the US news programme Democracy Now!, a broadcast on C-Span's'       Book-TV show, extensive interviews on US National Public Radio,       positive notices in the New York Times and the Guardian,       an appearance in a forthcoming French documentary, Mais ou est donc         pass&#233; Woody and a consultancy with Douglas Brinkley and Johnny Depp       for their publication of Guthrie's lost novel, House of Earth (in       which they refer to Kaufman as one of "two great Guthrie scholars").
The       book was translated into Italian in 2012, with major notices and       interviews in the three major Italian broadsheets, La Republicca,       La Stampa and Il Tiempo.
In personal correspondence, two of       the English-speaking world's greatest folk musicians describe the book's       impact upon them.
Ralph McTell: `The book is a true revelation and threw a       different light on Woody for me'; Andy Irvine: `It really opened my eyes       to Woody as the fierce radical he was!'
And a `vox pop' from Goodreads:       `So much of labor history is little known in this country and this book is       important in filling in some of those gaps in knowledge'.
A selection of responses to Kaufman's performances attests to       their impact in terms of historical and cultural awareness: `[It was]       invaluable for those of us whose teachers inexplicably skipped the chapter       on early 20th century American history.
He has a relaxed style; with well       rehearsed one-liners and a deep knowledge of the subject ... but although       I learned a great deal, I never felt that I was being lectured at.
A lot       of the time, he feels more like a story-teller than an academic speaker' (http://www.andrewrilstone.com/2010/04/will-kaufman-jazzfutureinns-bristol-         24.html).
From Ralph McTell's blog, 24 April 2010: `On Friday       evening I attended the Bodmin Folk Club and listened spellbound to the       wonderful Will Kaufman's one man show on the life of one of my musical and       spiritual heroes, Woody Guthrie.
I cannot recommend this performance too       highly...
In Will Kaufman's show you will see and hear in graphic and       affectionate detail why this writer has inspired so many guitar singer       songwriters.
I was deeply moved by the whole performance.
Try to catch       Will sometime'.
(http://www.ralphmctell.co.uk/journal_apr.php).
From a young audience member in Connecticut, after a performance tied in       with the NEH `Big Read' initiative focused on The Grapes of Wrath       (15 October 2010): `The combination of the slides, songs, and stories was       so interesting and entertaining at the same time.
Sometimes it was quite       sad and other times he made us laugh, but I felt like I was transported to       another time and place and it made me want to revisit the novel once       again' (http://www.nea.gov/bigreadblog/?cat=8).
From an audience member, July 2013: `What a way to kick off a series of       gigs at La Dolce Vita.
`Exploring the thirties in USA is like exploring       the world as it is today.
But as WG himself said: if you've got a song,       you've got a way of changing things.
This was not just a moving musical       documentary but an education in resistance.'
Spin-off and return       invitations are common - hence externally funded presentations in 2013 at       the Woody Guthrie Center in Oklahoma, a return to the Shetland WordPlay       Festival, and a return to Westchester, New York, for a commemoration of       the 1949 Peekskill Riots, sharing the bill exclusively with Pete Seeger.
Kaufman's performances have also generated real economic impact,       as he regularly plays fundraising benefits for the likes of the People's       History Museum, the Woody Guthrie Foundation, the Working Class Movement       Library, the American Labor Museum, Windows for Peace, AsylumLink, the       TUC, the Fire Brigades Union, the Los Angeles Carwashero's Union, the       Brighton Unemployment Centre and many other charities and organisations.
(Indicative evidence: email from Windows for Peace organiser, 21 February       2013: `Tickets are going well.
We have well over 100 booking so far - and       they are still coming in'; Facebook notice from the Sheffield Committee to       Defend Asylum Seekers, 14 October 2012: `We had 70 people filling Cafe       Harland for an informational and inspiring night, courtesy of Will       Kaufman.
Still got ticket money coming in but the scores on the doors are       &#163;423 taken'; email from Freedom From Torture organiser, 7 October 2013:       `All I want say is summed up in one comment from a punter.
They said the       work the charity is involved in really came home to them when they       listened to you singing and saw those extraordinary photos.
We raised &#163;600       and as I hoped celebrated a great charity.
Thank you for being such a       vital and inspiring part of that'.
Kaufman's reputation for high impact among his peers is reflected in his       inclusion as a case study for the British Association for American Studies       publication, American Studies in the UK: Impact and Public Engagement       (2013) and an invitation to the University of Derby to address their       Impact conference (2013).
High-profile performers such as Pete Seeger, Tom       Paxton, Ralph McTell and Ry Cooder have publically attested to the impact       of Kaufman's performances (see endorsements on www.willkaufman.com).
