     Context       The considerable supply of energy required by industrial production has       focused attention on the more sustainable use of energy.
Also, it is       imperative that process efficiencies are improved to meet stringent       regulations and environmental legalisation.
Process Integration Technology       (Pinch Technology) pioneered at Manchester was developed to address such       issues and has been extensively used by the process industry worldwide.
Pathways to Impact       Manchester's CPI is a recognised centre of excellence and has maintained       close links with industry through the Process Integration Research       Consortium (PIRC).
The computer software developed in CPI has enabled       effective technology transfer and commercial exploitation of our       underpinning research outputs by the thirteen companies comprising PIRC.
In total, six software packages have been developed for heat recovery       systems, utility systems, distillation systems cryogenic systems, water       integration and refinery modelling &amp; optimisation.
Process Integration       Ltd (PIL) was spun-out from Manchester in 2007 to provide an effective       route to market.
The software has been further developed to commercial       standards and licensed by PIL, which currently employs over 50 people in       Manchester, Beijing and Houston, for either sale to industry (14 copies,       US$100k per copy) or for internal use by PIL on consultancy projects (35       major projects) [C1].
Reach and Significance of Impact     Heat Recovery Systems       Despite the cost saving and environmental benefits associated with reduced       consumption of finite non-renewable energy resources, it is difficult to       justify capital investment on retrofit for energy saving of an existing       process.
The new methods developed in CPI have allowed more cost-effective       retrofit of heat recovery systems and simultaneous heat recovery and       process optimisation.
To date, three software licences have been sold and       sixteen commercial studies have been carried out on various process units       from refining to petrochemicals.
Savings related directly to the use of       these CPI methods can be considerable [C2, C3], for example Sinopec has,       since 2009, saved 15 MW of energy worth approximately US$25m, and savings       will continue at a rate of ca.
US$5m/year [C4].
BP envisages savings worth       approximately US$4.4m/year per typical major refinery [C3].
Utility systems       Most processes operate in the context of an existing site in which a       number of processes are linked to the same steam and power system.
Such       utility systems are the largest energy consumers on most processing sites       and therefore offer the opportunity of substantial savings.
Manchester has developed improved methods for the simulation and       operational optimisation of utility systems that have enable without       capital expenditure substantial reductions in fuel consumption, fuel       costs, increased power production and lower CO2 emissions.
Eleven commercial studies have been undertaken on utility systems for       Sinopec resulting in energy savings of US$250m since 2009 and these       savings will continue at a rate of ca.
US$50m/year [C4].
In addition,       revenue has been generated by licencing eight copies of the software to       PCITC and LPEC in China.
Refinery hydrogen networks       After the cost of purchasing crude oil and the cost of energy to run a       refinery, the next biggest cost is that of hydrogen.
Changes in       environmental regulations and increased use of heavy crude oil have       increased the demand for hydrogen in refineries significantly.
This has       necessitated more efficient use of hydrogen and significant investment in       hydrogen generation and purification, which consumes a significant amount       of energy.
Manchester's systematic methods have for the first time provided       petroleum companies with insight into how to improve the refinery hydrogen       networks.
Industrial process engineers have the benefit of not only       powerful mathematical tools, but also the insights that simple graphical       methods present.
Three software licences have been sold to Sinopec and PetroChina in       China.
Also, eight commercial studies have been undertaken on refinery       hydrogen networks for Sinopec that have saved the company US$50M, since       2009, comprising savings in natural gas and additional revenue generated       from the recovery of light hydrocarbons.
These savings will continue at a       rate of ca.
US$10m/year.
[C4].
In addition, a major study has also been       carried out for Shell Deutschland, but the results are commercial in       confidence.
Petroleum refinery molecular modelling       The demand for higher quality products in conjunction with more stringent       environmental regulations has caused the refining industry to move towards       better characterisation of the composition of refinery streams.
The methodology developed at Manchester allows more effective molecular       management in refining through better modelling and optimisation.
Three commercial studies have been carried out on refinery optimisation       for Sinopec that have saved US$25m, since 2009, in increased product value       and on-going savings of ca.
US$5m/year.
More recently, PIL and Sinopec       established a joint venture that has developed a new software system based       on a research output from CPI.
The software has the potential to make       significant improvements in the efficiency of exploitation of crude oil.
To date, the software has been validated on two Chinese refineries of       Sinopec, two trial software licences have been issued for evaluation and       is currently being launched commercially.
The sales price of the software       will be around US$225k per copy [C1].
