     Brian Cox's success in communicating science to a broad audience is       underpinned by his credentials as a leading researcher, and by the       research of the particle physics group in Manchester.
He set out to convey       the excitement of particle-physics research, through the broadcast media,       contributing significantly to public interest in, and understanding of,       the search for the Higgs boson, and has gone on to popularise many other       areas of science.
His deep understanding of much of the material he       presents makes him an authoritative voice, and his specific expertise in       particle physics regularly informs his media work.
With Jeff Forshaw, his       writing on popular science books adds to the reach of the impact.
Spreading the excitement of particle physics     2008 saw the iTunes release of the final 4 in a series of 12 CERN-LHC       podcasts funded by the STFC in which "Dr Brian Cox invites a series of         unlikely guests around the biggest experiment in the history of the         universe" which have become popular downloads [A].
Shortly after       these, Cox was interviewed on the BBC Horizon programme "The 6 Billion       Dollar Experiment" whilst he was working at CERN.
As a result of that       initial appearance, Andrew Cohen (current Head of Science at the BBC)       invited Cox to present "The Big Bang Machine" for BBC4.
In this 1 hour       show, first broadcast on 4 September 2008, "Brian Cox visits Geneva to         take a look around CERN's Large Hadron Collider before this vast, 27km         long, machine is sealed off and a simulation experiment begins to try         and create the conditions that existed just a billionth of a second         after the Big Bang" [B].
This programme was repeated 3 times after       initial broadcast (Sept 2008, Jan 2009, Aug 2011) and was seen by a total       of over a million viewers of which nearly 40% were female &#8212; unusual for a       programme about physics &#8212; with a broad range of ages (16% 4-15, 43% 16-34       and 33% 55+) [C].
Taking science broadcasting to a new level     Building on his background in particle physics, the success of "Big Bang       Machine" led rapidly to three further Horizon programmes: "What on Earth       is wrong with gravity?
", "What time is it?"
and "Can we make a star on       Earth?".
The success of these programmes was the trigger for the "Wonders       of the Solar System" five-programme mini-series.
Audience figures for the       series were extremely high and persistent, averaging over 3 million per       programme, and regularly featuring in the top 3 BBC2 programmes of the       week [C].
Wonders of the Solar System won a Peabody Award in the USA for       excellence in documentary film making.
In 2011 Cox won "Best Presenter" at       the Royal Television Society awards for Wonders of the Solar System and at       the Broadcasting Press Guild Awards he won the award for best performer in       a non-acting role, while Wonders of the Solar System was named best       documentary series.
The two further five programme series: "Wonders of the Universe" and       "Wonders of Life" succeeded in building on that initial success, with       audiences for Wonders of the Universe programmes averaging well over 3       million, and ranked in the top two BBC2 programmes, and Wonders of Life       averaging around 2.5 million.
The "Wonders" programmes have also been       broadcast internationally [USA August 2010, Australia March 2011, New       Zealand April 2011, Netherlands April 2011].
The impact of the three       "Wonders" series on viewers is also evidenced by associated book and DVD       sales (165k DVD/BluRay were sold for the first two Wonders series as of       end of May 2012 [D] and the three "Wonders" books, co-written with Andrew       Cohen, head of science at the BBC and published by Harper Collins, have       sold more than 600,000 copies worldwide to date.
The associated app and       e-books have sold over 303,000 copies to date [E]).
The impact of these programmes on the broadcasting media, and the BBC in       particular, is clear from repeat showings, re-commissioning and associated       invitations for Cox to appear on other shows, including several       appearances on The Jonathan Ross Show, The One Show, The Sky at Night, QI,       Blue Peter, BBC Radio 5 Live and The Today Programme.
Cox has a regular       science slot on BBC6 Music's Shaun Keaveny Breakfast Show and has made       many other one-off appearances on other TV and radio programmes.
In 2009,       Cox became co-host (with comedian Robin Ince) of the BBC Radio 4 series       "The Infinite Monkey Cage".
The show won a Gold Award in the 2011 Sony       Radio Awards and continues to be broadcast: the 8th series was       broadcast in 2013.
Cox is also the co-host (with comedian Dara O'Briain)       of the annual "Stargazing Live" event broadcast on BBC2 in 2011, 2012 and       2013.
After the most recent of these, amazon.co.uk announced a 500%       increase in telescope sales [F].
Cox also has a long-standing collaboration with Professor Jeff Forshaw.
Together they have written two best-selling popular science books, "Why       does E=mc2?"
(da Capo) and "The Quantum Universe" (Penguin), which have       sold 434k copies to the end of 2012 [G].
These books have been translated       into several languages and the figures quoted here are only for USA/Canada       and UK sales.
They have been commissioned to write a further book for       Penguin, to be published in 2014.
Forshaw has also written several       articles in the national press related to LHC physics [H].
He appeared on       "BBC Breakfast" in July 2012 to talk about the discovery of the Higgs       boson and, in January 2012, he was on the BBC Radio 4 "Today" programme to       discuss the Higgs boson with CERN Director General Rolf-Dieter Heuer.
Influencing public debate on science     Cox's impact on public debate is further illustrated by the following       example.
In November 2010, Cox delivered the Royal Television Society's       "Huw Wheldon Lecture" entitled "Science: A Challenge To TV Orthodoxy"       (broadcast on BBC2).
This lecture was explicitly mentioned in the 2nd       report of Session 2010-2012 of the House of Lords Select Committee on       Communications, "The governance and regulation of the BBC", to which Cox       gave evidence in May 2011, and also in Professor Steve Jones' report in       the "BBC Trust Review of Impartiality and Accuracy of the BBC's Coverage       of Science" (July 2011).
Cox's impact on the public understanding of science has been recognised       by several major awards.
In 2010 he was awarded an OBE for his services to       science.
He was awarded prizes in science communication from the Institute       of Physics (2010 Kelvin Medal "For communicating the appeal and excitement       of physics to the general public through the broadcast media") and the       Royal Society (2012 Faraday Prize "For his excellent work in science       communication").
His extraordinary impact on popular culture is also       indicated by the fact that, in 2011, he was ranked the 11th       most influential man in Britain according to GQ Magazine.
Forshaw was also       awarded the 2013 Kelvin Medal of the Institute of Physics "for his       wide-reaching work aimed at helping the general public understand complex       ideas in physics".
Impact on recruitment of young people to science     Brian Cox's impact in helping popularize science in general and physics       in particular has led to what is now termed "The Brian Cox Effect" by the       media.
Examples include: "Brian Cox Effect leads to surge in demand for       physics, Daily Telegraph, 11 January 2013; "The Brian Cox effect is a star       turn", Daily Telegraph, 6 September 2011; "Making science sexy: The Brian       Cox effect", BBC Radio 5 Live (Tony Livesey), 8 March 2011; and "A-levels       boom in maths and science credited to Brian Cox effect", The Guardian, 18       August 2011, in which Ziggy Liaquat (managing director of Edexcel) said of       the increasing presence of science and maths in popular culture: "It could       be the Brian Cox effect.
It could be as simple as that."
These claims are       made in part because of a large increase in the numbers of students       studying physics over the past few years.
For example, according to UCAS       [H], the number of applications ("choices") to universities to study       physics has increased year-on-year from 17.0k in 2008 to 25.9k in 2012 (a       52% increase), which is a more rapid rise than in the other sciences       (mathematics (+19%), chemistry (+27%) and biology (+35%)).
It is hard to       quantify the extent of Cox's contributions to these increases, but the       abundant media coverage and statements like the one above from Liaquat and       the following quote from Professor Sir Peter Knight (President of the       Institute of Physics), do indicate that the widespread perception is of a       very significant effect [J]:     "Year-on-year we are seeing increases in the number of students         choosing to sit physics A-level.
As physics has enjoyed popular         rejuvenation - thanks, in no small part, to the `Brian Cox effect' and         the excitement surrounding the Large Hadron Collider...The incremental         increases each year have led to a significant long-term trend.
Over the         last five years, the number of A-level exams taken across all subjects         has risen 7.7% but the growth in the number entering for physics is far         stronger - a 19.6% increase over the last five years.
Students across         the country are hearing the cry for more scientists and rising to the         challenge!"
