     Research in atomic and molecular physics at Manchester requires       state-of-the-art instrumentation       for the study of atoms and molecules by electron spectroscopy.
This       requires accurate knowledge       of the behaviour of electrons and ions in the electrostatic and magnetic       fields of the       instrumentation.
Consequently, a software package (CPO) was developed to       model this behaviour       precisely.
Analytical instruments using charged-particle optics are also       widely used in industry.
These instruments also need to have the highest performance for the       increasingly demanding       requirements of customers.
Consequently, a spin-off company was formed to       make CPO available       to manufacturers of scientific instruments and other users of electron       optics.
This company, called       Charged Particle Optics Ltd, was started by two staff from the School of       Physics and Astronomy       (Read &amp; Bowring).
The principle advantage of CPO for customers is that it is one or two       orders of magnitude more       accurate than conventional finite element or finite difference methods.
This has been demonstrated       by more than 200 benchmark tests that are based on problems that have well       known analytical       solutions.
These benchmark tests are readily available to prospective       customers, [A] and these       tests have established CPO as the gold standard of charged particle       optics.
This superior accuracy       provides, for example, enhanced mass resolution in a mass spectrometer       [text removed for       publication].
Other important advantages are that CPO can easily deal with       electrodes of any       shape and of very different sizes, such as nano-sized electrodes in       centimetre-sized systems, and       because CPO is a charge-based method, it can deal with systems that       include space charge       and/or cathodes.
These are of crucial importance to manufactures of high       throughput analysis       tools, [text removed for publication] .
Moreover, a manufacturer can use       CPO to develop and test       designs for new products before any metal is machined, saving them       considerable time and cost       [text removed for publication].
CPO has been sold [text removed for publication].
Illustrative Examples of Impact     (i) [text removed for publication].
(ii) [text removed for publication]     (iii) At the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), California, CPO was used to       simulate the electron       ionizer in the prototype of a gas chromatographic mass spectrometer system       that was later flown       as a flight version to the International Space Station (ISS).
The purpose       of this instrument is to       monitor the concentration &#8212; at the parts-per-million to parts-per-billion       levels &#8212; of trace, toxic       chemical species in the ISS cabin atmosphere.
Species include acetone,       ethanol, aldehydes,       ketones, benzene, and perfluoropropane.
The unit also monitors the major       constituent species N2,       O2, CO2, and Ar.
Both types of measurements are       needed to assure astronaut safety in the cabin.
All data are processed on-board by the instrument, and as well transmitted       to JPL for further       analysis and archiving.
The full space-charge capability of CPO was       especially important to the       design and testing of the electron ionizer of the mass spectrometer.
[text       removed for publication]       The instrument was used successfully for two years aboard the Space       Station, and was recently       returned to Earth for refurbishment [text removed for publication].
Summary of Economic Impact     [text removed for publication]
