     The Exhibitions     The Royal Society's annual Summer Science Exhibition showcases the most       exciting cutting-edge       science and technology research [A].
It provides a unique opportunity for       members of the public to       interact with scientists and ask them questions about their work.
The       Exhibition is the Society's       main public event of the year, and is open to members of the general       public as well as students       and teachers, scientists, policymakers and the media [A].
The exhibitions       have taken place       annually since 1778, and are widely regarded as the UK's premier public       engagement event in       science.
Our increased participation during the REF period reflects a       strategic decision by the UoA       to target this event as a vehicle for optimum science communication,       drawing systematically on our       most exciting and ambitious research.
Part of this strategy is to reuse       resources produced for the       Exhibits building a lasting legacy on the initial development.
Since 2008,       we have led or played a       major (50%) role in 4 exhibits:     AO: ALMA Observatory &#8212; probing our cosmic           origins with ALMA (6 days, 2012) developed in       collaboration with Cambridge and led in Manchester by Avison (RA), with       UoM providing about half       the exhibition team (6 staff, 3 PhD students).
SF: Putting sunshine in the tank &#8212; using           nanotechnology to make solar fuel (6 days, 2011)       led by UoM (PI Flavell, staff), a collaboration with York, Nottingham and       East Anglia.
UoM       provided over half the team of 23 staff, RAs and PhDs.
GR: Carbon Flatland &#8212; unexpected science in a           pencil line (6 days, 2011) has exhibit team of       30 from various UoM Schools including Physics and Astronomy (including       Novoselov, staff).
LC: Liquid crystals: living cells and flat           screen TVs (10 days, 2010) was led in Manchester by       Dierking (staff) and Gleeson (staff), and in collaboration with       Southampton, York and Sheffield       Hallam.
The exhibit was largely built in Manchester.
We have also made significant contributions (ca.
15-30%) to a       further 4 exhibits in the period:     PL: Planck: Looking back to the dawn of time       (7 days, 2013).
A collaboration with Imperial       College, the Cambridge, Oxford and Cardiff.
UoM RAs Watson and Peel       designed and built part of       the stand; 8 UoM staff, RAs and PGs made up 20% of the exhibit team.
HB: Higgs Boson &#8212; understanding the Higgs           Boson (7 days, 2013).
A collaboration of 17 UK       universities and RAL.
The UoM team was led by Soldner-Rembold (staff) with       4 PDRAs/PGs; UoM       provided prizes (books signed by Cox (staff)), and part of an online       booklet.
HP: From the oldest light to the youngest           stars: the Herschel and Planck Missions' (5 days,       2009) A collaboration with Cardiff, Cambridge, Imperial College, the       Mullard Space Science       Laboratory, RAL and UK ATC, with Lowe (RA) leading for UoM.
NW: Is there anybody out there?
Looking for           new worlds (4 days, 2008) With the Open       University, QUB, St Andrews, Hertfordshire, Keele and The Faulkes       Telescope Project.
Our       contribution on microlensing was led by Rattenbury (RA).
Selection and Preparation     Seven of the exhibits were selected by the Royal Society via a       competitive process &#8212; e.g.
the solar       fuel exhibit (SF) was one of 21 exhibits selected from 97       applications.
Selection criteria included       the quality of the underpinning research, and track record in public       engagement.
The graphene       exhibit (GR) was by invitation following the award of the 2010       Nobel Prize in Physics.
Significant       funds were raised from external bodies to enhance a number of the       exhibits, for example SF       benefitted from a &#163;46k EPSRC `Pathways to Impact' award, enabling       construction of a solar fuel       demonstrator.
Seven of the exhibits were staged at Carlton House Terrace (NW,       HP, SF, GR, AO,       HB, PL).
The 2010 exhibit, LC, was part of a Festival of       Science and Arts, held at London's       Southbank Centre in celebration of the Society's 350th anniversary.
Impact on Visitors to the Exhibits     In total, the eight exhibits received more than 94,000 visitors.
Those at       the Royal Society saw       between 5,000-14,000 visitors each, while the 2010 anniversary exhibition       received almost 50,000       visitors [C].
As a typical breakdown of these visitors, the 2011       exhibition (SF, GR) was attended by       around 14,000 visitors made up of GCSE and A-level students (1852, from 92       schools and       colleges), teachers (224), representatives of the media (45), FRS/VIP       guests (1425) and other       members of the public (10265).
The school visitors were gender balanced,       54% white ethnic and       86% from non-independent schools; 91% agreed they enjoyed talking to the       scientists [C].
Captivating and enthralling hands-on demonstrations were developed for       all exhibits.
As illustrative       examples, these included (for LC) displays of the beautiful       iridescence of chiral liquid crystals in       temperature sensing devices and on the backs of bugs, and visitors were       amazed to see dramatic       changes when viewed with polarizing light.
Members of the public made       liquid crystals undergo       phase transitions and saw their response to electric and magnetic fields.
At SF, visitors were able       to make quantum dots luminesce, operate a solar nanocell, producing       hydrogen at the stand, and       race solar-fuel-powered model cars against the solar-powered equivalent       using our solar-powered       Scalextrix.
At GR, visitors were able to make graphene themselves       using sellotape, and their       samples were examined by optical microscopy to confirm that graphene had       been made &#8212; an       achievement that resulted in the award of a chocolate Nobel Prize medal       and badge.
At PL,       visitors were able to use a telephone to dial up the sound of the Big       Bang.
Typically 60-75% of       student visitors felt that the exhibition had made them more interested in       science, and more       interested in the possibility of a science-based career [C].
Impact on Virtual Visitors &#8212; Web Resources and Media Coverage     Alongside each exhibit, significant web-based resources were developed,       all of which have a life       after the exhibition.
These included the exhibit web sites (which remain       live and active [A]) and (for       the later exhibits) blogs, handouts/booklets (e.g.
HB [B]),       factsheets (e.g.
HP, NW), materials for       teachers (e.g.
LC [D]), videos and an Ask the Scientist       question and answer forum, live during the       exhibition.
As examples, in 2013 (PL, HB), the main exhibition       website was visited 113,630 times       [C] and the 2011 main site (SF, GR) has been shared on over 3400       social networking sites.
The web-based resources developed during each exhibition have contributed       significantly to our       ongoing public engagement activities.
For example, web-based interactive       games and quizzes       designed for the SF exhibit (allowing the player to make enough       solar fuel to launch a rocket) have       been played over 4,500 times (and reused on the UoM website), while a       linked YouTube video has       more than 18,500 views.
A graphene virtual microscope iPhone app (GR)       has now been       downloaded over 10,000 times from Google Play and iTunes.
One of the key       elements of HP was       the Chromoscope software tool to explore multi-wavelength views of       the Universe (lead developer       Lowe, RA).
This has been used since in exhibitions including the Big Bang       Fair Manchester in       2010 (22,000 visitors), and was developed into a web-based application [E]       which had around 1.5       million users in its first year.
It has also been incorporated into a       popular `touchtable' exhibit that       has been in use at Jodrell Bank Discovery Centre (JBDC) since it opened in       2011 [F], receiving       more than 235,000 visitors.
A major feature of AO was the Pynterferometer,       a piece of interactive       software which allowed exhibition-goers to use a touchscreen to drag       `antennas' around and       investigate how this affects the output of a telescope.
This has led to a       publication [G], is available       for download, and is being developed further for display at JBDC.
Significant media coverage was generated during and after each exhibit.
This included BBC news       coverage (TV [H] and website [I]), numerous blogs (such as Climate         Change for Obama, SF [J])       and many specialist magazines including The Engineer and Business         Weekly.
The Legacy &#8212; Sustained Public Engagement     Following each exhibit, we have received a substantial number of requests       to participate in follow-on       activity, in the UK and elsewhere.
As an example, the graphene exhibit (GR)       has been       subsequently in action at the Manchester Science Festival (MSF) 2011, 2012       and 2013, during       National Science and Engineering Week (NSEW) 2012 and 2013, at Jodrell         Bank Live (JBL) 2012       and 2013 (a science exhibition/rock concert, 11,000 visitors in 2012), in       3 Meet the Scientist events       at the Manchester Museum of Science and Industry, and at graphene EU       flagship promotion       events, such as the Graphene 2012 International Conference in Brussels (10th-13th       April 2012).
The latter was attended by 600 researchers, industrialists, policymakers       and investors.
More       generally the exhibits have been in demand at large venues such as JBL,       MSF, NSEW and Big       Bang, London (LC, 30,000 visitors) but also in smaller events       targeting `difficult to reach groups',       for example, the solar-powered Scalextrix from SF was a highlight       of Revolution &#8212; a fun day in       Ancoats, an inner city area of Manchester, 2011, part of Moving         Planet: a day to move past fossil         fuels [K].
The exhibitors have collectively given a huge number (we       estimate, hundreds) of public       engagement talks to e.g.
Sci-Bars, Caf&#233;-Scientifiques, Guilds,       professional bodies such as IOP       and IChemE, and schools.
Feedback from follow-on events suggests that this       engagement is as       effective as the original exhibitions [e.g.
F]; this allows us to estimate       (conservatively) that this       legacy activity has positively influenced more than 60,000 students       towards choosing a science-based       career.
