     Context     Digital signal Processing (DSP), although a widely used technique with       applications in many       domains, requires high-level expertise in system design, mathematics and       software development,       limiting its potential use.
The research was directed at the development       of algorithms that       automate the process, making DSP accessible to non-expert users.
Pathways to impact     In 2001 Signal Wizard         Systems&#174; was established as a trading entity within the       School of Electrical       and Electronic Engineering at the University of Manchester, to provide a       vehicle to make the       products and software arising from the research available to users.
It is       established as a not-for-profit       entity with any surpluses devoted to supporting further research.
Signal Wizard Systems&#174; currently provides four products [A]:            A 2-channel audio analyser SW 2.5 launched in 2008       An 8-channel audio analyser SW 3.0 launched in 2011       Soundtrack &#8212; a free download software package for processing wav audio         files launched 2010       Vsound a standalone emulation unit for use with electric violins         prototypes produced in 2012.
Signal Wizard systems have found application in a wide range of settings       including structural       engineering, seismology, and the medical and security sectors.
This case       study highlights the use       in these key sectors.
Reach and Significance of the impact     Structural Engineering     Many modern engineering structures rely for their structural integrity on       tensioned steel elements       as reinforcement of post-tension structures, pre-stressed concrete, or as       primary supporting       elements; these elements can corrode and fail without any external       warning.
Pure Technologies       Ltd, (Canada) have built a new business sector by providing continuous 24h       monitoring of such       structures to detect and determine the location of the micro-failures that       can cumulatively lead to       catastrophic failure.
The technique relies on a fibre-optic cable laid       along the structure detecting       the vibration noise caused by a failure in a steel element.
Signal Wizard       2.5 is incorporated into       their SoundPrint&#174; fibre-optic acoustic monitoring systems to       ensure that normal operational noise       such as passing traffic or nearby construction work is screened out and       only genuine breaks are       detected.
The CEO of Pure Technologies Ltd has stated "The Signal Wizard       has applications in       many areas, but in ours, it is indispensible [B].
The technology is used on a wide range of structures such as bridges,       buildings and water pipes       and the potential of the system to prevent catastrophic failure was       demonstrated earlier this year       when the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission detected an impending       failure in large water       main.
This contrasts with the devastation caused in 2008 by the failure of       one of the company's       major water mains, releasing 150,000 gallons per minute and forcing       rescues by helicopter of       motorists and residents [C].
In addition to these consequential impacts       the costs of repairs of       bursts in water mains is significant $3bn pa in the US [H] and in a recent       case in London &#163;4m for a       single burst [I].
Pure Technologies Ltd have built an international business on the basis       of the Signal Wizard       technology and the company's annual report identifies this monitoring       activity as contributing       Canadian $5.6m to company revenues in 2012 [D].
The ultimate value,       however, is in the avoided       cost of failure of the structures being monitored and the ability of the       owners to make appropriate       and timely interventions.
Healthcare     Companies developing medical devices for hearing disorders need to be       able to replicate the       acoustic response of the outer and middle ear.
Typically this is done with       cadavers that are both in       limited supply and expensive.
Otologics (USA) replaced the need for       cadavers in the development       of an implantable hearing prosthesis with analysis using Signal Wizard       systems resulting in the       development of a novel product.
In February 2011 the first UK patient       received an implant based       on this technology [G].
Sound Processing Applications     The ability to process sound in real time has found a number of practical       applications ranging from       the creation of "quiet zones" in a theme park architects are designing [F]       through to national       security related uses.
US agencies, both FBI and Dept of Homeland       Security, have also purchased       Signal Wizard systems but are not willing to discuss the use they make of       them.
The UK Foreign       and Commonwealth office are currently evaluating the technology for       counter-eavesdropping use       [E].
