     Context     Devices for generating and detecting radiation in the DC to THz range are       important in a range of applications.
The development of new technology by       the Manchester team has improved the performance of commercial systems by       realising devices with higher sensitivity, better temperature stability       and higher signal-to-noise ratio.
These improvements have led to more       reliable and cost-effective products.
Pathways to impact     The research was presented at major conferences on mm-wave and THz       including IEEE MTTS and IRMMWW-THz and published in leading journals.
This       resulted in significant interest from the sensor and THz communities,       including both academic and commercial.
Potential routes to market were       developed in consultation with the University's IP company (UMIP).
This       initiative was also supported by a KTP fellowship with the UK SME e2v.
Much of the research work was conducted with companies including e2v ltd,       Teraview ltd, Selex Galileo, VGSemicon and QinetiQ.
This work resulted in       the development of high-sensitivity magnetic sensors, broadband terahertz       sources and detectors based on Gunn diodes and ultra-high speed       photoconductive switches using low temperature grown GaAs.
A significant       pathway has been supplying wafers on a commercial basis to these companies       as detailed in the following.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     The success in developing these technologies is best illustrated by       reference to specific industrial outlets that have made direct use of the       research:     (i) Automotive radars:     The research team designed, produced and delivered to the British company       e2v ltd novel epitaxial wafers which had better temperature stability than       those used in the industry [from -80 &#176;C in cold start to over +60 &#176;C] and       added efficiency at 77GHz.
Since 2008 this work led to the delivery of       over 100 wafers, each containing up to 10,000 devices for car radars.
These high-end products are integrated in the Bosch autonomous cruise       control system fitted in BMW and Audi cars.
As a result of the research, e2v has manufactured over 500,000       millimetre-wave Gunn diode devices for Bosch [A] resulting in revenue of       approximately &#163;6m, all of which represents UK export income [B].
These       Gunn diode devices are incorporated into Bosch ACC1 and ACC2 products that       are fitted as the automatic cruise control option on high end Audi and BMW       cars.
Since this cruise control option became available circa 430,000       vehicles on which this customer option is available have been produced       [B].
(ii) TeraHertz imaging:     The research developed new epitaxial layers based on low temperature       grown GaAs and InGaAs with unprecedented lifetime and resistivity, leading       to THz imaging systems with much improved signal-to-noise ratios and which       has been supplied to Teraview ltd for over 6 years now.
These devices are       enablers in the company's pulsed imaging and spectroscopy systems.
To date       over 30 wafers have been supplied corresponding to over 10,000 devices.
Teraview ltd equipment is used in the medical imaging of cancer and       industrial inspection.
Launched in 2008 [C] around 30 TPI imaga       and spectra, commercial terahertz imaging systems have been sold at       a cost of approximately &#163;150k-&#163;200k each.
These have been supplied to       laboratories in Europe, North America and the Far East with a total UK       export value in excess of &#163;6m [D].
(iii) Ultra-high-precision sensing     A spin out company, Advanced Hall Sensors (AHS) ltd, was established in       2008 and this company has been key in producing 2-Dimensional Electron Gas       Hall Effect sensors for ultra-high-precision sensing.
These sensors have       the highest sensitivity of any Hall sensor in the market.
Over 3 million       sensors have been supplied to Renishaw PLC by AHS since 2008.
Renishaw PLC       has stated: "The Hall sensors supplied play a vital enabling role in the       high performance linear encoders for industrial, photovoltaic and consumer       electronics" [E].
The encoder division of Renishaw PLC is a &#163;300m per year       business.
The supplied Hall sensors play a vital enabling role in the high       performance linear encoders for Industrial, Photovoltaic (PV) and consumer       electronics [E].
