     Context     Fire resistance is one of the most important safety requirements in       buildings and is covered by legislation.
Until recently, designing for       structural safety in fire was predominately based on simple       "deemed-to-satisfy" prescriptive methods presented in supporting documents       to the UK Regulations.
Following such prescriptive rules adds 20 to 40%       unnecessary fire protection cost to steel-framed buildings.
Since the       majority (over 70%) of multi-storey buildings in the UK are constructed       using steel-framed structures the unnecessary cost in terms of materials       and labour is significant within the built environment.
Our experimental and theoretical research, leading to the Bailey-Method,       enabled the construction industry to finally address the use of       unnecessary protection costs ensuring that protection to the structure is       only applied to areas where it is needed.
In addition, our research has       led to a further design method for concrete filled tubular sections, where       protection is safely eliminated altogether.
Pathways to Impact     Our research has been presented at leading conferences, at professional       seminars, dedicated CPD courses and published in leading journals.
We have       developed practical design guides and software to promote the methods       based on our research.
We developed the One-Stop-Shop dedicated web-site to Structural Fire       Engineering (www.mace.manchester.ac.uk/project/research/structures/strucfire/)       to promote performance-based methods to practical designers.
This website       was developed by Manchester with contributions from DTi (now TSB), TATA       Steel, The Concrete Centre, Pilkington, Arup, and Buro-Happold.
It offers       authoritative and impartial advice together with training materials,       attracting over 590,000 visitors within the REF period.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     a) Bailey-Method.
The method has been implemented by a number of       organisations, for example:     i) ArcelorMittal has presented the Bailey-Method in a number of design       guides with 2500 copies distributed to companies in over 20 countries and       incorporated it into their MACS+ design software which is available in 17       languages.
The method was deployed in: the: BOBST building (Switzerland,       2010); ArcelorMittal Steel Centre (Belgium, 2008); EVS Building (Belgium,       2008); Geric Commercial Centre in France (2013); and the BNP Bank Tower in       France (2013) [A].
Other companies have used the Bailey-Method on projects between 2008 and       2013 including West Cheshire College Ellesmere Port (2008) saving &#163;35k,       Aquinas College Stockport (2008) saving &#163;40k, and Derby Riverlights (2009)       saving &#163;65k [B].
Our survey of some of the UK's over 30 specialist Structural Fire       Engineering consultants indicates they use the Bailey-Method on about two       projects each year.
The typical saving per building is &#163;60k [C].
This       gives a total saving of over &#163;20m over the REF period [D].
Prof Bailey has       provided expert input to following iconic buildings in London       (2008-2013,): The Shard; The Pinnacle; Heron Tower; Leadenhall; 8-10       Moorgate; and 35 Basinghall Street; [E] [F]     b) Design of concrete filled tubular sections using our software         FIRESOFT.
Our fire resistant design method for concrete filled tubular sections has       been implemented in the FIRESOFT software package that we have developed       for TATA Steel.
This software has been released to the general structural       engineering design profession.
FIRESOFT software and the associated       quality assurance document have the British Standard status of Non       Contradictory Complementary Information in the UK [G].
This software has       recently been used by TATA Steel Tubes in the design of Broadgate Exchange       in London (2012) and Bervis Marks in London (2012).
[H]     International reach and significance     Bailey continues to be retained as an Expert Witness investigating the       collapse of World Trade Centre building 7, a 47-storey building that       collapsed on September 11th 2001 following the collapse of WTC1 and WTC2       due to impact by airplanes.
[I].
Bailey was the principal author of a Concrete Centre design guide on       "Performance of Concrete Structures in Fire" (Bailey, C.G.
and Khoury,       G.A., ISBN 9781904818830).
Wang has been invited to join the British Standards Institution Committee       B/525/4 and to represent the UK in the Eurocode Fire Safety of Composite       Structures Evolution Group that oversees the development of the next       generation of Eurocodes [J].
