     Context     M.J. Hyland arrived at Manchester just after the successful reception of       her novel Carry Me Down (2006), which was shortlisted for the       Commonwealth Writers' Prize and the Man Booker Prize in its publication       year and was the winner of both the Hawthornden Prize and the Encore Prize       in 2007.
She is based at the Centre for New Writing, which is building       towards a tradition of public engagement, dissemination and active       contribution to the local, national and international creative economy       through external partnerships.
The centre has boosted M.J. Hyland's       long-term commitment to educate in the craft of fiction beyond academia.
Pathways to impact     M.J. Hyland regularly attends international literary festivals and       reading series to promote her novels and sits on judging panels for a       number of literary prizes, such as the Somerset Maugham Prize from       2008-2011, the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize in 2011 and the Lightship         First Chapter Award in 2012/13.
Her recent self-reflective and       pedagogical nonfiction output has been based on exporting her academic       practice outside the higher education sphere.
The volume of readership       generated by her essay `Revising and Re-Writing' led to an invitation to       teach several Guardian Fiction Masterclasses in London and Manchester,       which have trained future writers, journalists, and editors in addition to       contributing to the local and national cultural economy [5.1].
M.J. Hyland's work has also been disseminated through literary events       such as the Centre for New Writing's high profile Conversation on       Short-Story Writing with Martin Amis and Tessa Hadley in December 2010,       which had an audience of 139.
Her growing reputation as a practitioner and       a teacher with a strong commitment to the craft of writing led to the       establishment of a part time editing firm, Hyland &amp; Byrne, and to an       invitation from Granta to write for their special issue on medicine, which       in turn generated an international debate on writing and illness.
`Hardy       Animal' is now compulsory reading for second-year students on the new MSc       Medical Humanities Degree Programme, which the Centre for New Writing has       developed with the Manchester Medical School.
Reach and significance     Impact on the public's perception of Multiple Sclerosis     M.J. Hyland's essay `Hardy Animal' draws on her experience of being       diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis.
It had a significant impact on people       with the condition and opened up a debate on the role of medical language       to a much wider audience.
As Hyland writes in her 2013 Guardian       article: `In August 2012, I wrote for the first time about my MS and, soon       after, hundreds of emails poured in from fellow sufferers.
These emails       came from academics, GPs, scientists, teachers, athletes, writers, nurses       and PhD students, many of whom have been so stunted by fatigue that       they've quit work (and play) altogether.'
a) Impact on People with the Condition.
`Hardy Animal' actively challenges assumptions about Multiple Sclerosis       more generally, and the complexity of medical language more specifically.
It has enriched the lives not only of individuals but of self-defined       groups, as indicated by the invitation to contribute to MS Matters       (vol.
107, January/February 2013), the UK MS Society Members' bi-monthly       magazine, which counts 70,000 subscribers, but estimates its actual       readership figures to be higher than this (there are 120,000 estimated MS       sufferers in the UK) [5.3].
The piece created a debate among readers,       which took place via twitter in the first instance, but which led the       editor of MS Matters to publish a number of letters which       disagreed with Hyland's view of the illness in the subsequent issue, and       further letters in support of Hyland's position in the issue after.
In the       words of a reader: `I am often confronted with strong language.
Shall I       walk away from people (including myself) who have got fears similar to       those Maria Hyland describes?
No, I believe listening and trying to find a       solution is the only way' [5.3].
As the editor of MS Matters puts       it, after the piece `we received more responses to it than we do with most       articles and the resultant correspondence has run over two successive       issues' [5.9].
b) Raising awareness of Multiple Sclerosis and of the implications of         medical language.
M.J. Hyland was interviewed by a number of national and international       media outlets about the condition.
She featured on the front page of The         Observer Magazine in August 2012, participated in the RT&#201; Radio 1       primetime show Arena [5.5], was interviewed on Ian McMillan's BBC       Radio 3 programme The Verb in September 2012 [5.6] and on the BBC       World Service programme, The Forum [5.7].
`The Drugs Do Work: My       Life on Brain Enhancers' appeared in The Guardian on 3 May 2013       and gave rise to over 1,000 twitter feeds and comments.
As The Verb put it, M.J. Hyland shared with her listeners `the       pleasures and the pains of medical language' [5.6], `exploring the       language of diagnosis, and explaining how she dealt with being told she       had Multiple Sclerosis', or as Boyd Tomkin, literary editor at The         Independent, wrote, `the strongest pieces [in Granta's       Medicine Issue] explore not cures and fixes and surgical wizardry but the       mystery of the self's incorporation in a ramshackle, ever-failing jalopy       of a bodily engine.
The novelist MJ Hyland (in a courageous, heartbreaking       essay) writes about her experience of multiple sclerosis, and how that       slow-burn affliction ruined the "bionic" fantasy of self-creation that she       (like all of us) harbours: "preternaturally strong, tougher and smarter       than the faulty dictates... of my shabby genes"' [5.4].
The Forum       too responded to the specifically literary and sociological dimensions of       the debate, involving M.J. Hyland in a discussion of `how much control do       we really have over our bodies and our health?'
and asking her `why she's       gone public about her life with Multiple Sclerosis'.
International       magazines, including the highly respected Internazionale (no.
983,       January 2013) in Italy, have translated and reprinted `Hardy Animal'       [5.8].
As indicated by Tomkin, central to Hyland's impact on the debate on       literature and medicine is a technique that is both autobiographical and       self-reflective, deriving from her painstaking attention to language.
Such       precision is at the core of both Hyland's signature style and of her       pedagogical practice.
Despite her condition, drawing on her commitment to       the craft of writing, Hyland now devotes the time she has outside of her       writing career to the training of writers, journalists and members of the       public.
Impact on new writers     After its appearance in The Guardian, `Revising and Rewriting'       has enjoyed republication as a Kindle edition and in the 2012 volume WRITE,       whose list of contributors includes Hilary Mantel, Martin Amis, and Joyce       Carol Oates.
The essay generated an invitation to teach four Guardian       Masterclasses throughout 2012 and 2013 in London and Manchester.
The       number of participants per class is 14 and it costs &#163;400 per person.
All       the sessions have been sold-out and rated 5/5 by the participants, who       have accompanied their ratings with heartfelt testimonials.
Among the many       comments received by the Guardian Masterclass Programme (2009-2013) are:       `Maria's course gave me exactly what I wanted and helped me look at my       work in a different way'; `A brilliant and inspiring two days.
As someone       who has written all her whole life but never shared, it was motivating and       inspiring to get feedback from Maria and the other participants in an       environment that was constructive and encouraging.
What I learnt over the       two days was invaluable, I feel equipped and ready to take my writing to       the next level' [5.1].
The Head of Guardian Masterclasses, writes: `M.J.       Hyland has trained amateur writers [...] professional writers,       screen-writers, journalists, feature-writers, BBC script-writers, editors,       linguists, lawyers, medical professionals and a number of people who work       both in community and mainstream theatre, including theatrical agents,       producers, directors and actors.
In this way, her contribution to the       creative economy of the UK is undoubted' [5.1].
Applying and transferring the insights gained from her practice as a       writer and teacher, as presented in `Revising and Rewriting', led to the       establishment in 2011 of a private company, the Hyland &amp; Byrne Editing       Firm, which in turn `has helped reinforce her reputation as a writer who       understands the importance of the role of the editor and teacher' [5.2].
Hyland's part-time enterprise employs at present four editorial       consultants and advises 48 clients, approximately half of whom are former       students from Guardian Masterclasses.
The link between Hyland's creative       output, her research and her pedagogy is made clear by two, very       different, former clients: `I've published two novels and never had an       old-school, shoulder-to-shoulder line-edit, and I thought, it's about       bloody time I saw what a decent edit looks like.
Thank God I did' [5.1];       or, as Phil Kearney-Byrne, winner of the 2012 Francis McManus Prize, puts       it: `Hyland &amp; Byrne are generous and honest, and combine real teaching       and encouragement with incisive, clinical editing' [5.2].
