     A key aim of the research was to brief government ministers on the       historical and cultural context of the development of language policies       over time and their implications for minority languages and their       communities of speakers.
Also to indicate potential avenues for       ameliorative policy-making and, to this end, besides the academic       publications, a series of recommendations was produced.
(See end of       project report).
Briefings were achieved through a series of meetings with       key ministers of the Udmurt Republic, including N. A. Sudakova who is       responsible for Education, Science and Youth Policy in the State Council       (Gosovet) (see www.udmgossovet.ru);       Z. V. Suvorova, deputy Minister of Education, L. Baranova, Deputy Minister       of Nationalities (see  http://minnac.ru),       and Sergei Vasilev, the Minister for the Press and Information.
As a       result of these meetings, some of the research (Williams 2008) was       published in Russian to aid further dissemination.
Williams also discussed       the need to support minority language publishing with the chief editor of       an Udmurt language publisher, Udmurtiya.
Since completion of the research, some of the project's recommendations       have been incorporated into republic-level language policy-making and       planning.
The most significant development has been the formulation of a       programme in 2009 to promote the Udmurt language to run between 2010 and       2014.
This programme aims to enhance the production of more children's       books and audio visual material in the Udmurt language.
These are designed       to reach existing Udmurt language speakers (28% of the Udmurt republic       population at the last All Russia 2010 census) and thus benefit Udmurt       society, culture, inter-ethnic harmony and the quality of life.
This was       followed in 2010 by the "year of Udmurt" demonstrating a more pro-active       role on the part of the Udmurt parliament and government (see Programme of       11th Congress of All-Udmurt Association Udmurt Kenesh from 2009-12 at http://finugor.ru/node/25510;       and the Language programme at http://www.minnac.ru/minnac/info/13993.htm.
The findings of the research were also communicated more widely and       directly through various Udmurt media.
Williams participated in the TV       programme "Shundybergan" on the "Moya Udmurtiya" (My Udmurtia) channel and       in the radio programme "Lymshor bere" (see http://izhevsk.rfn.ru).
He also discussed the plight of the Udmurt language with journalists from       the Udmurt children's newspaper Zechbur.
Since then, various       cultural and youth groups in the Udmurt Republic have made attempts to       increase the visibility of Udmurt language via the production of a       romantic comedy in Udmurt called "Berry-Strawberry" (Uzy-Bory) (see       http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=id0c1Jqt140)       and an Udmurt caf&#233; "Perepechkin" has been established that promotes Udmurt       language, music and songs and well as culture and food.
This caf&#233; is       gaining in popularity in the social media (see htttp://video.mail.ru/vk-       format/_myvideo/161.html).
