     Context: Theatre practitioners and artists in war/conflict zones       before this project reported a sense of disconnection, a lack of resources       and training and demand for documentation of theirs and others' work.
Excellent local practices were rarely linked and there was little       opportunity for learning from past experiences.
The work was often seen as       marginal, and international donors made decisions on funding based on       minimal understanding of the role of the arts in these settings.
In the       practice of applied theatre professionally, the field of theatre in war or       conflict zones was unexplored.
Pathways to impact: The project from its initiation has worked       with artists, theatre practitioners, NGO workers and others living and       working in war zones.
At all times it is their experience that has been       acknowledged for its value, documented/archived and shared throughout the       project.
To make this possible, we visited conflict zones directly, while       also running workshops and seminars in Manchester for invited       international artists.
All resources of the project were made freely       available to all partners.
The project's online strategy has pro-actively       developed throughout the initiative, at all times responding to the       changing demands of the partners.
Its primary objective is to enable a       sharing of materials and as wide a public discussion of this work as       possible.
Reach and Significance:       Cultural impact on international arts organisations.
IPOW       has documented, archived and facilitated the interconnection of over         350 arts organisations internationally.
This has provided a platform       for their work and linked these organisations with similar groups       internationally.
These organisations acknowledge the importance that the       project has had in supporting and enhancing their work: the sustainable       nature of the research, notes the Creative Director of Community Arts       North West, "has allowed time for real interchange, growth, development of       understanding and shared terminology, and the ability to grow as a       world-wide movement" [5.2].
IPOW has been involved in training theatre       workers in participatory theatre techniques, and in supporting evaluations       of their work in local contexts.
The benefit reported by these       organisations is increased international profile, increased domestic       profile created by international links, shared learning of different       approaches and practices, and sustaining of their work through the       international connections that have been created.
40 of the groups and       practitioners whose work has been documented attended the various public       events organised by IPOW as part of its networking phase.
This included 4       events in Manchester: In Place of War Network Meeting 1 (23-24 July 2011);       Skype Seminar from Places of War (8th November 2011); Performance:         In Place of War Book Launch (17 December 2011); Project Closing       Event (15 March 2012).
There was also one event in London at the       Roundhouse (11 February 2012), one in Pristina, Kosovo (June 2010) and one       in Goma, DRC (June 2011).
Over 800 people attended the Manchester events,       35 the Kosovo event and 30 the Goma event.
The Kosovo event, comments the       Executive Director of the Centre for Childrens' Theatre Development, "has       had a huge impact on audiences, and has opened up further discussions on       the role of theatre in a newborn country.
Mr Thompson's research was also       crucial when designing and developing the Voices project in Kosovo       &#8212; an interactive theatre project concerning people gone missing during the       war.
For the first time after the war in Kosovo, Albanian and Serbian       actors worked together in developing and presenting forum theatre scenes       to both the Albanian and Serbian community" [5.1].
Engaging with and mediating between NGOs.
A number of NGOs       have had close association with IPOW during the course of its work, in       particular Children in Crisis (CiC) and Search for Common Ground.
These       partners acknowledge how participation in the network and involvement in       the artist training led by researchers has helped improve their use of       theatre and the arts, and/or encouraged them to make new links to local       arts groups.
By way of example, CiC have developed a new initiative in DRC       that incorporates theatre performances in their education programmes.
This       is part of a multi-year project supported by Comic Relief and the Baring       Foundation and has led to Thompson visiting DRC to run training       programmes (July 2010, June 2011, January 2013), as well as running       workshops for CiC in London (April 2010), for staff from DRC, Sierra       Leone, Liberia and Afghanistan.
The Director of Programmes at CiC credits       these interventions as "making a significant contribution towards the       fulfilment of the two core project objectives: (i) improvements in       participation, completion and quality of education for at least 14,000       children; and (ii) strengthened community cohesion and promotion of the       rights of women and girls As evidence of this, an 8-10 % increase in       children's enrolment has already been recorded in the schools targeted       since 2010; and as a direct result of the TIE component, church leaders       from the northern axe of the Plateau have put together a decree supporting       the abolishment of all forms of early and forced marriage" [5.3]     Enhancing public understanding.
As well as these direct       beneficiaries, a greater international understanding of the role of the       arts in troubled situations has been developed through public access to       the website, dissemination of the project publications (latest sales       figures for Performance in Place of War: 554 in US/UK; 461 in       India), and presentation of the project through public events and media       outlets.
In Place of War's new online platform went live in December 2012       and currently has profiles of 550 different organisations and individuals,       and stores 191 artefacts relating to their work.
As of July 2013, the site       had received 4,383 separate visitors, making 8,332 visits, viewing a total       of 27,000 pages [5.5].
Between 2008 and 2010, the previous IPOW website       received over 6,000 hits from individuals in 30 different countries.
These       figures demonstrate an expanding public discourse about the arts in       situations of armed conflict.
Coverage of the project's work in the UK       press has also helped to extend public understanding of these issues [5.7;       5.8].
Influencing professional training.
During its primary       research phase, the IPOW project conducted sustained case study work in       Sri Lanka, creating significant educational and professional practitioner       impact in this context.
A manual was produced from the training workshops       run by Thompson (2004-08), which was distributed across the NGO       sector on the island.
Versions were produced in Sinhala, Tamil and English       for people working with children, particularly during the post-tsunami       relief period, from 2005 onwards.
The manual was also made freely       downloadable in pdf form from the IPOW website.
Contributing to civil society and cultural life in the UK.
IPOW's other sustained case study explored arts initiatives with refugee       and asylum-seeking communities across the UK.
As part of this research,       IPOW helped establish the Greater Manchester Refugee Arts Partnership.
This coalition of Manchester organisations raised the funds for and       created the Exodus project, which developed and supported arts programmes       by refugee communities from 2004-10 [5.9].
During the REF assessment       period, this included five Refugee Arts festivals and two theatre       festivals.
Participant feedback testified to the power of the productions       in contributing to public discourse about refugees, and the importance of       having a reflective context in which practitioners could gather: "Brilliant         to have this space for discussion.
Great to have the contradictions in         practice" (from evaluation report on 2010 Exodus Festival) [5.4].
One particular initiative amongst the many arts programmes supported was       the drama group at the Medical Foundation for the Care of Victims of       Torture, set up by Thompson and run by Jeffers from       2004-10 [5.6].
The latter won the University of Manchester "Volunteer of       the Year" award for her work on this project, and was also awarded the       University's first Medal for Social Responsibility (both 2010).UoM's       Martin Harris Centre hosted Platforma from 31st       October-1st November 2013, a national conference of refugee       artists, advocates and activists, co-organised by Jeffers.
