     Context:       The expansion of critical museology within the academy during the past 30       years has often not       been matched by the capacity of museums to respond to the institutional       challenge that it implies.
The ensuing disconnection between theoretical and practical approaches to       the museum has       impoverished the work of both analysis and implementation.
This is       particularly true in small       museums that have limited professional resources.
Working on a range of       new display and       interpretation projects, the Centre for Museology demonstrates the value       of reflexive       methodologies as tools for developing inclusive curatorial processes.
The       critical approaches       developed in the listed research outputs have been applied in three       different contexts to: influence       organisational policy and practice; and to develop robust advocacy tools,       and thereby support       organisations in attracting increased peer recognition as well as       stakeholder and visitor support.
i. Casa Museo di Palazzo Sorbello, Perugia (opened 2011).
Pathways to Impact       In 2000, Rees Leahy became Curatorial Advisor to the Uguccione Ranieri di       Sorbello (URS)       Foundation on the conversion of an 18th-century urban palazzo       into a house museum containing a       previously un-researched and unseen collection of art, decorative arts and       books.
Her input       produced a re-orientation of the initial museum concept: instead of an       approach based on art       historical connoisseurship, she advocated a broad socio-historical       interpretative frame (based on       her research into the agency of objects within networks of social       relations) in which a wider range       of material culture would be used to tell the histories of changing family       fortunes and notions of       taste over 250 years.
Reach and Significance       The conservation of a historic collection and the creation of a new       heritage asset for the benefit of       diverse local, tourist and specialist audiences (average 110 visitors a       day), based on       recommendations for the:            specification of a collections management system, to research,         preserve, store and record         a hitherto unknown collection (5.1);       development of an interpretation plan and materials, based on a         combination of reflexive         museology, archival research and a commitment to inclusive engagement         (5.1);       publication of an Italian/English collection catalogue, (700 copies of         English edition sold by         January 2013) (5.2);       job description and appointment of a part-time Curator (5.1);       content and structure of a conference "House Museums, The Owners And         Their Art         Collections" (2012): of 160 delegates, 75% were museum/heritage managers         and policy-makers,         from Europe and the USA (5.3).
ii.
The Gaskells' House, Manchester Historic Buildings Trust (2013       ongoing).
Pathways to Impact       Rees Leahy was appointed (January 2013) as Curatorial Consultant to the       `The Gaskells'       House' project: the restoration and conversion of 84 Plymouth Grove,       Manchester, into a       public museum (opening 2014).
Research and practice conducted at the       Palazzo Sorbello is       feeding directly into this project, which raises similar questions of       restoration and       reconstruction, access and authenticity.
The project also draws on Rees       Leahy's work on       cultural institutions in mid-19th century Manchester.
She has       authored a Curatorial Plan, which       explicitly focuses on the relational function of objects, museological       reflexivity and diverse       modes of interpretation and engagement.
Leading directly from this, Rees       Leahy submitted a       successful application to the John Rylands Research Institute (JRRI) for       the digitization of       Gaskell manuscripts and texts for display within the house and online.
The       Project Manager       notes how Rees Leahy's research record was key to her appointment and has       significantly       extended the ambition and reach of the museum: `Professor Rees Leahy's       understanding of       the wider field of museological practice has had a marked influenced the       development of our       approaches to interpretation and display, and her academic research skills       have enabled us to       develop exciting collaborations with, for example, the John Rylands       Library.'
(5.7)     Reach and Significance       The project is in development; already the impact of the Curatorial Plan       is evident in the:            endorsement of stakeholders, including Heritage Lottery Fund         (5.4,5.7);       successful negotiation of long-term loans from regional and national         museums (5.5);       recruitment of volunteers and user-groups to collaborate in processes         of research and         interpretation (5.4,5.7);       digitization of Gaskell manuscripts and texts, which constitutes a new         literary and         historical research resource with local significance and global reach         (5.6).
iii.
Asian Heritage Museum, Kuala Lumpur (2011 ongoing).
Pathways to Impact       In 2011, Tythacott was appointed Chief Curatorial Consultant to the       planned Asian Heritage       Museum in Kuala Lumpur, scheduled to open 2015.
The Museum, with support       from the Malaysian       Federal Government, is at concept stage, consisting of a collection of       several thousand Chinese       and Southeast Asian objects.
Tythacott visited Malaysia in May 2012 to:       examine the collections;       confirm the display concepts and themes; and advise on preliminary gallery       plans.
Her research on       the politics of representing Asian and Southeast Asian cultures, and an       `object biography'       approach, has directly influenced the proposed interpretation of a       pan-Asian display of material       culture: its focus on the historic relationships between Malaysia and       other countries in Southeast       Asia, and between Asia and the West, is unprecedented in Malaysia.
According to the museum's       Chief Executive, this input was critical in providing the team with the       `confidence and       encourage[ment] in our belief on the quality of our artifacts and from       that, we would be able to       create a great museum.'
(5.8)     Reach and Significance       The project is in development; the impact is evident in the:            endorsement of the Museum and its curatorial approach by associates,         stakeholders and         advisors, such as the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, the former         President of the Senate,         and a retired senior civil servant (5.8);       agreed display schema and principles of object selection (5.9,5.10);       preliminary gallery layouts (5.9,5.10).
fundraising (5.8)
