     Context     Putting flesh back on the bones is the clearest way of interpreting and       presenting the results of detailed research not only for academic       colleagues but also for non-specialists and the general public.
Research       undertaken at The University of Manchester has influenced museum practice       across the country and achieved broad educational impact through lectures       and extensive exposure in the media.
Reconstructions from Manchester have       received regular coverage in local, national and international newspapers       [5.9, 5.10].
They have also featured in TV programmes such as Channel 4's       `Time Team' and BBC 4's `Meet the Ancestors', as well in National       Geographic Television collaborations with the Greek National       Archaeological Museum, both broadcast (2011) and planned (2013) [5.3].
Impact on museum practice     When the Manchester team started there were virtually no such       reconstructions, and they were regarded as more fitting to waxwork shows       like Madame Tussaud's.
Now, in the words of the Director of the Manchester       Museum, `facial reconstruction ... plays a major role in many exhibitions       around the world, and [Prag's] work is globally significant in that it has       shown that facial reconstruction is not speculative but ... has a high       degree of accuracy ... Prag's work ... is considered the standard for       facial reconstruction work in museum exhibitions, and many international       colleagues indicate they are aware of it when they visit us' [5.1].
Some       of the best examples of reconstructions by the Manchester team include: 	       The popular gallery on `Making Faces' in the Manchester Museum ran       from 2002 to 2012.
The museum does not record visitor numbers for       individual galleries, but the total figures for the whole museum recorded       121,857 visitors in 2002-3, rising to 375,332 in 2012-13 [5.8].
Of the       newly refurbished gallery, the Museum Director writes `As "Ancient Worlds"       comprises the main thoroughfare through the Museum, and the facial       reconstructions form a major part of the gallery, we can be confident that       a high proportion of visitors have engaged with the displays' [5.1].
Central here is the reconstruction of `Worsley Man', the decapitated head       of a man killed in the 1st century AD, probably as part of a ritual, and       discovered during peat-cutting on Chat Moss in 1958.
He is currently the       focus of a collaboration between Professor Prag and other academics from       the University of Manchester and elsewhere, concentrating on the details       of his health, the manner of his death and the preservation of his head:       it will culminate in a new reconstruction involving high resolution       3-dimensional scanning that explains this graphically to the visitor.
It       will also lead to a series of academic publications, enhancement of the       Museum display, and public dissemination through a television broadcast       (Bearkatt Productions for Channel 5, 2013-2014).
The impact, then, is       on-going, with transferral of facial reconstruction skills and knowledge       beyond the University of Manchester.
At the British Museum, as the Head of the Italian collections in the       Department and curator of the Etruscan and other antiquities from pre-       Roman Italy can confirm, the reconstruction of the face of the Etruscan       noblewoman Seianti Hanunia Tlesnasa remains a star attraction in the BM's       Greek and Roman galleries, because `visitors find a "person" to whom they       can relate across 2,000 years ... a very effective incentive to visitors       to find out more about the period and culture'.
It was completed in 2002       in a research project that threw much new light on Etruscan life and death       and continues to have an impact today [5.2].
The Keeper, Department of       Greece and Rome at the British Museum estimates that `around 584,640       people see and engage with the reconstructed head of Seianti per year'       [5.2].
At the Museum of Underwater Archaeology in Bodrum (Turkey) the       reconstruction of the `Carian Princess' displayed in her `tomb' is one of       the highlights of the museum tour [5.5].
Other Manchester reconstructions       in Turkey can be found in the Istanbul Archaeological Museum and the       Museum of Anatolian Civilisations (Ankara), as well as the Pennsylvania       University Museum, at Mycenae museum and the National Archaeological       Museum in Greece and Archaeological Museum of Archanes (Crete), the Drents       Museum (Netherlands) and in museums across in the UK including the       Ashmolean (Oxford), Colchester, Leeds, Rochester and St Albans.
Techniques       newly developed by the Manchester team form the basis of exhibits in the       new Mary Rose Museum in Portsmouth which opened in May 2013.
An image of the reconstruction of the head of Lindow Man, the Iron Age       body found in Cheshire in 1984 and reconstructed in 1986 for the British       Museum, formed part of the museum's display until 2010 when the exhibition       focus changed; however, plans for the next refurbishment of the Iron Age       gallery include at least an image of the reconstruction.
In the summation       of the Keeper of the Department of Greece and Rome at the British Museum,       `the importance of Professor Prag's interdisciplinary work can scarcely be       overstated.
... From a museum perspective, it is invaluable to be able to       show reconstructions of ancient faces that are not simply artists'       impressions, but are based on provable techniques ...
The demonstrable       accuracy of the process ... is indeed impressive to visitors' [5.2].
The       Director of the Hunterian Museum at the Royal College of Surgeons, adds,       `The pioneering studies that [Prag] and Richard Neave have carried out       have had a significant impact on museum practice in the UK world-wide over       two decades.
Beyond their considerable forensic value they have engaged       tens of thousands of visitors with osteological human remains in a       powerful and innovative way' [5.6].
Likewise, the Honorary Keeper at the       National Archaeological Museum in Athens testifies, `[Prag's work] had a       great impact to my work both as a field archaeologist ... and as a Museum       curator.
It has provided me with important new tools to deal with age old       problems, from the identity of the Myceneans to making them more       attractive to the general public' [5.3]     Impact on public knowledge     It is not simply the `accessibility' to research results which these       reconstructions provide.
It is very clear from reactions everywhere that       seeing the faces of ancestors or those who once inhabited the local area       has become a very important key to understanding the past (see also the       examples cited in the previous section).
The work of the Manchester team       has long been a recurring lecture subject requested by bodies such as The       National Association of Decorative &amp; Fine Arts Societies and U3A, as       well as amateur archaeological and medical societies [5.7].
Visits to       Manchester reconstructions in Greek and Turkish museums have been a       selling point in the archaeological tours organised by Andante Travels, as       its Deputy Director can confirm [5.5].
In fact Andante introduced `Study       Days' into their programme in 2012, with two held in Manchester on facial       reconstruction in November 2012 and February 2013, both successful       (numbers are deliberately kept small so that those attending can see       clearly what is happening: 12 attended in November, 13 in February).
In       the words of the Deputy Director, `Professor Prag has educated and       entertained many of our guests on a Study Day entitled Reconstructing       Faces ... and we have had very enthusiastic feedback about these.
It       provides a very tangible contact with people from the past, and brings       their stories to life.
The scientific approach is also well explained and       enjoyed' [5.5].
Three more have been requested for 2013-14.
The popularity       of Manchester's facial recognition with these organisations demonstrates       the public interest in this type of work and the impact it is having on       increasing interest in past civilisations.
Furthermore, heads       reconstructed for the National Archaeological Museum in Athens by the       Manchester team `were among the items most in demand' for a National       Geographic Television programme, and they will also feature in a related       exhibition in the US in 2013 [5.3].
Impact on archaeological knowledge     With new investigative techniques, facial reconstruction has now become       commonplace, and the techniques developed by Professor Prag and Richard       Neave, known as the `Manchester method', have been copied by other       practitioners around the world, perhaps most notably by an academic,       formerly Richard Neave's assistant and then successor at Manchester, now       at Dundee University &#8212; see e.g.
`History Cold Case' series on BBC2       (2010-11) and most recently her very high-profile reconstruction of       Richard III (2013).
A prime instance was when the rediscovery in the National Archaeological       Museum in Athens of two complete skeletons from the 1876-77 excavations at       Mycenae led to a request from the Greek authorities to Professor Prag and       his team for a new research project to study and reconstruct them in       2006-2007.
The work for the facial reconstructions and the related DNA and       strontium/oxygen isotope analysis has initiated a re-assessment of our       understanding of the Greece in the Middle-Late Bronze Age, demonstrating       very clearly how the impact of what is a three-dimensional research report       stimulates a new approach to an `old' subject.
[5.3, 5.4].
Requests for images of reconstructions from magazines and publishers of       popular works on history and archaeology still come in regularly from all       over the world [5.9, 5.10].
Making Faces by John Prag and Richard       Neave (London: British Museum Press, 1997/1999) continues to be a popular       publication even though out of print.
It is a widely-read basic textbook       for students and the interested layman and an updated version is under       discussion.
