     Context     Classical Greek culture and thought represents a shared heritage that       joins East and West.
This is particularly true for the history of medicine       where a constant exchange of ideas took place across the different shores       of the Mediterranean: throughout the medieval and early modern period,       authors from different countries and creeds&#8212;including Muslims, Jews, and       Christians&#8212;partook in the same medical and scientific discourse.
And yet, even today, one can tell the history of medicine with virtually       no reference to the important Muslim heritage.
For instance, a prominent       academic wrote a thirty-part BBC radio programme entitled `The Making of       Modern Medicine' with nearly no reference to the Arabo-Islamic       contribution, although he started with the Greeks History of medicine is       sometimes similarly taught at GCSE level in schools.
Pormann's research       helped rectify this situation.
Pathways     Professor Pormann's research attempts to counter this approach and       replace it with a different narrative.
It impacts on four groups of people       through a variety of pathways:            physicians and health professionals through collaborations with the         Royal College of Physicians, and the James Lind Library (JLL);       Muslims or those interested in Muslim heritage through collaborations         with the Foundation for Science, Technology and Civilization (FSTC) and         the British Muslim Heritage Centre (BMHC), Manchester;       educators through work with the National Curriculum initiative, called         Curriculum Enrichment for the Future (CE4TF) and animated by FSTC;       security professionals through the development of a cultural security         strategy.
The main pathways for the impact are:            the exhibition `Mirror of Health' at the Royal College of Physicians         in London;       the outreach activities by the RCP surrounding this event, including         lectures, gallery talks, school visits etc.
;       lecture activities based on the research by Professor Pormann (e.g.,         at the International Security Forum [ISF] in Geneva);       the collaborations with the institutions listed above.
Impact on Public Knowledge     `The Mirror of Health &#8212; discovering medicine in the golden age of Islam'       is an exhibition revealing the story of how the medical tradition of       Europe and the Middle East developed through the transmission, translation       and transformation of knowledge, using the collections of the Royal       College of Physicians.
It is based directly on the research commissioned       by the RCP and published in 3.1, but also draws on the other outputs       listed above.
As the exhibition space at the RCP is in a central place       within the building, many visitors have seen it; to date the number of       visitors, most of them health professionals, is estimated as `several       thousand' [5.1] One visitor left the feedback `What an amazing insight       into the Islamic roots of the history of medicine' [5.1].
The Archive       Manager of the RCP adds that `[w]ithin the exhibition display and       catalogue Professor Pormann demonstrates how ideas and complete texts       continued to be translated and retranslated from Ancient Greek to 10th       century Arabic, to 16th century Latin, to 19th century English.
Displaying       these texts side by side gives visitors a real sense of how ideas and       works survived through time.
....
The visitor feedback has been       overwhelmingly positive, with many comments on how their appreciation of       the history of medicine and the cultural roots of medical science had been       widened' [5.1].
Further feedback from lecture evenings and other outreach       activities organised by the RCP document its wide impact, as does its web       presence [5.1].
The exhibition was also covered on al-Jazeera, Arabic, and       thus reached millions of Arabs and Muslims [5.1].
Impact on Professional Knowledge and Practice     The impact of Pormann's RCP exhibition and underpinning research has also       reached high profile medical professionals.
One such example is one of the       founders of the Cochrane Collaboration and coordinator of the James Lind       Library (JLL).
Both initiatives aim at helping to promote and understand       fair tests of treatments in health care.
The founder comments that,       `Pormann's research ... offers interesting insights into the testing of       therapeutic procedures that have resonance today; and it shows that our       own medical tradition owes much more to the contribution of Arab and       Muslim scholars than one is normally led to believe' [5.6].
He adds that,       `The (Mirror of Health) exhibition, which aims to reveal the role of       Islamic innovation in the development of western medicine, is of great       significance in that it corrects several misconceptions perpetuated by       centuries of scholarship'.
[5.6] He has publicised the exhibition on his       award-winning James Lind Library website [5.6], and also published       Pormann's `Qualifying and quantifying medical uncertainty in 10th century       Baghdad: Abu Bakr al-Razi' (later reprinted in the Journal of the Royal       Society of Medicine 106 (9): 370-2) as part of `Commentaries on the       history of treatment evaluation' [5.8].
This is a short piece that tries       out a new idea, namely that a tenth-century physician already adhered to       the notion of the `patient group', which became a key aspect of medical       trials later.
Furthermore, audiences consisting largely of security professionals at       the 10th International Security Forum, Geneva, commented positively on       Pormann's research and how it changed their perspective: an `eye opener',       according to one delegate [5.4].
Impact on Heritage Organizations and Users     The Foundation for Science Technology and Civilisation made extensive use       of Pormann's research.
This British not-for-profit, non-political, and       non-religious organisation, dedicated to researching and popularizing the       impact of Muslim civilization upon our scientific and cultural heritage,       publicized the RCP exhibition on four websites (FSTC, MH.com, CE4tF,       1001inventions) and via its considerable Facebook presence.
This meant       that the exhibition reached new audiences, including young Muslims and       Muslim community leaders.
But Pormann's research also influenced FSTC       itself, as the General Manager of FSTC, observes: `The exhibition and the       underlying research has influenced our way of thinking and will continue       to be reflected in our policies.
By raising awareness of, and increasing       our understanding of a shared medical heritage, Professor Pormann has not       only helped develop and disseminate the ideals held by the FSTC; he has       also offered new views and additional insight into many of the issues the       Foundation strives to promote' [5.2].
For instance, they have come to a       much greater appreciation of al-R&#257;z&#299;'s relevance to early modern medical       practice, especially in the area of fighting small pox and measles.
Another user of Pormann's research is the British Muslim Heritage Centre       (BMHC), which aims at `inspiring all communities to embrace diversity, and       be instrumental in the shaping of a cohesive society'.
It organised a       conference open to both scholars and the wider public, and notably the       Muslim community in Manchester.
A Professor and Senior Researcher at the       BMHC writes that Pormann's lecture on the Mirror of Health, `made a great       contribution to our understanding of the history of medicine and       particularly the contributions of Arabic-Islamic scholars to the history       of Western medicine and also continuous exchanges between both       civilizations.
We had a great positive feedback from the Muslim community       who frequently visit our centre' [5.3].
Impact on the Curriculum     The FSTC prominently advertised Pormann's exhibition on their website for       Curriculum Enrichment for the Future (CE4tF) &#8212; an organization which seeks       to `enrich school curricula in order to highlight the shared cultural and       scientific inheritance of humanity'.
The Chief Executive Officer of CE4tF       writes that Pormann `has addressed us in meetings ... in order to help us       shape our curriculum agenda.
His research, as published in Pormann's       Mirror of Health (RCP 2013) directly informs the content of the       educational materials that we produce.
The initiatives not only affect       pupils and students in the UK, but also in the Middle East.
For instance,       we have recently signed an agreement for teacher training in Saudi Arabia       for which, again, we are using some of Professor Pormann's research'       [5.7].
Moreover, Pormann has recently joined the advisory board of CE4tF,       which shows that his research continues to inform current and future       practice.
The impact of Pormann's research in the Middle East is also visible from       the testimony of a lecturer in ancient history at the most prestigious       Muslim University, Al-Azhar in Cairo.
She describes the effect of Pormann       (3.1) on Egyptian undergraduate students as follows: `Its impact has been       apparent during lectures, in which students proved eager to draw from the       manuscripts' [5.5].
The partnerships with the RCP, FSTC, CE4tF, BMHC and the JLL constitute,       in themselves, incidences of impact [5.1, 5.2, 5.3, and 5.6].
But these       partnerships also function as pathways to impact in that the lives of a       significant number of people have been touched by the results of the       research outlined above.
