     See numbered corroborating sources (S) in section 5.
Traditionally, assessment of quality of care in health services has been       limited to professional       perspectives, with little central collection of data and minimal       consideration of patient perspectives       on service delivery.
We ensured that patients were at the heart of quality       improvement activities,       through the development, validation and implementation of measures of       patient experience, and       their adoption and collection on a national scale.
Our impact has been to       raise the profile of patient       experience and link it to quality improvement activity across the UK.
Raising the profile of patient experience     Policy documents have highlighted the critical role of information on       patient experience.
The White       Paper `Equity and excellence: Liberating the NHS' (S1) sought to       `encourage more widespread use       of patient experience surveys and real-time feedback' to inform choice and       drive quality       improvement.
The NHS centralised the use of standardised measures in the assessment of       patient experience in       2007-2008, sending our GPPS measure to samples of patients in a rolling       programme of quality       measurement.
This has resulted in GPPS being completed by millions of       patients, with their views       assessed and analysed on a large scale and a sustained basis over time       (S2).
Collection of data on patient experience is not simply for the benefit of       managers and policy       makers.
All NHS patients can now access information on GPPS scores of       their local general       practices from a website (www.gp-patient.co.uk/faq/accessing/),       to help them assess the quality of       care and make choices about local services.
Linking patient experience to quality improvement     Much research has shown how simple provision of information is       insufficient for securing change.
To ensure appropriate impact from patient experience measures, in 2004,       use of one of our earlier       patient experience measures (GPAQ) was linked to payments in the early       version of the Quality       and Outcomes Framework (QOF).
The QOF represents a unique programme for quality improvement and the       results have been of       interest worldwide.
Early in the development of the QOF, general       practitioners were incentivised to       conduct surveys on their practice population, and to respond to these       surveys with appropriate       quality improvement activities to enhance patient experience and ensure       that their services were       responsive to the needs of their local population.
Between 2004 and 2009,       the vast majority of       practices (&gt;90%) undertook such activities.
To support this activity and enhance value for money, we disseminated       written guidance for       practitioners to interpret the GPAQ data and use it to target these       quality improvement activities at       a local level (S3).
Twenty three thousand copies of the guidance were       disseminated, to stimulate       and guide quality improvement across the United Kingdom.
Although initial incentives linked to patient experience were largely for       the use of surveys, later       versions of the QOF significantly raised the level of achievement       required.
In 2009, &#163;68 million       pounds worth of general practitioners' pay were linked to actual patient       reports of their ability to       gain ready access to care, such as getting an urgent appointment and being       able to book ahead       (S1).
These targets were harder to meet, with around 70% of practices       achieving maximum       performance on these more stringent targets between 2010 and 2012.
The national regulator, the Care Quality Commission (CQC) used patient       experience scores as       part of their performance assessment of Primary Care Trusts undertaken by       the predecessor of the       CQC (the Health Care Commission).
Current CQC documentation includes       patient experience       surveys as an indicator of standards to be expected of all GP practices       (S4,S5).
Department of Health reports list the other activities it has conducted       in response to the data       collected by patient surveys, including the GPPS (S6,S7).
This has ranged       from public       dissemination to encourage responsiveness of patient experience among       Primary Care Trusts,       review of the needs of marginalised groups such as ethnic minorities, and       establishment of teams       to respond to practices and PCTs with the lowest scores.
