     See numbered references in section 3 with corroborating sources (S) in       section 5.
Context       The Department of Health allocates the National Health Service budget (&#163;85       billion in 2011/12) to local commissioning organisations (Primary Care       Trusts, Clinical Commissioning Groups) on the basis of a funding formula,       which is designed to meet two objectives: (i) to secure equal opportunity       of access to healthcare for people at equal risk and (ii) to contribute to       the reduction of avoidable inequalities in health.
There are separate       sub-formulae for different types of services (acute, maternity, mental       health, prescribing by GPs and primary medical services), each containing       elements to reflect variations in population size, population needs (age,       morbidity and socio-economic deprivation) and expected input prices.
In       addition, there was a specific adjustment for health inequalities until       March 2013, which has now been passed to Local Government.
Pathways to Impact       A standing, independent expert body, the Advisory Committee on Resource       Allocation (ACRA), supported by a Technical Advisory Group (TAG), makes       recommendations to the Secretary of State for Health on changes to the       funding formula.
Based on this formula, the Department of Health issues       annual allocations to local commissioning organisations (PCTs or CCGs).
The Department of Health commissions academic research on behalf of ACRA       to review the existing formulae and propose new needs-based estimates for       each local area.
This approach ensures that the formula and the budget       shares for each area that result from it are independently produced and       based on cutting-edge research methods and evidence.
Reach and Significance of the Impact     In their report issued in December 2008, ACRA recommended changes to the     funding formula that included:             adoption of the research team's recommendation to no longer apply the         Staff Market Forces Factor to expenditure on medical staff and the MFF         adjustments calculated by the research team (1);        adoption of needs estimates produced by the research team using         utilisation models for acute, maternity and GP prescribing rather than         prevalence-based estimates for the reasons described in publication (2).
These recommendations were accepted and used by the Department of Health       when setting the 2009/10 and 2010/11 allocations to Primary Care Trusts.
For the 2011/12 allocations, ACRA recommended:             that there was currently no technical basis upon which to base the         weighting applied to the Health Inequalities Adjustment (3);        adoption of the needs estimates produced in the Report of the           Resource Allocation for Mental Health and Prescribing (RAMP) Project         for mental health services and for GP Prescribing (4).
When setting the 2011/12 allocations for Primary Care Trusts, the       Department of Health accepted ACRA's recommendation to adopt the RAMP       project estimates and reduced the weighting of the Health Inequalities       Adjustment from 15% to 10%.
The impact of this adoption of the research findings by the Department of       Health is for some PCTs to receive larger increases in their budget       compared to others.
This approach contributes to the NHS objectives to       achieve equity in access to services and outcomes.
Specifically, the       impact of adopting the mental health needs component from publication 4       was to change total PCTs budgets by an average of 1.2%, with the largest       increase of 4.0% for Islington PCT and the largest decrease of 3.1% for       Tower Hamlets PCT.
The impact on total PCT budgets of adopting the changes       to the prescribing formula in publication 4 was smaller, with an average       change of 0.2% and range of changes between -0.7% (Isle of Wight PCT) and       +0.7% (Blackburn with Darwen Teaching Care Trust).
The impact of the       changes to the weighting of the Health Inequalities Adjustment was larger,       with an average change in total budget of 1.5% and range of changes       between -3.9% (Tower Hamlets PCT) and +3.9% (Surrey PCT).
The needs-weighted population figures derived for the funding formula are       also used extensively by the Department of Health and NHS organisations       when benchmarking levels of activity and expenditure and setting other       budgets at PCT and general practice level (for example, the Programme       Budgeting Benchmarking Tool).
