     See numbered corroborating sources in section 5.
NPCRDC's research has had a substantial and ongoing impact on the       pay-for-performance       scheme in UK general practice, known as the QOF.
This scheme covers all       general practices in       the UK, shaping the care they provide to all patients with one of the       common chronic illnesses       covered by the QOF (e.g.
asthma, cardiovascular disease, diabetes).
1) Design and test new quality indicators     From 2009 NICE formally adopted the protocol developed by the NPCRDC to       test and validate       new indicators for inclusion in the national UK Quality and Outcomes       Framework (S1).
Piloting       new indicators before roll out nationally has proved value for money as it       identifies potential       problems with reliability, feasibility, acceptability and unintended       consequences, and can also       identify indicators that should not be included because they may cause       harm to patients.
The       cost of piloting a new indicator is &#163;150,000 which is only 0.0005% of the       overall cost of       &#163;1billion, which the government spends on the QOF each year.
2) Revise and retire existing indicators     From 2010 the framework developed by NPCRDC for revising and removing       indicators from       pay-for-performance schemes was adopted by NICE and NHS Employers to       inform their       annual reviews of the QOF.
For example, our methodology led to the       retirement of 12 quality       indicators in April 2011 and 7 quality indicators in April 2012 (S1).
3) Structure pay-for-performance schemes to maximise quality and         minimise harm     NPCRDC research into exception reporting (i.e.
allowing clinicians to       exempt patients from       quality indicator measurement where they believe the indicator is not       appropriate for the       individual patient) has demonstrated that it protects patients from       inappropriate care without       triggering widespread fraudulent behaviour by providers.
This research       provided the evidence-base       supporting the case for retaining exception reporting within the QOF (S1)       in the face of       opposition to the provision, and has informed the international debate       about the need for an       exception reporting provision in physician incentive schemes (S2).
Methodologies developed by NPCRDC for designing and testing new quality       indicators have       influenced policy and practice in the USA, Germany and other countries.
In       the USA, our       methodological work comparing different approaches for aggregating       indicators into composite       measures was recommended by the American Medical Association Physician       Consortium for       Performance Improvement (S3) and the USA Quality Forum (S4).
In Germany,       our methodologies       for designing and testing new quality indicators have been adopted by the       Institute for Applied       Quality Improvement and Research in Health Care (AQUA-Institute), which       has been       commissioned by the German Federal Joint Committee to develop sets of       quality indicators and       instruments across both inpatient and outpatient healthcare sectors (S5).
The need we demonstrated for multilevel approaches to change as part of a       wider strategy for       quality improvement was cited in influential policy reviews conducted by       the World Health       Organisation (S6), the OECD (S7), and the Commonwealth Fund (S8).
