     See numbered corroborating sources (S) in section 5.
The European Practice Assessment (EPA) scheme has been used by 1,584       practices (1,170 primary care practices) across 7 countries: Germany,       Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Greece, Romania, Slovenia.
The scheme and       the indicators are available in the following languages: English, Dutch,       French, German, Romanian, Slovenian, Greek, Arab and Hebrew.
Overall, 507       practices have used the EPA scheme (S1).
In 2005 the German federal government introduced a regulation which       stipulated that all healthcare providers, including general practices, are       obliged to implement an annual quality management programme in order to       demonstrate compliance with national systems for accountability in       healthcare provision.
The European Practice Accreditation scheme, designed       by NPCRDC with its European partners is one federally approved option for       demonstrating compliance in general practice (S2).
Implementation was       supported by our partners in the University of Heidelberg and the       Institute for Applied Quality Improvement and Research in Health Care       (AQUA-Institute) in Gottingen.
In total 303 primary care practices have       used EPA in Germany.
103 of these German general practices used the       European Practice Accreditation scheme twice, to measure longitudinal       changes in quality improvement over the period 2008-date (S2).
Practices       showed an overall 10% increase in scores across the domain "Quality &amp;       safety" including "complaint management" (30% increase), "critical       incident analysis" (10%) and "quality procedures and policies" (15%).
The methods used to develop the European Practice Assessment for general       practice have been applied by the AQUA-Institute to develop a European       Practice Assessment scheme for dental healthcare provision in Germany       (S3,S4).
From 2008, 187 dental healthcare organisations have used the       EPA-Dental scheme to assess their quality of care (63 having used it       twice).
Compared with the comparative group at first assessment, the       intervention group at second assessment had significantly better scores       for the domains "infrastructure" (Intervention group 94.2%, Comparative       group 84.0%) and "quality and safety" (Intervention group 88.7%,       Comparative group 78.1%).
In the UK, the General Practice Accreditation scheme developed by the       Royal College of General Practitioners in partnership with NPCRDC was       implemented in July 2011 and closed to new applicants in February 2013       (S5,S6).
Upon successful completion, Practice Accreditation is valid for       three years.
From 2011, 260 of the 8,088 general practices in England have       sought accreditation of which 4 have been successful with the remainder       ongoing.
The scheme consists of six domains with the 78 standards, 42 of       which are mapped to processes, protocols and systems that specifically       support the requirements of CQC registration.
The fulfilment of the RCGP       Practice Accreditation scheme will enable practices to demonstrate       compliance with the registration requirements of the Care Quality       Commission (CQC) which, from April 2013, is responsible for quality of       assurance of English primary care.
The Irish College of General Practitioners have built on the EPA and RCGP       accreditation schemes to develop their own national scheme, and informed       European-wide discussions on accreditation as led by EQUIP-WONCA (S7).
