     Three groups benefited from this research:            museum professionals working with collections, programmes and         education;       museum audiences -artists, critics, collectors and historians;       new, young and community audiences - using art to learn about other         subjects and those who meet together for social and political projects.
Museum professionals (Impact on institutional policy)       Initially, Himid's work with museum professionals was to meet audience       inclusion targets, to include all members of the community.
Through her       research within a museum collection, she was able to shift the focus to       interrogate institutional policy.
For example, with Merseyside Maritime Museum (2010), Sudley House (2010),       Platt Hall (2011), The Whitworth (2012) and Tate Britain (2011) Himid's       strategy was to interweave new artworks into the display of historical       collections, and co-curate and recontextualise their collections in a new       way.
This enabled public discussions around work held in the permanent       collections to examine migration, identity, belonging and memory while       allowing a broader debate to take place about travel, colonialism and the       decorative arts, specifically, Late at Tate (2011) and Open         Days at the Heiman Kreitman Archive Tate Britain (2012).
Himid's Between         the Two my Heart is Balanced was used as the main marketing image       for Tate's collection exhibition Migrations.
This represented a       strategic conversation between the museum and their target audience, with       Himid's work as a focus for debate.
Beyond their initial expectation, the Tate took the unusual decision to       extend the 7 month exhibition run of Thin Black Line(s) by six       weeks in 2012 to include Easter visitors to Tate Britain, responding to       the public's desire to engage with the topics raised by TBL(s).
This       engagement led to the acquisition of new work by TBL(s) artists Ingrid       Pollard and Sutapa Biswas for the Tate's permanent collection.
Himid's       artwork Moments and Connections and Walsh's Images and         Conversations in the 1980's were both acquired for the permanent       collection.
Himid's installation Naming the Money was recently acquired by       International Slavery Museum (Liverpool) for use as an introduction to the       museum and its work (National Museums Liverpool).
The accessible format of       the work is intentionally designed to enable debates and issues of       enslavement to reach the widest range of audience possible.
Himid's Kangas from the Lost Sample Book (2012) informed The       Whitworth Art Gallery workshops to raise issues relating to Colonialism,       Britishness and the decorative arts.
In-house programme curators worked       with education curators archivists and acquisitions teams to improve cross       institutional communication around neglected histories, collections and       loans.
Himid was commissioned by the Whitworth to become part of the       advisory group and asked to write a catalogue essay for We Face         Forward: Contemporary Art from West Africa.
Museum audiences (Impact on Cultural Discourse)       Audiences familiar with international exhibitions, national collections,       established artists and historical artefacts are comfortable with       attending events at museums, and regard the museum as a place for which       they can claim ownership; feel at home.
However, this can turn into       complacency and subsequent lack of interest.
Exhibitions that challenge complacency, through collection intervention       and reflect societal shifts during the past 50 years, initiate debates to       emerge among audiences about cultural contribution, globalisation and the       links between art and politics.
For example, The Jelly Pavilions for Liverpool project encouraged       people to visit outlying National Museums Liverpool venues, in addition to       the use of shops and cafes as exhibition spaces across the city.
Thin Black Line(s) gave access to research into the central role       played by black women artists in cultural debates during the 1980's.
Importantly, the method of access via maps, archive material and show reel       allowed a simultaneous historical contextualisation of the works on       display.
For Himid and Walsh, established audiences for art have to take       responsibility for sharing what they discover, and this process of reading       the historical through the contemporary makes this more possible.
New, young and community audiences (Impact on Social Inclusion)       Himid and Walsh often speak to audiences informally as well as by       invitation in person about their work.
They often explain their work       within a public context, and see dialogue as an opportunity to develop       practice.
Their work directly relates to issues of belonging, cultural       contribution and migration and how attitudes to this, and experience of       this, have shifted during the past two hundred years.
The debates that arise informally in museum galleries, or formally       through museum workshops, are triggered by the artwork itself: reinforced       by the technical simplicity of the artworks this encourages participant       self-expression.
They have found that people enjoy artist led encounters       which mix visuals and narrative: Himid's Jelly Mould Pavilions won       the People Choice Award for the 2010 Northern Art Prize.
Their interventions into collections are designed to encourage an       awareness of public ownership and responsibility: even accountability.
New       and young audiences have been enabled through the device of exhibits in       alternative but connected venues to get a sense of another layer of       British Art; this has allowed an accessible entry into contemporary art.
Several interventions have proved to have the potential, to tap into       popular/youth culture, black culture and memorialisation.
In specially       designed young peoples' creative workshop series, weekly discussions       exploring ideas have been developed.
The young students made new artworks,       which were then exhibited to highlight the issues locally (2010/2011) with       Lubaina Himid.
