     See section 5 for corroborating sources S1-S10.
Background       Approximately 15% of children show significant behavioural difficulties.
Triple P, an evidence-based positive parenting approach, has been shown       to be effective in reducing these behavioural difficulties.
However,       parenting interventions typically rely upon face-to-face individual or       group-based delivery in clinic, educational and community settings, which       do not reach all those who could benefit.
In particular, delivery often       fails to reach: a) families with the most demanding problems who do not       engage with conventional service settings; and b) large populations in       countries where health and social care systems are not widely equipped to       deliver face-to-face interventions.
Achieving large-scale population reach       of these interventions would have a major public health impact on       immediate behavioural and emotional outcomes for children as well as       reducing risk of maltreatment.
The UNODC has recognised that longer-term       beneficial effects, in relation to mental health, drug and alcohol misuse       and crime, would also result from these interventions.
Reach and significance of the impact     Impact on Triple P International (TPI) delivery strategy       The proof of quantifiable benefit from this form of universal delivery (see         Section 2) made a definitive case for media-based approaches in       population rollout without the direct intervention of a therapist.
It       provided TPI with evidence for media-based strategies for population-level       delivery and Triple P Online.
The TPI website cites the work as a key research finding (S1).
Footage       has been incorporated into Triple P materials to strengthen delivery of       parenting interventions for the public.
It demonstrates added value, as       the materials can convey key messages without the need for       person-to-person facilitation and reach many more families than could be       accessed face-to-face.
Since our research, every large scale population       rollout of the Triple P system has included a sophisticated media and       communication strategy as part of the intervention, including service       implementations in the UK (Glasgow), Ireland (Longforth and Westmeath),       Belgium (Antwerp), The Netherlands (Amsterdam), Canada (Alberta and       Manitoba), Australia (New South Wales and Queensland), and some US states.
Following our proof of effectiveness, DMDM footage has been       incorporated into DVD material for Triple P groups for families and       training programmes for professionals, with 47580 practitioners         trained between 2008 and 2012 (S2), as well as the recently       developed Triple P Online.
Both of these are now internationally       disseminated parenting programmes.
TPI estimate 7 million families       have had exposure worldwide across 25 countries.
The Managing Director of TPI Pty Ltd, which has an exclusive licence to       disseminate the Triple P-Positive Parenting Program, underlines the       importance of the research into media-based delivery for TPI's operations:       `The research conducted by you [the UoM group] has provided evidence for       the effectiveness of a media-based modality to both reach and promote       change in groups of parents who have not already engaged with parenting       programmes but who could benefit.
Its principles have provided important       evidence for the development of Triple P Online, which has potential       benefits for people with specific needs, limited access to services or       multiple commitments limiting conventional access to help' (S3).
For       example, the online and media components of the city-wide rollout of       Triple P by NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde is based on the foundational       work of the Great Parenting Experiments (S4).
Impact on policymaking in the UK and internationally       a) UK       The research was presented to the Prime Minister, Chancellor of the       Exchequer and Home Secretary pre-publication in 2006.
The Respect Task       Force on antisocial behaviour (2006-2010) incorporated this research into       Government policy, stating that parenting support should be provided       alongside approaches such as antisocial behaviour orders (S5).
The       Director of the Troubled Families Team and the Department for Communities       and Local Government confirms that: `The results [of GPE and GPE2]       helped inform the rollout of parenting interventions across the UK from       2006' (S6).
Triple P is one of two programmes awarded the top 4* rating by       the Department for Education (S7).
b) International Reach       The task of reaching parents in low and middle income countries is       developing globally.
The UNODC identified family skills programmes as a       first step in drug and alcohol misuse prevention programmes (S8).
Media-based materials have the scope to reach communities that would not       otherwise be able to access information and support.
Calam has       been invited to UNODC in Vienna five times in the last three years: 1) as       a technical consultant to the group drafting international guidelines on       family skills training; 2) as keynote speaker to its group of       international drug prevention leads; and 3) as keynote and facilitator for       the Paris Pact initiative to reduce opiate use and trade in Afghanistan.
The Director of the Drug Prevention and Health Branch underlines the       importance of the work on DMDM: `[Calam's] role has been to       explain the capacity of parenting interventions to deliver change.
For       each keynote, footage from the ITV series "Driving Mum and Dad Mad" (DMDM)       has been specifically requested, as a highly accessible example of       transformation that can be achieved through media delivery of an       evidence-based parenting intervention' (S8).
The Panamanian government has       collaborated with UNODC to test the feasibility and acceptability of       Triple P discussion groups, incorporating video footage (S9).
Findings       indicate strong effect sizes; similar implementation is now under way in       Costa Rica, and planned in other Latin American countries.
The appeal of       this media-based approach is the provision of video materials which can       deliver a successful intervention where access to specifically trained       practitioners is limited.
Triple P is now listed as having the strongest       evidence base in UNODC's compilation of evidence for parenting programmes       for policymakers and non-governmental organisations worldwide.
The       compilation makes specific reference to mass media strategies (S10, p. 6).
