     De Nobili House     Barnes moved to Southall in 1999 in order to work from a multicultural       part of the capital and thus integrate the practical and experiential side       of interreligious relations with the more academic side at Heythrop       College.
The De Nobili House (DNH) centre in Southall began in 2000 as an       initiative of the British Province of the Society of Jesus, of which       Barnes is a member.
The community of Jesuits also took on responsibility       for the Catholic parish of St Anselm's to give the work of DNH credibility       within the Catholic community and visibility to other local faith       communities &#8212; Sikh, Muslim, Hindu and Buddhist.
Informed by Barnes's       research on how to realise the transformative potential of interreligious       encounter through hospitality and generous engagement, DNH seeks to       practise dialogues of `common life' and `common action'.
The key is the       nature of the hospitable `safe space' defined by the house itself; the       organisation and strategy of DNH supports a culture of respectful       engagement between individuals.
The project was captured in a DVD film in       2008, A Year in the Life of the Jesuits (12,000 downloads).
Involvement in and contact with DNH activities has had an important       formative effect on local faith leaders.
There are around sixty faith       communities and religious groupings within the square mile that covers the       centre of Southall; since 2008, representatives of more than half of these       have either visited the house to speak or have hosted groups visiting them       from DNH.
A leader of the local Sikh scout group comments that his contact       with DNH has `strengthened the message of joint working'.
Another notes       that encounter with other believers at DNH has `opened up areas of       awareness that I would have taken for granted otherwise'.
Another speaks       of the challenge to faith inspired by contact with DNH: `I am a better       person; [it has] helped me to understand Sikhism better'.
In 2012, a       Southall Faiths Forum was established &#8212; a sign, after years of serious       racial and ethnic tension going back to the late 1970's, that the everyday       dialogues of common life and action espoused by DNH have had some effect.
A highly significant impact has been on the Catholic community itself &#8212;       now more confident of its own mission to promote faith and justice in a       multi-cultural environment.
The ethos of thoughtful concern for other       communities now pervading St Anselm's is evidenced in a video about the       parish made in July 2013.
DNH and St Anselm's offer hospitality to school groups who visit       Southall.
During the REF period, at least one group came every fortnight       in term time.
A regular visitor is St Mary's, Ascot.
Notes of appreciation       include the following from one of the teachers: `When we visited with Year       7, one year, an 11-year old Catholic girl on the school trip asked Father       Michael "why does God create so many faiths?"
His reply "God loves       diversity" has reached legendary status in the school and is often quoted       in relation to the study of Genesis 1, in Year 8, and in the GCSE       Religious Prejudice module.... On their return from DNH, one year 7 group       created posters expressing the Christian values underpinning interfaith       dialogue.
By coincidence a school inspector came to the class and was       clearly moved by the depth of response the visit to DNH had inspired in       the girls.'
Other visits come from university students, RE teachers, clergy training       courses and a Catholic volunteering organisation that holds an intensive       training programme every summer for young people spending a year and more       on teaching and social justice projects overseas.
Feedback indicates that       the visit to DNH is a major stimulus not just in understanding the       `richness of other religions' but `in learning how to open up a fruitful       conversation'.
In preparing to take that step into another culture, `Fr       Michael is an exemplary guide, modelling for us a courteous way to       approach such different cultures and religions.'
Another comments that she       gained `a better understanding of how to show more respect appropriately       in other cultural religious settings.'
An organiser adds that, `The       volunteers learn so much and it helps them to prepare for their own       experience of crossing cultures, and each year I too find the experience       opens my mind and heart to the other.'
One highly significant development of the work of DNH is a       Christian-Muslim marriage support group.
While the co-ordinator of the       group has worked with Barnes and his primary collaborator, Bro Daniel       Faivre, since the late 1990's, the group's impact continues throughout the       REF period.
The meetings at DNH take place two or three times a year,       touching a dozen or so couples each time.
Of its very nature, the topics       being discussed &#8212; particularly where they touch on family and local       community issues &#8212; are extremely delicate.
Conversation about family       problems as well as theological questions are made possible, says one       couple, by the `radical hospitality' they encounter at DNH: `people feel       free in such a welcoming setting to speak of some really difficult       personal issues.'
The aim of the group, which created a website to       facilitate communication between members and provide resources and links,       is not only to support those affected by Muslim-Christian marriage, but       also to represent the group to the media and to develop links with       interfaith and educational bodies.
The website homepage notes that the       group `couldn't have got this far without the help of wise people who have       made the interfaith world so much more than a pious hope.
Our interfaith       facilitators have bequeathed to us the 'language' of tolerance that makes       it possible for us to talk at all, and a wider community of people who       think both faiths matter, so that we really do not feel alone, but most of       all they give us the courage "not to cease from exploration".'
This work       with Christian-Muslim couples, and the ideas and principles from Barnes's       research that support it, has been noticed and taken up by the Christian       Muslim Forum.
A set of `ethical guidelines' which began with the pastoral       practice exercised at DNH is provided as a resource on its website, and       was discussed in 2012 on Al Jazeera TV (2300 hits).
Faiths Together     Arranging visits to places of worship and religious centres is an       effective way of helping people cross boundaries.
While much preparation       is needed, the results can be considerable &#8212; most obviously in teaching       the skills of engagement and becoming sensitised to the stages involved in       entering into another religious world.
Informed by Barnes's research into       these skills and their development, the Faiths Together project was a       training course originating as a co-operative exercise between the Centre         for Christianity and Interreligious Dialogue at Heythrop College and       DNH.
It was set up by Barnes, with the support of Faivre and the Southall       Jesuit community, as a practical process of embedding these skills in       people of different faiths by bringing them into direct dialogue and       collaboration with each other.
It was supported by a grant of &#163;66,000 from       HEIF, while a subsequent grant from a private trust of &#163;30,000 enabled the       production of DVD presentations illustrating key aspects of the programme.
Applicants were invited through publicity on the Heythrop website and       various interfaith groups, and participants from across the religious       spectrum were selected by interview as those considered most likely to       resource their own communities and neighbourhoods.
The first group of 24       included a variety of Christian denominations, five Muslims, a Jew and a       Buddhist; the repeated course working with a smaller group included a       Hindu and a Sikh alongside the same proportion of Christians and Muslims.
The principle of honest and respectful interreligious conversation quickly       became the pedagogical and theological focus.
After initial sessions at       Heythrop, the focus moved to Southall where local people became involved       as speakers, facilitators and, most importantly, hosts for visits &#8212; making       them less objects of curiosity than active participants in the learning       process: `I experienced Faiths Together as an ongoing expression of       interfaith practice at work.
It is an inclusive space with an emphasis on       openness, hospitality and respect for the "other".'
The project concluded with four short films reprising the major themes,       and made available with discussion notes through the Heythrop College       website.
A number of groups committed to developing good interfaith       relations have used the films (downloaded 150 times) and notes as       discussion starters.
Three participants collaborated in introducing some       of the ideas to schools in north London; a teacher in Scotland speaks of       using the DVDs in RE classes to `open up the nitty-gritty reality of       religious pluralism'.
As intended, participants in Faiths Together went on to develop their own       initiatives on the basis of the project, expanding the impact of the       thinking behind the project into new and highly diverse contexts.
A Muslim       comments: `I have since become a Member of the board for the Cambridge       Coexist Leadership programme.
...
I have introduced Malaysian government       officials to Judaism and Jews.'
A Jewish member became the Deputy Chair of       Kensington and Chelsea local faith forum: `I would never have had the       confidence if it wasn't for Faiths Together'.
A Quaker says her time on       the project gave her the confidence to develop an interfaith element to       her prison work: `I felt like a self-appointed Chaplain for these minority       groups and I facilitated the worship for these groups'.
A retired Anglican       woman has found herself involved in campaigning for the rights of       displaced Palestinians: `So easy not to hear what people are saying ...
The horror is that you become very aware of the prejudices you had.'
Others have organised conferences and training programmes, both in their       own faith communities and wider society, through websites and political       action.
For example, a Catholic sister has facilitated seminars for       members of her religious congregation, colleagues and friends at       Roehampton University.
She is now engaged in developing `a training       programme for new members of our congregation so that it informs our       mission of education of minds and hearts'.
