     The Sophie Scholl biography reached a much wider public audience than       traditional academic books (8,000 copies sold Worldwide).
It was discussed       widely in the media and was extensively reviewed.
One key example was a       two page news feature article (26 February 2009) in the Daily Mail       entitled: "Braver than Valkyrie" which reached an audience of five million       readers.
The book was further discussed in the Catholic Herald,       the Times Higher Educational Supplement and the Sunday         Telegraph.
It rose to number eight in the Amazon best-seller list       (28th February 2009) and was listed in `Best Books of the Year'       in 2009 by both the Sunday Telegraph and the London Evening         Standard.
During the impact period, McDonough has sought to engage widely with the       public, and especially with school children, using the example of Sophie       Scholl not only to raise awareness of the activities of the White Rose       movement but, importantly, to relate it to the modern day.
Notable       examples of his approach include over 25 public lectures, mostly to       outside academic forums.
This included an invitation to give the 2009       Richard Dimbleby public lecture at Mill Hill School which was attended by       200 people, the 2011 Chester Military Lecture at Chester Museum, ten       educational conferences for A/S level students in Coleraine, Belfast,       Manchester, Birmingham, and London and public lectures for Unite Against       Fascism (UAF) in Liverpool, Manchester, Bolton and Barrow.
The UAF praised       McDonough for using Sophie Scholl as an example of the civic duty to       oppose far right extremism, raising public awareness to combat the far       right.
Other examples include, McDonough's 2012 Professorial public lecture on       Sophie Scholl.
This was attended by 160 members of the public and the       video of the lecture has been viewed by 2,500 people on You Tube (as of       July 2013).
In February 2010, McDonough's Twitter account was launched to       coincide with the release of Sophie Scholl in a paperback edition.
It now has over 8,000 followers and is one of the most popular Twitter       accounts among UK academic historians.
The book continues to attract media interest with a full page feature on       McDonough in the German periodical "Young Freedom" in February 2013 and       feature articles in periodicals in Brazil and Venezaula's leading       newspaper Panorama.
McDonough's media appearances and contributions to historical programmes       have increased dramatically directly as a result of the Sophie Scholl       research.
In 2010, McDonough's book was featured in a documentary on       Resistance (France channels 2 and 3), reaching an audience of 5 million.
In 2012, he was in a six-part series entitled: "Nazi Secrets", a       co-production between German TV channel ZDF and National Geographic.
McDonough's research featured in 3 episodes: "Hitler's Damned Women",       "Hitler's Family Skeleton" and "Hitler's Millions"; it was broadcast in       153 countries.
In 2013, McDonough was lead contributor to a new 10 part       series called "The Rise of Hitler' which includes discussions of German       resistance (to be broadcast on Discovery Channel [History] from January       2014).
The contribution of McDonough's research to secondary, tertiary and adult       education can also be demonstrated:            "Sophie Scholl" is "essential reading" on numerous A/S Level and         undergraduate courses on European History and the Third Reich       The director of adult educational services for the Munich White Rose         Foundation commented: "McDonough's book has greatly raised awareness of         Sophie Scholl in the UK and forms a key part of our educational         activities on the White Rose in Bavarian adult education.
McDonough's         book is now used extensively in German schools       The work of McDonough in "Opposition and Resistance" forms part of the         curriculum for the Oxford and Cambridge Examining Board A/S Level Paper-         Europe 1890-1945       McDonough's book "Conflict and Communism: Europe, 1890-1945" is the         Oxford, Cambridge and RSA exam board set text for the course which is         used extensively in the south east of England and within public schools
