     A significant number of published outputs and activities linked to this       research have been cited and referenced and have received widespread       publicity in the UK and international media, including TV, radio and the       written press.
Berkeley has been interviewed for BBC Radio 4's       Costing the Earth programme.
Bailey has been interviewed for documentary       programmes, including BBC Radio 4's File on Four and You and Yours; BBC's       Inside Out (RDAs and LEPs); BBC Radio 4's Analysis (MG Rover); and the       BBC's Money Programme (Toyota).
In addition, Bailey's blogs at Reuters and       The Birmingham Post are widely cited, and he is also a columnist for the       Birmingham Post and Coventry Telegraph.
This media engagement strategy has       been deliberately designed to profile and position our research, and to       shape debates in the areas highlighted.
Informing and shaping national policy debates       Our research is informing and shaping national policy debates in three       areas: industrial policy for traditional and emerging sectors; policy for       funding and developing sub-regional economic development structures; and       policy for dealing with economic shocks.
This includes a number of       advisory roles, including (Bailey) as Specialist Advisor to the House of       Commons Select Committee on the West Midlands in its inquiry into the       Impact of the Recession on West Midlands Business (2009).
Research has       also been used in evidence presented to a number of parliamentary       inquiries and public consultations, such as: the 2012 Transport Committee       inquiry: Plugged-in Vehicles, Plugged-in Policy (a); the Business       Innovation and Skills Select Committee inquiry into Local Enterprise       Partnerships (2011); the Takeover Panel Inquiry into the Kraft Takeover of       Cadbury (2011); the 2012 All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Local       Growth, LEPs, and Enterprise Zones (in conjunction with the Regional       Studies Association (RSA)); the APPG on Rebalancing the British Economy       (2012); and to the APPG on the West Midlands (2013).
As an example of       impact, following written evidence to the Transport Committee Inquiry on       electric vehicles Berkeley provided oral evidence that was       subsequently used by the Committee in their press release to accompany the       report into its findings.
This stimulated national political and media       debate on the effectiveness of the policy, with Berkeley's views       being sought for radio and newspaper interviews.
Mark Egan, Secretariat of       Transport Select Committee, notes that Berkeley directly informed       policy debate with an "engaging style and has helped [us] prepare         persuasive and credible arguments to lead well-informed discussions".
He stated that "without the work of Coventry University the inquiry         would have been less striking and would not have had such clear         recommendations and thus less impact on the media and as a result impact         on parliament".
Other prominent roles have included: the UK academic lead on the European       Automotive Skills Council (Begley, 2012-) and membership of the Coventry       and Warwickshire Local Enterprise Partnership Executive Delivery Board (Berkeley,       2011-).
In this role Berkeley also contributes to the analytics       division, fundamental for underpinning LEP strategy and action plans.
The       Wilson Review of University-Business collaboration (2012) makes specific       reference through a case study to the active involvement of Coventry       University in driving the LEP agenda (b).
Influencing policy and practice       Research has directly influenced and informed policy and practice.
For       example, the clothing industry strategy (Berkeley) was implemented       locally by Coventry's Clothing Partnership in 2000.
Regionally, in       November 2009, Advantage West Midlands published a sector profile and       action plan for the clothing industry informed by a "significant         programme of research undertaken by Coventry Business School, Coventry         University" (c).
The creative industries research (Jarvis and       Berkeley) has, as noted by Graham Simpson of Coventry City Council       had a "direct impact on the development of inter-agency structures         intended to underpin the growth of the sector"; and provided the       evidence that funding should be strategically "directed into the gaming         and software sector".
Moreover as a result of the research on the       environmental technologies sector, Simpson notes that the Renewable Energy       Technology Alliance was established in 2011 to provide commercial       opportunities through public-private partnership funding to create jobs       and investment in the region.
Simultaneously, Unit research on the response to the MG Rover collapse       highlighted the need for `permanent capacity' to deal with shocks and was       cited in several Select Committee inquiries.
When Regional Taskforces were       set up in response to the 2008-09 recession, they were modelled on the       work of MG Rover Taskforce.
Research on the need for a supportive       industrial policy for the automotive sector also saw Bailey taking a       leading, national role in pressing the case for support for the automotive       sector over 2008-9, including a `scrappage' scheme to support demand.
Ian       Austin (Regional Minister for West Midlands at the time) stated that       Bailey was able to detail exactly what was happening in the sector and       this evidence was used to argue for the scrappage scheme which the       Government subsequently introduced in 2009.
More recently his critique of       Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs) has been widely cited in policy       debates.
The government has responded by providing additional resources       for the operation of LEPs.
Use and application of research by agencies and organisations       Impact is also evidenced by the way that research has been used and       applied.
For example, in its investigation into the performance of       Regional Development Agencies in 2010, the National Audit Office cited the       evaluation of the West Midlands Regional Taskforce in its independent       supplementary review of the work of Advantage West Midlands (d), whilst       several other submissions to Select Committee Inquiries have cited the       Unit's work on MG Rover (for example: the House of Commons Transport       Select Committee Inquiry into Bombardier in late 2011).
A wide range of       other organisations have benefited from this research and its findings,       including: the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on the West Midlands (Berkeley       presented a keynote on the future of the West Midlands economy); the APPG       on Rebalancing the British Economy; Advantage West Midlands in its       submission to the West Midlands Select Committee's Inquiry into the Impact       of the Recession on West Midlands Business; the Department of Business,       Innovation and Skills (with SQW) to develop a practical framework to       inform government policy on response to shocks; the Dell Taskforce, set up       to deal with Dell's downsizing in Ireland; the LDV Taskforce set up by       Birmingham City Council; representatives of the Gothenburg Business Region       who sought to draw upon the MG Rover experience in light of concerns over       the future of Saab in Sweden (Bailey made presentations in Birmingham and       Gothenburg); the CBI in terms of what can be learned for the automotive       industry generally; and Deloitte, where Bailey gave the Deloitte       Manufacturing Dinner speeches in 2009 and 2010, and presented at the       Deloitte Business School on Manufacturing, drawing on the MG Rover work.
Bailey's work is also widely cited in high profile industry reports &#8212; such       as the 2012 Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) / KPMG       report: An Assessment of Supply Chain Opportunities in the UK Auto         Sector (e), and the broader UK Manufacturing Supply Chain         Insight report (f) by Barclays, which featured a detailed commentary       by Bailey.
Both reports received widespread media coverage.
Mike Baunton,       Acting Chief Executive of the SMMT notes that "investment in higher         level apprenticeships to build the skills base by enhancing practical         skills and experience has resulted in part from the author's (Bailey's)         reports on the UK market and the gap in the supply base which argue for         the skills and labour force which are needed to underpin the industry         and which has informed public debate", adding that Bailey provides "an         independent voice between industry and politics" which "brings         credibility to the debate".
His research has also been picked up by       think tanks such as Civitas (g).
Use and application of research by beneficiaries       Our research has also been used and applied by beneficiaries.
For example,       the MG Rover research stimulated the setting up of the 'Retooled' website       by ex-workers, featuring webcasts of their redundancy experiences, in the       hope that this would help other workers in similar situations (h).
The       site explicitly thanked the project for stimulating the idea.
Retooled was       a pilot supported by Arts Council England and Birmingham City Council as       part of 'Say Hello', a programme of projects attempting to break new       ground for participatory work around digital media.
