     As a result of research commissioned by national and international       agencies, whose core function is to bring about large scale change and       development, there has been direct impact at three levels:            In South Africa, contributing to the TVET policy debate, to the         development of indicators and to capacity building within key national         institutions committed to developing skills for the labour market;       Across southern Africa, leading the process of developing a regional         strategy for TVET reform and a supporting set of indicators for the         Southern African Development Community;       Internationally, influencing the global policy agenda on TVET and its         place in wider development policies, both through global policy work for         UNESCO and through the onward flow of this into country-level advice.
Informing policy and practice in South Africa     McGrath has had a broad policy influence on the South African TVET system       and more direct impact on indicator development and implementational       capacity.
Building on his research and previous direct involvement in       policy development in South Africa, McGrath has advised the Department for       Higher Education and Training (DHET) on vocational teacher education and       qualifications (2009-10) and on a new national TVET research institute       (2012).
In 2013, he was invited to be a member of the Human Resources       Development Council's Further Education and Training Colleges Task Team,       and to identify the most pressing priorities for their work.
The Task Team       chair, Dr Akoojee, writes:     The issues you raised ... [will be] a component of the Task Team's       programme of action for the remainder of its term.
[A]     This has led to the HRD Council commissioning further research and       development work in pursuit of these themes.
Since 2008, McGrath has worked with the engineering sector skills       council, merSETA, to develop a research-informed national, cross-sectoral       response to employability and to FE-HE partnerships.
In the Labour Market       Intelligence Partnership, in addition to research activities, he has been       engaged since 2012 in supporting the development of national capacity on       labour markets and TVET in research institutions, sectoral skills agencies       and ministries.
His work here has included individual and group briefings       for senior officials of the various ministries that constitute the       government's social and economic clusters and the Office of the President;       presentations to 200+ stakeholders and professional staff on indicator       development; and mentoring work with the junior and mid-career researchers       within the consortium [B].
All of these strands of work have       contributed to national capacity for research and policy.
During 2013, he       participated in the South African government's official review of 20 years       of development policy and practice, which will be a key input into new       government strategies beyond the 2014 elections.
Behind all this, McGrath       has been working to influence the public debate on TVET including writing       newspaper articles and parliamentary briefing notes, and making       presentations to senior officials from business, trade unions, further and       higher education institutions and sector skills agencies.
Informing transformed regional TVET policy in Southern Africa     McGrath's work has also directly informed TVET policymaking in the SADC       region.
As a consequence of his long-standing research work on TVET in       Southern Africa, and particularly the seven-country study mentioned above       [output 4], he was commissioned to lead a SADC/UNESCO research project on       TVET reform in Southern Africa in 2010.
This resulted in the production of       a 13 country study of the state of TVET presented to all regional       government ministers.
In order to shape policy reform and to measure its       impact on the ground, 18 indicators on TVET system performance and       development were designed and piloted.
The team was also asked to develop       a set of five strategic priorities for regional TVET transformation and a       costed action plan.
These were presented to the SADC Ministers of       Education in 2011 and were approved by them.
A Technical Committee to       oversee the implementation of the plan of action was established in 2012.
The Ministers also committed to regular re-collection of indicator data:       the first time that TVET implementation in Southern Africa has been       subjected to performance management systems.
The Report was considered of       such potential significance for wider international developments of TVET       indicator systems that UNESCO headquarters took the decision to edit and       publish it from Paris in 2013 [C], this being highly unusual for       such regionally commissioned work.
Influencing the global TVET policy agenda     This work has had a significant influence on the international TVET       policy debate.
As a result of his track record of academic and policy work       in this area, in November 2010 McGrath was invited by UNESCO to provide       intellectual leadership in writing a world report on TVET.
The initial       version of this was the key input into the Third International Congress on       Technical and Vocational Education and Training, which aimed to transform       global policies on TVET.
Given the strategic importance of this, the       School of Education seconded McGrath half-time to UNESCO for most of 2011       and covered the staff cost element of this.
The draft report was presented       to c750 senior policymakers (including more than 40 ministers) in May 2012       at the Third International Congress on TVET in Shanghai.
It was then       revised for publication in 2013 [D].
The messages of the report       formed the basis of the Shanghai Consensus, a document agreed by the       participants in the Congress, which outlined a global approach to TVET       policy priorities [E].
Drawing on key themes of McGrath's work,       the Shanghai Consensus calls for a transformative approach to TVET that       goes beyond economic imperatives and stresses a human development       perspective.
It suggests a radical shift in global policy thinking about       TVET.
This report is driving UNESCO practice.
It forms the basis for current       development work on a new UNESCO Recommendation (the key policy advice       given to all member states), for UNESCO's next TVET Strategy (from 2015)       and for a wide range of UNESCO materials which give guidance to member       states on different aspects of TVET [F].
The Head of UNESCO's TVET       section, Dr. Chakroun, has said     Professor McGrath's contribution provided the key basis for several of       UNESCO's strand of work in the field of TVET.
First, his contribution has       been decisive in preparing the World TVET Report and sharpening UNESCO's       analysis of global trends and issues in TVET.
Second, ... [the Report]...       forms the basis for a proposal on revising UNESCO's 2001 Recommendation on       TVET (the key policy advice given to all member states) to be presented       initially to UNESCO's General Conference in November 2013.
It is also       central to the approach taken for the mid-term review of UNESCO's TVET       Strategy conducted in 2013.
Third, the work conducted with Professor       McGrath is informing UNESCO's work on the position of skills for the world       of work in the post-2015 agenda, particularly the call for transforming       and scaling-up TVET learning.
[G]     McGrath is continuing to support UNESCO's work in this area through a       knowledge exchange partnership running from 2013 to 2015.
He currently is part of the Commonwealth Secretariat's expert group on       TVET; has provided policy advice on TVET for development policies to more       than 20 bilateral and multilateral international agencies; and has been       invited to present his work to national stakeholder communities (e.g.,       Belgium, Denmark, Germany).
His work has also influenced the international       policy and practitioner debates in TVET with regard to the place of TVET       in development agendas.
The Shanghai Consensus was referenced in the       annual ministerial declaration of the UN Economic and Social Committee       2012, which identifies important issues for future global development       policy [H].
In early 2013 McGrath was one of those involved in       discussions regarding the inclusion and nature of a TVET goal in the       report of the UN High Level Panel for post-2015 development.
This is a       significant step for TVET given its exclusion from the current Education       for All goals.
McGrath writes regularly for Norrag News, which reaches more than 4000       policymakers, practitioners and researchers globally, and is one of the       core authors of its blog, launched at the time of the World Congress [I].
In a tweet to its 17,500 followers, the Global Partnership for Education,       an international coalition of governments, multilateral agencies, NGOs and       foundations, described McGrath's June 2013 blog on skills and work as a       "must read" [J].
That tweet was subsequently retweeted by the Head       of Outreach, Post-2015 High Level Panel Secretariat.
