     Key findings of this research programme have been incorporated into       national training materials for headteachers in a range of countries, and       have been taken up within professional communities of practice       internationally.
The research has influenced policy on teacher development       and school leadership both in the UK and more widely.
Shaping leadership training materials and programmes     The key messages of the IMPACT publications, Seven Strong Claims       and Ten Strong Claims, have been integral to the National College       for Teaching and Leadership's core national leadership training programme.
These modules have also been adapted for use as an international online       teaching resource: the NCTL translated Ten Strong Claims into       Chinese in 2012, and it has been used as the core resource in a training       programme for leading headteachers in Zhejiang Province, China designed to       introduce new approaches to school leadership into Chinese schooling.
Seven         Strong Claims is recommended reading in the South African Department       of Basic Education's Advanced Certificate: Education (School Management       and Leadership) programme [A].
In England and Wales, VITAE research was incorporated into the CPD and       training courses provided by the Association of School and College Leaders       (ASCL):     In particular, courses preparing people for senior leadership and       headship took into account the findings from the research in the sessions       on motivating staff, teacher well-being (including that of the school       leaders themselves) and school effectiveness.
[B]     ISSPP research has largely shaped Israeli developments in principal       training [C].
ISSPP-based materials have been delivered to more       than 400 Mexican principals since 2008, and formed the basis of a new       Masters' programme for school leaders in Sonora State with its first       graduates in 2011.
In Chihuahua State, a leadership development programme       was made available to school leaders for the first time as a result of       ISSPP [D].
In South Africa, Day advised in the establishment of a       Postgraduate Diploma in Higher Education and a Bachelor of Education       (beginning 2014) at the Vaal University of Technology, one of the ISSPP       partners [E].
Informing professional communities of practice     The VITAE project was supported by all of the UK's national teacher       unions and professional associations, who ensured that the findings were       widely disseminated to members.
This has impacted upon the ways in which       staff well-being and resilience are supported.
For instance, John Dunford,       then General Secretary of the ASCL, notes that     Through the association's training courses and publications, its 15,000       members, all engaged in school and college leadership, would have become       more aware of the issues highlighted in the VITAE research of managing       staff in the best way, taking into account their work-life balance in ways       that had not been considered by previous generations of school and college       leaders.
...
Following the research, I have observed a marked increase in       the level of support given to classroom teachers.
The link in the research       between this support, teacher effectiveness and school effectiveness has       been made in many schools.
... the VITAE research has produced a wider       recognition of the issues of work-life balance for school leaders and       teachers.
It has changed practice in many schools.
[B]     The messages of the IMPACT project have been widely taken up amongst the       professional community in the UK, largely through the influence of two       publications, Seven Strong Claims About Successful School Leadership       which, because of its popularity and perceived impact, was followed four       years later by Ten Strong Claims.
The National College for       Teaching and Leadership reports approximately 10 000 sales and downloads       of the two reports, which are also available on other websites.
Ten         Strong Claims was the only research output cited in Ofsted's 2012       guidance about leadership in outstanding schools.
Evidence of the reach of the IMPACT research can be found on numerous       government and teacher association practice development websites       internationally.
For example, project findings are summarised or linked to       by the New Zealand Ministry of Education; the Australian Institute for       Training and School Leadership; and the British Columbia Teachers'       Federation.
In 2013 both the States of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo       invited Day to design research and development projects replicating the       IMPACT project, which are planned to begin in 2014.
Since 2008, Day has       been invited to give keynote addresses on the research to professional       teachers and school leaders' conferences in 12 countries, including       Australia, Brazil, China and the USA.
Testimony from participants in the ISSP indicates that membership of the       network has empowered members to take on greater national leadership       development roles.
For instance, since joining the project in 2008,       Professor Tubin of the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev acknowledges       that     Based on my ISSPP experience and knowledge, I became ... a member of the       steering committee that develops the policy and practices of principal       training programs in Israel.
[C]     Internationally, the research is helping transform leadership practices       in schools and school districts.
Michael Gallagher of the Sunnyvale School       District, San Francisco states that     Your [Day's] work is truly making a difference in our district and       throughout the Bay area.
... As a direct result of your research, we began       a support group this spring [2012] for mid- and late-career teachers       focusing on their social emotional well-being and the relationship to       student social emotional well-being and learning.
The result of this five       session, ten week pilot was very positive.
...
In some cases they reported       their resilience was "strengthened".
In others, they gained clarity about       their mission and purpose in teaching.
...
I'm very appreciative of your       hard work.
It is making a difference in the lives of our teachers and our       students' learning.
[F].
Connie Moloi, Professor of Educational Management, Vaal University of       Technology, South Africa states that     The research impact of the ISSPP has ... penetrated into the neighbouring       district attached to our university where I conduct workshops on school       leadership, drawing from the research literature of the ISSPP... (it) is       making substantial impact in the lives of teachers and school principals       involved in the project.
[E]     Arturo Marin, Principal of the Jose E. Medrano R. Normal School in Mexico       writes that     ...the ISSPP project has had a positive impact at different levels.
It       has benefitted our institution providing professors and students with       opportunities to learn and engage in educational research projects.
It has       allowed us to collaborate with state education authorities and other       institutions ... we believe that the community of educational       practitioners has and will continue to benefit from the professional       development programs based on the research findings derived from ISSPP's       efforts in Chihuahua, in Mexico and in other countries around the globe.
[D]     Influencing policy     Government policy on teacher development and teacher quality across UK       jurisdictions has been strongly influenced by the VITAE project.
The       research is cited in both a House of Commons Education Select Committee       Report (2010: 18) [G] and the General Teaching Council of England       Policy Paper 6, `Professional Learning and Development' (2010: 79) [H].
A literature review produced by the Scottish Government, `Teacher       Education in the 21st Century' (2012), contains references to       six publications from the project.
A Northern Ireland Assembly briefing       paper on `Qualities for Effective School Leadership' (2011) is largely       drawn from the IMPACT project.
The international influence of the IMPACT project is evidenced by the       extensive use of its findings in two of the most highly influential       reports on teachers and leadership of the past five years.
Four out of 25       references in McKinsey and Company's 2010 report, Capturing the         Leadership Premium [I], are to IMPACT project outputs.
Led       by Sir Michael Barber, former advisor to Prime Minister Blair, this report       has received very widespread media and policy interest.
Two outputs from       the project are referenced in the major Organisation for Economic       Cooperation and Development (OECD) policy document, Preparing Teachers         and Developing School Leaders (2009) [J].
Moreover, Day was appointed to the international expert panel created by       the OECD to advise on the writing of the report.
This report combines PISA       data with key findings from the academic literature.
It was the key input       to the first International Summit on the Teaching Profession, co-convened       by the US Department of Education, OECD and Education International.
