     Design research produced by the CRME, under the leadership of Professor       Malcolm Swan (promoted in 2009) has had a substantial influence on the       strategies employed by the largest charitable organisation in the world,       The Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, and on the US National Council of       Supervisors of Mathematics (NCSM).
The Foundation's goal is to vastly       increase the number of `college and career ready' US students graduating       from high schools.
The NCSM is seeking to improve the quality of       mathematics teaching and learning in US secondary schools.
In the US, individual states have autonomy in education, so national       improvement strategies are voluntary.
Prompted by President Obama, the       Gates Foundation funded the development of the Common Core State Standards       in Mathematics (CCSSM or Standards).
These Standards, which have now been       adopted by 46 States, emphasise `mathematical practices', i.e.
the       processes of doing mathematics.
The Gates Foundation recognised the       strategic challenge of finding a scalable implementation strategy to make       these mathematical practices a reality in US classrooms.
The Foundation       aimed to meet this challenge by commissioning formative assessment tasks       supported by teaching materials.
This was the core of The Gates       Foundation's improvement strategy.
In 2009, in recognition of CRME's longstanding experience and expertise       in design-research, the Gates Foundation commissioned a large-scale       programme to design and trial lessons called `Classroom Challenges' (CCs)       [A].
These lessons were intended to improve the teaching of concept       development and non-routine problem solving.
The principles of diagnostic       teaching and formative assessment are key design features of these CC       lessons.
The CCs are now central to the Gates Foundation's implementation       strategy; they have also been adopted by many of the Foundation's       influential partners.
Vicki Phillips, Director, College Ready Education at the Gates Foundation       writes:     The Foundation saw formative assessment as central to its support for the       country's improvement strategy in mathematics.
[CRME's] research in this       field, and the excellent materials developed from it, were well known.
They epitomize the `fewer, clearer, higher standards' of the Common Core.
Our strategy covers school systems across the country.
The response from       teachers to these Classroom Challenges has been enthusiastic, remarkably       so since they take most teachers into new terrain, mathematically and       pedagogically.
[B]     The remarkable response to these materials is evidenced by an average of       76,000 downloads of CCs a month during 2012-13 [C].
This is in       addition to downloads from other mirror sites (e.g., the Association for       Supervision and Curriculum Development).
At school district level, the CCs are now being used to help teachers       interpret the Standards.
Valerie Mills, the President-Elect of the       National Council of Supervisors of Mathematics (NCSM), explains:     In K-12 districts [the CCs] are being used as the basis of study groups       and other forms of professional learning.
In universities, they are being       used in mathematics methods courses to help pre-service teachers become       acquainted with the CCSSM.
In both settings they are helping educators       think more carefully about what it means and what it looks like to teach       for understanding, to really `do' mathematics, and to become proficient in       the Standards for Mathematical Practice.
The Classroom Challenges are       vivid instantiations of the CCSS and have been powerful communication       tools for us as we work with the 20,000 teachers in our direct service       area and the more than 100,000 teachers across our State.
[D]     In 2012, the NCSM recognised the power of the CC lessons to improve the       teaching of mathematical practices and so decided to base its nationwide       professional development strategy for the next two years on formative       assessment, built around the CCs.
From July 2013, NCSM began a series of       three-day `Leadership Academies' using the CCs.
These Leadership Academies       each serve several hundred mathematics education supervisors from       districts and schools across the country.
Valerie Mills explains that     the...resources and the experiences in the Summer Leadership Academy will       enable participating leaders to begin to increase the use of formative       assessment strategies in their districts, shifting teaching practices and       improving student outcomes.
Furthermore, she describes the resources as "sturdy hinges on       which to open doors to more effective instruction".
The CC materials are designed to support the original research findings       that formative assessment produces more robust long-term learning of       concepts and skills, and more independent students who can use their       mathematics to tackle non-routine problems effectively and with       confidence.
Pearson, one of the largest educational publishers in the world, is now       developing the first tablet-based full curriculum for Mathematics.
Becoming aware of the CCs, it has now licensed them for inclusion in this       online course, and is working with CRME on their adaptation for this new       technological environment.
