     CRL's impact has been the result of:            CRL directors' prolific speaking (500+ key-note speeches)       high impact publications targeted at practitioners       a specially-created teacher learning community providing training, and         direct interaction with stakeholders.
Commerce       CRL's Directors joined the board of TLO Ltd in 2010.
They have played a       significant role in developing new products arising from their research       into DT - the design, proto-typing and development of the Learning       Quality Framework http://learningqualityframework.co.uk/       and publication of The Learning Powered School (TLPS).
LQF and       TLPS have helped TLO to return to profitability with adoptions/sales, of       respectively, 25 schools and 2,600+ copies).
CRL has created a social enterprise, The Expansive Education Network &#8212; http://www.expansiveeducation.net/     (eedNET) drawing on its       research into expandable intelligence (Lucas and Claxton, 2010).
eedNET       has attracted &#163;100k from Comino Foundation.
eedNET brings together       significant educational organisations (Campaign for Learning, CUREE,       Design and Technology Association, Eden Project, Institute for Habits of       Mind, Learning through Landscapes, SSAT, Teaching Leaders) with ten       universities.
Providing training for teachers to undertake action research       and a location for them to publish their research, eedNET has recruited       250 school members and 1,000 teachers since its launch in September 2011.
Recently it has attracted funding from the Gordon Cook Foundation in       Scotland.
Aberdeen University will coordinate Scottish development       targeting schools in remote regions and enabling eedNET to develop       state-of-the-art online delivery.
Public policy and services       Policy debate has been stimulated by CRL's research for Edge (2010) as       evidenced by the subsequent commission by the National Skills       Forum/Associated Parliamentary Skills Group (Claxton, G.L.
&amp; Lucas, B.       Anti-Manualism in Open to Ideas.
London: Policy Connect,)       launched in the House of Commons in December 2011.
Its core conclusion on       the need for a richer, more dispositional conception of learning was       picked up by City &amp; Guilds (C&amp;G) which then commissioned CRL to       undertake research into vocational pedagogy.
The report of this work, How         to teach vocational education: a theory of vocational pedagogy, was       debated in the Grand Council of the House of Lords on 28 February 2013.
CRL's research was submitted by C&amp;G to the McLoughlin Commission       (CAVTL, 2013) which specifically drew on CRL's research to:            recommend `codifying, recognising and valuing the sophisticated         practice of vocational pedagogy',       inform their eight features of vocational pedagogy, and       adopt CRL's recommendation to establish a national centre for VET in         England.
C &amp; G has committed to fund a partnership with 157 Group led by CRL       as a result as a precursor to such a centre.
Society, culture and creativity       CRL's research on DT has stimulated public debate in the education press       (for example TES PRO &#8212; Why we should all be hands-on, 16 November       2012) and SecED http://www.sec-ed.co.uk/best-practice/whats-the-point-of-school).
A       more popular example can be found in the Huffington Post on 18 September       2012 http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/professor-guy-claxton/ebacc-life-of-tests-is-no-preparation_b_1890686.html.)
Practitioners and services       The research on dispositional classroom teaching described in Claxton,       G.L., Lucas, B. et al (2011) has been translated into a range of       products/services branded `Building Learning Power'.
This has been widely       used to guide the development of dispositional teaching in       primary/secondary schools across the UK, as well as in New Zealand,       Australia, Argentina, and many others (see references below).
The 157 Group (representing large FE colleges), has taken CRL's work on       vocational pedagogy (2012) and is now applying it with leaders/teachers in       colleges.
Highlands College, Jersey is undertaking extensive change using       CRL's approach to vocational pedagogy and at least 5 other colleges in       England are adopting CRL thinking.
Ideas about DT have impacted on the management domain, too: Lucas, B.
(2009), rEvolution: How to Thrive in Crazy Times.
(Carmarthen:       Crown House Publishing) &#8212; winner of Chartered Management Institute award       for management book of the year (innovation), - has been used by       organisations (see Highlands College statement) to inform their attitude       to change leadership     International development       International policy development has been influenced by CRL's research on       DT in VE.
For example key-notes by both Claxton and Lucas at Global       Innovators Conference on Teaching and Learning in Technical Education,       Qatar http://www.globalinnovators2013.com/ in April 2013       and an accompanying invitation for a closed-door session with the Qatari       government.
The adoption/further development of CRL's eedNET by Deakin University in       Australia in 2012 and creation of their Expansive Learning Network &#8212; http://expansivelearning.com.au/       draws on CRL's work on expandable intelligence (2010) and their approach       to expansive education.
This impact on Australian educators prompted the Australian Council for       Educational Research to commission CRL to undertake an international scan       of expansive education &#8212; Lucas, B. Claxton, G.L.
and Spencer, E. (2013) Expansive         Education: Teaching learners for the real world.
Melbourne: ACER.
