     The MCM technology and associated intellectual property has had impacts       on commerce and on healthcare systems internationally.
It has also       improved public understanding of the importance of early cancer detection.
Impacts on commerce: industry has invested in research and         development, a new product is in production     In 2004, the MCM technology was licensed by Cancer Research Technology to       TriPath Imaging (U.S.) in the field of cervical cancer.
In 2007, TriPath       and its associated licences were bought by Becton Dickinson (BD), who       developed the BD ProExTM C reagent, based on antibodies against       MCM2 and DNA-topoisomerase 2&#945;.
This has been in widespread use       internationally since 2008, particularly in USA and Canada, as well as in       European centres (most notably Scandinavia and Southern Europe).
[text       removed for publication].
Impacts on commerce: highly skilled people have taken up specialist         roles in companies, jobs have been created     The research of Laskey and Coleman led to the creation of the MRC CCU, a       new MRC Unit, in 2001.
The purpose of the Unit was to build on and extend       translational cancer research, particularly MCM-based cancer detection.
The MRC CCU receives over &#163;3M in funding p.a.
and continues to provide       over 100 new jobs in the UK.
[text removed for publication].
In addition,       Becton Dickinson has invested in developing the BD ProExTM C       reagent (based on MCM detection), creating new highly-skilled jobs (number       withheld by BD) in the USA.
Impacts on healthcare: a new diagnostic has been adopted; disease         prevention has been enhanced     An important use of the BD ProExTM C reagent is for triage of       cervical smears and biopsies showing `borderline' changes, referred to as       atypical squamous cells of uncertain significance (ASCUS).
These       abnormalities are seen in 2-6% of cervical smears in developed countries,       and present a clinical challenge, as they include cases of pre-cancer, as       well as non-neoplastic processes such as repair and reaction to       inflammation.
BD ProExTM C significantly improves the accuracy       of pre-cancer detection in cervical smears in this sample group, reducing       patient overinvestigation and potentially therefore overall screening       costs7.
Since 2010, several independent groups in Europe and USA have evaluated       the BD ProExTM C reagent in combination with human       papillomavirus (HPV) testing, as a more accurate and costeffective       replacement for cervical Papanicolaou (Pap) screening.
There is an       important clinical need for a biomarker-based approach to primary cervical       screening, as the Pap test is based on subjective interpretation and a       single test has a sensitivity for cancer/pre-cancer of only ~50%.
A recent       European study compared eight primary cervical screening strategies and       concluded that the optimal combination was HPV testing followed by triage       using the BD ProExTM C reagent8; it had the highest       level of accuracy and reduced the number of patient procedures required.
As a result, BD pre-adapted its new screening machines worldwide to run BD       ProExTM C in combination with HPV testing (BD Totalys&#8482; system).
To date, over 36 publications from independent research groups have       demonstrated the value of the BD ProExTM C reagent, in a       variety of clinical settings related to cervical disease detection in       either cervical cytology or cervical histopathology applications.
In       addition, there are 11 publications from independent research groups which       describe the use of ProExC in non-cervical applications.
The product is       also used by histopathology services across the NHS in the UK10.
It is not yet possible to state with accuracy the number of patients who       have benefitted from BD ProExTM C in USA/Canada and Europe       since 2008, as BD is still in the process of commercialising the products       and providing local support to cytology laboratories worldwide.
To date, licenses based on the MCM technology have generated income in       excess of &#163;800K for Cancer Research Technology on behalf of Cancer       Research UK, and the University of Cambridge11.
Impacts on health and welfare: public awareness of a health benefit         has been raised       The MCM work has featured prominently in the national press, including       several articles since 200812,13.
Coleman and Laskey have given       numerous invited talks on MCM testing, to both specialist and lay       audiences, thereby improving public and professional understanding of the       importance of early cancer detection14.
Due to the impacts of this work, both Laskey and Coleman have received       major scientific awards.
In 2009, Laskey was awarded the Royal Medal of       the Royal Society for `his pivotal contributions to our understanding of       the control of DNA replication and nuclear protein transport, which has       led to a novel screening method for cancer diagnosis'.
In 2010, Coleman       received the Goudie Medal, The Pathological Society of Great Britain and       Ireland, which is awarded `to a distinguished active scientist who is       making seminal contributions to pathological science'.
