     The findings that emerged from Morris' ground-breaking research,       subsequently consolidated by further evidence, constitute significant and       far-reaching impact in two major respects.
Firstly, it has enhanced the       educational and professional achievement of many of the Deaf candidates       who passed through the BSL Certificate in Christian Ministry programme, as       evidenced by testimonials and career paths, and facilitated the greater       visibility and aspirations of a formerly `hard to reach' section of the       churches.
Secondly, it has influenced the organizational cultures and       practices of a major Christian denomination in the UK and an international       ecumenical organization towards greater awareness of the needs of Deaf       people and adoption of principles of best practice in terms of inclusion.
As a member of the Church of England's Committee for Ministry among Deaf       and Disabled People, Morris established a partnership between CMDDP, the       University of Chester and other ecumenical networks of Deaf Christians,       which set out to widen participation for Deaf people in HE.
This       initiative resulted in a 60-credit level one Certificate in Christian       Ministry (http://www.signsofgod.org.uk/data/signsofgod/downloads/course.pdf).
Morris received two grants from the Philosophy and Religious Studies       Subject Centre of the HEA for the development (2004-05) and evaluation       (2005-06) of the programme, publishing the outcomes of the research in Discourse,       the subject centre journal, in 2006.
The main finding of this research was       that an educational programme which met the specific linguistic and       educational needs of Deaf people &#8212; in medium of delivery, deployment of       Deaf tutors and modes of assessment &#8212; could transform the performance of       Deaf candidates.
This programme thus served as an innovative example of       best practice and a model for further patterns of theological training and       ministerial formation.
A typical example of this programme's impact on its students is a       Jersey-based candidate who, having completed the Certificate in 2007, went       on to be the first Deaf person to be licensed as a lay reader in the       Diocese of Winchester in 2012.
As a result of her achievement, a local       Deaf charity, Earsay, created an achievement award in her name to be       presented annually.
She testifies to the confidence-building nature of her       educational experience and its decisive role in providing the foundation       for moving into licensed ministry.
Morris' reputation in the field of theology and disability also led to an       invitation to participate in two international consultations of the World       Council of Churches (WCC) on disability and the churches, in Geneva (2003)       and La Paz, Bolivia (2007).
Aspects of his published work and work in       progress were influential on the reports published subsequently, one of       which (Just and Inclusive Communities) was co-authored with Michael       Blair.
The methodology and scope of this report reflected many of Morris'       emergent concerns, such as the inclusion of illustrative narratives that       highlighted Deaf Christians' lived experiences; the `anatomy of exclusion'       in the churches; and the emphasis on theological anthropology and the imago         Dei as the basis of recognition.
(http://www.oikoumene.org/en/resources/documents/wcc-programmes/unity-mission-evangelism-and-spirituality/just-and-inclusive-communities/la-paz-report-just-and-inclusive-communities)     Morris' research continues to inform consideration of the realities of       practices of discrimination and exclusion of people on the basis of their       identities, social locations and physical conditions, which has been at       the heart of the WCC's work since 2003.
The Consultation on Just and         Inclusive Communities in La Paz, Bolivia in January, 2007 and the       document that came out of it, continue to be significant landmarks, both       for the ways in which these gave expression to Deaf perspectives and for       the creative way they sought to articulate a practical theology of       disability that could be implemented by member churches.
This process has       set the trend for subsequent theological affirmations of those with       disabilities, some of which can be found at http://www.oikoumene.org/en/what-we-do/people-with-disabilities-edan.
The La Paz report continues to be one of the most frequently-accessed WCC       documents.
Throughout the period 2008 to 2013, it has enabled the       programme to approach issues of discrimination and marginalisation as       fundamentally theological, and not simply moral or political, challenges.
Building on stories and experiences of people suffering from and       struggling against marginalisation has been the essential methodological       approach of this theological activity.
The theological work that ensued through these consultations'       considerations of disability is also considered to have been a landmark       towards the establishment of the Ecumenical Disability Advocates' Network       (EDAN) (http://www.oikoumene.org/en/what-we-do/people-with-disabilities-edan), which       last met in June 2013.
A special pre-meeting of EDAN delegates to the 10th       Assembly of the World Council of Churches in Busan, South Korea in       November 2013 is designed to prepare them for effective participation in       the assembly.
It is considered to be: `a living example of rising       awareness on the need for their inclusion, participation and involvement       in the member churches and ecumenical structures' (http://wcc2013.info/en/programme/edan).
