     The last decade has seen a rapid expansion of research in behavioural       economics and related fields.
This has been accompanied by considerable       interest in those findings from potential research users.
While a small       subset of ideas emerging from the programme of behavioural economics has       featured prominently in public debate (e.g.
the use of `nudges' as policy       tools) there has been considerable uncertainty about how the wider body of       research findings can be translated to field application, and how the       findings and methods of behavioural economics can reliably inform       policy.
CeDEx have been actively contributing to developing public       understanding of these issues through various channels of engagement with       non-academic stakeholders.
In what follows we identify five primary forms       of dissemination, engagement and associated impacts.
&#8226; Public events     Members of CeDEx have regularly participated in events designed       to bring the basic science through to potential users in private and       public sector organisations.
For example, Starmer gave lectures on       `Key Insights from Behavioural Economics" at various events including the       2009 meeting of the Financial Services Research Forum and the       January 2011 OFWAT `Breakfast Briefing'.
In that talk, Starmer       drew out the importance of message framing for promoting behaviour change       and in particular CeDEx research results showing the differential       impact of framing incentives as penalties (versus positive inducements).
In March 2011, OFWAT (water services regulatory authority in the       UK) published a report on sustainable water use [A] which draws directly       on ideas discussed at the January meeting: As evidence, the Head of         Ofwat's Supply and Demand Balance, wrote to Starmer noting       how his input had fed into their report and:     "helped to stimulate a productive debate about the role of behavioural       economics in encouraging consumers to use water wisely".
&#8226; Advisory roles     Members of CeDEx also regularly provide advice to government       departments and regulators in the process of commissioning behavioural       research.
For example, drawing on the findings of his research into       experimental methodology reported in [1], Starmer provided advice       to OFCOM (UK's regulator and competition authority for the       communications industries) in the run up to their tendering process       commissioning experimental research to investigate the behavioural       influence (on phone users) of transparency of call pricing [B].
Sefton       has assisted HM Revenue &amp; Customs (HMRC) as an independent       reviewer of commissioned research [C].
&#8226; Training     To promote knowledge transfer around potential applications and sound       design principles, CeDEx has developed and delivered a training       workshop specifically designed to help government departments explore and       understand how experimental methods can be used to address issues of       interest to them.
Starmer (in collaboration with Professor Loomes       &#8212; U. Warwick) delivered this as a two day event hosted by Health and         Safety Executive (HSE) (Liverpool) in 2011 with participants from       various government departments including the HSE and HMRC.
This workshop drew directly on insights gained from their research in       experimental methodology (Loomes collaborated in [1]); and on their       expertise in applications related to individual decision making (theme       (ii) above).
Following this workshop, experimental approaches have been       trialled extensively across various government departments including those       participating in the workshop.
For example, HMRC has successfully       used experimental trials to assess the effect of `social' message framing       in promoting tax recovery (this was reported by members of the Cabinet         Office Behavioural Insight Team at a workshop (Oct. 2012) on use of       experimental methods in government: www.bristol.ac.uk/cmpo/events/2012/policy/;       Starmer was a participant).
For further evidence, see [E] below.
&#8226; Direct commissioned research     Members of the CeDEx team have provided academic leads on       projects for government departments.
For example, Starmer provided       scientific lead to a DEFRA project concerned with how aspects of       risk and time preference (loss aversion and discounting) influence       decisions related to the purchase and use of energy saving products.
Starmer co-authored a report on this subject for DEFRA (see [D]       below]) and has spoken at workshops organised by DEFRA to       disseminate the research.
One motivation for the DEFRA project was       to assess the role of non-standard aspects of preferences (`extreme'       discounting and loss aversion) and in particular whether these factors       explained low uptake of a new generation of high-end efficiency products       (e.g.
A+ and A++ refrigerators).
Based on preference models ([2] above)       the CeDEx team were able to demonstrate that these factors       probably had low impact in the (then current) market place.
The work highlighted other likely important causal mechanisms including       social peer effects highlighted by our research.
These factors had not       been considered as primary issues by DEFRA in commissioning the       research, but these issues were brought to the fore by the work and       feature prominently in the published DEFRA report [D].
In addition       the report contained recommendations on a set of potential interventions       (informed by consideration of our research on the framing of incentives       and the impact of loss aversion (as discussed in Section 2 above)       including: changing product labelling (to promote energy efficient       choices); presentation of cost information (to highlight potential energy       savings).
The work and recommendations are summarised in the DEFRA         report "Behavioural Economics and Energy Using Products" and it is       cited by various other organisations (see for example OFWAT [A]).
A more recent report by DEFRA [I] highlights the importance of       insights from behavioural economics for a wider range of policy issues,       and specifically refers to the earlier work by CeDEx (reported in       D).
&#8226; Contribution to public debate     CeDEx researchers have stimulated and contributed actively to       public debate via non-technical summaries of their work in high profile       general science outlets (e.g.
Science and Nature,       see [F] below) and publications aimed at the business community (see [G]       below for illustrations).
Their work has also featured prominently in       national and international news media (see [H] below for illustrations).
