     &#8226; Changing Policy Towards Over-indebtedness     The underpinning research on household over-indebtedness tested and       developed measures of over-indebtedness and analysed the causes of       over-indebtedness.
This research was exploited and applied when Bridges,       Disney and Gathergood were commissioned by BIS to       undertake a research project into the measurement and determinants of       over-indebtedness.
This project was commissioned to fulfil the       Department's statutory responsibility to measure over-indebtedness and,       subsequently, in research to calibrate the FSA money advice levy       on the consumer credit sector to fund money advice.
The resulting report [A] was published by BIS in September 2008       as the first over-indebtedness monitoring report in a series published by       the Department.
The main types of impacts of this work are in the form of       subjecting public policy to scrutiny leading to policy improvements.
This       report scrutinised the existing definitions of `over-indebted' and       analysed the causes of household over- indebtedness at the individual       level.
It demonstrated that many of the existing working definitions of       over-indebtedness utilised by government agencies tended to overstate the       true proportion of individuals facing critical debt pressures.
As a consequence of this research, the definition of over-indebtedness       utilised by BIS to target policy initiatives was revised in line       with the report's recommendations (see [D]).
This revised definition has       been used by the Money Advice Service (MAS) (the new governmental       body with responsibility for over-indebtedness policy from 2012) in its       work to calibrate a new money advice levy on financial services (detailed       in [D]).
The calibration of the levy involves a calculation of the total       value of debt held by over-indebted consumers which in turn is used to       calculate the required level of funding for free-to-client money advice       agencies, paid for by a levy on providers of credit (weighted by their       share in total over-indebtedness).
Hence the definition of       over-indebtedness provided by the research for BIS is a key       element the calculation of this levy.
Following this, Disney and Gathergood were commissioned       to undertake a second study into the potential for using individual-level       data held by the consumer counselling sector as an alternative and       potentially higher quality data source to better understand the causes of       over-indebtedness at the individual level.
This project led to a second       published report by BIS [B] in July 2009.
Impacts resulting from       this activity have centred upon formulating policy and professional       practice.
This research contributed to the Department's decision to fund a       new client database at Citizen's Advice and also to report trends       in money advice client volumes and characteristics to the Bank of         England.
More generally, findings from [1] were drawn upon by the Bank         of England in its understanding of the cause of consumer       indebtedness [E] and disseminated to parliament via the quarterly ESRC         Parliamentary Briefing series [F].
Confirmation and details of the       impact can be provided by contacting [K].
&#8226; Shaping Policy Through Expert Testimony     Gathergood was nominated by BIS to testify as an expert       witness before the House of Commons Business Select Committee in       November 2011.
Gathergood testified as an expert academic       economist alongside an expert academic lawyer, representatives from the       consumer credit industry and representatives from the money advice sector.
He also provided written evidence to the Committee and at the request of       the Committee produced a short statistical supplement to aid its       understanding of recent developments in consumer credit and debt in the UK.
He communicated findings from this body of research, including those in       [5] and [6] as well as those from [A] and [B].
The principal impact of       this activity was the influencing and shaping of public policy.
Gathergood's       testimony was drawn upon directly by the Committee in their subsequent Report         to Government [G], for example, at paragraphs 36, 37 on `payday       lending' and at 108, 109 on personal insolvency.
The government's response       to the Committee's Report [H] set out a series of recommended       actions, including specific undertakings on these two issues emphasised by       Gathergood in his testimony.
&#8226; Advising and Influencing the Third Sector     In a series of research reports commissioned by the Money Advice         Trust (MAT) [C] Gathergood used individual level micro-data       from YouGov surveys together with data on money advice clients (as in that       used in [B]) to analyse trends in financial stress and money advice       seeking behaviour among over-indebted consumers.
This research applied the       methods and measures developed in [1] and [5].
The reports were       disseminated across the money advice sector.
Gathergood has spoken       and continues to speak regularly at the MAT's Partnership Board         meetings, which include attendees from across the free-to-client       money advice sector as well as representatives from high street banks,       utility companies and local authorities who share a common interest in       money advice and individual management of credit and debt.
The Chief         Executive of MAT writes:     "We have found this research absolutely invaluable, both as a charity         for our own planning of service delivery (and in sharing it with other         charities such as Citizens Advice, Stepchange and the relevant Scottish         and Northern Ireland agencies for similar purposes) and also in working         with the key Government departments and regulators who I know have also         found it extremely useful".
[J]     &#8226; Shaping Monetary Policy Formation     The underpinning research on housing wealth and consumption identified       the causal links by which house price movements impact upon household       indebtedness and consumption and discriminated between channels which are       not empirically relevant (housing wealth effects) and those which are       significant (collateral effects).
The principal impact of this research       was its influence on the Bank of England's understanding of the       collateral role for housing-consumption effects in its Quarterly Model.
Gathergood served a 3-month secondment with the Bank of England       in 2008 to directly share and apply the findings of this work with Bank       economists and to inform monetary policy strategy.
During his internship       he applied the research findings of his postdoctoral research ([3], [4])       and contributed to a body of work with economists at the Bank (principally       [L]) which showed that the component of the Quarterly Model which       parameterised housing collateral effects included a key coefficient which       was too strong.
This was subsequently amended during his internship.
Gathergood authored a Monetary Policy Note on housing equity withdrawal       which contributed to the Bank's knowledge base.
&#8226; Other Impacts     This work was also featured in the Financial Times ([I]), which       included extensive coverage of the key findings from [3].
The findings of       this research strand were also disseminated via [F], which profiled the       work of ExCEM and featured three of the Centre's research       projects.
Disney also advised the European Central Bank on       the construction of the new EU-wide Household Finance and       Consumption Panel survey and serves of the panel's scientific committee       from mid-2013.
