     This research has had an impact in two main areas of practice.
First, it       has been used to justify a greater emphasis on skills for reading       comprehension in the recent revisions of the National Curriculum, English       [See Section 5, C2, C3].
These revisions were inspired by the Independent         Review of the Teaching of Early Reading [C1], a       government-commissioned independent review of the early teaching of       reading in which Oakhill's research findings were cited.
This review       emphasised the importance of teaching not only word-reading and phonics       but also the particular skills needed for teachers to foster comprehension       from the early stages of reading development.
The Independent Review       made a substantial number of references to Oakhill's research findings on       children's reading-comprehension development and problems (6 citations of       journal articles) and the recommendations of the review fed into the       subsequent revision of the 2008 National Curriculum [C2].
Both that       version, and the most recent &#8212; September 2013 &#8212; revision [C3], focused       heavily on the findings of this research to make recommendations in the       `Programme of Study' (PoS) about the specific skills children need to be       taught in order for them to develop good reading comprehension.
Throughout       the PoS, there are many references to the need to foster inference skills,       text-structure understanding and the monitoring of comprehension.
Oakhill       was formally involved as a consultant to the National Curriculum (Primary       English) team at the Department for Education in London, and also attended       a meeting with Elizabeth Truss, Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State       with responsibility for Education and Childcare in the Department for       Education.
Second, the research very directly underpins two recent training       programmes designed to foster and improve reading-comprehension skills in       primary school children.
Oakhill's research is fundamental to these two       programmes: Inference Training [see Section 3, R9] and Programa         LEE Comprensivamente &#8212; a training manual and teaching book devised       and written by a group of Argentinian educational psychologists [R10].
The       former builds on the work on inference-making in particular.
There are       currently about 40 accredited trainers, and the programme is in use in       about 500 schools, though the usage is expected to rise substantially as       demand is very high.
The programme is used nationwide.
The latter       programme teaches the three skills mentioned above, which have been shown       in Oakhill's research to be fundamental to reading comprehension in young       children.
About 550 teachers and other educational professionals have been       trained in the use of the LEE Comprensivamente programme and it is       estimated that about 2,200 children have used the programme since its       inception in 2011.
It is mainly used in Argentina, but usage is spreading       across the Spanish-speaking countries in South America; it is currently in       use in Uruguay and there is interest in using it nationwide in Chile.
Currently, translation and publication rights are being negotiated in       Brazil.
The impact of this work has recently been recognised by a peer-review       panel of the British Psychological Society (Chair, Prof. Daryl O'Connor)       [C8].
