     The NHS Cancer Plan [see Section 5, C1] noted that     ...some patients say they receive excellent care, with sensitive and       thoughtful communication, clear information about their disease and its       treatment, and good support when it is needed.
Others report being given       bad news in a deeply insensitive way, being left in the dark about their       condition and badly informed about their treatment and care.
The Plan proposed that all hospital consultants working in cancer would       have to demonstrate competence in communication with patients and that       advanced communication-skills training would form part of their continuing       professional development.
This was subsequently reinforced by NICE       guidelines which proposed that accredited training courses should be made       available for all health professionals working with cancer patients [C2].
On the strength of the RCT validating Fallowfield's training course [see       Section 3, R2, R3], many of the teaching components designed by       Fallowfield became incorporated into Connected [C3], a national       communication-skills training course for cancer clinicians that was       launched in 2008.
The scheme uses a cascade model in which       communication-skills facilitators are initially trained at Cancer Network       level to deliver the Connected workshops to HCPs [C4].
Completion       of this training package and the associated workshops has been mandatory       for all clinicians working with cancer patients from 2008-2013.
Over that       period more than 16,600 health professionals from 48 Cancer Networks in       the UK have participated [C5].
Essential elements of the three-day       workshops are that they are learner-centred and involve role-play with       trained actors (patient simulators) taking the role of patients and       carers.
Participants are also provided with feedback on their performance.
Course evaluation data indicated that 95 per cent of attendees said the       course met their training needs and 84 per cent said they would definitely       recommend the course to a colleague [C5].
Fallowfield is acknowledged as       one of the authors of the Participant Handbook that accompanies       the workshops, and her work is extensively referenced in the Appendices on       supporting evidence and further reading [C4].
As a result of the international recognition of Fallowfield's work,       similar training programmes are being implemented in Europe and elsewhere.
For example, in Switzerland, communication-skills training for medical       oncologists was made compulsory in 2006, in large part because of the       findings described in R2 above [C7].
In Australia, a large programme of       communication-skills training has been implemented, involving many       hundreds of health-care professionals.
Fallowfield was directly involved       in initial training, again as a result of her international research       profile in the area and her publications [R1, R2, R3, R4), demonstrating       the benefit of such programmes to both patients and health-care       professionals [C8].
