     As summarised above, this research has had impact in two areas.
The policing of crowds     This research has generated new public-order practices by police forces       in the UK and across Europe,       designed to reduce conflict between the police and crowds, by leading       crowd members themselves to       self-police.
The impact is evident across a range of UK, European and       international institutions.
Context of the impact     Crowd disorder is a significant social problem costing millions in       resources and man-hours.
There is also       the human cost to many in terms of injury and imprisonment.
Previous       `solutions' have only magnified the       problem (e.g.
the use of further police coercion) or infringed human       rights (e.g.
travel bans for football       fans).
The ESIM (Reicher, Stott and Drury) specifies the police practices       and psychological factors that       explain the initiation and escalation of collective violence between       crowds and the police.
Extrapolation       from the model has generated specific recommendations for police practices       that, instead, minimise that       collective conflict.
These recommendations have been taken up by police       forces in the UK and Europe,       first in relation to football crowds, and now in relation to public order       more generally.
Specific changes implemented     In the UK, the 2009 official report by Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of       Constabulary, Adapting to Protest       [see Section 5, C1], recommended rejection of the disproportionate and       indiscriminate use of force in       public-order policing (in particular the automatic use of dispersal via       baton charges) and advised, instead,       the increased use of, and training in, facilitation and communication.
The       basis for this new policy was the       research on crowd conflict dynamics by Reicher, Stott and Drury [C2], who       are each mentioned by name       in the report.
The ESIM is therefore now the basis for the current       programme of reform of police public       order methods [Section 4, i].
Thus principles of public-order policing       based on the ESIM are enshrined in       the key official public-order guidance manual, Keeping the Peace       [C3] produced jointly by the National       Police Improvement Agency, the Association of Chief Police Officers and       the Association of Chief Police       Officers in Scotland.
This manual explicitly recommends ESIM principles,       and cites Reicher et al.
These       principles are: to understand the social identity of the crowd; to       facilitate crowd aims; to communicate with       crowd members; and to differentiate between crowd members, rather than       treat them indiscriminately.
A       summary of the ESIM is now included in official training materials as part       of the College of Policing       National Public Order Training Curriculum [C4], which delivers a module on       `Crowd Psychology' [C5] to       all public-order commanders and command trainers nationally.
The       public-order policing model based on       the ESIM has also been adopted by the National Police in Denmark as their       framework for policing       football there since 2008 [C6].
In addition, there was further       international impact through the European       Council Resolution of 3 June 2010 on measures to prevent and control       violence and disturbances, and       disturbances in connection with football matches [C7].
The guidance in the       Resolution cites the `key       principles' of facilitation, communication and differentiation (Appendix       1, C p. 165/16), wording and       concepts transposed directly from the work by Drury and his colleagues       [ii].
Process through which the research led to impacts     For the 2004 European Football Championships, held in Portugal, Drury's       colleague Dr Clifford Stott was       asked by the Portuguese police to design an intervention for the policing       of the crowds based on ESIM       principles.
Based on the reduction in arrests and `riots', this       intervention was judged a success [iii];       following this, in April 2005, two proposals based on the ESIM were       accepted by the Police Cooperation       Working Party of the Council of the European Union [iv].
These proposals       were the basis of the European       Council Resolution of 2010 detailed above.
In addition, in 2007, Reicher,       Stott, Drury and others       published a key knowledge-transfer paper summarising the ESIM research and       drawing out the public-       order policing implications [ii].
The paper was written for a police       audience, and enabled the translation of       their findings into police practices, as codified in the national guidance       [C1, C3-C5].
Psychosocial care for people affected by emergencies     Drury's research on emergent social identity in crowds has informed new       guidance from NATO and the       Department of Health on the role of psychosocial resilience in emergency       response.
Context of the impact     Historically, those professionally involved in emergency preparedness       have been concerned that crowds       might panic or respond in a helpless manner.
This assumption has been the       basis of previous       paternalistic `command and control' policies.
In the face of many modern       hazards, such top-down polices       are becoming increasingly recognised as impractical.
In line with this       need for community resilience,       Drury's research shows that crowds of people have the psychological       capacity to help themselves in       emergencies, often without expert intervention.
Specific changes implemented     Drury's is one of the studies that underpins the recent NATO (2009)       guidance on psychosocial care for       people in emergencies and disasters [C8].
Thus the guidance       cites Drury's 7 July London bombs study       [v] in three places.
The evidence from the study &#8212; that social, and even       helpful behaviour, rather than       mass panic, is usually evident in mass emergencies (p.33), and that people       may rapidly form bonds with       strangers (p.36) &#8212; is therefore part of the rationale for the NATO Stepped       Model of Care which builds on       survivors' psychosocial capacities rather than assuming them to be ill or       helpless.
The guidance therefore       recommends practical support, not psychiatric care, for most people       affected by emergencies.
In line with       this, the guidance adopts the terminology proposed in Drury's ESRC       research by referring to `collective       resilience' (p.126).
The key principles of the NATO guidance are included       in the Department of Health       Emergency Preparedness Division's (2009) document NHS Emergency         Planning Guidance [C9].
This       again refers to Drury's London bombs research [v] and, in addition, cites       Drury's (social identity) definition       of collective resilience (p.22); the wording is taken from a paper       summarising Drury's London bombs       study [vi].
The key principles of the NATO guidance, including Drury's       concept of collective resilience, are       also reproduced in another Department of Health/NHS guidance document on       pandemics, produced for       staff [C10] and in a Department of Health training module [C11];       each references Drury [vi].
Process through which the research led to impacts     In 2007, Drury produced an end-user report on his ESRC grant [v], in       which his research findings were       made free and accessible, and which he distributed to over 35       organisations concerned with emergency       response and preparedness.
As part of the same dissemination process, he       gave a number of       presentations to end-users, including an invited paper at the annual       conference of the Joint Royal       Colleges Ambulance Liaison Committee.
The Department of Health Emergency       Preparedness Division       team made contact with him through that conference and then met to discuss       with him how his work       could contribute to the NATO guidance.
References     [i] Hoggett, J. and Stott, C. (2012) `Post G20: the challenge of change.
Implementing evidence-based       public order policing', Journal of Investigative Psychology and         Offender Profiling, 9(2): 174-183.
[ii] Reicher, S., Stott, C., Drury, J., Adang, O., Cronin, P. and       Livingstone, A.
(2007) `Knowledge-based       public order policing: principles and practice', Policing: Journal of         Policy and Practice, 1(4): 403-415.
[iii] Stott, C., Adang, O., Livingstone, A. and Schreiber, M. (2007)       `Variability in the collective behaviour       of England fans at Euro2004: "hooliganism", public order policing and       social change', European       Journal of Social Psychology, 37(1): 75-100.
[iv] European Union Handbook on International Police Cooperation and         Measures to Prevent and         Control Violence and Disturbances in Connection with Football Matches         with an International         Dimension (Proposal 8241/05 ENFOPOL 40, concerning dynamic risk       assessment in the context of       international football matches; and Proposal 8243/05 ENFOPOL 41,       concerning police tactical       performance for public order management) [C].
[v] Drury, J. and Cocking, C. (2007) The Mass Psychology of Disasters         and Emergency Evacuations: A         Research Report and Implications for Practice.
Brighton: University       of Sussex.
[vi] Williams, R. and Drury, J.
(2009) `Psychosocial resilience and its       influence on managing mass       emergencies and disasters', Psychiatry, 8(8): 293-296.
