     Morris' recommendations on family participation in case reviews have         been included in the latest version of the UK Government's Working           Together to Safeguard Children guidance       (A).
This is the core child protection document for all professionals       (social care, health, police, etc.)
in England whose work brings them into       contact with children.
It includes a new section (pp.
66-67) on the       management of case reviews which directly reflect Morris's research-based       recommendations.
Morris's research report was published by the British       Association for the Study and Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect       (BASPCAN) and distributed to its 1000+ members and all local authority and       central government policy leads (1, above).
In its forward the Chair of       BASPCAN noted that the research had "challenged the status quo and the         final recommendations are a powerful force for change and improvement".
Since the production of early findings and the publication of her report,       Morris has been invited to share her findings with senior policy makers       and expert practitioners at a House of Lords consultative seminar hosted       by the Earl of Listowel (6-12-12); a Department of Health seminar       (15-5-13) and a Capita Conference (23-9-13) (B); and at similar events in       Edinburgh, Scotland (29-11-12) and Belfast, Northern Ireland (19-12-12).
Both         the Scottish and Irish Governments are now following England's lead and         incorporating Morris's recommendations into their national policy         guidelines on child protection and there is evidence of Morris's       report being used in these countries (C).
As well as influencing policy, the guidelines are permeating practice; a       Local Safeguarding Children Board (LSCB) Manager's review of the guidance       states:     "One of the greatest challenges for LSCBs is how we engage families         both effectively and sensitively in the Serious Case Review process.
This thought provoking research provides for the first time an insight         to what the process is like from the perspective of the family and from         this develops practice guidance that will be a become an invaluable         resource."
(D)     Drawing on her research, Clawson wrote the multi-agency guidelines on         forced marriage of people with learning disabilities for the         Government's Forced Marriage Unit (FMU) (E), which are claimed to be       "extremely useful in tackling...cases" by the Association of       Directors of Adult Social Services and the FMU (F).
The guidelines are       being used to inform policy and practice and have been circulated by the       FMU to statutory and voluntary sector social care organisations, schools,       colleges and criminal justice professionals &#8212; including the police and       health services.
They are available on Safeguarding Board websites, e.g.
(G).
The guidelines are influencing the courts.
In a Court of Protection case,       Justice Parker drew on the guidelines and, in her summing up, recommended       that "these guidelines should be widely disseminated" (H).
The       research continues to influence legislation as evidenced by the recent       invitation by Rt.
Hon., Elizabeth Butler-Sloss for Clawson and the Ann       Craft Trust speak at the National Commission on Forced Marriage in the       House of Lords on 31 October 2013.
A training pack was developed and piloted by Clawson and the Ann Craft       Trust in 2011: fifty frontline safeguarding practitioners from across the       UK were trained and these resources are now used for training by Adult and       Child Safeguarding Boards (I).
Clawson also identified the need for, and       now Chairs, a National Steering Group on Forced Marriage and Learning       Disability whose members include representatives from FMU and statutory       and voluntary agencies and visiting attendees such as The Canadian High       Commission.
This Steering Group ensures the ongoing recognition of this       issue.
As Chair, Clawson reports directly to the FMU National Partnership       Board, which is fundamental to the development of policy and legislation.
Clawson is frequently approached as an expert in this field to raise       awareness of key issues.
Media appearances include: national newspapers       (The Times, 16-7-12; The Guardian 1-8-12); reports on local radio (BBC       Nottingham; BBC Derby; BBC Northampton; BBC Leicester), national radio       (BBC radio 4 `Face the Facts' 1-8-12; BBC Asian Network 3-8-12) and       international radio (BBC World Service 15-8-11); UK television (ITV       London, 7-6-13).
In 2012, the FMU awarded Clawson and the Ann Craft Trust &#163;5,500 for a       follow-on study to explore how the national guidelines have impacted upon       frontline practice.
This work is ongoing.
Recommendations from Fyson's work on Learning Disability Partnership         Boards directly informed the 2009 Valuing People Now       White Paper (Cm 5086) (J).
Her work was part of the Department of       Health learning disability policy review and is referenced in the White       Paper (pp.116-7).
Moreover, in line with a key recommendation, the       Government issued guidance on Partnership Boards to the 152 local       authorities and health trusts in October 2009 (K).
The content of the       guidance closely reflected four of the five recommendations made by Fyson.
Reaching out directly to local policy makers, Fyson's research findings       have been made publicly available via various websites including Mencap's       website (L) and the NHS library.
Hard copies of the research report &#8212; in       both standard/full and accessible/`easy words and pictures' format &#8212; were       distributed to all 150 Learning Disability Partnership Boards in England.
The guidelines are influencing practice within local authorities -       numerous local authorities have reproduced either Fyson's original report       (2008) or the Government's (2009) White Paper and the guidelines on their       websites (e.g.
M).
There is also publicly available evidence (N) that       Partnership Boards have responded positively to this guidance and are now       producing robust information about their achievements and strategic goals.
