     The impact of Singer's work on Johnston Press, one of the UK's leading       media conglomerates, is confirmed by [text removed for publication]       Development and [text removed for publication].
That impact is best       appreciated on two levels: that relating to specific local titles and that       relating to the group as a whole, including its strategic objectives.
[text removed for publication] confirms that because Singer worked across         the entire Johnston Press group she was able to help editors in       different regions share knowledge more easily and gain insights from what       was happening in the rest of the world.
Singer's research was translated into formats that the industry could       engage with via a number of different routes, which included presentations       to company executives, editors and journalists.
These included, for       example: "Barbarians at the Gates?
Journalism in a Shared Space," Invited       speaker, Johnston Press Daily Editors Forum, Leeds, UK, January 2009;       "Managing Change, " Invited presenter, Johnston Press digital editors       (regional groups), Preston, May 2008; and "User- Generated Content,"       Invited presenter, Johnston Press digital editors (regional groups)       Chesterfield, February 2008; Preston, December 2007; Edinburgh, November       2007.
At the overall company level, according to [text removed for publication]       her work had a considerable impact on every level of the       organisation's efforts to re-orientate itself towards the needs of a       digital news production environment.
He observed that,     "Her research work gave us invaluable insights into the changing digital       world, the need for and route towards multi-platform content gathering,       production and dissemination."
Her direct, specific role in enabling the senior management to realise       and understand the need for and route towards multi-platform content       gathering, etc.
is an example of a specific, crucial impact right at the       top of one of the UK's leading media conglomerates.
He continued,     "As a result we were able to equip our journalists with the skills       necessary to meet the above challenges in areas of website preparation,       content gathering, social media and crowd-sourcing (this is yet more         specific evidence of crucial impact across the group from a key senior         manager).
Jane also spent time in our newsrooms observing and interviewing our       journalists to help us to identify issues and areas of improvement in the       multi-platform sphere.
We also used the material she researched and produced as valuable       learning documents - for our senior managers to develop strategy; our       editors to understand the changing marketplaces we were operating in; our       trainers to develop learning programmes; and our journalists to develop       their newsroom skills."
(This is again very specific evidence of         crucial impact across the group from a key senior manager.)
This is by any standards an impressive list of crucial impacts on a major       player in the UK news media.
In short, the significance of Singer's work       was that it provided the company with vital skills and understanding       relating to the needs of digital transformation at every level of its         operations.
Very specific examples have been given above.
[text removed for publication].
In addition, the two detailed testimonies from       company managers provided above make it clear that the impact was       considerable and they have furnished specific examples of crucial impacts.
As far as the reach of the impact that her research-based advice       has occasioned, the various testimonies clearly establish that it       stretches through every level of the company's work and operations       and continues to affect the way that Johnston Press is practising       journalism within a digital environment down to the present.
Fuller       versions of these testimonies are available if required and the managers       who provided them will also confirm directly the significance of the       impact.
The work that she started is being continued through the School's Media       Innovation Studio and the work of Francois Nel.
The former currently is       working with Johnston Press as part of the studio's involvement in the       development of interactive newsprint and Nel has been actively researching       and publishing on the topic of the key predicaments of newspaper groups       such as Johnston Press within the digital environment.
At the invitation       of groups such as Trinity Mirror, Nel has been passing on the insights       gained from his research (he has also worked with Singer in the past)       directly to key editors in the industry's continuing attempts to find       profitable and sustainable ways to do business across the range of       platforms now available.
