     Since its founding in 2002, Zinwave has had increasing commercial success       [text removed for       publication].
The company's annual revenue has grown by a factor of 10       [text removed for       publication] despite difficult market conditions [a].
Professor Seeds was       a Zinwave Director from its       founding until 2005, and together with Professors Penty and White served       on the Technical       Advisory Board until 2011 [b].
Zinwave Ltd has introduced wideband distributed antenna systems to the       global marketplace, with       systems deployed in Europe, the USA, the Middle East, Australia and China.
The Zinwave 3000       System, which includes options increasing the flexibility of deployments,       was released in 2008.
Its       unique selling point, namely wideband radio-over-fibre distribution of       radio signals over a DAS       network, uses the underpinning research carried out in the FRIDAY and       subsequent RAIS projects.
The Zinwave DAS is a three-stage system for in-building cellular and       wireless services, constituting       a primary hub, secondary hubs, and remote units.
It uses multimode or       single-mode fibre cable for       connectivity.
The technology features true wideband capabilities allowing       simultaneous support for       any wireless standard including 2G, 3G, 4G, LTE, PMR/LMR, DVB-H, TETRA,       Wi-Fi, WiMAX and       RFID.
Full management control over this spectrum allows new services to be       added on-demand       without deploying additional system components.
The technology can be       configured in a single,       dual star or mixed architecture to meet exact service needs.
The advantage       to the customer is that       a single distribution system can distribute multiple wireless services       operating with different       protocols and at different frequencies.
For example, a single system may       carry private VHF radio,       public safety radio, such as TETRA, 2G cellular services at 900 MHz and       1,800 MHz and 3G       services at 2,100 GHz from multiple operators.
The conventional approach       would require the       installation of dedicated narrowband equipment for each and every       different wireless standard,       which is less flexible, more expensive and more complex to maintain.
As of mid-2013, the company has grown to some 25 employees, with its       headquarters in       Cambridgeshire, and offices and representation in the US, Middle East and       Far East.
Its systems       provide wideband wireless coverage in shopping malls, auditoria, office       buildings, casinos,       convention centres, hospitals and airports, in the US, Europe, the Middle       East and the Asia-Pacific       region, including the Queen Alia international airport in Jordan, Erasmus       MC and Martini Hospitals       (Rotterdam and Groningen, Netherlands); a Garmin data centre in New       Jersey; the 9/11 Memorial       Museum in New York City; Jakarta International Airport; the Perry nuclear       power plant outside       Cleveland, Ohio; and the Westfield retail complex in Melbourne.
The company has established partnerships with more than 40 specialist       in-building system       integrators, extending its reach into both commercial and public safety       markets.
Testimonies from       these partners attest to the cost-effectiveness, ease of use and       flexibility of the Zinwave DAS for its       customers:     The adoption of Zinwave technology has helped ensure public safety in       stadiums at the UEFA       Euro 2012 tournament.
Zinwave's Ukrainian partner, Dolya &amp; Co, said:       "The Zinwave system       offered great flexibility and was easy to install.
Its simple architecture       and its multi-frequency       support enabled us to integrate UEFA's two-way radio system onto the       overall DAS without       affecting performance or signal output.
During the opening ceremony it       became apparent that our       installation was the only one that provided reliable coverage underground.
Zinwave's DAS       therefore played an important role during the tournament &#8212; acting as the       `lifebuoy' for all critical       radio and public safety communications" [c].
In 2010, Obelisk, a systems integrator, installed a Zinwave DAS at the       Convention Centre Dublin.
Obelisk said: "When deploying cellular coverage across multiple operator       networks and multiple       services, including O2, Vodafone and Meteor, throughout the conference       centre across the full       service mix, being able to simply plug them in without worrying about       service-specific hardware is a       major advantage.
Zinwave's system has provided us with the most       cost-effective solution while the       intelligence and flexibility of the architecture simplified deployment of       cellular sectorisation.
Thanks       to Zinwave's innovative, future-proof DAS, we can add any future service       at any frequency that       may become available, with the ability to easily expand to meet future       needs" [d].
ROOTS Communications installed a system at the Esplanade in Singapore,       one of the busiest       performing arts centres in the world.
One of their directors said of the       2013 project: "Flexibility,       scalability and easy deployment are key to all our installations and       Zinwave's DAS offers all of this.
In addition, its ability to support all existing services as well as new       ones on the same hardware       layer makes it compelling to our customers because it eliminates the need       for expensive rebuilds       or upgrades."
[e]     Zinwave's systems can also provide coverage for the complex wireless       needs of hospitals.
Radio       Access BV (Netherlands), which installed the system in the Netherlands'       largest hospital complex       in 2012, stated: "We have deployed Zinwave's DAS in numerous projects       because it essentially       allows us to provide our customers with a "wireless highway" from which       they can run multiple       services, irrespective of the frequency, over a single platform.
It is       unique in its ability to support all       cellular frequencies, such as GSM and UMTS, as well as closed networks,       over a single hardware       layer making it completely future-proof" [f].
The same company also said:       "More and more of our       customers are asking us for a wideband solution without installing thick       coaxial cables in their       building... We feel that by providing our customers with this cutting-edge       technology, we are       providing the very best solution for in-building wireless coverage" [g].
In 2012, the largest wireless operator in the USA, Verizon Wireless,       selected Zinwave to support       the rollout of the new 4G mobile network in the USA.
This is a significant       achievement for a       company of Zinwave's size and maturity, because large operators, such as       Verizon, tend to be       conservative and choose to buy from well-established large equipment       suppliers.
The speed with       which Zinwave has attained formal supplier status is also impressive.
This       is related to Zinwave       having a unique product and meeting all the requirements for quality,       service and support.
TriPower, a systems integrator for Verizon, set up Zinwave DAS in Denver's       21,000-seat Pepsi       Center Arena in 2013.
The President of TriPower said: "The joint effort       between TriPower as the       deployment partner and Zinwave's 3000 DAS system allows us to deliver an       optimum wireless       solution for high-demand coverage...
In addition to ensuring calls are       successfully connected, the       DAS will allow smart phones, tablets and other mobile devices to access       the Internet, send text       messages and quickly share photos and videos to social networking sites,       enabling visitors of the       arena to have a great network experience" [h].
Commentators have identified Zinwave as a company on a high-growth       trajectory: ABI Research       named Zinwave in 2012 as "part of the next generation of DAS vendors and       one of the companies       to watch out for as the DAS market evolves" [i]; and the Red Herring       Europe 100 Awards placed       Zinwave among the finalists in April 2013 in its listing that "analyses       and selects the top private       companies in the European region ... positioned to grow at an explosive       rate" [j].
