     Stirling Castle Palace is an outstanding example of Scottish Renaissance       architecture and is       Britain's most structurally complete Renaissance royal palace.
Built by       James V, the palace sits       within the walls of the 12th-century Stirling Castle, and due       to the occupation and use of the site as       a British army barracks and recruiting depot (from 1800-1964), it was an       empty shell.
The research       carried out by Rush at the University of Glasgow has been has been used to       transform how       material culture is displayed and interpreted &#8212; enabling six key       apartments in the Palace to be       furnished and decorated as they would have been when the palace was first       constructed (c.1538),       and directing the replication of the Stirling Heads, a series of carved       oak roundels which were       installed in the ceiling of King's Chamber.
The restored palace opened in       June 2011.
Transforming academic and curatorial understanding of how the Palace         looked and         functioned       Research undertaken at University of Glasgow now allows visitors to       progress through rooms       furnished and decorated as they might have been when the palace was first       constructed, with       historically accurate reproductions created by local craftspeople and       artists.
As the reconstruction       is based upon Rush's study of the royal inventories and accounts supported       by contextual       research, interpreters are able to explain the provenance, design,       material quality, and use of the       items seen.
Each of the interpreters, who wear historically accurate       costumes devised by the       University of Glasgow team, represents someone identified as a member of       the royal household or       court and can add a `human story' to visitors' visual experience.
A       children's gallery, the Castle       Vaults, describes and illustrates how luxury textiles, rare dyes and       pigments, precious metals and       early musical instruments were made.
Scotland's most remarkable Renaissance treasure, the Stirling Heads, were       originally mounted on       several ceilings in the palace but have been in store since the removal of       the Palace ceilings in       1777.
Although it was always assumed that this collection of oak-carved       panels included portraits       of Scottish kings and queens and members of the Stewart court, their       individual identities and       groupings were unclear prior to the research carried out by Rush.
Replicas       of the 33 surviving       heads, painted as it is thought they would have been at the time they were       carved, are now       mounted on a new ceiling in the palace, while the originals are displayed       in a new purpose-built       gallery on the first floor (pictured).
Rush's identification and interpretation       of each head was essential to       understanding the stories of these long       ago inhabitants of the palace, which are       used to enhance the visitor experience.
In the Stirling Heads gallery visitors can       now meet Scottish kings and queens       and members of the Scottish court face-to-face       and reflect upon their lives,       values and ambitions; study historic       fashions from different European       countries; while the presence of foreign       princes tells of the power games at play       across 16th century Europe.
The achievements of James V shown in the display of sculpture on the       outside of the palace were       previously incomprehensible to visitors.
Following Rush's work in       interpreting the sculpture and her       recommendations to Historic Scotland, a section of the Stirling Heads       gallery has been allocated to       explaining what some of the figures represent, encouraging visitors to       spend time looking at the       outside of the building and learning about Renaissance imagery.
Enhancing popular understanding of life at the royal court       Following the opening of the palace by Her Majesty the Queen in July 2011,       Historic Scotland       gathered evidence of the quality of the visitor experience and increased       visitor numbers, including       data from over 200 different types of interviews (such as international       and UK visitors, educators       on school visits).
In its annual         report for 2011-12, Historic Scotland noted a `significant increase'       of       almost 70,000 visitors over the previous year, and a rise of almost &#163;1       million in revenue for Stirling       Castle.
Of the Scottish visitors surveyed in the first year since the       restoration, 39% came in order       to see the refurbished palace and almost one third indicated that they       were likely to visit again       within the next year.
The survey concludes that `The refurbishments are a       hook and add to the       overall positive views'.
On 30 August 2012, Stirling Castle was named the UK's top heritage       attraction in a Which?
magazine poll, surpassing the Tower of London and Houses of Parliament.
In       July 2013, the       Lonely         Planet included Stirling Castle in its top 40 `amazing experiences'       in a 40th anniversary       publication rating unmissable destinations in Europe.
Senior staff from       English Heritage visited       Stirling Castle in June 2013 to view the palace restoration firsthand, to       inform similar projects       elsewhere.
Head Properties Curator for English Heritage stated:     My take on the wider function of the gallery... is that by highlighting       the research that has been       carried out on this element, in reproducing and commenting on the various       sources from       contemporary publications, the gallery serves an incredibly important       purpose in asserting to       visitors that the whole re-presentation scheme that they have seen in the       royal apartments is       authoritative.
The presence at one end of the film about the external       sculpture and the       decorative finishes seems to me to amplify the messages that in its       presentation of this site       Historic Scotland knows what it's talking about, and the underlying       historical point is that the       culture of the Stewart court in the early 16th century was       cosmopolitan and significant on an       international scale.
