     The research established Fenn, Rickman and Gray as being best placed to       advise various government departments on policy issues arising from the       costs of civil litigation, the need to control these, and the implications       for behaviour.
Their early work on clinical negligence claims data       directly led to a request from the Chief Medical Officer for a project       which attempted to assess the costs of various policy reform options which       ultimately appeared in his 2003 report, Making Amends [B].
Research       presented in the report, and subsequently in [3] provided evidence that       the option to pursue a Swedish-style no-fault scheme for medical injuries       would be extremely costly for the UK (&#163;2.1bn), and this option was not       pursued further.
Although the ongoing financial consequences of this       option, if it had been pursued, are difficult to determine, the equivalent       cost of the current fault system to the NHS at the time of the estimate       was &#163;327m [3], suggesting a significant cost saving to the current day.
Moving to the broader personal injury litigation context, in the       aftermath of the Access to Justice Act 1999 there was a standoff in the       civil courts between liability insurers and claimant solicitors over the       level of legal costs incurred in no-win no-fee arrangements (the "cost       wars" [see C]).
Fenn and Rickman's research [2] on the cost and duration       of motor insurance claims led to an approach in 2001 by the then Chief       Executive of the Civil Justice Council to assist with their attempt to       mediate between the two sides of the industry.
This ultimately led to the       implementation of the Fixed Recoverable Costs Scheme (FRCS) in 2003 that       utilised a formula devised by Fenn and Rickman to control the legal costs       of low value motor claims.
Fenn and Rickman were subsequently asked to       formally evaluate the scheme (see [4]).
The FRCS formula continued to be       used to determine recoverable costs for some 500,000 motor claims       involving personal injury each year up to April 2010 [F], affecting in       excess of &#163;0.5bn worth of costs per annum (assuming a conservative figure       of &#163;1,000 average legal costs per claim) .
From April 2010, a significant       proportion of low value motor claims (those where liability was admitted       by the defendant) were taken out of the FRCS and dealt with through a new       process.
In 2011 Paul Fenn was asked by the then Parliamentary       Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice (Jonathan Djanogly) to       conduct a review of the Low Value RTA Claims Process, published by the       Ministry in 2012 [D] which was part of the process leading up to the       extension of the RTA Portal to other types of claim by the MoJ in April       2013.
The key role played by Fenn in the resolution of the "cost wars" was       instrumental in him being invited by Lord Justice Jackson to join his 2009       review of Civil Litigation Costs as the sole economist on a team of seven       advisors [C].
The main recommendations of the Jackson Report have been       implemented from April 2013 as part of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and       Punishment of Offenders (LASPO) Act 2012 [E].
Part 2 of the LASPO Act is       the most far-reaching reform of the civil justice system in decades, and       explicitly implements the recommendations of the Jackson Report.
Inter       alia, it changes the way that no-win, no-fee arrangements work, and the       costs recoverable in such cases; it amends the level of damages payable,       the way in which offers to settle are made, and introduces for the first       time US-style "contingency fees", to be known here as Damages-Based       Agreements (DBAs).
The Jackson Report also led to very significant changes to the Civil       Procedure Rules which were introduced from April 2013 [G].
In particular,       these changes altered the fixed costs recoverable in most personal injury       claims, and many of these costs will be based on formulae calculated by       Paul Fenn as part of his role in the Jackson Review [C: Ch 15 and Appendix       5].
In effect, this means that from April 2013 almost 1m claims for       compensation annually [F] will have their legal costs determined directly       or indirectly by research undertaken by Paul Fenn, with clear consequences       for law firms conducting personal injury business and liability insurance       companies, as well as their clients and policyholders (who will benefit       from lower fees and/or premiums).
