     The types of impact are described in two sections: the first relates the       general impact of SPRINT on practice, via practitioner training and       projects undertaken using the method, including a recent major project in       health care.
The second section specifically focuses on the impact of       Wastell's research on the Integrated Children's System.
Informing practice: SPRINT training and projects     An audit of SPRINT training was carried out in 2010.
At that time,       approximately 1150 individuals in 150 or so agencies (&gt;300 in 2008-10)       had been trained in SPRINT by Salford City Council, in collaboration with       Wastell.
Salford City Council were partners in the original development of       SPRINT, and used the methodology extensively on their e-Government       programme prior to 2005, and the Council has since continued its use of       SPRINT as a service improvement framework [3.4].
The training audit       included a user survey.
This showed a lasting positive benefit for over       60% of delegates.
To support the ongoing development of SPRINT, a User Group was       established in 2005; User Group conferences have been held in 2008-12.
Numerous workshops have also been held in various regions, designed and       led by Wastell, especially during his sabbatical in 2009 (e.g.
Bristol,       London and Newcastle).
International interest in SPRINT has come from as       far afield as India (Ministry of Communication and IT) and Brazil (Ag&#234;ncia       Metropolitana de Minas Gerais).
SPRINT has been updated since 2008, with a       new website, an accreditation scheme and an advanced training model       developed by Wastell; the latter has been piloted in one LA (Halton).
SPRINT has been extensively used on service design projects within the       user community and a number of case studies are documented in [3.4], on       Wastell's website [5.1] and the official SPRINT website [5.2] which attest       to the continuing impact of the methodology.
An example is the "School's       Portal" project in Lancashire County Council aimed at reducing bureaucracy       in schools [5.3].
The project, led by a senior manager in the Children and       Young People's Directorate (CYPD), has delivered very significant benefits       , with savings of approximately &#163;2 million estimated for the period       2008-10.
Quoting from the case study report [5.3]:     "The project, led by Jane Beckford, followed the principles of SPRINT...       Of the 83 business processes that the teams have re-engineered, the one       that delivered the greatest return in terms of improvement was replacing       printed materials with traceable electronic documentation.
This reduced       the overall bill from &#163;1.6m to &#163;100,000 in the first two years...
The       process re-engineering has identified waste and freed up time for people       to do things that couldn't be done before.
It has been about creating       capacity within the organisation to deliver more for less, and to deliver       a service that is measurably better than before."
The most recent SPRINT project has been funded by the National Institute       for Health Research [3.2].
This 18 month project was launched in early       2012.
It is a collaborative project with Pennine Acute Hospitals Trust       (Manchester).
The aim is to develop a set of tools for improving       decision-making in acute hospital settings and communication with external       agencies, Local Authority Children's Services in particular.
Although the       project is on-going, a tool, an electronic referral form, has been       designed and is in use in the Trust where it has proved to be very       effective.
It was recently short-listed for an award at the National       Patient Safety Awards (July, 2013), and was runner up in its category       [5.4]     Redesigning the Integrated Children's System     White and Wastell's ESRC-funded research [6] on the Integrated Children's       System attracted the attention of policy-makers, being published at the       time of the Baby Peter trial.
The ESRC rated the project as "outstanding",       to a large extent because of its policy impact and their website lists 18       outputs [5.5].
White (Professor of Social Work) was the Principal       Investigator on the project, focusing on social work policy and practice       elements; Wastell was the co-investigator addressing systems design issues       and implications.
The research drew attention to the deleterious effect of       the ICS on professional practice, making errors more not less likely.
White was invited to join the Social Work Task Force, set up in the       aftermath of the "Baby Peter" trial (Jan 2009).
The Task Force's final       report [5.6] called for the redesign of the ICS, and an "Improvement       Board" was set up for this purpose.
Both White and Wastell were       subsequently involved in the ICT sub-group of the Munro Review of Child       Protection, Wastell for his expertise in systems design.
In her final       report, Munro recommended that the design of ICT systems in social care       should follow the user-centred "socio-technical" approach recommended by       the sub-group, and which SPRINT embodies: [5.7, 5.8].
"A major challenge for local redesign is therefore to develop, with       social workers, new ICT systems to meet their case recording needs... the       analysis of requirements for ICT-based systems for child and family social       work should primarily be based on a human-centred analysis of what is       required by frontline workers."
[5.7 p. 111]     Significant improvements to the design of the ICS have ensued, regarding       its usability in particular, and Wastell has worked with several       suppliers, most notably Corelogic.
Wastell has been invited to present the       results of his ICS work and its policy implications to a number of       practitioner conferences, e.g.
the Irish Association of Social Workers       "Call for Change" conference (Dublin, 1/7/11) and the 3rd Child Protection       and Welfare Social Work Conference in Cork (28/10/11), a major       practitioner event, attended by the Irish Minister for Children and Youth       affairs, Frances Fitzgerald.
