     A body of research, undertaken by Starkey and colleagues, has informed       the development of the `co-production' philosophy and practice of       research.
This has influenced policy debates about the nature of effective       management research and how this can generate knowledge about management       and also research that is useful for managers.
The application of this       research approach led to new insights into the practice of policymaking in       Government and the Civil Service.
The research referred to in Section 2 led to Starkey's appointment as an       inaugural fellow of the Sunningdale Institute in 2006.
Sunningdale was a       body of international academic experts, public servants and industry       figures whose role was to advise government and public service       organisations on operational and delivery issues and in formulating and       implementing public service policy and strategy.
The rationale for the       establishment of the Sunningdale Institute was to initiate a new approach       to research in government policy using the skills of leading business       school academics (Cooper &amp; Starkey, 2010, reference A).
In his capacity as Sunningdale Fellow, Starkey was appointed by the then       Minister for the Cabinet Office, Ed Miliband, to advise government on how       to improve policy-making in Spring 2008.
At that time, too many government       initiatives failed at the stage of implementation.
Preliminary discussion       suggested that this might be rectified by a co-production approach to       policy-making that focused on engaging more effectively with front-line       professionals in the policy formulation process.
Starkey was appointed       thought leader for this project with a leading civil servant (Sir David       Omand) and a member of the House of Lords (Lord Victor Adebowale), working       with members of the Cabinet Office Public Service Reform Group.
This led       to a Cabinet Office/ National School of Government report Engagement         and Aspiration: Reconnecting Policy Making with the Front Line       (Omand, Starkey &amp; Adebowale, March 2009) (reference B) and a Cabinet       Office reply, Listening to the Front Line: Capturing insight and         learning lessons in policy making (2009) (reference C).
In summary,       the report addressed the question: how can the dispersed knowledge of       front-line professionals in public services be captured and fed into       central policy-making and development, and concluded that better       management of engagement and connection with the front-line was crucial to       effective and innovative policy design and implementation.
The Engagement and Aspiration: Reconnecting Policy Making with the         Front Line report by Omand, Starkey and Adebowale made a series of       recommendations for ministers and senior civil servants which were       accepted as the basis for making policy-making more effective.
The report       was accepted by government as a template for co-production as a guiding       principle of public sector reform.
The report In his Foreword to the       report, Sir Gus O'Donnell, Cabinet Secretary and Head of the Civil       Service, welcomed the report, saying that it had "much to say about how       Government can improve the way we design and develop policy".
In his       Foreword to the Cabinet Office response, Liam Byrne, Chief Secretary to       the Treasury and Minister for Public Services Reform, welcomed the       report's "insight, analysis and recommendations" and provided details       outlining how the government intended to embed the report's principles in       Whitehall practice (reference C).
The Minister set out the agenda in a       speech in 2009: "I have asked Sir David Omand, Lord Victor Adebowale and       Professor Ken Starkey, who have examined how we close the gap between       Whitehall policy and frontline delivery, to ... work with me to set in       place their recommendations across Whitehall" (Byrne, 2009) (reference E).
As a result of the report, the government identified three areas in which       to apply the report's co-production principles in practice, both in       central government policy-making and in the local design of services.
These were : 1) Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC) &#8212; Low       Carbon Communities Challenge; 2) Department of Health &#8212; Healthy Weight,       Healthy Lives programme to address the challenge of obesity; and 3) the       London Borough of Lewisham &#8212; Improving redress for citizens.
Starkey,       Omand and Adebowale presented at Civil Service Live 2009 and 2010 and       facilitated government seminars for civil servants including for the Prime       Minister's Strategy Unit.
Starkey worked as adviser to the DECC Low Carbon       Communities Challenge on policy development, featured in the DECC (2009)       video (reference F) highlighting the working principles of the project,       and provided Expert Commentary for the Interim Report on Low Carbon       Communities (DECC 2011: pages 5-7) (reference G).
How to improve policy-making through front-line engagement remains an       important issue in policy debates.
However, the financial crisis and the       change of administration altered the priorities of the Cabinet Office and       the work on this project came to an end in 2011.
