     A body of work has informed the development of policy and practice and       raised awareness of issues concerning the inclusion of disadvantaged       people in leisure travel.
Informing policy     During 2009 to 2013 research findings were disseminated widely in the       form of research papers, presentations and key note speeches, briefing       papers, reports and press releases to policy professionals, government       officials and practitioners in the tourism industry.
The Charity drew upon research evidence to provide a rationale for       establishing the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Social Tourism       (5.a.)
in June 2011.
The research continues to inform work of the APPG, as       MP Paul Maynard notes:     "Since our group's formation, the work...has proved an invaluable       resource &#8212; both in furthering the group's understanding of social tourism       and promoting its economic and social benefits to wider political       audiences.
Indeed, your [McCabe's] expert advisory role and written       evidence to our Parliamentary inquiry into social tourism crucially       informed our report "Giving Britain a Break" &#8212; allowing us to map out for       political stakeholders for the first time, the considerable social and       well-being benefits of social tourism in the UK and Europe and to make       recommendations to the Government to explore and build on this potential       and incorporate social tourism policies in national tourism strategies."
(5.b.)
Indeed, the APPG and the Charity have commenced the development of pilot       initiatives with local authorities (including Blackpool, York and Kent) to       determine the economic impacts of social tourism on tourism destination       economies.
The aim is to involve the public sector in social tourism for       the first time in the UK (5.b.).
Furthermore, the Charity has used the research to inform policymaker's       understanding of the issues and to drive forward the agenda for social       tourism in the Scottish Parliament.
John Mason (Glasgow Shettleston) (SNP)       in May 2013 tabled a debate on the benefits that social tourism could       bring to Scottish individuals, economy and society which drew upon       research findings.
In particular the role that social tourism played in       increasing quality of family life and well-being for disadvantaged members       of society was recorded in the transcript of the debate:     "I was particularly struck by research that was done by the University of       Nottingham's business school, involving work by...McCabe and...Johnson on       quality of life and social wellbeing.
It was interesting to read the       numbers that they came up with, which showed measurable improvements in       family life, social life, family time and wellbeing, which are hugely       important areas in which Governments struggle to bring about improvements.
For the self-selecting group of people whom we really want to help, we can       see a model that is at least financially neutral from the Government's       point of view.
Surely that is something that we all want to support."
(5.j.)
The charity also utilised KTP research to establish new partnerships and       networks including Visit England (VE) (5.e.).
According to the Charity's       Director, McDonald:"The research has...enabled us to work more       effectively with the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Social Tourism...       and has pulled in more and more partners, as exemplified by our developing       relationship with Visit England."
(5.i.).
A case was subsequently made to include social tourism in Visit England's       strategy to promote the domestic tourism economy (5.c.).
The research       (3.2, 3.3, 3.4) formed the basis for a number of case studies which have       been published on the VE website, together with a report from the       conference (5.d., 5.h.
respectively), launched to coincide with `English       Tourism Week' in March 2013.
Phil Evans, Head of Strategy at Visit England       (VE), notes that:     "The work [research] has assisted with filling a knowledge gap in various       aspects of this important and largely untapped aspect of the visitor       economy.... [it] has enabled case studies to be built up which Visit       England has used to inform policy development to support domestic tourism       growth in resorts....We are continuing to refer to these case studies to       support the Seaside Resorts Action Plan (part of the Strategic Framework       for Tourism (2010-20)."
(5.e.)
Informing practice     Research findings, on Social Tourism as a Context for Experiential       Learning (3.4), stimulated debate leading to the development of a new       Charity product, `Family Learning Adventures'.
The APPG report (5.a.
), in       October 2011, highlighted the benefits of holidays to disadvantaged       children (3.4.)
and issues concerning the exclusionary effects of       seasonality and pricing structure in the UK tourism industry.
This in       turn, stimulated debate amongst policy makers and the tourism industry       (5.a.
; 5.f.
; 5.g.
), attracting attention from the news media.
The Charity       used this as a platform to commence engaging with schools and new partners       such as the Children's University to connect social tourism practice and       tourism policy with educational policy for the first time (5.a.
and 5.i.)
Designed to incorporate experiential learning outcomes into family       holidays, the new product enables the charity to work effectively with       schools to promote access to tourism for disadvantaged young people.
The research on well-being benefits was used by the charity to form the       basis for a fundraising campaign (3.3).
As McDonald notes,:     "The research study undertaken on subjective well-being improvements was       also incorporated into the charity's fundraising activities.
The `Holidays       Matter' theme and research findings were used... to develop a short film,       and report which are also available on our website.
The research...has       provided an important boost to all our fundraising activities" (5.i.).
The research fed into the redesign and reo-organisation of the charity's       monitoring and evidence-based programme work during Autumn 2011 &#8212; Spring       2012, which resulted in a reduction in administrative expenditure now       enabling the Charity to allocate more resources to increase the number of       holidays for families in need (5.i.).
An online database of literature on       social tourism was developed as part of the KTP project and is now hosted       on the charity website.
It provides a resource for students, academics and       members of the international tourism community such as International       Social Tourism Organisation.
It is, as John McDonald, Director of the       Charity, states "... [a] fully searchable ...Knowledge Bank [and] a       valuable new tool for both the charity and the wider community involved in       social tourism."
Finally, the research has provided the evidence base necessary for the       Charity to increase awareness of social tourism within the UK and beyond.
In so doing, the Charity has raised its profile and strengthened       relationships within tourism and travel necessary to continue its       important work.
New partnerships with HF Holidays and Kuoni (a luxury       travel brand not normally associated with social tourism) have been formed       and existing collaborations with companies such as TUI Travel PLC have       continued.
As a result, the Charity has been able to secure support to       increase the provision of holiday support for disadvantaged families       despite a challenging general fundraising environment (5.i.
).
