     In recognition of his research on managerial labour markets and pay       determination, the Doctors' and Dentists (Pay) Review Body (DDRB)       appointed Thompson as their expert `economist' member in 2008.
The Body's       purpose is to collect and analyse information from original sources and       interested parties on the recruitment, retention and morale of all grades       of NHS doctors and dentists.
This analysis of the relevant labour market       characteristics, together with an assessment of affordability, is then       used to recommend annual pay uplift for the respective groups or, in the       case of general dental practitioners contracted to the NHS, adjustments to       the relevant fee scales to achieve comparable pay outcomes.
Its objective       is to provide employers and medical unions with an independent and       unbiased evidence-base for agreement.
Within DDRB, Thompson has been responsible for evaluating the economic       evidence presented by the various parties.
He has co-authored DDRB annual       reports on recruitment, retention and morale of NHS doctors and dentists       since 2008 and recommendations have been accepted in full by       medical/dental employers and professional associations (i.e.
unions) in       most years (although only partially in 2009).
The 2013-14 recommendations       were implemented as suggested (A).
In 2011-12, the DDRB undertook two commissioned enquiries.
First, the       Secretary of State for Health instructed the Body to review incentives and       pay for hospital consultants, triggered by widespread criticisms of the       current operation of the consultants' Clinical Excellence Award (CEA)       scheme.
Thompson co-authored the major report (B), which was delivered to       the Department of Health and devolved governments in July 2011, and       published in December 2012.
It called for a radical overhaul of the       incentive schemes, with bonuses more closely linked to recent performance,       stringent renewal reviews and for long, largely automatic incremental       scales to be replaced by fewer performance-related increments.
It also       recommended the introduction of a `senior consultant' grade, to be       restricted to 10% of the headcount, to recognise outstanding achievements       and to incentivise mid-career consultants.
The report's recommendations       would introduce more flexibility to reward consultants for excellent local       performance.
The report's recommendations for CEAs suggested they use available of       funds to recognise and encourage new manifestations of clinical excellence       rather than focusing on past achievements.
Subject to strict limits on the       number of new awards per year, the report suggested fixed duration rather       than permanent CEAs, to enable recycling and rewarding excellence on a       greater scale.
The report also argued that the removal of certain anomalies did not       breach `pay protection for accrued rights' conceded by UK governments for       health reorganisations.
These included the anomaly of continuing financial       benefit for those who have had their awards withdrawn &#8212; currently those       demoted from `excellent' retain their merit payments &#8212; and those who       retire and keep their awards in any part-time return, restricting award       recycling.
In response, UK and Welsh governments consulted with stakeholders to       canvass opinion on whether the removal of such obvious anomalies did       breach that principle (F).
It was concluded that there was no breach and       the BMJ reported in August 2013 that pay protection will be removed from       consultants who lose or surrender their rewards from October 2014 (I).
The Secretary of State for Health accepted the report's principal       recommendations in December 2012 (C) and negotiations on the       implementation of new arrangements were underway between the Department of       Health (and devolved governments) and the British Medical Association (as       of October 2013).
The latter has indicated a willingness to negotiate       directly on CEAs and does support some reforms to the CEA system,       particularly to instil greater transparency (J).
Many of the Review's       recommendations, perhaps excluding the non-pensionable nature of awards,       are expected to be adopted and some have already been endorsed (retire and       return payments and loss of award following poor performance (D, E)).
At the request of the Deputy First Minister of Scotland, the DDRB also       conducted a review of compensation for Scottish dentists in 2012,       following concerns of serious flaws in the data used to compute inflation       uplift payments for self-employed dentists, not least by conflating       principals' costs and associates' earnings.
In 2012.
The DDRB's technical       study of costs, of which Thompson is a co-author, was published by the       Office of Manpower Economics as an attachment to the DDRB's Annual Report       (G).
It suggested a simplified means of calculating the cost inflation       adjustment to uplift which avoided the potential double counting issue and       suggested a rule-of-thumb expenses/income ratio of 50%.
The study was immediately acknowledged by the Deputy First Minister, who       commented: "I welcome the DDRB's observations and will ensure that your       comments are carefully considered and acted upon, as appropriate.
My       officials will work with you and the other parties to take forward the       issues highlighted in your report and any progress will be relayed to you       in our evidence for the next round."
(H).
A follow-up letter to the chair       DDRB (April 2012) acknowledged the report to have: "identified elements       that we had not previously considered... leading to a consideration of the       implementation of its recommendations."
However, disagreements remain       between the Scottish government and the DDRB on the inadmissibility of       contractual efficiency savings (D, ch.4 p.50).
Thompson's work on managerial labour markets and remuneration has       attracted further interest from policy-makers.
In February 2012 he was       invited to Number 11 Downing Street to participate in a seminar       considering the feasibility of introducing `market-facing' (i.e.
regional)       pay in the public sector, attended by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and       Chef Secretary to the Treasury.
The meeting considered the costs and       benefits of departing from national pay scales and making pay responsive       to local labour market conditions.
Despite support from HM Treasury, the       `market-facing' pay initiative faces challenges such as public sector       employers' reluctance to adopt local pay bargaining.
In January 2010,       Thompson presented a review paper to government economists at the Office       of Manpower Economics as part of a Senior Salaries Review Body       investigation of higher public sector rewards.
This paper summarised       recent research findings on corporate governance reforms and changes in       executive reward determination in the private sector and its relevance for       public sector pay reform.
