     Generation of Income       In 1998 the DLQI was established as the leading dermatology measure,       planning long-term income generation.
We allow its use without charge       except for studies funded by for-profit companies.
IMPACT: 83 pharmaceutical companies/divisions have used the DLQI.
The total income generated for Cardiff University from the DLQI has been       &#163;881,236 (equivalent to 176,000 patients); the total income from Aug 2008       - June 2013 was &#163;617,778.
Establishment of guidelines       The breakthrough in making the DLQI useful to clinicians was our 2005       simple score interpretation method, the Banding Descriptor concept 3.3,       and the psoriasis severity "Rule of Tens" 3.4.
IMPACT: Development of NICE (2006-9) and SIGN (2010) guidelines for       the Biologics infliximab, adalimumab and ustekinumab in psoriasis 5.1,         5.2 and (NICE) (2009) for treatment of severe hand dermatitis 5.1.
Adoption within guidelines by national organisations and national       registries in 11 countries, e.g.
Sweden 5.3 (8 since 2008).
Chren commented 5.4 on our Banding Descriptor paper 3.3       and another: "These papers are important for several reasons.
First, both       studies examine instruments that were developed and refined by Andrew       Finlay and his colleagues in Cardiff, highlighting the seminal and       sustained effects of their work on improving the measurement of complex       constructs in dermatology."
Reach       We have supervised 91 validated translations of the DLQI (51 since 2008),       reviewing back translations to ensure accuracy.
The DLQI section of the       Dermatology Department website (www.dermatology.org.uk),       has since 1999 been an essential part of our strategy to make the DLQI       easily accessible worldwide.
This is constantly updated.
All translations       are available and instructions for use are given.
The website was accessed       for DLQI information by 22,703 visits from Nov 2011 - June 2013, bringing       web-users to the Cardiff University site.
A Google search for DLQI records       183,000 results.
The original article 3.1 has been cited 1,029       times.
IMPACT: The DLQI is used internationally and can therefore be used       effectively for multi-centre studies e.g.
DLQI was used as an outcome       measure in Phase III studies of cyclosporine and of all biologics in       psoriasis 3.6.
IMPACT: In 2012 alone, publications described DLQI usage in 105       studies of 37 diseases in 25,785 patients in 29 countries (review of all       2012 publications identified by PubMed).
The DLQI has been used in over       678 research studies (PubMed review).
The DLQI has been of great benefit       to dermatology research teams worldwide.
Pharmaceutical companies use the       measure widely in Phase II and Phase III studies 3.6, as       reported in &gt;148 publications (PubMed review).
The DLQI is the most       frequently used adult QoL measure in psoriasis and in atopic dermatitis 5.5.
We continue to make the DLQI more accessible and useful for clinicians.
With Janssen Pharmaceuticals, we have upgraded a free iPhone and iPad app       "360 Psoriasis" to include the DLQI and a graphic score readout with       meaning.
When released in 2014, &gt;6,000 current users will be able       download this.
IMPACT: The DLQI in standard software will be used daily by GPs to       support decisions such as referral to secondary care and by dermatologists       to assist decisions concerning systemic therapy.
Clinicians and healthcare providers benefit       The DLQI assists clinicians to understand their patients and justify their       clinical decisions.
IMPACT: Since 2008, all patients with severe psoriasis or with       severe hand eczema are assessed with the DLQI (as recommended by NICE) 5.1,         5.2 and this directly influences whether the patient has access to       biologics.
The DLQI may be helpful to health care providers to identify       conditions that need additional clinical support, and DLQI data is used to       support clinicians' requests for additional funding for individual patient       therapy.
For example people with the condition hidradenitis suppurativa       have high scores, reflecting major but unrecognised QoL problems.
Patient benefit       Patient support groups in several countries, such as the Finnish       Psoriasis Association and the UK Ichthyosis Support Group, give patients       access online to the DLQI, so they can use the questionnaire in       discussions with their doctor, leading to more appropriate clinical       decisions.
IMPACT: When used routinely, 13.8% of clinical decisions in       general clinics were influenced by knowing the DLQI score, usually in       patients with scores &gt;10 and who were consequently treated more       aggressively 5.6.
All dermatologists in the UK and in 10 other countries are required to       use the DLQI routinely to support decisions relating to the use of       biologics in psoriasis.
DLQI usage has resulted in a measureable shift to       patient-centred dermatology 5.7.
IMPACT: It has become normal for dermatologists to think of QoL       and to measure it to assist their decisions, fundamentally altering the       practice of dermatology to a more patient-orientated speciality.
Since       2008, 100% of dermatology clinicians in Wales stated that QoL was an       influence on their clinical decisions.
DLQI scores have become integral to       European S3-guidelines 5.8, in defining treatment goals in       psoriasis 5.9 and for pharmaco-economic analysis 5.1.
By highlighting the major impact of skin involvement in other conditions,       such as HIV/AIDS 5.10, DLQI data may further influence       appropriate management.
Competitors and additional Cardiff measures     Other research teams have created similar questionnaires to compete with       the DLQI, but the DLQI is the most frequently used measure in research and       in clinical practice (PubMed review).
We have demonstrated the DLQI's many       strengths in comparison 5.7.
Other measures developed in       Cardiff by Finlay and colleagues from 1993 to present include the       Children's-DLQI, Dermatitis Family Impact (DFI) and Infant's Dermatitis       Quality of Life (IDQoL).
These are the most frequently used QoL measures       in children 5.5.
They are available on the Dermatology       Department website (www.dermatology.org.uk), increasing the exposure of       the DLQI.
Conclusions     The DLQI as described by the indicators outlined above claims economic       impact, impact on the practice of health-care professionals and on health       and welfare outcomes for patients.
