     The research on responsible and sustainable business education has helped       to shape the policies       of ABIS and UN PRME and, through them EQUIS accreditation systems and EU       policies on       responsible business education.
It has informed UK higher education       bodies' guidance to       business schools through the Higher Education Academy.
As a result       business schools can       access evidence-based resources in order to develop effective practice.
Publication 1 was the first piece of academic research to:     i. introduce and measure the concept of mainstreaming CSR into general       business education       connecting academic research to key policy developments;     ii.
consider CSR education in broad terms in line with European practice;     iii.
identify key drivers for CSR education and highlight the importance       of institutional actors.
These findings were used by ABIS to support the integration of ethics       into EQUIS business school       accreditation [A], and also to support its contribution to the development       of the UN PRME at global       steering committee level [B].
UN PRME has since become a critical       institutional actor in       responsible business education with 505 business school and university       signatories.
The initial survey (1) has become a reference point for those interested       in responsible and       sustainable management education.
[J].
It has received 169 citations since       2008 (Google Scholar)       and the pre-publication version has had 540 abstract views (SSRN).
The second (2008) survey provided the framework and content for the       Business and Society       Gateway &#8212; an online resource centre developed by the European Foundation       for Management       Development and ABIS.
ABIS report that in the period April 2008-October       2012 the gateway has       received 108,497 unique visitors [A]     The survey report and analysis was provided as an Annex to a report by       ABIS to the European       Commission DG Research providing policy recommendations for future       commitments, priorities       and frameworks for enhancing CSR teaching and research in Europe.
[A]     The pedagogical research into the value of experiential learning for       responsible and sustainable       business education have been published by ABIS through its Gateway and       distributed widely to       industry, academia, policy-makers and other stakeholders including 400       participants of the 2012       PRME Global Summit and all signatory institutions of the UN PRME.
[A] This       was with the       purpose of integrating CSR into mainstream university education as well as       in-house corporate       training.
More recently, ICCSR research in this area has contributed specific       guidance on how to       successfully teach CSR and sustainability in the classroom, extending its       practical application.
The       `Integrating Sustainability into Business Schools' project analysed the       extent to which business       schools integrated and communicated social, economic and ecological       sustainability in their       educational programmes, research and their organisational practices and       processes.
The analytical framework (4) was used by UN PRME to structure the Inspirational         Guide for the         Implementation of PRME: Placing sustainability at the heart of         management published by PRME in       June 2012 [B, C and D].
The paper was also used as background to the 3rd       Global Forum for Responsible Management         Education in June 2012 [B and E] [http://www.unprme.org/global-forum/.
This Forum brought       together 300 representatives from higher education, business, civil       society and government.
It       considered how the UN PRME facilitates individual and systemic change       within higher education       as the community mobilises action toward achieving the Rio+20 vision on       sustainable       development, and ran in parallel to the Rio +20 UN Conference on       Sustainable Development.
Additionally the Head of the PRME Secretariat drew heavily on this       research when presenting UN       PRME at important business school conferences [B and F].
The UN PRME       Newsletter for August       2013 also referred to our publication and provides a direct link to the       paper [G].
Our analysis of Sharing Information on Progress (SIP) reports was       published as a chapter in       Enhancing education for sustainable development in Business and         Management, Hospitality,         Leisure, Marketing, Tourism by the Higher Education Academy (H)       intended to guide business       schools in thinking about integrating sustainability.
This chapter       included our findings on       educational frameworks for sustainability and understanding sustainability       research; approaches to       curriculum change; approaches to facilitating transformational change; the       role of dialogues; and       barriers and enablers to integrating sustainability.
Our overview of approaches to `Integrating Sustainability into Business       Schools' was published on       a dedicated website [I] and presented at a workshop hosted by Nottingham       on 20-21 October 2011       and attended by representatives of business schools, the UN PRME, the       UNESCO Chair `Higher       Education for Sustainable Development' and the Chief Executive of the       Association of Business       Schools.
The impetus of this workshop was used to develop interest in a UK       Chapter of the UN       PRME founded in May 2013.
