     A body of research has made a significant contribution to the       understanding of issues relating to consumer attitudes and decision       behaviour in financial services.
It has enabled key Nottingham University       Business School/Financial Services Research Forum researchers to play a       major role in informing and influencing consumer and related policy in the       financial services domain.
Informing Policy: Simple Products     Following the publication of the research (1-4) on product complexity,       product simplification regimes, the associated use of "kite-marks" and the       impact on consumer decision making, an intense dissemination programme       commenced (2004-2011) to ensure that key stakeholders such as policymakers       and commercial organisations were informed about key research findings and       insights.
The issue that existing approaches were unlikely to succeed and       needed further reflection and development was emphasised.
A Financial       Services Research Forum Report (Source A) was also published and       distributed in pdf form to well over 100 registered affiliates of the       Forum such as the Financial Services Authority, HM Treasury, Lloyds TSB       and Standard Life and was also made available on the Forum's website.
In       addition, a one day Forum seminar in 2008 was attended by well over 100       interested practitioners, policymakers and third sector advocates.
As a direct result of this research dissemination exercise, HM Treasury       invited Professor Devlin to develop a tender for a project to produce a       detailed analysis of what lessons could be learned from previous `Simple       Product' initiatives in retail financial services.
HM Treasury       commissioned the project in 2010 which led to the publication of a report       (Source B).
This report was subsequently distributed as an integral       part of HM Treasury's Simple Financial Products Consultation Exercise and       referenced extensively in the main Treasury briefing document (Source         C).
The aim of the consultation exercise was to help shape future       policy in the area of simplification of financial products in order to       assist consumers in making decisions about products.
The Consultation       concluded in 2011 and led directly to the formulation of the Simple       Financial Products Steering Group.
The Group, comprising mainly       practitioners, published an Interim and Final Report (Sources D and E),       both of which referenced the initial consultation exercise which had been       informed by the research undertaken at Nottingham.
Operationalization of       the recommendations of the final report is now being carried out by the       British Standards Institute in collaboration with relevant trade bodies       and new policy is being formulated.
This policy development       specifies a range of simple financial products which assist consumers in       their financial services decision making.
The intention is to use a       "Standards" mark to assist consumers as they make choices between       products.
Informing Policy: Trust in Banking and Financial Services     Following the publication of the research (6), findings on Trust have       been disseminated in regular and detailed practitioner orientated reports       (an average of 3 per year since 2006, for example 5 above).
These reports       are distributed in pdf form to well over 100 registered affiliates of the       Forum and are also made available free of charge on the Forum's website.
The findings from the Forum's Trust Index research have been presented at       a number of Financial Services Research Forum (FSRF) Conferences from 2006       to present.
Conferences are attended by 100+ senior industry       practitioners/policymakers such as HM Treasury and the Financial Services       Authority, as well as consumer advocates and other interested parties.
The       research was also presented at other events including those hosted by       trade bodies such as the Association of British Insurers, and       policymakers, such as the Financial Services Authority (FSA).
Since then, specific meetings have also been held to discuss key research       insights with senior representatives from the Financial Services Consumer       Panel, a body set up under the auspices of the FSA to champion the       interests of Financial Services Consumers.
Devlin and Ennew were       personally invited to face-to-face meetings as a result of the       dissemination efforts.
Through such consistent and broad dissemination       efforts, the Forum's Trust research has gained traction and credibility (Source         F), For instance, the Forum's Trust research has been referenced in       evidence to HM Treasury and by the Department for Work and Pensions in       policy related documentation and consultation (Sources G and H).
In response to reading the Forum's Trust research and attending associated       meetings, Mr Shane Mullins, CEO of Fiscal Engineers, a bespoke high-net       worth private client wealth management company, contacted the Forum.
Mullins wanted to form and spearhead a "Question of Trust" (Q of T)       campaign in the financial services sector using Forum Trust research and       related insight as the evidential basis (referred to as the MoneyTrust       Index) for the campaign.
In recognition of the independent and credible       Forum Trust research, Mullins sought to use it as a platform for       generating interest in, and benchmarking and improving levels of trust in       financial services (Source I).
The Forum advised the QofT       Steering Committee and devised the MoneyTrust Index based on FSRF Trust       research and presented at the QofT launch event in July 2012.
This       event was attended by about 100 senior industry practitioners,       policymakers and other interested parties, such as Otto Thoresen, Director       General of the Association of British Insurers and the campaign was backed       by high profile figures such as the outgoing Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr       Rowan Williams.
The QofT Campaign was given the award of "Campaign       of the Year" for 2012 by Scottish Widows plc.
As a result of QofT       exposure, the Forum was invited to provide evidence to the Parliamentary       Commission on Banking Standards (J).
The Commission was appointed       by both Houses of Parliament to consider and report on: "professional       standards and culture of the UK banking sector and to make recommendations       for legislative and other action."
The Forum's research, which showed       underwhelming levels of trust in the sector through time and a significant       deterioration in the trust engendered by banks in particular, was key in       framing and informing a policy debate which has resulted in the most       profound changes to policy approaches to improve banking standards in the       recent past.
