     4.1 Process of dissemination     The strategy to maximize impact of CMBOR output and to continually       enhance the database platform is discussed formally at quarterly meetings       with senior level sponsors and through regular informal meetings.
From       1/1/2008, CMBOR logged 992 items of media coverage, 152 items appearing in       `world quality' media (Financial Times, Wall Street Journal, Economist)       [Evidence G in section 5].
Our employment effects study was disseminated       in, e.g., FT, Guardian and BBC2 Newsnight from 2008 onwards, and citations       in reports and direct responses to enquiries, e.g., in the US Government       Accountability Office report "Private Equity: Recent Growth in Leveraged       Buyouts Exposed Risks That Warrant Continued Attention" [C] and the Bank       of England Quarterly Bulletin (BEQB), 2013 [H].
4.2 Beneficiaries     The database was developed as the industry partners recognized the       potential impact on their marketing and strategy of sponsoring the       leading edge source of information in this area, following an initial       initiative by Wright that they picked up on.
Our research had an impact       through its depth and reach (UK, Europe, International -practitioner       bodies/associations, policy-makers) and had a significant transformative       effect [reducing `harm' (effect on Alternative Investment Fund Managers       Directive, AIFMD), improved industry understanding and practice (delivered       through Equistone Equity Partners, Ernst &amp; Young, Institute for       Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, British Venture Capital       Association), and to Government and regulators (Vince Cable, US Government       Accountability Office (GAO), Bank of England).
4.3 Impact     Impact on government and regulators:     Our employee relations study [1,2], initially commissioned and published       by European Venture Capital Association (EVCA) and disseminated to       members, the press and policy-makers, played an important role in the       European Commission debate concerning the AIFMD especially during       2008-2010.
The impact for EVCA is conveyed by their former head of       research:     "...
The evidence ... by CMBOR played a crucial role in helping us       achieve our main objective ... the proponents of ... AIMFD were aiming to       distort the level playing field between buyout funds and trade buyers ...       that ... would have reduced significantly the activity of the former.
Based on ... evidence produced by CMBOR, EVCA managed to prevent such an       outcome."
[B].
CMBOR research and our Gilligan &amp; Wright ICAEW commissioned       publication had the impact of allowing the Bank of England's Stability       Unit to better understand leverage in private equity deals and inform       policy discussions at the Bank and was extensively referred to in the       subsequent BEQB report, widely read by policymakers and practitioners as       representing the Bank's view on this topic.
Our work [especially 5] had       the impact of the US GAO being able to explain to the US Congress the       efficiency gains associated with a free market for corporate control and       the impact on employment during 2008/9 [C].
Our productivity study [6] had the impact of providing hard systematic       evidence informing a House of Commons debate on private equity in 2008 as       cited in Hansard [F].
The survival and performance results were published       by BVCA, and in Journal of Corporate Finance 2012, with impact during       2008-2012 seen in the following BVCA comment:     "...
This study helped address some ... misconceptions around the PE       industry ... and was highly influential when meeting with policymakers,       setting fears to rest about the ... need for tighter controls or       regulation ...
The findings that PE-backed buyouts ... were less likely to       enter insolvency, were highly significant and influential in our       discussions with external stakeholders ... who had assumed that PE-backed       firms would struggle during the downturn."
[A].
These benefits impacted government.
BIS Secretary of State Vince Cable       commented when launching the AcSS booklet "Making the Case for the Social       Sciences: No.6 Management" [J] our research therein showing private equity       buyouts performed more strongly [publication 2]: "This is quite an       interesting conclusion that goes against ... accepted wisdom but is quite       relevant in terms of the work of this department in promoting non-bank       finances."
Within the industry:     Our analyses have a novel impact on understanding and practice within the       industry throughout the REF period:     "... CMBOR has become one of the most important contributors to private       equity research... Its pioneering comprehensive analysis over [a] quarter       of a century has made a major difference in enhancing ... objective       understanding of private equity ...
Led by the peerless Mike Wright,...       his team have worked tirelessly to provide invaluable insight ... their       work is more valuable now than ever."
[testimonial A in section 5]     For sponsors, the research had the impact of enabling them to develop       strategy based on the market trends we identified and as a result being "       a major factor in causing Deloitte to be perceived as an authoritative       commentator on the market and as an experienced adviser on PE       transactions" [D] in 2008-9 (for example, Deloitte was ranked No.1 Big4       Financial Adviser to European Mid-Market M&amp;A (by volume)       [MergerMarket, 2009]) and helped Equistone Equity Partners (sponsors since       1986) make "informed and quantifiable decisions" about their positioning       in the private equity market throughout the REF period[E].
The private equity debate showed that many commentators [e.g.
Treasury       Select Committee] had poor understanding and were unaware of the       systematic evidence available.
Tables in paper [4] were developed in our       ICAEW commissioned monograph "Private Equity Demystified", co-written with       John Gilligan a former MBA student of Wright and partner in PKF Corporate       Finance (Evidence [I]).
Now with the fourth edition in preparation, this       has been sent to the 6,000 Corporate Finance members and policymakers in       2008, 2010 and 2012 and is the "definitive guide to buy-out transactions"       and had the impact that ICAEW were able to inform UK MPs and civil       servants on private equity, to interest European Commission officials, and       to develop policy positions on private equity-type investments [D].
A       practical impact was that Gilligan used it in his training of       practitioners at PKF and the BVCA recommended it to its 7,000 members (http://bvca-research-library.wikispaces.com/).
