     See section 5 for numbered corroborating sources (S1-S9).
Pathways to impact     Our work on developing accessible, acceptable and evidence-based low       intensity interventions began in 1998, prior to IAPT, through strong       collaborations with researchers at the National Primary Care Research and       Development Centre at UoM.
We have conducted systematic reviews,       uncontrolled studies, RCTs and qualitative work to establish the evidence       base and acceptability to both users and those delivering services.
We       established the first Guided Self Help Clinics across 36 GP practices in a       then Primary Care Trust.
Lovell has trained in excess of 2,000 UK       Psychological Well-being Practitioners, Cognitive Behaviour Therapists and       other mental health practitioners to deliver GSH both face to face and via       the telephone.
Once we had shown that low intensity interventions are       effective and acceptable to service users we adapted these interventions       for `hard to reach' groups, e.g., BME and older people.
One of our guided self-help books, based on our research, `A Recovery       Programme for Depression' (Lovell and Richards, London:       Rethink Mental Illness 2012) was used as the principal self-help material       for the national IAPT NHS demonstration site (Doncaster) and was used by       more than 6,000 patients.
Lovell has led the development of a range       of other GSH books for specific difficulties including agoraphobia, OCD,       chronic pain, chronic oro-facial pain, irritable bowel syndrome.
Our more       recent work has focussed on developing and delivering low intensity       interventions for people with depression and long term conditions       including diabetes, coronary heart disease, chronic widespread pain and       chronic oro-facial pain.
Reach and significance of the impact     Impact on practice     The findings of our research on low intensity interventions have been       widely implemented and have led to significant benefits for people with       common mental health problems.
Telephone-delivered psychological       interventions have proved a significant benefit for those who are unable       (or who prefer not to) attend scheduled face-to-face appointments and we       have shown that it is highly cost effective.
Our work with BT plc tested       the use of telephone-CBT and GSH (Bee et al., Gen Hosp Psychiat       2010 32:337-40), demonstrating effects on clinical and work productivity       outcomes.
Based on these findings telephone-CBT and GSH have been       implemented across the company (approx.
73,500 employees).
Since the       inception of the service there have been 1530 referrals, as confirmed by       the BT Group Wellbeing Adviser (S1).
Our recovery book `A Recovery Programme for Depression' is used in IAPT       services across the UK and has been endorsed by Rethink (a large national       user charity), which has the licence to publish the book on a       not-for-profit basis (S2).
Between 11,000 and 13,000 manuals are sold each       year.
We have recently released the licence for our self-help manual for       chronic widespread pain and we have received requests to use the manual       from St Bartholomew's Hospital (UK) and the Mayo clinic (US).
We have       recently given `beyondblue' (an Australian national initiative to       create a community response to depression) permission to print the       materials in Australia for clinical, research and teaching purposes.
A large naturalistic observational study, not involving us but based on       our work, of 7 IAPT services which included more than 7,000 patients in       the East of England evaluated face-to-face and telephone-based       psychological interventions (S3).
This evaluation found that the clinical       effectiveness of low intensity CBT-based interventions delivered by       telephone was as good as face-to-face CBT except for people with more       severe illness and cost 36% less per session than face to face CBT.
(Hammond GC et al., PLoS ONE 2012 7(9): e42916)     In 2002, in partnership with Anxiety UK, a large national user charity       which has supported more than a million people with anxiety, we developed       and implemented a T-CBT and more recently Skype service for people unable       to access face to face therapy.
The service has seen a year on year       increase in referrals for telephone-CBT and currently receives in excess       of 400 referrals per year (S4).
Lovell has provided written       guidelines for telephone-CBT and provided regular training to volunteers       and therapists.
Anxiety UK also distributes Lovell's       self-help manuals on agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder freely       to their members.
Feedback from users has found that these self-help       manuals are regularly downloaded from their website and acceptable to       members (S5).
Impact on policy     National (UK) policy increasingly advocates the use of the telephone to       deliver psychological interventions, based on our work.
Our work is cited       in the national IAPT National Programme Educator Materials to Support the       Delivery of Training for Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners Delivering       Low Intensity Interventions (S6).
Lovell has also contributed to       the national IAPT `Good practice guidance on the use of self-help       materials within IAPT services' (S6).
Lovell and Bower were co-investigators in the national       external evaluation of IAPT implementation at demonstrator sites, funded       by the NIHR Service Delivery and Organisation programme (S7).
Our research has contributed to treatment recommendations influencing       current clinical practice in the following NICE guidelines: Post-Traumatic       Stress Disorder (CG26); Depression (CG23, update CG90); OCD (CG31) and OCD       Evidence Update (2013) (S8).
Lovell has been a member of the NICE guideline development group       for both OCD (CG31), which recommend telephone delivered low intensity       interventions for OCD, and the updated Anxiety guidelines (CG113) (S9).
She developed implementation tools for the clinical case scenarios, the       evidence update for generalised anxiety and the NICE pathway for OCD (S9).
