     See section 5 for numbered corroborating sources (S1-S10).
PRIMARY CARE PROGRAMME       Impact from drug related morbidity indicators       Preventable drug related morbidity (PDRM) indicators developed by         Cantrill have been translated and applied in several international       healthcare settings including the US, Canada, New Zealand, Italy, Spain       and Portugal to extend the scope of practice of pharmacists in improving       patient safety (S1,S2).
Building on the findings from the PINCER study, a       set of prescribing safety indicators have also been developed in       collaboration with the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP),       which are suitable for use in the revalidation of GPs (S3).
Ridge (Chief Pharmaceutical Officer at the Department of Health) has       described how the PDRM indicators have been incorporated into `medicines       optimisation' software for general practice computer systems in the UK by,       for example, First Databank, Eclipse and PRIMIS, acknowledging that "it         is clear this work would not have been possible without the foundations         developed in Manchester by Cantrill et al."
(S4).
Building on Manchester's expertise in translational patient safety       research, the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) has provided       core funding of &#163;6.3m (2012-2017) which has established a translational       centre at Manchester focussed on improving patient safety in primary care.
Ashcroft is leading the medication safety theme, developing and       evaluating an integrated safety management system to improve medication       safety in community pharmacies and general practices, including       implementation of the PDRM indicators into general practice computer       systems to improve patient safety (S5).
SECONDARY CARE PROGRAMME       Impact on patient safety       Manchester's EQUIP study found that doctors rotating between different       hospitals during their training faced inconsistency in the design of       prescription charts contributing to the causes of prescribing errors.
A       report to develop and disseminate standards for design of in-patient       prescription charts was commissioned by the Department of Health and the       NHS Medical Director (S4).
The report (S6) stated in its foreword that       this was commissioned because "the [EQUIP] report considered that the         design of prescription charts was one of the primary causes of         prescribing errors and that a standard drug prescription chart should be         introduced across the NHS".
These standards are being used to revise       the All-Wales prescription chart, and have been recommended for use in all       Trusts by the Medical Director of NHS England (S7).
Introduction of a       national prescription chart in Australia reduced prescribing errors per       admission by one third.
There were 15 million admissions to hospital in       2011-12 in England, with one or more prescribing errors in approximately       45%.
Even a conservative 10% reduction in these errors would translate       into safer prescribing for hundreds of thousands of people.
Impact on medical training       The EQUIP study found that prescribing errors resulted from a lack of       training in practical prescribing and failures to link theory with       practice.
This supported the General Medical Council (GMC) giving evidence       to the House of Commons Health Select Committee inquiry on patient safety.
It had been assumed that errors would be reduced by increasing       pharmacology in the educational curriculum.
Our research demonstrated that       errors were caused, instead, by the impact of busy and stressful working       environments or unfamiliarity of the system the doctor was working in       (S8).
The GMC thus revised their core guidance for medical education (Tomorrow's         Doctors), to recommend that formal prescribing skills training and       practical experience in the NHS be provided for medical students (S8).
The EQUIP recommendation also led directly to the development of a new       national assessment of prescribing competence for all medical students in       the UK before they graduate from medical school as part of a collaborative       project by the British Pharmacological Society and the Medical Schools       Council (S9) and funded by the Department of Health (S 4).
This was       piloted during 2010- 2012, and has subsequently been rolled out to all       Medical Schools in the UK.
Several thousand medical students graduate       annually and start work as first-year junior hospital doctors, when they       will write 35% of all hospital prescriptions during 15 million admissions       in England alone.
Any reduction in their 9% error rate will translate into       a significant improvement in the safety of prescribing for many people.
Impact on pharmacists       The Chair of the Association of Teaching Hospital Chief Pharmacists has       described how large teaching hospitals across the UK used the findings of       the EQUIP study in business cases to get additional funding for pharmacist       posts (S10).
Pharmacists are responsible for checking prescriptions and       are a key organisational defence to prevent the prescribing errors       described above from harming patients.
At Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS       trust, for example, the number of patients receiving medicines       reconciliation from pharmacists increased from under 40% in 2009 to 60% by       2011; at University Hospital of South Manchester, services to admission       wards were extended to a full seven days per week.
This is important as       the Manchester researchers found that the odds of prescribing errors       occurring on admission were almost twice that of later in a patient's       stay.
These additional pharmacists are also carrying out an increased       level of education for final year medical students and junior doctors.
Even where hospitals have not been able to get additional staff, existing       pharmacists were redeployed to provide these services (S10).
