     Medical practice for locally advanced prostate cancer has changed.
Prior       to the underpinning       research, hormone therapy alone was considered adequate treatment.
Following the present       study, hormone therapy alone is no longer considered sufficient treatment       for such patients, and,       according to the guidelines, 100% of patients suitable for radiotherapy       must be offered it.
In       Western countries, cancer treatment policies in major treatment centres       are governed by       guidelines, and therefore, while there are no data to measure the number       of men receiving this       treatment in comparison to earlier years, the changes to recognised       guidelines can be measured.
After the first UK presentation of the interim analysis, at the UK       National Cancer Research Institute       conference in 2010, Professor Sir Richard Peto (Professor of Medical       Statistics and Epidemiology,       University of Oxford ) stated publicly that he expected to see the       population mortality rates from       prostate cancer to fall following the implementation of this study.
Our       estimates are that       implementation of these study results will prevent up to around 1,000       deaths per year from       prostate cancer in the UK, around 5,000 deaths per year in the USA, and of       the order of 50,000       deaths per year worldwide.
Following the first presentation of the interim analysis in 2010, by       Professor P Warde in the US and       by Professor M Mason in the UK, there was intense, worldwide media       interest.
This was renewed       when the formal publication of the interim analysis was released in 2011;       a typical example being       the statement from the UK Prostate Cancer Charity, reported in the Daily       Telegraph, that       radiotherapy should be made a standard treatment for this condition5.1.
This view is further       endorsed by opinion leaders worldwide, for example, Professor W Shipley,       Harvard University and       Massachussets General Hospital, Boston, who states, quoting the present       study, that "...the       combined use of [(RT) and (HT)] for patients with locally advanced       prostate cancer should be the       recognized standard of care throughout the world"5.2,.
This change is reflected in the addition to published cancer treatment       guidelines.
In the UK, the       National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines on prostate       cancer5.3, 5.4 (update currently       in draft &#8212; October 2013) will quote this trial as evidence for mandating       the use of RT in these       patients.
Similarly, in the US, the NCCN guidelines5.5, which       are regarded as the cornerstone of       approved forms of cancer treatment in the country, quote the Intergroup       publication and       recommend RT plus HT as a standard.
In the US, like NICE guidance in the       UK, healthcare       providers are obliged to follow the recommended treatment pathways as       published by the National       Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), and this is reflected in insurance       re-imbursement.
The       European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines5.6 also quote       the publication, but their status is       not mandatory at the present time.
The trial will be quoted in the 2013       update of the EAU       guidelines, currently in preparation5.7.
In relation to the       Lancet publication, Professor Patrick Walsh,       Johns Hopkins', Baltimore, USA, states "The message is loud and clear.
All       patients with locally       advanced prostate cancer (T3 or T4), organ confined disease with a PSA       concentration of more       than 40 ng/ml, or PSA greater than 20 in the presence of Gleason score 8       or higher should receive       radiation in addition to androgen deprivation therapy"5.8.
The       survey of clinicians in the UK and in       Canada conducted by the Medical Research Council, and by the National       Cancer Institute of       Canada has been referred to earlier.
Among the findings were that 91% of       clinicians in Canada,       and 88% in the UK regarded the evidence on hormone therapy plus       radiotherapy to be sufficiently       strong for this to be the standard of care5.9.
In summary, and as discussed above, this study has triggered a change in       medical practice, whose       reach is international, covering at least the UK, Europe, and North       America with recommendations       extending to Asia5.2.
