     See section 5 for numbered corroborating sources (S1-S7).
Context     Atopic eczema affects approximately 30% of children, causing suffering at       a crucial time in their development.
An increasing prevalence has raised       concern that newborn skin care may be a factor.
Research conducted at UoM       dispelled the myth that all `natural' products are safe and all commercial       products are harmful, leading to changes in attitudes among healthcare       professionals and impacting on the information provided to new parents.
The research informed recent communications campaigns run by Johnson &amp;       Johnson (J&amp;J) and as a result has brought about increases in sales of       J&amp;J baby skin care products.
Furthermore, it has highlighted the need       for any products, used on babies, to be subjected to the same research       gold standard that is recognised for the use of medicines; currently this       is not compulsory.
Pathways to Impact     This research programme, partly funded by J&amp;J, provides an exemplar       of the impact of working with industry to obtain clinically meaningful       results which can have direct impact on practice.
Following publication of       the two randomised controlled trials [(4,5], J&amp;J conducted large       communication campaigns based on the key findings.
Separate campaigns       targeted healthcare professionals (e.g., conference presence, direct mail)       and new parents (e.g., digital and TV campaigns, maternity wards,       parenting press), leading to the impacts described below (S1).
Reach and Significance of the Impact     Impact on attitudes of healthcare professionals     J&amp;J reports that the campaign targeted at healthcare professionals       reached 85% of midwives and health visitors and supporting midwifery and       health visiting staff via one or more media (S1).
For example, syndicated       dissemination of the findings via the Bounty Health Network, which       provided face-to-face presentations on the research, reached 12,500       maternity and healthcare professionals (S1).
[text removed for       publication]     Further reach is revealed by the fact that the National Eczema Society is       using our research to advise parents and health care professionals on       appropriate skin care practices (S2).
Impact on guidelines and training     The trials [4,5] challenge current NICE Postnatal Care Guidelines (due       for renewal in 2015), which advocate `water alone' or `mild soap' for baby       cleansing.
The mechanistic study [6] alerts parents to the potential harm       caused by certain household oils.
Findings from our programme of work have       been incorporated into a number of international guidelines, in the USA (Association         of Women's Health, Obstetrics and Neonatal Nursing (AWHONN)) (S3)       and Europe (Update of European Round table Recommendations) (S4).
These updates are a direct result of our findings and are changing skin       care practices as revealed by changes in information given to new mothers.
Findings from these studies and reviews have become integrated into a       number of national training programmes; of note is inclusion of the       studies in the British Journal of Midwifery's Continual Professional       Development programme (S5).
Impact on information provided to new parents     National provision of parental information has changed as a direct result       of our findings.
New information leaflets have been produced with direct       reference to our research.
These leaflets are provided in Bounty packs,       which are distributed in maternity units to every new mother in England.
Several units (e.g., Southampton, North Berkshire) (S1) now support       women's choice to use these tested products within the hospital.
As a direct result of the research, the baby wipes (sensitive) and       bathing product (top-to-toe) packaging has been changed to include direct       reference to the trial and a web address linking consumers to the research       findings.
This provides parents with the confidence that their chosen       product is based on a pragmatic clinical trial.
J&amp;J refers to our work       in product information, advertising and health professional training       (S1,S6).
A recent YouTube film (S7) featuring our research has received       nearly 400,000 hits.
Commercial impact for J&amp;J     [text removed for publication]
