     See section 5 for numbered corroborating sources (S1-S6).
Context and pathways to Impact     This work began in 1993 through collaboration with researchers at the     National Primary Care     Research and Development Centre at the University of Manchester.
The aim was     to address how     to improve patient choice in relation to access to primary care, which was a     key concern for health     care policy makers.
However, the contribution of community pharmacy in the     delivery of primary     health care was a neglected topic; of interest to policy makers was how     patients viewed and     experienced care delivered through community pharmacy, how barriers to     increasing the use of     community pharmacists could be eliminated, and how that care could be     conceptualised     theoretically so that dimensions of care that were important to patients     could be identified and     understood in relation to NHS-reimbursed services.
Reach and Significance     Impact on pharmacy and GP services       Our findings from the `Care@TheChemist' scheme by the DH were used       to inform discussions       about changes to pharmacists' reimbursement system, and the design and       delivery of services       under the new community pharmacy contract.
As a direct result of the       trial, the English and       Scottish governments introduced national minor ailments services (S1).
The       Head of Pharmacy at       the DH confirmed "On the strength of this research, Minor Ailments         Schemes (MAS) were         introduced as NHS Pharmaceutical Services for the first time in 2005         through Directions for NHS         locally commissioned Enhanced Services.
Through the Pharmacy White Paper         "Pharmacy in         England: Building on the strengths &#8212; delivering the future" published in         2008, NHS Employers were         mandated to explore and negotiate the inclusion of MAS into the national         community pharmacy         contractual framework (paragraph 4.25)".
The DH in England agreed in       2005 to include the "minor       ailment scheme" (MAS) in tier 3 of the new NHS community pharmacy       contract, and of the 20       enhanced services pharmacists can now provide, the MAS scheme is ranked       third in relation to the       number of community pharmacies in England delivering the service (3,537 in       2011-12) (S2).
In       Scotland, virtually all pharmacies provide a MAS service to over 790,000       people involving an       average of over 11,500 consultations per day (June 2011) (S3).
The pilot       and subsequent roll out       of the service nationally also received accolade from peers, when it was       cited as `a rare example of       an evidence based service' (Blenkinsopp and Bond, 2010) (S4).
Impact on prescription charges       Recommendations on prescription charges made by the researchers helped to       inform government       and professional discussions about whether the prescription charge system       should be abolished or       amended.
In 2009 Schafheutle presented written and oral evidence       on the research findings to       the Royal College of Physicians Working Party (S5) as part of their       deliberations concerning       charges in relation to the treatment of long standing conditions (having       earlier been called before       the Health Select Committee).
Our recommendation to look at amending the       pre-payment       certificate scheme led to significant changes in the scheme implemented.
To make them more       affordable pre-payments certificates can now be obtained by patients for       shorter time periods and       a direct debit scheme has also been introduced to help minimise the cost       burden.
Another major       change was the recognition that cancer should be treated as a long term       condition exempt from       prescription charges.
Impact on policy       Over a sustained period of time our policy evaluation and skill mix work       has been pivotal in shaping       the DH's modernisation of the operation of NHS community pharmacies (S1).
Specifically, our       MUR evaluation has informed implementation of the subsequent New Medicines       Service and our       skill mix research was used to secure the necessary changes in primary       legalisation (through the       2006 Health Act), to allow the Responsible Pharmacist (RP) Regulations (SI       2008:2789) to be laid       in 2008.
This was the first stage in introducing flexibility within the       legal framework for operating       community pharmacies, allowing the RP to be absent from the pharmacy to       undertake clinical       activities off-site.
Impact on policy continues with our recent work on       risk perception and its relation       to supervision in community pharmacy, since this informs the second stage       of the modernisation of       regulation of pharmacies by the General Pharmaceutical Council, through       providing essential       evidence to the recently established DH "Rebalancing Medicines Legislation       and Pharmacy       Regulation" programme board (Chair: Ken Jarrold CBE).
Finally, our workforce research has had a key impact on shaping       discussions about a number of       contemporary labour market issues for pharmacists and their support staff,       in particular questions       about supply and demand and forecasting future requirements for       pharmacists numbers, the       supply of undergraduate training places, pre-registration training,       education, and career       development, and the management of workplace pressures in community       pharmacy.
The research       findings have had impact for employing organisations in both the public       and private sectors, and       have been widely used by a range of professional and government bodies,       including DH, GPhC,       RPS, and CfWI, and the All Wales Modernising Pharmacy Board.
For example,       findings from our       longitudinal studies and other commissioned research work forms the basis       of almost a third of the       citations in a recent report by the CfWI to inform government pharmacy       workforce development       policy (S6).
