     1 Inequities in access to breast cancer treatment     Our findings have directly shaped policy and informed public and       political debate as follows.
a) Our work on inequalities of access to breast cancer services [1] was       used as evidence in the Cancer Reform Strategy (2007p.89; S1) for the need       to address age related inequality in treatment and formation of a National       Cancer Equality Initiative (set up in 2008).
Our work is cited as evidence       of continued need in the report on progress by the National Cancer       Equality Initiative (Reducing cancer inequality 2010 p76; S2) which       proposes the establishment of age as a key treatment equality metric.
Our       work is quoted as the rationale for the National Cancer Research       Intelligence Network's continued monitoring of under-treatment of older       people (S3).
b) Our research informed political and policy briefings and we       contributed to breakfast events, organised by breast cancer charities, at       the 2009 party political conferences.
The research was cited in the joint       breast cancer charities' statement to the Parliamentary Group on Cancer's       inquiry into cancer inequalities.
2 Appropriate follow up after breast cancer treatment     Our trial of follow up after breast cancer [2] was cited as evidence in       the updated Guidelines for Breast Cancer Follow up of the American Society       of Clinical Oncology (S4).
These guidelines set the standard for cancer       management internationally and have had world-wide impact on management of       breast cancer.
3 Physical wellbeing pre- and post treatment     a) Our malnutrition screening alone has improved care for nearly 100,000       patients annually: "[MUST] was subsequently implemented in three         hospitals which have nearly 100,000 inpatient admissions annually.
For         all admissions, nutritional screening with the MUST tool is undertaken         and the care plan instigated".
[Letter from Central Manchester       Foundation Hospital Trust (S5)].
b) Our work on cough and respiratory symptoms has been central in shaping       national clinical guidelines on management of cough in lung cancer, and       specifically within "Clinical expert guidelines for the management of         cough in lung cancer: report of a UK task group on cough" (S6).
The       guidelines impact on management of a distressing symptom that affects       47-85% of the &gt;41,000 UK patients diagnosed with lung cancer each year.
4 Economic impact of cancer on survivors: returning to work     Over 700,000 people of working age live with cancer across UK.
The loss       in UK productivity from cancer survivors being unable to undertake work is       estimated at &#163;5.49 billion.
Even modest improvement in survivors' return       to work has considerable impact.
We contributed substantially to the       Department of Health (DH) and Macmillan Cancer Support launch of the       National Cancer Survivorship Initiative (NCSI), serving on the Secretariat       and summarising existing literature.
Impact through NCSI:     a) Our research was instrumental in developing the NCSI Vision document       (S7);     b) Based on our evidence, the NCSI Work and Finance work-stream       identified its aim to ensure that people living with cancer receive       information, advice and rehabilitation support;     c) Our work was central in reviewing vocational rehabilitation services       and developing a cancer vocational rehabilitation model for piloting and       provided underpinning evidence for the final Discussion Paper (S8);     d) The rehabilitation model was piloted across England (2010-2011).
The       report evaluating this work, recognising the Manchester contribution,       reveals significant improvement in employment status and cost gains (S9).
Impacts through Macmillan Cancer Support (MCS):     e) Based on our work MCS launched the "Working through Cancer" programme.
The key document, "The road to recovery: getting back to work", was       substantially underpinned by our research.
The programme, which is heavily       dependent on our work, includes (a) vocational rehabilitation; (b) support       for small and medium enterprises, where both the MCS advice for employers       (S10) and a MCS scoping study to establish suitable resources for       employers, heavily reference our work; (c) "Putting fair into welfare",       a successful campaign to oppose proposed government changes to the       benefits system that would have left thousands of people living with       cancer without vital financial support when they most needed it.
f) Our evidence was instrumental in supporting MCS Benefits Adviser posts       throughout the UK.
Delivered out of 76 Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB)       offices there are 43 MCS/CAB specialist cancer benefits advice services       providing specialist advice on welfare benefits, tax credits, grants and       loans and help from local authority.
It is estimated that the MCS/ CAB       service has helped over 39,000 people with over 19,000 issues, 78% related       to welfare benefits.
5 Support needs of family carers during end of life care     The Carer Support Needs Assessment Tool (CSNAT) has been implemented in 9       palliative home care services in UK and one in Australia.
The UK services       alone support 4100-4600 carers per annum.
40 UK home care services are       committed to implementing CSNAT in late 2013 (S11).
CSNAT research       findings formed a section of Help the Hospices Guidance on carer       assessment, and our work informed European Association for Palliative Care       guidance (S12) which formed the basis for Marie Curie Cancer Care       investment in carer research.
