     Context     Falls are the most serious and frequent home accident.
About 1/3 people       aged &gt;65 fall each year, with 50% resulting in injuries; many minor       injuries but 10% result in major injuries and fractures.
Falls have       psychological and social consequences.
For example, fear of falling is       more common amongst older people than fear of crime.
Falls are major       predictors of loss of independence and admission to long term care.
Falls       cost more than &#163;5.6m per day (&gt;&#163;2.3b per year) in NHS and social care       costs.
Whilst prevention is cost effective, there has been poor uptake of       prevention programmes in populations at risk.
Pathways to Impact     Our research contributed to changes in policy in the UK and across the       world.
We developed a large network of practitioners, clinicians and       policy makers via the ProFaNE website, which had 4,500 members from 30       countries in 2008.
Todd and Skelton wrote the WHO Europe       2004 policy synthesis on falls; and Todd was a co-author of the       WHO 2007 Global Report on Falls Prevention in Older Age.
We worked with       the British Geriatrics Society, Help the Aged (now Age UK) and       professional groups across Europe to inform policy.
We provided advice to       the National Clinical Director for Older People, and Quality and Outcomes       Framework (QOF) on falls in the UK, advised the Ministry of Health in       British Columbia, Canada and fall and injury prevention groups across       Europe through the European Association for Injury Prevention and Safety       Promotion.
There are more than 2000 qualified Postural Stability       Instructors (PSI) in the UK.
This qualification is disseminated by Later       Life Training Ltd and validated by the Register of Exercise Professionals.
It is a direct implementation of the FAME programme; published in 2005       when Skelton worked at the UoM [1] (S1).
Reach and Significance of the Impact     Falls interventions     According to the RCP 2012 audit, 54% of NHS Trusts report they have PSI       trained staff delivering falls prevention services (S1&amp;S2).
PSI is       recommended best practice by AgeUK Expert Series (S3) and in DH Guidance       (S4).
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (US CDC)       recommends the FAME programme as a core fall prevention intervention (S6).
Uptake and adherence     UK: Prior to our work NHS and voluntary sector services presented       themselves as falls prevention services, with the risks of falls writ       large.
Our findings that older people reject personal risk but would be       more likely to be motivated by positive benefits, resulted in clear       changes in the way services were presented by professionals; away from       emphasising the dangers of falls to emphasising positive coping.
"National         falls prevention policy has been heavily influenced by the work of Prof         Todd and his team at the University of Manchester...
There has been a         shift in emphasis in the way falls prevention is promoted to older         people, which is a direct result of the work of Prof Todd's ProFaNE         project... At a fundamental level this is reflected by the way services         were rebadged from `Fall Prevention' to `Healthy Living'."
[Former       National Clinical Director for Older People (2010-13) (S5)].
Much of this       came about through the publication of the booklet "Don't mention the       F-word", which was completely based on our research commissioned by Help       the Aged (S3&amp;S5).
Our findings resulted in change to AgeUK and DH       policy nationally, exemplified in the DH Best Practice Guidance "Falls         and fractures: effective interventions in health and social care 2009"       (S4&amp;S5).
"This research underpinned the development of National         Falls Awareness Day which remains a high profile annual UK event hosted         by AgeUK" [Former Head of Healthy Ageing, Help the Aged (S5)].
Our       work stimulated DH fall prevention policy to consider equity related to       deprivation and ethnicity.
"The research of Todd's group on the         attitudes to falls and exercise amongst ethnic minority populations in         England... was the main evidence informing this assessment" [Former       National Clinical Director for Older People (Acting 2008-10) (S5)].
Our       work continues to influence services following Public Health       reorganisation (S4).
Europe: One of a number of examples is to be found in the       Netherlands.
The national Stichtung Consument en Veiligheid (Consumer       &amp; Safety Institute: CSI) in 2006 developed a TV campaign focused on       risk and death from falls.
"Based on the research presented by Prof.         Todd, the campaign management team recognised that the campaign was         based on the idea that raising awareness by drawing attention to the         threat of falls may not be the most productive approach.
Prof Todd         consulted with the campaign manager (Hannelore Schoulten) on the need to         emphasise positive benefits rather than risk (threat).
On this basis CSI         redesigned its campaign on falls prevention and subsequent campaigns         emphasise benefits of staying active" [Former Director of       Stichtung Consument en Veiligheid (S7)].
North America: Our research has influenced policy across Canada.
"Professor         Todd's ground breaking studies... strongly influenced recommendations on         the social context of fall prevention that formulates key messaging in         our national fall prevention curriculum for health professionals...         delivered to over 3,000 health professionals in Canada... and shown to         bring about positive changes in practice...
In Canada we have embraced         the message as a key component of all our fall prevention programs..."       [Senior Advisor Fall and Injury Prevention, BC Ministry of Health (S8)].
Worldwide: The WHO adopted our format when writing the 2007 WHO       Global Report on Falls Prevention in Older Age and our work is cited       throughout the report but especially in Chapter 4, which presents best       practice on how to implement effective fall prevention campaigns.
The WHO       guidance reflects the findings of our work on uptake and adherence and is       modelled on our recommendations paper [4] (S9).
Fear of Falling     We developed the Falls Efficacy Scale International (FES-I and Short       FES-I), measures now translated into 30 languages.
FES-I is generally       recognised as the lead instrument in the field (Hartford Institute for       Geriatric Nursing USA; Best Tool Try This assessment 2011; S10).
The FES-I       is widely used clinically to assess patients' fear of falling and as an       outcome measure of interventions.
A survey of UK exercise instructors 2013       reveals FES-I used by 23% in clinical practice.
Numerous hospital and       community guidelines recommend use of FES-I: examples include services in       Berkshire or Shropshire, and Health Foundation Best Practice Guidance       recommends use of FES-I (S10).
In the USA, the national Collaboration for       Homecare Advances in Management and Practice Program recommends FES-I as       part of its Geriatric Falls Prevention Toolkit (S10).
Wealth generation     There is a contribution to the UK economy from the development of the       FaME exercise intervention implemented as PSI [1] (S1).
Later Life       Training Ltd is a "not for profit" company, which trains exercise       instructors to deliver evidence based exercises to older people.
Much of       the business is based on PSI/FaME.
The company has an annual turnover of       &#163;359k, employs 3FTE administrative and office staff, and 16 self employed       tutors derive incomes by training exercise trainers and delivering PSI       themselves.
Around UK about 700 PSI instructors currently earn at least       part of their livings based on delivering PSI/FaME to older people [1]       (S1).
