     The impact of the work of the ERC can be seen in the demonstration of       developed techniques at       the industrial scale in collaboration with EU industry.
It has made an       impact in the glass melting,       power generation and steel manufacturing industries.
In collaboration with GDF Suez and Global Combustion Systems Ltd. an       alternative firing       technique for use during the manufacture of glass is now being       demonstrated through an       European 7th Framework demonstration grant that GDF Suez is       coordinating with Global       Combustion Systems and the University of South Wales, the original       research partners, and with       the additional glass manufacturer partners of Sise Cam in Turkey and Owens       Illinois in France.
The original research was funded through two Carbon Trust grants in       collaboration with GDF Suez       and GCS in 2002 and 2004.
The new firing method has been demonstrated       successfully at pilot       scale.
The patented technique (patent held by GDF SUEZ on behalf of the       University of South       Wales and Global Combustion Systems with royalties being shared via a       collaboration agreement)       uses auxiliary injection of part of the fuel to yield significant NOx       reductions (60%+) and efficiency       improvements (2-5%) with no adverse impact on the furnace crown       temperature or heat transfer to       the glass.
The impact and contribution of the University of South Wales       has been through its       modelling work.
Zone modelling as a computationally efficient technique       enables parametric       studies to be undertaken of a large number of interesting scenarios, in a       way that would not be       possible with computational fluid dynamic modelling.
This modelling is       used by the consortium to       identify likely locations for the auxiliary injection and then       complementary modelling with a Perspex       scaled model of the glass melting furnace, using the acid-alkali       technique, is used to enable the       temporal dynamics of the furnace to be simulated.
This has enabled the ERC       to advise the       consortium as to which furnace configurations to discount due to       instabilities in the furnace, again       something that is extremely difficult to accomplish with CFD.
Similar       modelling work in       collaboration with Tata Steel in the UK (that has developed over two CASE       PhD awards and earlier       work with Wyman-Gordon, USA, has yielded a 3D model of the heat transfer       characteristics of a       real industrial steel reheating furnace that is able to operate in near       real time.
These rapid       simulation times make the modelling technique suitable for use in process       control and to undertake       parametric studies of different furnace scheduling configurations.
Recently the ERC has been       successful in obtaining a RFCS research project, coordinated by       VDEh-Betriebs-forschungsinstitut       GmbH in Germany with Tata in the UK and Gerdau Sidenor in Spain and Swerea       MEFOS in       Sweden, that will further develop these modelling techniques for a range       of industrial reheating       furnaces in the EU to enable advanced scheduling of steel reheating.
Another example of the impact of the work of the ERC is the demonstration       of burner monitoring       techniques to control coal/biomass combustion on a utility power station       (Dolna Oldra, Poland) in a       Research Fund for Coal and Steel sponsored project (RFCR-CT-2008-00009).
Partners on the       project were the Institute of Power Engineering (Poland), University of       Zaragoza (Spain), Gas       Natural Fenosa (Spain) and Indra Systems (Spain).
The project was       coordinated by Wilcox and       successfully demonstrated a developed intelligent monitoring system able       to reduce emissions and       increase the combustion efficiency of full-scale industrial burners       co-firing various coals and straw.
The technique uses relatively inexpensive sensors to monitor the       individual flame and from the       information recorded it is possible to extract salient features in the       joint time-frequency domain and       then use artificial neural networks to detect burner instabilities and       correlate with the individual       burner emissions.
This information was then used to demonstrate individual       burner control for NOx       and excess air.
Wilcox is coordinating a FP7 project under the Energy       programme (FP7-ENERGY-2010-2       268191 RELCOM "Reliable and Efficient Combustion of Oxygen/Coal/Recycled       Flue Gas       Mixtures") that is undertaking a systematic and focused series of applied       research, development       and demonstration activities involving both experimental studies and       combustion modelling work to       enable full-scale early demonstration oxyfuel plant to be designed and       specified with greater       confidence as well as providing improved assessment of the commercial       risks and opportunities.
The monitoring of flames under these conditions is crucial to ensuring       flame stability       (www.relcomeu.com).
