     The launch of the project was a direct result of two major developments       in British and global economic affairs.
Firstly, the spectacular and       unexpected revival of the fortunes of the British Co-operative Group after       2000, after half a century of decline.
Secondly a pan-European revival of       interest in mutuals and co-operatives in the wake of the global crisis of       2008, which resulted in states being compelled to withdraw from the       provision of a vast range of services, precisely at a time when confidence       in the ability of investor led commercial organisations to fill the gap       had been shaken to its roots.
The result was a European-wide interest in       the revival of `Third Sector/Civil Society' solutions to existing       problems, as exemplified in the `Social Innovation' agenda prioritised in       European Research Funding plans in `Horizon 2020'.
In Britain, this was       famously encapsulated in the Coalition Government's commitment to `Big       Society' and the promotion of new mutuals to meet the challenge of a       contracting state.
The creation of 500 Co-operative Trust Schools in the       last few years, as an alternative to academies and LEA control, is an       example of this revival in action.
These developments have lent the       project &#8212; the first major investigation into the development of Britain's       leading co-operative business since the 1940s - additional importance in       terms of informing future strategies within the Group and other       initiatives seeking the revival of co-operation as an alternative to       traditional forms of business organisation and delivery.
As the research project has revealed new information and insights, these       have been shared with approximately 350 members, senior managers and       employees through a planned programme of events specifically designed to       enable members and employees to incorporate this knowledge into their work       and activities.
In most cases, the influence of the research findings       presented was assessed by questionnaire.
Between October 2011 and June       2013, ten speaking events were held across the UK and delivered by Dr       Webster at: Beamish (NE England); London (twice); Manchester (AGM of the       Co-operative Group with representatives from all regions in the UK); the       Isle of Man; Belfast; Newport (Wales); Taunton; Bath; and Cardiff       (Co-operative Congress 2013).
Two hundred and twenty-six responses have been gathered from events, and       the responses show:     a) That 222 members (98%) feel that they learned more about the history       of the co-operative movement than they knew before &#8212; at least to some       extent     b) That 208 members (92%) feel that what they learned will help them at       least to some extent in their work as co-operators     c) That 191 members (85%) believe that the session made a difference to       them as a co-operator     In addition, there were five educational events involving the delivery of       a module entitled `Celebrating our Co-operative Heritage'; the content of       the module was based on the findings of the Business History project       including the significance of its business model, the challenges it has       faced, the strategies it has followed; the module was designed by the       project team.
The learning outcomes of the module are provided below:            To appreciate the significance of the Rochdale business model and         founding principles       To understand how the Co-operative Group has evolved to where it is         today       Through review of the recent history of the Group from the early         1980s, to understand the difficulties/challenges faced and the actions         taken in the twenty-first century to get our business back on track       Through review the role of co-operatives, including the Co-operative         Group, to understand the role they have in campaigning for change          The inaugural delivery of module took place at the Co-operative Winter       School, Liverpool on 1 February 2012, other events took place in       Manchester, Leeds, Bristol and South Lanarkshire between February and       August 2012.
The first three of the events were delivered by the research       team and the remainder were delivered by the Co-operative's own trainers       using the materials developed by the research group.
The Co-operative       Group elected members and employees who attended these events were       assessed on work which involved plans to disseminate what they learned       from the module to the wider membership; and successful attendees received       an accredited "Certificate in Co-operation".
Seventy-two elected members       and employees attended these events, and 92% agreed that their performance       as elected members or employees would be improved by taking the module.
These results indicate that members and employees feel that the research       has enhanced their understanding of the movement and that this helps them       to communicate the principles and practice of co-operation more       effectively to fellow members and/or employees.
The elected members and       employees who attended the educational events are tasked with deepening       the understanding of co-operative principles and history within the wider       membership as part of their roles, and as such there is a `cascade' effect       which facilitates even wider reach to the membership than is captured in       the figures above.
