 A comprehensive Impact strategy was built into the FoES project from the outset.
IPPR's involvement in the project was central to implementation of this strategy: IPPR helped ensure publicity for the findings of the successive waves of research, and also brokered discussions with senior Labour party figures.
The strategy has enabled the research to have three substantial non-academic impacts.
First, the research stimulated widespread public debate on the status of England within the United Kingdom.
Publication of the two FoES reports (in January 20123.5 and July 20133.6) prompted widespread media comment and debate, including:  Well over 100 newspaper reports on the findings (including stories in all the main London quality newspapers), and Leader articles in many London and Scottish-based newspapers; Features on major broadcast news shows (including Radio 4's Today programme) and on the BBC News website.5.1  Op-ed pieces written by research team members around publication of the FoES II report, published in the Daily Telegraph, Scotsman, Western Mail, and on the Conservative Home and New Statesman blogs; Analysis by leading political commentators (including Bagehot in The Economist5.2, Andrew Rawnsley in The Observer5.3, Jackie Ashley and Martin Kettle in The Guardian, Philip Johnston in the Daily Telegraph, Dominic Sandbrook in the Daily Mail, and Brian Taylor of BBC Scotland) of the implications of the research for England's status within the UK and/or the potentially destabilising effects for Britain of English dissatisfaction with current governing arrangements.
The wider influence of FoES on political debate is shown by, inter alia, references to the research made in Alex Salmond's January 2012 Hugo Young Lecture; references in the November 2012 report of the Commission on Improving Devolution in Wales; numerous discussions of the research on highly influential blogs (see examples in section 5)5.4, 5.5; and the invitation extended to the research team to present findings at the 2013 Hay Literary Festival.
Second, the research directly influenced the Final Report of the McKay Commission5.6 (the Commission on the Consequences of Devolution for the House of Commons) to which Jeffery was appointed in recognition of his expertise on Englishness.
Wyn Jones presented FoES I findings to an inaugural private meeting of the Commission, and FoES II included several questions requested by the Commission.
The Commission used (then unpublished) FoES II findings in its March 2013 Final Report, citing FoES heavily (see McKay 2013: pp14-205.6) as providing "compelling evidence that there are distinct concerns, felt across England, that lack sufficient opportunity to be expressed through current institutional arrangements" (p.21).
This understanding of public attitudes, in turn, underpinned the Commission's central recommendation that "decisions at the United Kingdom level with a separate and distinct effect for England...should normally be taken only with the consent of a majority of MPs for constituencies in England" (pp.8-9).
The direct influence of FoES II has been acknowledged by the Commission chair, William McKay:5.7 "[I]t was essential to understand how the electorate in England viewed present arrangements, and what if any adjustments they considered necessary...
These demands were fully met by the FoES 2012...The FoES was in short an essential, clear and helpful foundation for the Commission's understanding of the contents and direction of the `English Question' in spring of 2013.
On that basis the Commission was enabled to make proposals for a solution to the West Lothian Question."
Third, the most prominent FoES finding &#8212; of an increasingly distinct English identity and growing demand for institutional recognition of that identity &#8212; has influenced the Labour Party's constitutional thinking5.8, 5.9,5.10.
Several left-leaning blogs immediately responded to the first FoES report by arguing for a new Labour approach towards England.
That challenge was taken up by senior Labour figures, including John Denham, Private Secretary to Labour Leader Ed Miliband.
Denham blogged on the IPPR website in late-January 2012 about the need for Labour to develop a positive `case for a progressive England'.
Denham referred directly to the FoES' finding of resentment among the English: that they "feel like they are losing out and being treated less fairly than the others" (Denham 20125.8).
Denham advocated a response based in the revitalisation of English local government rather than special procedures for English laws at Westminster.
These thoughts were expanded upon in a major speech by Ed Miliband in June 20125.9 in which Miliband argued that "the best reflection of devolution to Scotland and Wales in England lies in taking power out of Whitehall and devolving it down to local authorities"; Miliband's Senior Advisor, Lord Wood, has confirmed that "[t]he report on English attitudes was studied by Ed's advisers, and helped inform the speech he gave at the Royal Festival Hall last year.
We all recognise the growing importance of this agenda and your research has proved an invaluable resource for us".
Other senior Labour figures, notably Wayne David, Shadow Minister for Political and Constitutional Reform, while taking a rather different line in advocating special procedures for English laws at Westminster, have also referred directly to FoES findings in developing their arguments.5.10
