     Flood Foresight established a radically different approach to the study       of future flood risks and their management, based on a long-term       examination of the entire UK flooding system.
Effective stakeholder       engagement was crucial to achieving the aims of Flood Foresight and was       delivered through `buy-in' workshops organised by Thorne.
Research       outcomes were targeted to government, policy makers and technical       specialists with the aid of a science writer.
The findings led to a       significant shift in UK flood risk management, enacted by the Floods and       Water Management Act 2010 (a).
The Act includes multiple recommendations       from Flood Foresight, several stemming specifically from Thorne's       research.
These include accounting for environmental as well social and       economic flood risks, and working with natural processes.
Implementation       of the 2010 Act changes and clarifies the responsibilities of different       parties, supports co-ordinated actions, strengthens the roles of local       stakeholders and fosters the co-production of knowledge related to IFRM.
Additionally, the management of flood risk is now better integrated with       environmental regulation, notably through the promotion of Natural Flood       Management in conjunction with conventional, structural and non-structural       solutions.
Flood Foresight, including Thorne's research, has informed government,       policy makers and implementing organisations at strategic and operational       levels, changing the framework of delivery of flood and coastal risk       management (g).
It has directly improved the flood risk assessment       capabilities of the EA where a significant amount of current research has       its roots in Flood Foresight (g, h).
The Director of Flood and Coastal       Risk Management at the EA summarised Flood Foresight research as "ground       breaking and world leading science", further explaining that "you       can go onto our website, you can type your postcode in and you'll see       whether you are in a floodplain or not, and you'll also be able to, by       a move of the mouse, determine what your level of risk is, and that is       using the science that was provided through the Foresight Project"       (f).
The EA uses Flood Foresight research to quantify the impact of flood       risk and the costs of investment in reducing risk (h), and adopts this       approach in Thames Estuary 2100, its plan for protecting London       from flooding for the rest of this century (d, h).
The research continues to inform EA Flood and Coastal Erosion Risk       Management (FCERM) planning through the Future National Flood Risk       Assessment and Long term Investment Strategy.
In relation to Thorne's       research on working with natural processes, the EA's Director of Flood and       Coastal Risk Management stated in 2013 that "a really good example       is the Steart Peninsula in Somerset where we are creating significant       intertidal habitat but at the same time... protecting a community that       is at risk of flooding and ... providing future compensatory habitat       for other works that may be needed in the Severn estuary" (f).
Flood Foresight, and the 2008 Flood Foresight Update, have significantly       influenced national policy on the management of flood risk across a range       of government departments and operating organisations (a, b and c).
For       example, the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and       the Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG) now ensure that       flood risk is fully taken into account at all stages in the planning       process.
As a DCLG spokesperson has stated: "The [Flood Foresight]       report was very important in providing the justification for, and       setting the approach and scope of planning policy" (e).
Thorne's research impacts are felt beyond the UK and extend overseas.
According to the UK Government Office for Science, Flood Foresight's       principles have, for example, now been adopted more widely in China,       expanding the original impact on the Taihu Basin (h).
The Director of the       Department of Water Hazard Research and Vice-Chief Engineer of the China       Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research states that: "the       value of the Flood Foresight study has been fully recognised and       highly appraised.
That's why the [Chinese] government gives       continued support to such study in the 12th       five-year science and technology support plan."
The Director       also states that "the significance of the [Taihu Basin] project is           [in] giving us a model and approach of scientific decision-making to           ensure sustainable development" (j).
Catastrophic flooding in Queensland, Australia, in 2011 has also prompted       a Flood Foresight mission in 2012, co-led by Thorne, and the Gold Coast       City Council has now developed its own Foresight-style scenario-based       planning approach (i).
