     The impact of the research is demonstrated through the widespread       adoption of the       IASIG Game Audio Curriculum Guidelines as an internationally       recognised       framework, and the use of The Game Audio Tutorial as a core text       in many HE       institutions worldwide.
The Interactive Audio Special Interest Group of       the MIDI       Manufacturers Association's authority and reputation in the field has led       to       widespread adoption of the to the guidelines document (downloaded 3755       times to       date since its launch at the Game developers Conference, San Francisco, 1st       March       2011).
The global impact of the curriculum research can be seen directly       in the       development of courses such as Video Game Scoring (UG FS371, Masters       FS615,       Berklee College of Music, Boston), Composing for Games (MPATE-GE.2128, NYU       Steinhardt, New York), Sound for Games (MUS195, MUS617 Academy of Art       University, San Francisco), and the new provision emerging in places such       as the       University of Cape Town, South Africa.
A specific case study of the impact       of the       guidelines on curriculum development at the Art Institute of Austin, Texas       can be       found in Sarinsky's AES journal paper "Integrating `Audio for Games'         Into the Modern         Audio Production Curriculum."
Since 2012 the guidelines also inform       the       accreditation of courses in the UK via the Skillset accredited body JAMES.
In       addition to its impact of curricula and syllabi the guidelines are also       impacting on       professional development, "We are using the guidelines in developing the       official       FMOD learning suite as well as the other educational material we create."
Stephan       Schutze (FMod is a widely adopted audio middleware solution in industry).
The main `users' of the research are of course academics so it is       unsurprising that       we reference supporting comments from authoritative figures in the field       such as       Karen Collins ("Stevens and Raybould ... present the reader with an       excellent       introduction to the concepts of interactive game sound... this book is       sure to find a       home in many classrooms and homes of aspiring sound designers, composers,       and       audio programmers."
(Focal Press Review) but it is important to also       acknowledge       that many institutions, particularly in the USA, value the contribution of       industry       professionals to their courses and so the adoption of the Game Audio       Tutorial as a       textbook in these instances further supports the case for its quality and       relevance.
Gary Miranda uses the book to teach at The Recording Arts Centre, San       Diego, but       is a composer and sound designer working for Sony Online Entertainment,       the       Advanced Interactive Audio course at Full Sail University based around the       book has       the award winning composer (Game Audio Network Guild awards, 2011), Dan       Reynolds as leader.
Other industry professionals such as Ben Minto, (part       of the       BAFTA award winning team behind the game Battlefield 3 (DICE, 2012))       report that it       is "a very good book &#8212; already recommended it to folk starting out and       people who       run Video Game courses.
", Scott Selfon (Senior development lead in       Microsoft's       advanced technology group) recommended the book during his presentation at       GDC       2011) and Michael Kelly, Vice-Chair of the Audio Engineering Society       Technical       council, and Chair of the AES Audio for Games conference described it as       being, "An         excellent hands-on introduction to game audio.
I'd recommend it to         anyone starting in         the area."
The game audio tutorial has also been widely recognised by the industry       not only for       students wishing to enter the profession, but also as a vehicle for       professional       development.
The Game Audio Podcast says that there is "no finer way to       start off       your education in this area", and Game Developer Magazine names the book       as one       of the top five resources for learning game audio (January, 2013) and in       his review       for Music, Sound and the Moving Image journal (2011) the composer Marios       Aristopolous states, "..the level of technical detail of the practical       exercises and       techniques is impressive and is not evident in any other books of this       field, making it       an ideal read for game audio students and designers.
", and many       independent       readers have commented on the books application in their personal       development       (Amzon reviews).
The Game Audio Tutorial has sold 1500 copies to date but the number is       perhaps       not representative of its impact) given that the accompanying tutorial       level was       downloaded 2941 times in the first twelve months alone (the discrepancy is       probably       due to significant piracy of electronic copies of the book).
Its wider       impact can       perhaps be indicated by the fact that the search term "Game Audio"       (www.google.com 15.11.12) reveals the website for the book as the second       result       from 2,480,000.
