     Crome's and Hutchinson's bodies of work are united in their promotion of       philosophical literacy as       a method of facilitating professionals' own identification, rational       appraisal and practical adjustment       of the conceptual frames operative in the areas of pedagogy (Crome) and       public health       (Hutchinson).
A philosophically-literate awareness of the role played by       conceptual frames enables       professionals to identify the theoretical assumptions that frame policy       and practice in their spheres       of work, and to include alternative ways of thinking into their approach       to tackling practical       problems as they arise.
Through his early research on pedagogy Crome made contact with lecturers       and Special       Educational Needs advisors working in the Higher Education sector, and       collaborated with them on       the HEA PRS-LTSN supported project on enhancing academic achievement among       Philosophy       students.
Following on from this, in 2009 Crome was invited to collaborate       in the development of a       web area hosted by the University of Leeds to provide a platform of       resources for final-year       undergraduate dissertation students, advising on how best to research and       write a dissertation in       Philosophy.
His presentation on teaching techniques and technologies,       delivered at a HEA-sponsored       colloquium at MMU in 2008, has been published on the British Philosophical       Association website [A] as a key reference point in the field.
In       2010 his co-authored article, `What       is Autonomous Learning?
', published on the HEA PRS-LTSN web-site, "was the       second most       popular page" after the HEA PRS-LTSN home-page itself, "with 2,773 page       views" [B].
The PRS-LTSN       Centre Manager has stated that the work Crome did with and published       through the PRS-LTSN       subject centre, `informed and influenced the pedagogic thinking and       practice of others' [C],       and it has been described as having `influenced curriculum developments       ... in philosophy       departments across UK higher education' and as being `one of the most       influential bodies of work       in philosophy teaching and learning in the UK in recent years' [B].
That work led to Crome being       invited in 2011 to collaborate as a consultant and contributor on the Philosophy         and Pedagogy         Channel: Best Practice in Teaching Philosophy project, a video forum       of ideas of best practice in       the learning and teaching of philosophy [D].
He was also invited       to contribute to a panel       addressing a large gathering of teachers and educationalists at the 14th       International Writing       Development in Higher Education Conference at Liverpool Hope University in       July 2012.
Currently       Crome is preparing a collaborative bid with philosophers at Nottingham       Trent University to the HEA       in 2014.The bid builds on his research concerning event-based pedagogic       practices.
The aim is to       establish a web-based resource for teachers in Higher Education that will       constitute a reservoir of       reflections on classroom encounters.
It will set out a series of       practices, activities and       engagements appropriate to each stage of an undergraduate Philosophy       programme.
Since 2011 Hutchinson has delivered public talks in Zurich, Moscow and       London problematising       the currently prevalent understanding of the relationship between science       and philosophy, and in       doing so has connected the declarations of the death of philosophy by       prominent science writers       such as Stephen Hawking, Peter Atkins and David Colquhoun with current       trends in public policy.
His recently-established blog, which explores these and related issues in       a manner accessible to       non-academics, is currently averaging 1000 views per calendar month (http://bit.ly/16cYWt3).
Supported by MMU's new research strategy (see REF 3a), which makes the       involvement of non-academic       stakeholders and research `end-users' an integral element of all research       activity, Crome       and Hutchinson have opened up collaborative partnership links with       professionals in the spheres of       health-care, social work and Higher Education.
Hutchinson organised a       series of three one-day       workshops on Evidence-Based Practice (http://bit.ly/14pw57n)       in November 2012.
These       workshops brought together philosophers with academics from a variety of       disciplines as well as       practitioners representing the professions of teaching, healthcare and       social work, professions in       which the Evidence-Based Practice movement has been influential in shaping       policy, as       demonstrated by Loughlin's work (see Case Study 1).
These discussions with       healthcare       practitioners have led Hutchinson, in alignment with EPG's impact strategy       outlined in REF3a, to       initiate a new project exploring with NHS and other third-sector partners       how shame adversely       impacts on combating and treating HIV and STIs.
This project now has three       non-academic       partners: the National Aids Trust [E], the Sexual Health Team at       the Genito-Urinary Medicine       (GUM) Clinic at Leighton Hospital, Mid Cheshire [F] and the Sexual       Health Team at the       Hathersage Centre (GUM Clinic) at Manchester Royal Infirmary (MRI).
The       project is formally       endorsed and supported by Public Health England [G] and North West       NHS Sexual Health Group.
In close collaboration with his healthcare, government-agency and other       third-sector partners       Hutchinson has identified four ways in which shame negatively impacts on       attempts to combat and       treat HIV, which are: 1.
Shame prevents individuals presenting for STI       testing.
2.
Shame prevents       individuals from disclosing all the relevant facts about their sexual       history to the physician.
3.
Shame can prevent an individual from disclosing their HIV (or STI) status       to new sexual partners.
4.
Shame can psychologically imprison people, making the task of living       with HIV a much worse       experience than it needs to be.
The project sets out to allay and, if       possible, erase these factors       and thus make a significant contribution to better public health.
