     Bovine mastitis, an inflammation of the mammary gland following bacterial       invasion, is the foremost endemic infectious disease of dairy cattle and       presents a major challenge to dairy industries worldwide.
Mastitis is one       of the most important diseases of farmed livestock and is financially the       most significant disease of dairy cattle, causing annual production losses       of more than &#163;170M in the UK and US$ 2.0B in the USA.
The welfare       implications of mastitis are severe and the impact of bovine mastitis on       the environment is also important.
In Great Britain the incidence of the       mastitis in dairy cattle is between 47 and 65 cases per 100 cows per year.
The key element of mastitis control is to prevent new intramammary       infections and this means understanding when they occur.
Prior to 1998,       understanding of the importance of the dry period as a time for new       intramammary infections was virtually non-existent.
A series of papers       over the next 5 years from the researchers who are currently at       Nottingham, using sophisticated molecular epidemiology, clearly       demonstrated that dry period intramammary infections were an important       source of mastitis in many dairy herds.
This and the programme of Prof.       Green and colleagues at UoN from 2006 onwards, revealed that the rate of       clinical mastitis after calving could be used as an excellent indicator of       dry period infections; that there is important variation between farms in       patterns of bacterial isolates during the dry period; and that a variety       of farm, cow and environment factors influence the risk of dry period       infections and subsequent bouts of clinical and subclinical mastitis.
Further research using modern Bayesian statistical techniques, identified       that it is essential to account for variation between farms and       uncertainty of the effects of interventions to optimise clinical decision       making to prevent dry period infections.
This UoN-led programme of research has led to a complete change in the       understanding of new intramammary infections and an entirely new approach       to control of the disease.
The benefits for animal welfare are clear, with       reduced incidence of infection, and consequently the dairy industry       benefits financially.
The effect of the research is seen in the following       areas:     Change in the approach to mastitis control - Current control       programmes now focus on identifying the magnitude and importance of dry       period infections on a unit and then adapting control measures to focus on       dry period management and preventive treatments as required (Sources         3-6).
Independent international disease/welfare reports cite this       research to indicate that the monitoring and control of dry period       intramammary infections are essential (Source 5).
The development and widespread use of non-antibiotic teat sealants       to prevent disease has been heavily based on the research described in       this statement (Source 1).
The use of `OrbeSeal' (an internal       non-antibiotic teat sealant) has increased dramatically since 2008 both in       the UK and worldwide.
Approximately 30-40% of UK dairy cows now receive       the product and tens of millions of doses of the product are sold per       annum worldwide (NB: exact sales figures are strictly confidential &#8212; Source         1 can be approached if required).
Development of on-farm software - Pfizer (now Zoetis Animal       Health) commissioned research to develop a stochastic (probabilistic)       simulation model to incorporate the UoN research results, to enhance       decision-making in dry period management.
This software is currently in       use (Source 1).
The software model uses the dynamics of dry period       infection and information about risks and management interventions to help       an individual dairy herd make management decisions.
The tool allows the       evaluation of management interventions and predicts the probability of a       return on investment for each intervention (or combinations thereof) being       considered.
This software was launched in 2012 and the Area Veterinary       Manager of Zoetis stated 'Zoetis have launched a dry cow management on         farm decision tool, designed from research conducted at the University         of Nottingham, by Prof Martin Green and colleagues.
The new tool will         give veterinary surgeons a platform to offer better evidence based         solutions for dry cow management which should result in significant         benefits in disease levels, farm finances and cow welfare" (Source         1).
The tool is particularly useful in enhancing discussions between       advisors and farmers, and different approaches to mastitis control and in       this respect will perform a useful function as an additional resource for       mastitis advisors participating in the UK national mastitis control scheme       (DairyCo Mastitis Control Plan &#8212; www.mastitiscontrolplan.co.uk).
Development of commercial software - key commercial software       packages have been developed to monitor dry period infection rates (Herd         Companion, TotalVet and Interherd software), which       use indices based on UoN research.
These allow vets to routinely monitor       dry period infections and improve disease control (Source 2).
The       underpinning research for all of the above areas of impact concerning dry       period mastitis was provided by the listed UoN staff and incorporates       prolonged and varied research in this area.
As described above, the impact of this research extends to an       international stage.
Further evidence of this is a project commissioned in       2013 to evaluate dry period infection dynamics in several European       countries including Netherlands, France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
(Grant       code UoN 3812 "An Evaluation of Somatic Cell Counts across Europe, with a       focus on Dry Period Performance", funded by Pfizer/Zoetis Animal Health).
