     Cardiff research on public attitudes in Wales has had four substantial       impacts.
First, by directly informing both the conclusions of the All Wales       Convention, and the behaviour of key actors in the 2011 Welsh devolution       referendum, the research has significantly influenced the Welsh devolution       settlement.
The All Wales Convention was established by the Welsh       Government in 2008 to make recommendations regarding a referendum on       moving to Part 4 of the 2006 Government of Wales Act (i.e.
granting the       Welsh Assembly primary law-making powers).
The impact of the research       occurred at several points in the Convention's work:            Key research findings, detailing changes in public attitudes since the         1990s, were presented to the Convention early in its work (in 2009).
This provided the Convention with a baseline understanding of attitudes         to devolution in Wales.
Wyn Jones acted as a consultant to the Convention, providing detailed         guidance on the content of further public attitudes research (two         surveys and several focus groups) commissioned by the Convention from         GfKNOP;       Wyn Jones provided advice to the Convention Chair, at the latter's         request, when he was drafting its Final Report.
The Convention's November 2009 final report5.1 observed       "substantial support for devolution as it stands, and clear signs of an       appetite for more" (p.98), and supported holding a referendum.
The       Convention Chair, Sir Emyr Jones Parry has stated that "Certainly the       conclusions of the All Wales Convention drew on results produced by       Professor Wyn Jones.
The clear view that a referendum was winnable led       directly to the recommendation to hold one...
The referendum result bore       this out and endorsed the conclusions advocated earlier by Professor Wyn       Jones."
5.2     The research also then directly informed the decision of the Welsh       Government to proceed towards holding the referendum.
As the then Deputy       First Minister has confirmed, "It was necessary for the two parties within       the coalition to be satisfied that the state of public opinion in Wales       was sufficiently strong in favour of law making powers to enable us to       trigger the provisions of the GOWA 2006.
The evidence provided by the       Governance Centre was clear, in that the support for further devolution       had grown substantially since the Assembly was established in 1999, and       that a clear majority for a Yes vote was likely if a referendum were to be       held.
Evidence of this kind, supported by the evidence obtained by the all       party Convention encouraged the coalition parties to hold a referendum in       March 2011.
The result, with 63.5% voting Yes, confirmed that the evidence       we relied on was correct".5.3 The research also provided the       central evidence base for the campaign strategy of the successful Yes       campaign team in the 2011 referendum: as the Chair of the steering       committee for the Yes for Wales campaign group has confirmed, "I can vouch       for the extent to which this evidence played directly into our campaign       planning";5.4 the Yes Campaign Director observes: "Having       played a key role in the two Welsh devolution campaigns, as National       Organiser in 1997 and Campaign Director in 2011, I can directly compare       experiences of the volume of information and understanding of political       trend apparent in both.
A key difference was the greater breadth of       publicly available data and understanding available to both sides in the       2011 campaign compared to 1997, and this key difference was directly       related to the high value and unique work undertaken by Dr Richard Wyn       Jones and Dr Roger Scully."
The Yes victory in the March 2011 referendum       substantially enhanced the Assembly's powers, significantly changing       Wales' devolution settlement.
Second, the research has already influenced the on-going work of the Silk       Commission, established in 2011 by the UK government to review Welsh       devolution.
Research findings (concerning public attitudes towards       devolution of taxation) were presented in early 2012 to the Commission.
By       clarifying for the Commission what was known, and what unknown, about       relevant public attitudes, this work shaped subsequent social research       conducted by the Commission, and it is cited in Chapter 8 of the Silk       Commission's first report (published November 2012)5.5, which       recommended devolving substantial taxation powers to the Welsh Assembly.
Broader findings - concerning public support for devolution more generally       - were extensively cited and quoted in Welsh Government evidence submitted       to the Commission in February 20135.6 (see pp.4-5); the then       Minister for Education and Skills has confirmed that the Welsh Government       "cited this evidence as underpinning the case for reform" in developing       the Government's argument for both an extension in both the scope of       devolution and a fundamental change in its form (from a `conferred' to a       `reserved' powers model).5.4     Third, the research has contributed substantially towards informing       political debate in Wales.
The research team has actively disseminated       major findings via:            A series of public seminars in Cardiff (June 2009, October 2009, May         2010, June 2011, October 2011, May 2012); these have attracted         substantial audiences, including AMs, journalists, and representatives         of major civil society organisations;       Other public seminars, at the Institute of Government in London         (December 2011) and Aberystwyth (June 2010, June 2011, October 2011),         which also attracted substantial (i.e.
c.30-60) non-academic audiences.
Numerous broadcast media appearances by research team members (across         BBC-Wales, ITV-Wales and S4C television; Radio 4, Radio 5Live, Radio         Wales and Radio Cymru).
These activities have directly informed political and social elites about       evidence on public attitudes.
They have also contributed to public debate       more widely: by informing key political journalists, and through extensive       media reporting and discussion of the findings.5.7 "In the       run-up to the 2011 devolution referendum in Wales [the research] was       absolutely crucial in informing the understanding of public attitudes"       according to the Chief Reporter of the Western Mail, who has       further observed of Scully and Wyn Jones that "Their research has been       indispensable, enriching understanding of the public's growing acceptance       of the National Assembly as an institution and of its appetite for more       powers".5.8     Fourth, the research has facilitated the enhancement of social survey       capacity in Wales, and thereby also led directly to the more regular       conducting of political polling in Wales.
Scully and Wyn Jones worked       closely with the survey agency YouGov5.9 to help YouGov       establish and demonstrate a Wales-specific survey capacity.
The content of       YouGov's first ever public survey in Wales (summer 2009) was designed by       Scully and Wyn Jones, drawing heavily on their previous work.
Survey       findings were then disseminated at a widely-attended Cardiff public       seminar.
This seminar led directly to ITV-Wales commissioning YouGov to       conduct regular polling through May 2011's Welsh Assembly election;       somewhat more infrequent polling has continued subsequently.
As YouGov's Research Manager responsible for Wales has confirmed, the       input of Scully and Wyn Jones was "integral in allowing YouGov to expand       our operations in Wales.
Their input helped us to design our sampling and       weighting schemes when we decided to make a concerted effort to start       regular polling in Wales.
Following this work, YouGov has had considerable       success accurately predicting vote share in the 2010 General Election and       2011 Welsh Assembly Elections and well as the 2011 Welsh referendum.
Based       on these successes, YouGov has been able to build momentum in Wales and       regularly works with broadcast media clients to provide up to date polling       on political topics, something which has long been under utilised in Welsh       politics.
YouGov has also been able to gain credibility within the       broadcast and academic communities by citing our work with Cardiff       University, which has helped us to expand our reach and gain valuable       introductions with new clients.
Without working with Richard and Roger, it       is unlikely that YouGov would have been able to have as much success       working in Wales and encouraging the wider use of survey data in Wales       more broadly."
By providing for more regular public polling than hitherto       (during the entire period between the 2003 and 2007 Welsh Assembly       elections, only three voting intention polls were published) the public in       Wales were substantially better informed about voting preferences prior to       the 2011 referendum and Assembly election.
