     UK agriculture is characterised by a large number of independent       businesses with individual management decisions and actions impacting upon       their physical and financial performance.
As noted in section 2, research       at UoN has examined potato, cereal, dairy and whole farm performance with       outputs published in peer-reviewed journals, plus reports and       presentations to Government.
This efficiency and business performance       research has identified the importance and influence of business       management practices on resource use and profitability.
Assisting the       agricultural industry to improve resource use efficiency through enhanced       business management practices is now encapsulated within the FBS research       programme, led by UoN (PI 2004 onwards).
A major output of the annual FBS       research programme is the free-to-use on-line farm business benchmarking       service (Source 1).
This tool draws on independently collected and       analysed contemporary data from the FBS across England.
In 2010 this       on-line data tool was substantially and significantly enhanced by the       Nottingham-led FBS research consortium.
This facilitated user interface       interactions and encompassed UK and EU benchmarking options in addition to       offering different levels of "ease of access" to users wishing to access       data at varying levels of analytical detail.
As shown in Figure 1, the       uptake of the tool, as assessed by web visits, has increased substantially       since 2008.
The tool allows users (farmers, consultants) to benchmark       their own business and enterprise performance against industry `average'       and `high' performers.
This commitment to improve the fortunes of       agriculture has been welcomed by the British Institute of Agricultural       Consultants (BIAC): "Relevant `benchmarking' provides the basis for         sound decision making and BIAC, who represent the views of independent         consultants throughout the UK, sees the Farm Business Benchmarking         Online as another tool for this work" (Source 2).
Figure 1.
Web counter records showing increased usage of the FBS         Business Benchmarking tool in the UK from 2007/08 to 2011/12.
Explaining the importance of benchmarking to farmers, Dr Wilson has       presented research findings to more than 25 farmer groups encompassing       arable, cereals, beef, sheep and poultry farmers (e.g.
farmer discussion       or retailer supply groups), and most recently at bespoke workshops held       (spring 2011 and 2012) across England demonstrating the FBS Farm Business       Benchmarking tool (Source 3).
Moreover, the on-line tool is       additionally publicised via hard copy information publications, by email       alerts direct to the site (Source 1), via links on Government       websites (Source 4) and search engines.
Web counter records       demonstrate growing usage of the FBS Business Benchmarking tool (Figure 1)       since 2008, flowing from enhanced user-interface of the on-line tool and       the outreach activities promoting the use of FBS Farm Business       Benchmarking.
Evidence from Defra's Farm Business Survey (FBS) (Source 1)       indicates a large variation in the physical and financial performance       achieved by individual farm businesses.
Moreover, while average       performance differs between farm types, variation across individual       businesses within particular farm types is substantial (Defra, 2011a) (Source         5).
Hence, whilst some farm businesses achieve considerable economic       profits, others accrue large financial losses.
Specifically, variation in       managerial factors accounts for a substantial proportion of variation in       business performance (Defra report, 2011b) (Source 6): Farmers who       undertake benchmarking achieve greater business results; Source 7       (Defra report, 2012) notes "those using benchmarking had significantly         higher farm business performance".
Agricultural business       benchmarking has developed over the last 15 years to become an important       component of successful agricultural business management.
Defined by       Seabrook (Nottingham, 1972-2006), business benchmarking comprises of       measurement, comparison, identification, analysis and implementation.
For       individual farmers, using the benchmarking tool leads to identification of       issues which require further investigation and business adaptation; for       example, FBS Benchmarking has led to major business improvements,       summarised by one farmer as: "[Because of Benchmarking] I have gone         into close collaboration with a neighbour in machinery optimisation.
This has made a big difference to our accounts.
The survey results have         given us tenants and the landlord the confidence that we're doing a good         job" (Source 8).
While other benchmarking services exist in the UK agricultural sector,       the FBS Business Benchmarking service represents the only free-to-use,       non-(data) commitment service which offers both whole-farm and enterprise       analysis alongside UK and EU Benchmarking options across 27 EU member       states, providing both national and international business       benchmarking; users from the UK, continental Europe, USA and Australasia       have accessed this service.
FBS data (2011/12) demonstrates that 15% of       English farmers "frequently undertake whole farm level business       benchmarking" achieving an average (FBI) of &#163;128,900, which is       statistically significantly greater than the average &#163;63,000 FBI for farm       businesses that do not benchmark.
Nationally (England) the 15% of 60,000       farm businesses which benchmark therefore achieve an aggregate FBI &#163;592m       greater than they would accrue if they achieved an FBI in line with those       that do not benchmark.
FBS Farm Business Benchmarking represents one of       the main industry benchmarking tools in contemporary use.
