     Plant pathogens are estimated to cause losses in potential agricultural       yield of around 10-15% per annum (Oerke and Dehne, Crop Protection 23       (2004) 275-285), and can also have damaging environmental impacts (see http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-somerset-12134772       for the recent impact of sudden oak death in the UK).
For example, the       potato blight pathogen alone is estimated to cause $3 billion annual       losses in developing countries (Schumann and Darcy 2012, Hungry Planet,       APS Press, USA).
Early, accurate and rapid diagnosis of the causal agents       of plant disease is important for ensuring timely and appropriate control       measures to minimise these potential losses.
Protecting plant health in       the UK is a shared responsibility between government, growers, traders and       the general public.
There are two main elements of control; 1) quarantine       measures to keep foreign pathogens out of areas where they could cause       damage to crops, trees and wild plants, and; 2) surveys and publicity to       increase the chances that outbreaks are detected early when they can still       be eradicated.
Fera is responsible, on behalf of Defra, for implementing       the plant health regulations in England and Wales and is a key player in       the UK working with other EC Member States and the European Commission to       agree appropriate plant health rules for Europe and co-ordinate their       implementation.
Work at UoN on developing improved plant pathogen diagnostics was       initiated in 2005 through a Defra Plant Health Fellowship (see       corroborating Source 5 for details of the objectives and outcomes       of this fellowship).
The key benefits of this fellowship (apart from       training a scientist with expertise in molecular diagnostics who is now       employed at Fera) were the development and validation of real-time PCR       diagnostics for phytoplasma diseases, which were recognised by Defra as a       potential threat to UK agriculture because of their prevalence on crops       such as apples, pears, tree species and numerous ornamentals throughout       Europe.
Currently these diseases are rare in the UK, so the aim was to       develop protocols that could be used to test imported materials and       prevent entry of these pathogens.
This protocol is now used routinely by       Fera for testing suspected phytoplasma infected material and is provided       as part of their statutory testing (Source 1).
In addition, the       technology has been incorporated into the accredited phytoplasma testing       diagnostic service offered by the Swiss-based Agro-Diagnostics Company,       Bioreba (Source 2).
This commercial service has been used already       on hundreds of samples (mainly from fruit trees) for customers in       Switzerland and Europe.
Prof. Dickinson has subsequently developed       specific real-time PCR based assays for detection of a broad range of       potato and cereal viruses, including potato virus S, potato virus M,       arracacha virus B, potato black ringspot virus, barley yellow dwarf virus       variants, cocksfoot mottle virus, cocksfoot streak virus, cynosurus mottle       virus, oat chlorotic stunt virus, ryegrass mosaic virus, soil borne wheat       mosaic virus and wheat spindle streak mosaic virus (Sources 1, 6).
These assays have been incorporated into the diagnostic protocols used by       Fera as part of their statutory duties.
The overall financial value of       these diagnostic services is difficult to quantify since they are being       implemented principally as preventative measures (as quarantine / early       detection systems), but should these phytoplasma and viral diseases become       endemic in UK fruit trees, potato and cereal crops, the annual losses are       likely to be in the order of millions of pounds.
The social and       environmental impacts associated with a failure of plant health protection       strategies would also be significant.
The second aspect of this work was development of nucleic-acid based       detection systems for `in-field' or `point-of-care' testing, and this work       has been undertaken in a number of countries, including the UK, Ghana and       Ethiopia, and has been published in international peer-reviewed journals.
Previous methods for in-field testing have generally been antibody-based       (i.e.
use of lateral-flow devices), but there are many pathogens for which       it has been impossible to develop the necessary specificity or sensitivity       in such tests.
UoN research developed the DNA-based technique of LAMP for       detection of a range of pathogens (Sources 1-4, 7).
This was a       collaboration between UoN, Fera, CSIR Ghana and the company Optigene, UK,       who, following discussions with UoN in 2009, have developed and are now       marketing a small battery operated portable real-time LAMP product       detection machine, the Genie II (http://optigene.co.uk/)       (Source 4).
UoN piloted use of this machine in Ghana, where the       machine is now being routinely used for field detection of phytoplasma       diseases in coconut (Sources 3, 7).
These diseases have devastated       plantations in much of Africa resulting in 100% losses in many areas and       severe economic hardships in communities where coconut is the main source       of livelihood for several disadvantaged groups (e.g.
women and landless       poor).
In a statement (2013) the Director of CSIR Oil Palm Research-Ghana       said 'The most significant advantage of using LAMP assays by the         coconut research team in Ghana is the ability to use the method         in-field.
The machine can be run on a rechargeable battery, is portable         and therefore easy to carry to field location in very remote areas.
Our         staff are now able to provide diagnostic services to farmers in         different parts of the country using the Genie II.
The whole process of         DNA extraction to sample analysis is done within 30 minutes and this is         enhancing the speed and amount of work that is done on field visits.
The         LAMP assays are thus revolutionising diagnosis of lethal disease in         Ghana and helping us to do so much more than we could do with the         traditional methods" (Source 3).
In the UK, Fera is piloting the use of these real-time LAMP machines by       their field inspectors and for detection of diseases such as sudden oak       death.
Optigene are also marketing the machine to the Animal Health and       Vet Labs Agency (AHVLA) and overseas.
Continuing work is now aimed at       commercialising diagnostic kits, and licensing agreements are being agreed       between Optigene and Eiken in Japan for `plant health' diagnostic rights (Source         4).
Because of the worldwide distribution of the pathogens for which       diagnostic tests have been developed, UoN research is of major       significance in the UK, continental Europe and the rest of the world.
