     Our research has informed guidelines that address the very early phase of       emergency care plus the policy and organisation of that care.
Reduced use of 03b2-agonists in patients with ARDS.
A UK survey of practice in 2010 (Scally JICS 2010:11, 36-39) reported that       `all ITUs regularly prescribed 03b2-agonists for their patients'.
A       Canadian study (2001-2003) found that at least a quarter of patients with       acute lung injury (ALI) received high dose 03b2-agonists.
Following the       announcement of our results from the BALTI study in December 2011, the       Lancet journal editorial concluded `For now, the results of the         truncated BALTI-2 trial are sufficient to change practice.
03b2-2         agonist treatment in patients with ARDS should be limited to the         treatment of clinically important reversible airway obstruction and         should not be part of routine care'.
a The impact of our       study on reducing drug use was demonstrated in an international       point-prevalence survey, performed in 2012, which showed that 03b2-agonist       use in patients with ARDS had fallen to 7.9% in the UK and 13.9% in China.
This study concluded that, based on our extrapolation of study results,       389 potential deaths per year could be avoided in the UK alone by ceasing       usage of 03b22-agonists for ARDS.b The impact of our research       has been further extended through personal communication with the       International Surviving Sepsis Guideline group who have now published       guidelines, which `recommend against the routine use of beta agonists in       ARDS' (Feb 2013).
c These guidelines have been endorsed by 30       organisations, translated into six different languages and are widely       implemented around the world.
Improvements to CPR feedback devices.
Perkins led the       International Liaison Committee for Resuscitation (ILCOR) review of CPR       feedback devices (sensor devices that optimize the quality of CPR).
The       resulting international recommendations, which were published by ILCOR and       adopted by the American Heart Association, European, Asian, South Africa,       and Australian Resuscitation Councils, drew substantially on the       systematic review and primary research undertaken at Warwickd,       Implementation of CPR feedback devices into clinical practice has been       associated with improved CPR performance and increased survival (adjusted       odds ratio of 2.72 (95% CI 1.15 to 6.41).
e Our finding that       accelerometer-based CPR feedback devices were inaccurate when used on a       patient lying on a bed were described as having `an enduring impact on         the fundamental understanding of current CPR technology".e       and led to the development (with a Medical Technology Company -       PhysioControl) of the new technology TrueCPRTM, which uses       magnetic fields to overcome the limitations we identified with       accelerometers.
TrueCPRTM has been granted CE (Conformit&#233;       Europ&#233;enne) mark approval from the EU and approval from the US Food and       Drug Administration (USFDA).
It is now available for sale in most       countries.f Since learning about our findings, Laerdal Medical       (Norway) has started developing a smart backboard to overcome the       limitations we identified in our research.
Improvements to training in CPR.
Our research on training       and assessment methods for CPR has led to direct changes to the       competency-based performance tests used within the Advanced Life Support       (ALS) and have been implemented in the UK, Europe and Australia,       facilitated by Perkins' leadership of the UK Resuscitation Council ALS       Working Group.
Our development work on e-learning showed that it was       possible to replace face-to-face training with e-learning material, thus       reducing the cost of delivering the course without compromising learning       quality.
This led to the launch of a new course, which draws heavily on       the e-learning material developed by our research.g The new       course has been delivered to more than 10,000 doctors and nurses in the UK       and reduced costs by approximately &#163;3 million in the first 18 months.
Improvements to guidelines for emergency care.
Our       systematic review of emergency care, underpins the Joint Royal College       Ambulance Liaison Committee Clinical Guidelines, published in 2013h,       for which Matthew Cooke acted as the academic director.
These guidelines       are used by all NHS ambulance staff (approx.
5000 paramedics) and have       been adopted in United Arab Emirates.
The Royal National Lifeboat       Institute reversed a national policy decision to limit the duration of       search and rescue operations to 20 minutes when our evidence showed that       survival was possible beyond that time (2011).
The new evidence from our       systematic review and scoping exercise on falls prevention informed the       decision, in 2013, to revise the NICE guidelines for falls prevention by       demonstrating the new evidence and the variability in practice.i       Our research from the team at Warwick has influenced the evolution of new       roles in emergency care, such as emergency care practitioners (Adams,       2005) and Advanced Clinical Practitioners (Cooke, in progress, 2013) and       an expansion of the workforce by using non-doctors.
Our evaluation of the       National Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP) Programme demonstrated the       safety and clinical effectiveness of this new role led to the       dissemination of ECP programmes throughout the UK, with the majority of       ambulance services adopting such roles.
This programme is widely linked to       improved efficiencies such as reduced ambulance transport to the emergency       department reducing cost and improving efficiency.
Changes to national policy on A&amp;E departments.
As       National Clinical Director Urgent and Emergency Care, Cooke led the       development of new National Quality Indicators for A&amp;E 2010j       based on his Warwick research.
Many of the results were utilised before       publication because of Professor Cooke's national role.
Reviews of       patients who leave AEDs without being seen (Clarey &amp; Cooke, 2012) and       reattend (Trivedy, 2013) informed the development of two of the eight       national indicators (i.e.
per cent reattending A&amp;E and per cent       leaving without being seen).
National guidance on reducing waits was       informed by a systematic review of effective approaches to wait- time       reduction (Cooke et al, 2004), by research on the use of observation wards       (Sibly, 2007) and by understanding the types of patients who suffer long       delays (Downing, 2004).
Work conducted with Bristol University, on walk-in       centres (Chalder et al, 2007; Salisbury et al, 2007) has changed policy       whereby walk-in centres are no longer considered to be effective in       diverting care.
The changes implemented on the basis of this research have       led to a substantial reduction in waiting times: Department of Health       statistics show number of patients seen within four hours increasing from       60% in 2002 to 95% in 2013.
Others have demonstrated the link between the       waiting time and mortality.
Cooke's work (2002) provided guidance and       support for the implementation of fast- track systems in A&amp;E and is       now standard practicek, Multiple studies have showed that this       system can reduce waits for those with minor injuries by 50%.
l
