     The group strives to communicate its work both within and beyond an       academic audience in an effort to raise public and industry awareness of       new interactive and compositional approaches.
This has been accomplished       through the dissemination of creative works, performances, theory and       educational resources leading to the developments in the applications of       music technologies in an interdisciplinary media context discussed below.
Since its inception in 2010, Livecell, the interactive generative       composition and performance system by Ash and Stavropoulos, has won       International acclaim demonstrating impact in new technologies for musical       expression through awards (NEMArt Prize 2010, Monster Electric Laptop       Ensemble Commission Award 2011) and invited presentations.
It has also       been widely presented at academic, public and industry events in Europe,       USA and Asia to a broad range of audiences including performances at:     - International Computer Music Conference, Huddersfield, 2011     - Pixilerations Festival, Providence, USA, 2011     - New Resonances Festival, Wilton's Music Hall, London, 2012     - Interface 2012, Birmingham     as well as less formal demonstrations in which the work has engaged the       wider public, with many non-specialist users benefitting positively from       an engaging interaction with a system for the creation of contemporary       instrumental music.
The work has been presented in this context at the BBC       Radio 3 Free Thinking Festival, 2011, ("BBC Radio 3 brings together       leading thinkers for a weekend of provocative debate, new ideas, music and       drama" attended by over 4700 members of the public), Networked Electronic       Media Summit, 2010 ("the event involves up to 400 attendees, 20 sponsors,       50 exhibitors and 40 speakers and authors selected following a competitive       call for papers.")
and the Thinking Digital Conference, 2011 ("Exceptional       talent from the worlds of technology, science, business, media and the       arts.").
The reach and significance of the electroacoustic works by the group is       demonstrated through numerous International performances including:     - Music under the influence of computers, Atkinson Hall, California, USA       2010     - International Festival Primavera de La Habana, Havana, Cuba 2010\     - Sound Junction, Sheffield University, UK, 2010     - Sound Studio Concert, City University, 11th May, UK.
2010     - Days of Electroacoustic Music, Corfu, 29th Oct, Corfu, Greece, 2010     - XVI Festival Internacional de M&#250;sica Electroac&#250;stica, Tenerife, Spain,       2009     as well as international awards:     - 2009 Punto de Encuentro Canarias International Electroacoustic       Composition Competition, Spain, First Prize.
- Destellos Foundation Eleactroacoustic Music Competition, Prize       Selection.
- Bourges Electroacoustic Music Competition, Shortlist.
The group curates the biannual Echochroma concert series at Leeds       Metropolitan University, presenting compositional outputs from members of       the group and guests (including Manuella Blackburn, Liverpool Hope       University, Adrian Moore, Sheffield University, Dale Perkins, Leeds       College of Music).
Attendees (estimated at a total of 1000 to date) at       this free concert since 2008, have included members of the public, as well       as students at Leeds Metropolitan University, their friends and their       families.
Informal feedback indicates that a considerable number of       audience members had no previous exposure to contemporary music       composition and performance practice.
Following the growing recognition of the group's work, the Echochroma       collective has been invited to curate concerts and present work at the       Noisefloor Festival (Staffordshire University), in which original       practice-led research was presented from academic staff, postgraduate and       undergraduate students, Interactive Audio Game Showcase and MANTIS       Festival, NOVARS Research Centre, University of Manchester, alongside       other invited international artists from academia and industry, further       extending the reach and impact of their research.
Research by the group also informs more localised educational and       entertainment activities, including composition for theatre and dance       (Mooted Theatre Company, York Shakespeare Project), interactive sound       installations (York Minster, Swaledale Festival), youth workshops (Opera       North and local primary schools), and a regular after-school computer       programming club (Code Club) in which 9-11 year olds create new       interactive audio-visual works and games.
This gives the group further       opportunity to disseminate compositional and interactive concepts from       their International-level research to many across the region.
The group is continuing to develop its profile and capacity for       international impact, and has a clearly defined and forward-looking       trajectory for future development.
Further high-impact research outputs       have been confirmed for 2014.
Ash is currently involved in a &#163;160 000       project that has successfully received funding from the Wellcome Trust and       Arts Council, which is anticipated will reach over 150,000 young people in       2014.
The project will draw from research into interactivity, sonfication       and live generative systems, and includes an interactive childrens'       theatre show that will tour the UK, as well as an interactive installation       in the INTECH Science Centre, Winchester, which receives over 150,000       visitors a year.
