     The impacts in this section have all occurred in 2008 or later and have       occurred as a direct result of the UoL research.
As already mentioned, sepsis is a major cause of mortality and morbidity.
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, 27% of adult admissions to       critical care in the period December 1995 to January 2005 were found to       progress to severe sepsis within the first 24 hours.
Hospital mortality in       2004 in this geography was estimated to be 44.7% for those with severe       sepsis or 14,000 cases.
Other estimates are higher.
Prompt diagnosis and       treatment is essential with one study reporting a 7.6% increase in       mortality for each hour that antibiotic treatment was delayed in patients       with septic shock [18,19].
Following publication of the UoL research, there was recognition that the       aPTT biphasic waveform measurements could be important through enabling       earlier diagnosis to lead onto clinical benefits for patients and economic       benefits for health system providers.
Several influential journal       editorials drew international attention to the research outputs [14-17].
This led to demonstration of the benefits in two disease areas where       infection is a common and important complication, namely heart bypass       surgery and the treatment of cancer [8,9].
The superiority of the aPTT       biphasic waveform over the leading sepsis biomarker, procalcitonin, in       clinical settings has also been investigated and confirmed [10].
This work led the British Committee for Standards in Haematology, a       leading professional body in the UK, to invite Toh and others to specify       laboratory standards for diagnosing the sepsis-related complication of       disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).
These were published in 2009       [11] and included the aPTT waveform.
These measurements are being promoted       by laboratories among their clinical customers and also by haematologists       requiring these measurements to improve clinical outcomes.
Whilst       initially focussed on patients in intensive care settings, the rapid,       reliable and low cost measurement is leading to the test being used in       emergency rooms, post-surgical wards and oncology.
This increase in       testing for sepsis is leading to earlier diagnosis and appropriate       treatment.
Through improved diagnosis, it is also reducing the use of       antibiotics through an accurate distinction between bacterial and viral       disease [16].
The research is therefore clearly and directly impacting       upon clinical and laboratory medicine practitioners in the UK and also       specialists, including haematologists, emergency and critical care       physicians and paediatricians.
Patients are benefiting through improved       treatment and reduction in the burden of sepsis on the NHS.
In a similar way, Toh was asked to contribute to the International       Society on Thrombosis Haemostasis's work to establish standards       internationally for diagnosing DIC and for laboratories offering the aPTT       biphasic waveform test to ensure that there is international consistency       in its application.
Guidelines were published in Feb 2013 and work on       standardising the use of aPTT biphasic waveform measurements throughout       the world is ongoing [12].
They are impacting upon laboratories,       clinicians and patients in a similar way to the UK.
These advances have also been integrated into UK and international       training in haematology [13].
A new spinout company, Sepsis Ltd, was formed in 2010 and has acquired       the four patents arising from the UoL research.
Its objective is to       develop devices incorporating aPTT biphasic waveform technology that can       be used at points of care for the routine testing of sepsis, from GP       surgeries to emergency rooms.
The company has secured &#163;250k of investment       funding and &#163;1.2m from the Technology Strategy Board.
It has already       developed a prototype device and by the end of 2013 will employ 3 people.
