     The group's research has had an impact on broadcasters, other media,       orchestras, and international, national and regional cultural       organisations.
The group members contribute to broadcasts in an advisory       role and as participants, and shape an understanding of orchestral and       operatic repertoire through talks, programme notes and articles.
Kelly and Reyland have an on-going relationship with the BBC on topics       relating to their specialist areas.
Kelly's research on identity in French       music has resulted in regular invitations to present, interview and take       part in discussions on BBC Radio 3 on a number of early twentieth-century       French composers.
Most significant was her invitation to design and       present a 20-minute Proms interval feature on Ravel's Paris in August 2010       [Source 1].
The Proms is the most prominent annual event in the UK for       communicating classical music to a diverse non-specialist audience.
Kelly       interviewed Ravel experts and international performers, designed the       programme and selected the music.
In tracing the Parisian locations with       Ravelian associations, she argued for the significance of place to an       understanding of his musical identity.
In her three appearances on Radio       3's flagship magazine programme Music Matters, to talk about       Debussy (2009), Ravel (2011) [source 2] and Poulenc (April 2013) [source       3], she discussed the composers' relationships to modernism and tradition.
She was academic advisor and contributor for the Poulenc programme,       establishing themes, questions and identifying specialists in France.
Inviting Kelly to be interviewed for the programme the Radio 3 researcher       asserted that `we could of course shape it round the areas you're most       interested in', adding in another email that `the producer was keen to       speak to you before going to Paris with a view to you being the person       that makes it all hang together!'
[source 4].
BBC Radio 3 has an average       listening audience of over 2 million people per week, each of whom listen       to an average of over 6 hours of coverage per week [source 5].
Reyland made a substantial contribution to an edition of Radio 3's Music         Matters devoted to Lutoslawki in January 2013 [source 6]; here       Reyland's research on narrative contributed to the discussion.
As with       Kelly, the value the BBC place on Reyland's expertise is evident in repeat       invitations, such as for Reyland to give a pre-concert Proms Plus talk on       this same theme at the BBC proms this year to a lay audience of 249       people.
Reyland's talk drew on his research, offering the audience an       insight into the music they were to experience in live performance that       evening.
He also contributed a programme note on the Cello Concerto for a       BBC Prom on 17th July.
The publication of Reyland's book led to calls from Guardian       readers, as part of the newspaper's focus on The Three Colours       Trilogy that month (Nov, 2011), to contact Reyland to discuss his research       further.
As a result, he was commissioned to write a 1000-word article       communicating his research into the music's contribution to the films'       narratives and symbolism to a lay audience.
After publishing the article,       Reyland discussed the films and his ideas in the comments' section (23       comments) with various readers [source 7].
He also participated in a live       blog on the films over the next few nights.
Critics, readers and bloggers       regularly referenced and quoted his research in positive terms throughout       the week.
It led to wider engagement through social media platforms, with       157 shares on Facebook, 4 on Linkedin and G+, and 31 tweets on Twitter,       showing continued impact of Reyland's work on the readership.
In a review       of the French version of Kelly's chapter within French Music, Culture         and National Identity book by French popular interest magazine Forum         Opera, Kelly's chapter is singled out as being especially       informative [source 8].
The group has enabled the BBC to make lesser-known composers known to a       wider audience, reaching both creative arts organisations and their       audiences.
In 2010 Williams chaired a study session as part of the BBC       `Total Immersion: Wolfgang Rihm' programme, one of a series of       high-profile events in which the BBC Symphony Orchestra engages with a       wider public.
The Symposium included an interview with Rihm and a       presentation by a member of the Arditti Quartet [source 9].
Williams also       presented a paper on Rihm and the French surrealist writer Antonin Artaud;       here he was able to draw links between concerts in the programme given by       the BBC Symphony Orchestra and the London Sinfonietta.
Kelly was invited       to interview Mme Christine Jolivet-Erhlih in front of a live audience of       c.200 people at Hoddinett Hall, BBC Wales in a pre-concert talk during a       `Discovering Jolivet' day.
She tackled themes of cultural identity and       response to WWII in his musical oeuvre.
Through participation in commemorative Festivals and anniversary events,       the group makes an impact on national and international cultural life.
Kelly responded to a French Ministry of Culture invitation to participate       in national celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Debussy.
The focal point of these celebrations was a festival, L'Esprit Debussy,       at the Cit&#233; de la Musique in Paris in February 2012, which included       performances of Debussy's works by leading orchestras and discussions of       the composer's significance.
Kelly's talk focused on Debussy's legacy,       drawing directly on her work on Debussy and legacy in publications from       2003, 2008 and 2012 [source 10].
She also contributed to the festival's       prize-winning publication (Paul Marmottan prize, Acad&#233;mie des Beaux-Arts),       which is aimed at a wider readership [source 11].
Kelly's chapter is one       of five (out of thirty-six) which is singled out by a music critic in a       public oriented website Musicologie.org.
Here her chapter is       described as `virtuosic', helping the reader discover new elements of the       composer's legacy [source 12].
She also received an invitation to       contribute to national French commemorations of Poulenc, which took place       at the Conservatoire National Sup&#233;rieur de Musique in Paris in January       2013 [source 13].
Dr Reyland participated in Lutoslawski centennial       celebrations throughout Europe in 2013.
He wrote a specially commissioned       essay on narrative, meaning and drama in Lutoslawski's music for the       Philharmonia Orchestra's Woven Words festival.
The aim was to       explain musical meaning and how it relates to Lutoslawski's work in       non-technical language, while showing to a diverse audience how       Lutoslawski's work relates to wider social and cultural ideas.
With the       title of Essences and Essentials: Lutos&#322;awski's Musical Stories,       it appears, translated into several languages including Polish, as one of       five commissioned essays on the orchestra's `Woven Words' website,       celebrating the life and work of Lutoslawski [source 14].
As part of the       festival he also spoke at a public study day at London's South Bank Centre       in March 2013 [source 15].
Williams took a leading role in organising and       programming Rihm 60th birthday celebrations in 2012; this Grove       Forum Plus event entitled `Wolfgang Rihm's Constructions of Subjectivity       and Tradition', which was a Royal College of Music and the       Goethe-Institut, London collaboration, explored key themes of Williams'       research on the role of the past in constructing contemporary German       traditions in front of a diverse audience [source 16].
