     The research attracted much international interest (e.g.
it was presented       internationally (e.g.
one of 11 highlighted plenary papers at the 2006 American Gastroenterology       Association;       15,000 delegates).
Influenced by this research and anticipating probable       variations in quality       of care for patients with IBD, the British Society of Gastroenterology       (BSG) asked Rhodes to       initiate a national IBD audit.
The first round of this UK IBD audit, led       in 2006 by Dr Keith       Leiper (Hon Senr Lecturer UoL) and funded by the Health Foundation,       revealed widespread       variation in quality of care, including inappropriate use of long term       corticosteroid therapy in       Crohn's disease [13].
This, along with other aspects of unacceptable care,       is shown in       Figure 1.
Figure 1: Extract from the Executive Summary of the IBD Standards [3;       page 5] 	       The 2006 audit identified that the annual cost to the NHS for IBD       including ulcerative colitis       and Crohn's disease was &#163;720m based on an annual cost of &#163;3,000 per       patient.
As the       incidence rate continues to rise with an estimated one person in 200       affected, this presents a       significant and growing disease burden.
The audits were conducted with the engagement of the BSG, Royal College       of Physicians,       Association for Coloproctology, British Society for Paediatric       Gastroenterology and       Hepatology and the patient organisation Crohn's and Colitis UK.
These key       partnerships led       to voluntary hospital participation in the first audit round of 75% and       included 2,353 Crohn's       disease patients, by the third round this had risen to 3,122 Crohn's       disease patients.
These       engagement mechanisms have provided a pathway for the influence of the       clinical and       policy making community leading to significant improvements in clinical       practice in the UK for       the benefit of patients.
The UoL research led to the recognition of "steroid usage for more than 3       consecutive       months" as a key indicator of poor practice in Crohn's disease management       in the UK IBD       Audit.
The UoL led UK IBD Audit in turn led to the publication (launched       at House of Lords)       in 2009 of National Standards of Care for Patients with Inflammatory Bowel       Disease agreed       jointly by the Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland,       the British Dietetic       Association, British Society of Gastroenterology, British Society of       Paediatric       Gastroentrology, Hepatology and Nutrition, National Association for       Colitis and Crohn's       disease (now Crohn's and Colitis UK), Primary Care Society for       Gastroenterology, Royal       College of Nursing [3].
The national standards were adopted by the Healthcare Commission in       England as part of       the Annual Health Check to identify risk.
The importance of the work on       corticosteroids is       demonstrated by it being one of only two indicators for Crohn's disease       outpatient treatment       ([12] page 21).
These national standards together with the programme of audits have had       considerable       impact.
The proportion of patients with Crohn's disease in the UK-wide IBD       audit who had       received corticosteroids inappropriately for more than 3 consecutive       months has fallen from       46% to 38% to 21% in the three consecutive rounds of the IBD audit to date       (2006, 2008,       2010 [4]).
The three audit rounds to date have been accompanied by       substantial       improvements in outcomes as highlighted in a Lancet Editorial as: "For       adults with ulcerative       colitis, significant improvements in the third audit included reductions       in the rate of deaths       (0.8% in 2010 vs 1.7% in 2006) and readmissions (33.6% vs 51.1%       respectively).
For adults       with Crohn's disease, improvements included a non-significant reduction in       the rate of       deaths (0.8% in 2010 vs 1.3% in 2006)" [11].
There are also financial       savings arising from       the reduced rate of sepsis and hospital admissions.
The 2010 audit further showed that, 12 out of 15 key indicators of adult       IBD care showed       statistically significant improvement over the period 2006-2012, as did 10       out of 12 indicators       of Crohn's disease care.
