     The pathway that Henderson and Gallou's research has taken to achieve its       ultimate impact (the conservation of a key element of ancient Greek marine       culture) has multiple interlinking strands: A developmental relationship       with on offshore engineering company improved the accuracy of underwater       scanning; further technological developments facilitated detailed       visualisations of the remains and CGI images of what the original city       might have looked like engaged a global public with the site through an       internationally-popular documentary.
This had concomitant effects at a       local level in Pavlopetri and its region, both on tourism and eventually,       on the government's marine protection strategy for future conservation of       the site.
This section describes each link in this chain in more detail       and draws out how each constituency benefitted along the way.
Helping an offshore engineering company to improve its operating         practices and indentify a new market     A developmental relationship was established between Henderson and       Nautilus Marine Group International (NMGI), a North American offshore       engineering company associated with Kongsberg Mesotech, to test the       accuracy of a new acoustic scanner (the MS 1000 Sector Scan Sonar) in       recording submerged features.
Pavlopetri offered an unparalleled       opportunity to test the accuracy of the scanner as it sits in shallow       water (less than 4 metres), has clear structural remains across a seabed       area of 8ha and, most crucially, has been surveyed using a Total Station       in millimetre accuracy &#8212; this accurate survey data provided a baseline       template against which the scans from the MS 1000 could be compared.
The       results of this work allowed NMGI to improve its product by refining the       use of the scanner particularly in regard to methods of deployment and the       effects of different frequencies on resulting geometric accuracy (5.1).
The collaboration has been described by HEFCE as an `exemplary example of       Knowledge Transfer' (5.2) and was initially pump-primed by a University of       Nottingham Knowledge Transfer grant which allowed NMGI to take part in the       2009 Pavlopetri season.
They returned in 2010 and 2011 using their own       funds to further develop the scanner and field-test a range of other       technologies such as swath bathymetry, side-scan sonar, echo-sounding and       sub-bottom profiling.
The work has also been beneficial to NGMI in       identifying a new market as following the work at Pavlopetri NMGI they       have carried out commercial archaeological work using the scanner.
In       September 2013 Nautilus Marine Group donated an MS Sector Scan Sonar to       the University and entered into a long term collaboration to offer the       equipment and training in its use to the UK maritime heritage sector.
Enhancing heritage preservation and presentation through public and         media engagement     An innovative diver propelled unit was designed and built for use at       Pavlopetri through a collaboration between Nottingham and the Australian       Centre for Field Robotics, University of Sydney, facilitating the       production of accurate photo-realistic models of submerged features which       can be easily interpreted by both archaeologists and the public.
The unit       is able to collect geo- referenced stereo digital imagery and has       signalled a step-change in the presentation of underwater archaeological       data (3.1).
During the 2011 field season at Pavlopetri, a movie industry       CGI graphics team was embedded as part of the archaeological field team to       construct digital visualizations directly on to the actual archaeological       survey data as it was collected in the field.
The CGI was developed       through a unique collaboration between the University of Nottingham, BBC       and Prime Focus Graphics.
The effect of this combination of geo-referenced stereo digital imagery       with CGI was harnessed in a one hour documentary: Pavlopetri: City         Beneath the Waves which aired on BBC 2 on October 9th 2011 achieving       viewing figures of 2.03 million.
The documentary (for which Henderson       successfully obtained a commission with BBC 2 and the Discovery Channel       and for which he was the Academic Consultant and Principal Contributor)       used the state-of-the-art CGI technology (describe above) to raise the       city from the seabed revealing, for the first time in 3,500 years, how       Pavlopetri would once have looked and operated.
It has since been repeated       18 times on BBC 2, BBC 4 and the Yesterday channel.
A North American       version of the documentary debuted on the Discovery Channel on June 2nd       2012 and it has so far been shown in a further 20 countries with estimated       consolidated viewing figures of 15 million worldwide (5.3).
The       documentary set out to cover, for a mainstream prime time TV audience, how       underwater archaeological survey and excavation is carried out as well as       documenting the use of the cutting-edge new marine survey equipment       described above.
The degree of interest in and uptake of the documentary       represents a significant contribution to changes in public awareness of       underwater archaeology and related environmental issues relevant to its       preservation.
(5.4).
In addition to the new knowledge made available to the public through the       documentary, Henderson and Gallou's research and excavation work at       Pavlopetri created (sustained) engagement through other broadcast, print       and online media: television coverage has included BBC Breakfast,       BBC National News, BBC East Midlands, BBC World, CNN, the Discovery       Channel (North America) and Greek and Spanish national TV stations       (including live interviews with Jon Henderson on BBC Breakfast Oct 9th       2011 and CNN News 2nd June 2012); radio coverage includes BBC       Radio 4 (The Today Show and Leading Edge) as well as live interviews on       national Irish stations; In terms of printed media, articles have       appeared in New Scientist, the Guardian, the Independent, the Scotsman,       DIVE magazine, The Week, the German weekly der Freitag, the Sydney Morning       Herald, and various periodicals in throughout Europe (including Greece,       Italy, France, Norway, Sweden, Poland), Asia (including Japan and       Pakistan) and North America; Extensive online content includes       significant coverage in Nature, New Scientist and Scientific American .
In       addition three UoN podcasts on the project have together amassed 221,885       views, a BBC History Magazine podcast on the project has obtained over       150,000 downloads, while a BBC News article written by Jon Henderson has       received over 450,000 views to date with 229,040 on day of publication       (Oct 8th 2011) making it 16th in the 50 most read items on the BBC News       website around the world on the day (5.5).
This degree of engagement with       the project (at a detailed and sophisticated level) demonstrates a       significant contribution to shaping public understanding of marine       cultural heritage and contemporary scholarship in this area, and to       changes in public awareness and behaviours (see below) relevant to the       environment.
This national and international engagement has been complemented by       Henderson and Gallou's active involvement in local outreach leading to a       transformation in terms of community awareness of and engagement with       Pavlopetri: Gallou has delivered public lectures throughout Vatika and       Sparti and has organised local school programmes and trips to the site       since 2009.
In 2013 Gallou implemented a primary school programme at the       local school of Kampos Voion involving 92 school children (5.6).
The       raised public profile of Pavlopetri has also served to bring in new       tourism to the area (evidence by organised tourist trips from the UK to       visit the site, the inclusion of Pavlopetri in official tourism literature       produced by the Municipalities of Monemvasia and Elafonisos, and, for       example, the renaming of a local business to `Pavlopetri Rooms') (5.7).
Informing the development of Greek governmental policy on the         protection and presentation (sustainability) of submerged sites     The increased interest in the site generated by the local outreach and       international media interest described above catalysed local public and       political awareness of the environmental issues that might affect the       future preservation of the site.
In 2011 (30 April-1 May) an International       Symposium (organised by C. Gallou, the local Association of Velanidiotes       and the Municipality of Monemvasia, in collaboration with the       Mediterranean Institute for Nature and Anthropos (Med-Ina) and the       Aikaterini Laskaridis Foundation, under the auspices of the Region of the       Peloponnese) on the environmental and cultural heritage of the local area       was held in which the Pavlopetri project formed one of the main points of       reference.
Local governmental authorities, 40 local and regional       associations, and individuals signed the Cape Malea Declaration for the       protection and promotion of the local area as a World Heritage Site of       Cultural and National Significance (5.8).
As a consequence of all the       above, a management strategy for the site has been developed in       collaboration with Henderson &amp; Gallou, the Municipalities of       Elafonisos and Monemvasia, the Coastguard, and local NGOs.
A developmental       plan for presenting the site and its findings to the public is in progress       with the Municipalities of Elafonisos and Monemvasia.
Meetings to date       with the Mayors of Elafonisos and Monemvasia have directly influenced       local governmental policy on the protection and presentation of the       submerged site helping to forge a new policy against the uncontrolled       industrialisation of the Vatika bay.
(5.9 &amp; 5.10).
The increased       profile of the site has also led to more protection of the site by the       local Coastguard, promotion of the site in local public fora and media       (e.g.
VisitVatika.gr), the organisation of events by local associations       and NGOs (e.g.
organised visits at the site by the NGO "Toulipa Goulimi")       and in May 2013 cleaning of rubbish from the environs of the       archaeological site by the "Philopatris Association" of Elafonisos (5.11).
