     All impacts generated from the UoL research have occurred since 2008.
The long-term detailed descriptions of rotavirus gastroenteritis in       Malawian children helped to progress the assessment and introduction of       rotavirus vaccines in Africa by (i) demonstrating the need for rotavirus       vaccines to be effective against a wide range of rotavirus strain types;       (ii) demonstrating the need for rotavirus vaccines to protect very young       infants, since a high burden of rotavirus disease occurred in the first       year of life; and (iii) providing an ideal trial site with a wealth of       underpinning data where the pivotal rotavirus vaccine trial could be       undertaken.
These data were generated in collaboration with the College of       Medicine, University of Malawi (Dr Bagrey Ngwira).
The data were       disseminated through publication in peer-reviewed journals [1-3].
Based in large part upon the results of the clinical trial in Malawi,       where vaccination was shown to reduce severe rotavirus disease by 50%, a       global recommendation for rotavirus vaccine use was issued in 2009 by the       World Health Organisation.
In countries where diarrhoeal deaths account       for &#8805;10% of mortality among children aged &lt;5 years, the introduction of       the vaccine was strongly recommended.
Effectively, this recommendation       amounted to an extension of an existing recommendation from continents       where vaccine efficacy had been demonstrated (Europe and the Americas) to       also include developing countries in Africa and Asia (where the greatest       disease burden lies but where vaccine efficacy was unknown).
The clinical       trial was undertaken in partnership with the Program In Appropriate       Technology for Health, GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, The University of       Malawi College of Medicine, and the University of Witwatersrand.
The data       were presented to a WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts vaccine       meeting and disseminated through publication in peer-reviewed journals.
The results were made available to the Malawi Ministry of Health [15].
Following this global recommendation, African countries are introducing       rotavirus vaccines into their childhood immunisation schedules with Malawi       having introduced in November 2012.
This followed the introduction of       rotavirus vaccines in Botswana, Ghana, Morocco, Rwanda, South Africa,       Sudan and Zambia.
Early data are emerging from South Africa (where vaccine       was introduced in 2009) of an effect on child health in respect of reduced       hospitalisations due to rotavirus infection.
For example, a recent       assessment of the impact in South Africa states that "we estimate that at       least 13,000 to 20,000 hospitalizations in children &lt;2 years were       prevented in the two years following rotavirus vaccine introduction" [14].
Rotavirus diarrhoea accounts for 6.5% of global deaths of children under       five.
Complete implementation in all GAVI eligible countries will prevent       180,000 deaths per year and avert 6 million clinic and hospital visits       each year, thereby saving US $68 million annually in treatment costs [9].
In order to assess vaccine effectiveness and impact on rotavirus disease       burden in Malawi (including deaths due to diarrhoea), the UoL (PI,       Cunliffe) has been awarded a 5-year Programme Grant by the Wellcome Trust       (2010-2015, listed in section 3 above).
A Cochrane review has highlighted the benefits of rotavirus vaccinations       in all populations [13] and the UK introduced rotavirus vaccine into its       childhood immunization programme in July 2013.
