     The Preventing Child Deaths project1 carried out from       2006 to 2007 was the focal point of an ongoing programme of research into       child death review processes being carried out by the Warwick team.
This       work has had a direct influence on national policy and practice in       interagency working to safeguard children and has formed the basis of a       national training programme and templates for use by CDOPs.
A       The basic procedures to be followed in response to a child's death were       outlined in statutory national guidance (Working Together to Safeguard         Children) in 2006.
This guidance was expanded in 2010B       and incorporated the templates and tools developed through the `Preventing       Child Deaths' Warwick research.
A further revision in 2013, again draws on       these research findings, and Dr Sidebotham was involved in the       consultation on this guidance, and provided advice directly to the DfE.
C     CDOPs have now been established by all 152 Local Safeguarding Children       Boards (LSCBs) in England, as well as a national panel for Wales.
The       governments in Scotland and Northern Ireland are currently developing       similar processes, and Dr Sidebotham is currently supporting the       Safeguarding Board for Northern Ireland as they seek to develop their       processes.
D The research report on Preventing Child Deaths1       included a series of appendices with examples of terms of reference       for CDOPs, forms for notification and data collection, a pro forma       for data analysis, and audit tools for the child death review processes.
To assist LSCBs in carrying out child death reviews, the DfE commissioned       Warwick Medical School to lead development work on national templates for       these reviewsA, recognising the expertise of the research team       and the learning from this research.
These templates, which are available       on the DfE website A, are now used as the primary data       collection tools for all 93 CDOPs in England, and form the basis of annual       returns by CDOPs to the DfE.
The website A includes the       following citation: `In accordance with Working Together to Safeguard       Children (paragraph 7.2) all Local Safeguarding Children Boards (LSCBs)       need to keep information about each child's death... `In order to         assist LSCBs in this task, the Department commissioned Warwick         University to lead development work on the templates, which can be used         by all LSCBs.'
The Preventing Child Deaths research identified a number of learning       needs for practitioners from all agencies involved in child welfare and       CDOP members, and in light of this, the government commissioned Warwick       Medical School to develop national training materials to support the       introduction of these child death review processes.
This led to the       production of a training CD, which was distributed to all LSCBs in England       and made available on the DfE website.
A In addition, over 800       professionals from health, police and social care agencies across England       have attended training courses in child death review at Warwick Medical       School since it was established in 2007.
The outcomes of this work are       therefore embedded in professional practice in responding to and learning       from childhood deaths across the country, and are reflected in local       protocols and in annual reports from the CDOPs.
Dr. Sidebotham has helped       child death review experts from European countries, Australia and the       United StatesC, and has been invited to deliver seminars in the       Netherlands, Australia and Northern Ireland on this topic.
These seminars       have contributed to the development of similar processes in the       Netherlands and Northern Ireland.
D     In 2011, as a result of his expertise in this area, Dr Sidebotham was       appointed the academic lead for the Health Quality Improvement       Partnership-commissioned Clinical Outcomes Review Programme, Child Health       Reviews-UK.
E In 2013, he was appointed to a Royal College of       Paediatrics and Child Health (RCPCH) working group on child mortality, and       has presented work from this at a RCPCH policy breakfast (April, 2013),       and at the Conservative Party conference (September 2013).
Dr Sidebotham's work with Professor Marion Brandon of UEA on fatal child       maltreatment and Serious Case Reviews has an ongoing influence on wider       aspects of child protection.
This work is cited in Working Together, 2010B,       is frequently cited in local Serious Case Reviews across the country, and       features regularly in local and national training programmes in child       protection.
It is cited in the RCPCH Child Protection Companion,       and the NICE guidance, When to suspect child maltreatment, which       forms the basis of clinical guidance for paediatricians, GPs and other       clinicians in recognising and responding to child maltreatment.
In 2010 to       2011, Professor Eileen Munro undertook a review of Children's         Safeguarding in England, which influenced subsequent Government       revisions of safeguarding children guidance in England (Working Together,       2013).
Dr Sidebotham contributed evidence to this review and was a member       of the Learning from Practice review stream.
F In 2012 Dr       Sidebotham was invited by the RCPCH to contribute to its Child Protection       CompanionF, a working guide for paediatricians, which cites the       Sidebotham and Brandon research on Serious Case Reviews and other work by       Sidebotham and his colleagues.
The recent review into the death from abuse       of Daniel Pelka, which cites the Brandon &amp; Sidebotham research, has       generated a lot of media interest into how we learn from Serious Case       Reviews.
As a result of this, Dr Sidebotham's research was featured in a       BBC `Inside Out' documentary (9 September 2013, available on request).
