     In 2011, world chemical sales were worth &#8364;2744 billion of which the EU       has a 20% share employing 1.2 million workers and contributing over &#8364;5       billion to the EU economy (CEFIC).
The introduction of the REACH       regulation in 2007 meant that by 2018 this industry is required to present       to ECHA, for approval, dossiers containing toxicological information on       any chemical produced in or imported to the EU in quantities over one       tonne.
It was estimated that over 54 million animals (at a cost of &#8364;9.5       billion) would be required if animal testing alone were used but this       could be reduced to 13 million animals if all available alternative       methods were utilised where possible (Rovida and Harting, ALTEX 26, 3/09).
The QSAR group has developed models that can be used to predict       activity/toxicity in both human health and environmental sciences and are       used as an aid to hazard assessment of chemicals in the pharmaceutical,       fine chemical and personal care product industries.
This research has       directly impacted on industry and regulators by (i) aiding the development       of models and bespoke computational tools for prediction and (ii)       promoting the uptake of alternative methods by contributing to the       development of methods to assess their validity, hence increasing       regulatory acceptance.
(a) As a partner in the EU CAESAR project (http://www.caesar-project.eu/)       LJMU was part of an international effort that supported the development of       computational models for predicting toxicity [5.1].
These models now form       the basis of the VEGA platform (http://www.vega-qsar.eu/use-qsar.html)       which provides online software, made freely available to industry, for       predicting toxicity endpoints based on chemical structure relevant to the       REACH regulation.
Since April 2013 over 1000 copies of the free standalone       version have also been downloaded.
(b) LJMU research also led to new rules being implemented in the Toxtree       and Toxmatch software.
These new rule bases incorporated alerts developed       at LJMU for skin sensitisation, protein binding, DNA binding and revisions       to the Verhaar rules [5.2].
Updated versions of the software are now       available via the ToxPredict interface http://apps.ideaconsult.net:8080/ToxPredict for use by industry for initial hazard assessment of chemicals and       over 19000 downloads have been recorded since 2008.
The software is       particularly useful for toxicity prediction as it is freely available and       was originally commissioned by the European Commission (through the Joint       Research Centre, Ispra).
(c) One of the most significant impacts of the research at LJMU has been       its contribution to the development of the OECD QSAR Toolbox [5.3].
Research carried out at LJMU identified structural alerts associated with       protein and DNA binding and these alerts have been coded into "profilers"       in the Toolbox.
This software (developed at LMC, Bourgas) is a unique tool       designed specifically to aid industry with hazard assessment in light of       the EU REACH regulation.
The "read-across" methodology is transparent and       therefore more acceptable to regulators.
Reliable and justifiable       predictions for toxicity can be made reducing reliance on animal       experiments so industrial users are able to use the software to predict       toxicity and fill the knowledge gaps in existing toxicity data required       for the submission of their REACH dossiers The first version of the       Toolbox was released in November 2008 with subsequent versions being       released in 2010, 2012 and 2013.
There has been a wide uptake across the       industrial sector with an estimated 1000-2000 downloads [5.4].
It has       become a standard tool and industry has been supportive of further       development [5.5, 5.6] Its use is strongly promoted by the European       Chemicals Agency (ECHA), the agency responsible for ensuring safe use of       chemicals in Europe and they have stated it is "A valuable tool to         consider when building categories or considering read across is the OECD         QSAR Toolbox" ECHA [5.7] In 2011, ECHA reported that already 20-30%       of submitted dossiers contained read-across predictions and OECD QSAR       Toolbox was reported as being the most frequently used QSAR model in an EC       funded project (ORCHESTRA) to determine the use of QSAR for REACH purposes       [5.8].
QSAR and modelling research undertaken at LJMU over several decades has       resulted in many models and tools being developed for the prediction of       toxicity.
These tools are demonstrably important to industry and their       uptake has been assured by additional activities aimed at ensuring       developers and users of the models have confidence in the validity of the       approaches.
