     The research has had an impact on the improvement of recruitment to       successful clinical trials in two ways:             the research has been developed into material for training           courses for cancer health professionals with national and         international reach;        the research has been used to support specific recruitment           programmes for difficult trials including prostate, renal, breast         and haematological cancers.
Training courses     Over 200 facilitators from the UK, the USA and Canada have been trained       to conduct courses using the communication about clinical-trials       educational materials.
These training courses have been adopted by the       English National Cancer Research Network (NCRN) and Welsh National       Institute for Social Care and Health Research Clinical Research Centre       (NISCHR) [see Section 5, C1, C2].
In Wales, 221 participants attended one of 25 `Talking about clinical       trials' training courses between 2007 and 2012.
Feedback from the       courses was extremely positive, with participants indicating that it has       changed their practice: `Given me greater understanding of the importance       of the research nurse role'; `Importance of effective communication and       how it can affect trial outcome'.
These courses are conducted every two       months in the three Welsh regions [C2].
The 32 NCRN Local Research Networks regions in England conducted 31       courses with 329 staff members between 2010-2012, again obtaining very       positive participant feedback [C1].
As a result, there was a fivefold       increase in the recruitment of cancer patients to NCRN portfolio studies       between 2001 and 2011, although an exact number attributable to the       training alone cannot be specified.
Data for 2010/11 show that over 50,000       cancer patients are now recruited into studies across the UK each year.
In 2006, Jenkins and Fallowfield were awarded the British Oncology       Association (BOA) Excellence in Oncology Award for Best Professional       Education Initiative for these educational and training materials.
Specific recruitment programmes     A specific request was received from the Medical Research Council (MRC)       for help to increase recruitment to a prostate cancer trial (RADICALS)       that was in difficulty.
An easy-to-navigate patient information DVD, split       into different sections that explained the trial &#8212; randomisation,       uncertainty about treatments and side-effects of each arm, plus a       question-and-answer session &#8212; was produced.
These were the RADICALS       (Radiotherapy timing comparison and hormonal duration comparison patient       information) DVDs.
These DVDs were given to eligible trial patients to       watch so that they received consistent, clear information about the trial       before deciding whether or not to participate.
Feedback from the MRC       showed that, on average, centres were recruiting 14 patients per month       before the DVDs were distributed in January 2010.
Since the use of the       DVDs was introduced, centres have been recruiting, on average, 37 patients       per month &#8212; see the report from the Radicals Trial Manager, MRC Clinical       Trials Unit, London 2011 in [C3].
The popularity and success of the RADICALS DVDs has led to similar DVDs       becoming an integral part of applications for many hard-to-recruit-to       trial protocols, including ones for ductal carcinoma in situ       (DCIS) breast, colorectal, renal and prostate cancer trials.
For example,       the PulMICC clinical trial randomises patients to either surgical removal       of pulmonary metastases or active surveillance [C4].
Production of a       patient information DVD for the LORIS trial (Low Risk DCIS) (Health       Technology Assessment) is currently underway and communication training       sessions will be held to help medical staff to explain the trial to women       diagnosed with low or low/intermediate DCIS [C5].
Patient information and       staff training DVDs are also a core feature of two International       Preference Trials of herceptin treatment for DCIS, sponsored by Hoffman La       Roche (PrefHer Cohort 1 and Cohort 2).
The DVDs were translated into eight       languages for use with staff recruiting 400 patients to the study [C6].
The team training work has been highlighted by the pharmaceutical       industry (Roche UK), which has commissioned Jenkins' group since 2011 to       work with breast and haematological cancer teams across the UK       experiencing low patient-recruitment numbers.
These have been a success       and six-month follow up has shown changes in several areas, including an       increased enthusiasm for trials, and of the recruitment of patients and       teams [C7].
In Vancouver, Canada, the Breast Cancer Agency facilitates the course to       their medical staff; the training DVDs were also dubbed for use in       Germany.
