     The research on the meningococcal PCR was done in conjunction with the       Meningococcal       Reference Unit at the Health Protection Agency (HPA), now Health       Protection England.
The HPA's       advice, information and services are underpinned by evidence-based       research.
The UoL research       provided evidence that PCR offered advantages over blood culture in real       life settings and was       directly used to improve diagnosis nationally, thereby ensuring that       patients received more       appropriate and earlier treatment than they would otherwise have done.
The       assay and primer       sequences used by HPA are published in journals with a wide circulation,       allowing others to       develop their own in-house PCR assays, thereby increasing global impact;       the partnership with       HPA increased the reach and impact of the research.
Meningococcal PCR is       recommended as the       gold standard in the 2010 NICE Clinical Guideline CG102 [5].
The research       is also influencing the       formulation of child specific NICE guidelines through work started in 2010       [6].
These organisations fund research to prevent meningitis and septicaemia,       and improve survival       rates and outcomes.
They also promote education and awareness to reduce       death and disability,       and give support to people affected.
As a result of the close       collaboration between Professor Hart's       group and these patient organisations (Meningitis Merseyside, Meningitis       UK, Meningitis Research       Foundation), results from the programme were disseminated directly to       patient organisations and       through conferences and literature to scientists and clinicians.
The close       links with patient groups       provided societal benefit by contributing to increased knowledge of the       disease being shared with       members of the public.
Key findings from research funded by Meningitis       Research Foundation are       published on their website.
Publications in medium to high impact       publications also helped to give       international recognition to this work.
The guidelines derived from the UoL research are being implemented and       are impacting patients.
For example, an HPA population-level assessment published in 2013 of the       added value of PCR       testing for MCD to augment traditional culture confirmation concluded that       PCR-testing has a       crucial role in the confirmation of MCD in England [7].
A total of 57% of       all confirmed MCD cases       were confirmed by PCR only, indicating high case ascertainment for       national surveillance.
The       sensitivity of PCR in the recent HPA study is 97-99% [7].
The beneficiaries are 1) patients and patient groups through faster and       more accurate diagnosis       and therefore more effective treatment, and 2) healthcare providers who       can more effectively use       their resources.
In England, in 2009 and 2010 there were 1924 reported MCD       cases, 1099 (57.1%)       were confirmed by PCR only, 432 (22.5%) by culture only and 393 (20.4%) by       both tests.
This       means that, on average about 500 additional patients per year       receive an accurate diagnosis and       appropriate therapy as a result of this test.
The researchers have also engaged patient groups, the Meningitis Research       Foundation and       Meningitis UK.
The beneficiaries are the public through increased       awareness and access to       knowledge.
The research has achieved international prominence and is now being       applied in Europe.
For       example, in Barcelona 39% of 118 MCD were only detected by PCR [8].
MenB       is the leading       cause of meningitis and septicaemia in Ireland, with an average of 170       average cases per year.
The study by Drew [9] reports that 63% of cases were diagnosed by PCR       alone, which equates to       about 107 extra cases /year in Ireland.
