     Our physics and astronomy research has inspired, stimulated and       entertained literally millions of people [see Section 5, C1-C6], and the       discovery of the Higgs boson has generated exceptional interest around the       world and challenged people's perceptions of the foundations of the       universe.
Our research has also contributed to a leading example of       `citizen science', changing the way in which science is conducted.
Finally, our research inspires new artistic and cultural activities       enriching the lives of many.
Inspiring and stimulating the general public through research on           the fundamentals of the universe     The Herschel Space Observatory, and the SPIRE instrument in particular,       have had a wide public reach because of their intrinsically awe-inspiring       pictures and due to a highly proactive UK (including Sussex) engagement       effort which has recorded 47million audience contacts [C1].
There have       been at least 27 distinct press `stories', producing many more press       releases internationally.
These press releases are routinely picked up by,       for example, the BBC web pages [C2], because of their mass appeal to a       ready audience [C3].
There have been extensive media appearances       (including Oliver on Sky at Night, 6 April 2009 [C4] and HerMES       featuring in the Radio 4 Today programme, 19 April 2013, average       audience 6 million) and high-profile stands at major national events like       the Royal Society Summer Exhibition 2012 and the Big Bang Fair (2010,       2011, 2012, 2013).
Romer and Baskill recorded an audio slideshow [C5] covering the       highlights from 10 years of the XMM-Newton observatory.
In the piece,       Romer describes the XMM-Newton images taken as part of her XMM cluster       survey [see Section 3, R2].
The slideshow was accessed over 100,000 times       from the BBC web site within the first day of availability alone [C5].
The Higgs boson's role in generating elementary particle masses has       stimulated the public imagination and became the topic of popular science       such as Leon Lederman's 1993 book The God Particle.
Following the       4 July 2012 discovery, fundamental physics figured in public awareness in       a way probably not seen since Eddington's 1919 confirmation of General       Relativity, with front-page coverage in newspapers around the world, for       example The Wall Street Journal, The Times and The         Independent.
In particular The Guardian, with its front-page       headline `Higgs was right', makes the direct comparison with the famous       1919 headline `Einstein was right' [C6].
Inspiring people to contribute to scientific investigations and           changing how science is done     Our research has underpinned the Galaxy Zoo Project [C7], which aims to       address the scientific problem that, while the human eye is the best tool,       the galaxies from SDSS were too numerous to be classified by professional       astronomers.
Galaxy Zoo enlists members of the public to classify galaxy       images.
One million SDSS images were made available via the Galaxy Zoo       webpage http://www.galaxyzoo.org       in July 2007.
Within 24 hours of its launch, Galaxy Zoo received almost       70,000 classifications per hour.
More than 100 million classifications       were received by 2009, contributed by more than 200,000 people [C8] who       are individually acknowledged on the web page.
These classifications have       led directly to some substantial new scientific findings &#8212; e.g.
[R4].
A       prime example is the discovery of a new class of galaxy, first noted by       Galaxy Zoo volunteers [C9].
Given its groundbreaking character, Galaxy Zoo       has been the subject of academic research into the motivations and       benefits of the science to the volunteers.
A study by Johns Hopkins       researchers [C8] involved interviews with 22 volunteers and an analysis of       online forum posts.
The interviewees comprised people from many walks of       life, including a judge, a theatre draftsperson, a chemist and an       investment banker.
According to the interview responses, motivations range       from fun and interest in the beauty of the pictures to, importantly, the       stretching of the imagination and the `slight probability that I may point       out the one object that will completely shock our current understanding       about the universe' and the excitement of contributing to original       scientific research.
A desire to help (volunteerism) is also evident, as       is a desire to meet people with the same interests.
Galaxy Zoo is an       influential pioneer in the field of `citizen science', as discussed in the       press, for example in a Guardian article [C10], spawning public       engagement in other branches of science &#8212; The Zooniverse at https://www.zooniverse.org 	  includes studies of cyclones, climate change and cancer data.
It       figures prominently in Michael Nielsen's book Reinventing Discovery:         The New Era of Networked Science, which argues for an `open science       imperative' to reinvent discovery, which will `help address our most       critical human problems'.
Our science influencing artistic and cultural collaboration     We have been engaged as scientific consultants on various arts projects.
A highlight was the well-received play `Constellations', which premi&#232;red       at the Royal Court, moved to the Duke of York's Theatre (West End, London,       2012 [C11]) and is expected to become a feature film.
The lead character       is an Astronomer from Sussex, the script specifically mentions the XCS       survey [R2] and Romer and Liddle were the Chief Scientific Advisors.
Herschel SPIRE influenced a scene in an episode of the Big Bang Theory!
(April 2013), reaching 14-20 million viewers.
In 2009, Harris joined with the organisers of the Adur Festival, an Arts       Festival in the South Coast region, and composer-performer Richard       Durrant, to create a musically and visually accompanied lecture on the       search for the neutron's EDM [R6] and its implications [C12].
The       intention was for the audience to `experience science in a completely new       way' and so the music was written using notes generated by the       experimental data [C12].
During a Q&amp;A session, the sell-out audience       was `by all accounts, overwhelmed', with reactions ranging from struggling       with the perceived `anti-religious' implications of the research to a       better understanding and affection for fundamental science [C12].
In conclusion Sussex physics research has changed the way the       theatre-going public, the scientifically-engaged public and the general       public appreciate aspects of fundamental physics and the scientific       process, and has facilitated better engagement with scientific research,       resulting in increased scientific literacy.
