     Cloonan's research has achieved impact both internationally &#8212;       campaigning for artistic freedom       for musicians via Freemuse; and in the UK &#8212; assisting the campaign       for Licensing Act reform,       which led to the Live Music Act 2012.     International impact &#8212; artistic freedom and censorship &#8212; The right       to freedom of artistic       expression is enshrined in, among several international treaties, the       International Covenant on       Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, ratified by the United Nations       General Assembly in       December 1966.
Cloonan is currently Executive Committee Chair of Freemuse,       the World Forum       on Music and Censorship, which he helped to found in 1998.
Freemuse &#8212; see       http://freemuse.org/       &#8212; is dedicated to documenting and publicising censorship and human rights       violations involving       musicians worldwide, and regularly reports on ill-treated or imprisoned       musicians.
It has received       funding from, among others: the Swedish International Development       Cooperation Agency;       Roskilde Festival Charity Society; Postcode Lottery Culture Foundation;       SafeMuse; Bj&#246;rn Afzelius       International Culture Foundation; the Swedish Special Initiative for       Democratisation and Freedom       of Expression; and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Freemuse has       had Special Consultative       Status with the United Nation`s Economic and Social Council, ECOSOC, since       2012.
Cloonan's involvement stems from his leading role in its foundation &#8212; at       the 1st World Conference       on Music and Censorship in Copenhagen in 1998.
Since he has been chair of       its Executive       Committee, providing strategic direction to the organisation's       Copenhagen-based Secretariat.
During its history Freemuse has published many reports on international       music censorship and a       right-based agenda for artists, as well as establishing a portal promoting       and highlighting different       national and international campaigns.
Cloonan authored and acted as a key       advisor on many of       Freemuse's publications by identifying key issues, supporting and       developing the commissioning of       reports as well as assessing the credentials of likely writers and       commenting on drafts of the       reports.
Freemuse reports are sent to the UN, international NGOs       interested in issues of freedom       of expression and various media outlets including the NME.
Among       its reports is: Headbanging         against repressive regimes: Censorship of heavy metal in the Middle         East, North Africa, Southeast         Asia and China (Report 9, Freemuse, Copenhagen, 2010); ISSN:       1601-2127.
ISBN 978-87-988163-3-1.104       pages; Cloonan acknowledgement pg 8) &#8212; available online at http://freemuse.org.
In December 2012 the programme manager of Freemuse, launched a new       consultation with all UN       General Assembly member states on cultural rights with these words:     The protection of artistic expression is just as important for the       development of democracy as       the protection of media workers.
It is frequently artists who &#8212; through       music, visual arts or films       &#8212; put the `needle in the eye' and strike a chord with millions of people,       some of them unable to       read and with no access to express themselves.
The establishment of Freemuse, and its maturing as a trusted advocacy       group with international       reach, marked a major step forward in the recognition of musicians as       having the same rights to       freedom of expression as authors and other creators.
Its work in       recording, monitoring and       lobbying on infringements of these rights has resulted in Freemuse's       recognition as the leading       NGO with expertise in issues of freedom of expression relating to       musicians.
Since its       establishment Freemuse has recorded and publicised incidents of censorship       and oppression of       musicians internationally, published annual and country reports on freedom       of music expression       and lobbied against censorship.
Recent Freemuse publicity (in June 2013)       has focused on a       Tunisian rapper sentenced to two years in prison, two Tibetan singers       sentenced in China, and a       Vietnamese musician fined for publishing `content that goes against the       policies and laws of the       Party and the State'.
In July 2012, the Chief of UN's Department of Economic and Social Affairs       (ECOSOC) NGO       Branch, formally conferred `special consultative status' on Freemuse,       stating:     We welcome the opportunity to work with you and will be happy to       facilitate your participation in       the work of the United Nations, in particular ECOSOC and its subsidiary       bodies.
UK: supporting live performance of music &#8212; The UK Licensing Act       introduced in 2003       significantly increased levels of control over live music, requiring       licences for most public and many       private performances.
The Act proved controversial and campaigners argued       that the impact on       small venues including pubs, community halls, schools etc was hugely       detrimental as previously       performances in such places involving one or two artists had been exempt       from licensing       requirements.
There was sustained campaigning from groups such as the Live       Music Forum &#8212; see       www.livemusicforum.co.uk &#8212;       established by independent live music campaigners, and other       individuals supporting live music.
The campaigning took a higher profile       approach when the       Department for Media, Culture and Sport (DCMS) released a 2010 report       concluding that the live       music sector in the UK was `thriving'.
Due to Cloonan's research expertise       in live music and its       regulation, he was one of three academics &#8212; the others being Alison       Macfarlane, statistician at City       University London and Cloonan's frequent collaborator Simon Frith,       Edinburgh &#8212; cited by the Live       Music Forum in a protest against what it saw as misleading claims by the       DCMS that were       intended to support the stringent licensing requirements.
Cloonan,       Macfarlane and Frith also       signed a letter (18 June 2010) alongside the Live Music Forum to the UK       Statistics Authority &#8212; see       www.livemusicforum.co.uk/text/hbbulletin310.htm       &#8212; protesting misrepresentations by DCMS.
Their       position was that the sector was not `thriving' and that this view had       been used by the Local       Government Association and the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health       to reject the idea of       exempting smaller premises and events from licence requirements, as had       previously been the       case before.
The campaign was supported by Lord Tim Clement-Jones, the Liberal       Democrats' cultural       spokesperson, whose adviser on the issue was the head of the Live Music       Forum.
In March 2012       the Live Music Act proposed by Clement-Jones was passed by the UK       Parliament, removing the       need for a licence to play live music in most small venues, such as pubs       and community halls.
Public and industry sector awareness of issues around live music in the       UK has been enhanced by       the presence of the industry information website Live Music Exchange &#8212; see       livemusicexchange.org &#8212;       co-founded by Cloonan and Frith.
Live Music Exchange is an information       hub for the live music industry.
It provides blogs, newsletters, news       digests, training, consultancy       and mediation.
It was initially funded by the AHRC as a follow-up project       to The Promotion of Live         Music Project.
A distinguishing aspect of Cloonan's research is its emphasis on       collaboration.
It is clear, however,       that his unique expertise and long standing authority in relation to music       policy and regulation has       made a fundamental contribution to initiatives, campaigning bodies and       public facing resources       that have impacted on diverse user groups nationally and internationally &#8212;       musicians experiencing       censorship; the music industry in terms of both recording and live venues;       and the general public       interested and concerned in the powerful role that popular music plays       both in their own lives and       within the wider culture.
