     Shaping conservation action in Borneo     Cardiff's genetic analysis forms a central part of the Orang-utan State       Action Plan that was written by Bruford and Goossens in collaboration with       Sabah Wildlife Department.
The plan was presented on 10-11 June 2010 for       endorsement by the Sabah State Cabinet and formally published and launched       in January 20125.1.
Following the similar project focusing on the Bornean elephant, Goossens       was charged, together with a member of the Sabah Wildlife Department, with       producing the Elephant State Action Plan which has now also been endorsed       and published by the Sabah State Cabinet 5.2.
By identifying       the link between fragmentation and home-range, a key element of this       Action Plan is to reconnect the forests of the Kinabatangan to form a       `corridor of life' along the river.
The species Action Plans have helped Malaysia (and especially the Sabah       Wildlife Department) to meet its obligations under the Convention on       Biological Diversity.
The Action Plans were launched at a workshop in 2012, attended by       conservationists and representatives from the palm oil sector to discuss       the implementation of the plan and suitable solutions to the shrinking       orang-utan and elephant habitats.
Goossens presented an overview of the       scientific evidence and forecasts produced by the Cardiff team; Bruford       facilitated a plenary discussion on strategies to harmonise wildlife       conservation and the development needs of the region 5.3.
The Action Plans are now being implemented in Sabah.
A key element of the       Orang-utan Action Plan has been the extension of the rope bridge programme       to facilitate interactions between previously isolated populations.
Photographic evidence in 2010 has shown that the primates use bridges       installed above Kinabatangan tributaries in a pilot scheme to cross these       natural barriers allowing them to roam further afield 5.4.     International training for evidenced-based conservation     During the elephant project, Cardiff University also developed a plan to       establish a field centre in partnership with the Sabah Wildlife Department       in the Lower Kinabatangan Wildlife Sanctuary.
Following substantial       investment from Cardiff, the Danau Girang Field Centre (DGFC) opened in       July 2008.
During its first five years the centre has hosted 24 training       courses for international and Malaysian scientists and students; it has a       high local media profile.
Supporting livelihoods and sustainability in Borneo     DGFC contributes to the local economy as it employs twelve local people,       including a centre manager.
The centre also promotes sustainability in the       area through active engagement with the oil palm sector.
It helped to       organise the Sabah Conservation Colloquium 2012 and collaborates with       Yayasan Sime Darby, a palm oil funded conservation charity, to study and       conserve the proboscis monkey in Sabah 5.5.
The creation of DGFC has helped to precipitate the closure of an       unlicensed tourist site called Uncle Tans, which was having a significant       negative effect on the environment.
Improving Chinese conservation practices     In China, Cardiff's collaboration with the Institute of Zoology, Chinese       Academy of Sciences has built the Institute's capacity in non-invasive       genetic analysis.
Since the initial studies of the genetic structure of       the giant panda, Chinese scientists have now developed a full assessment       of the greater Shangri-La ecosystem 5.6-5.7.
The genetic census of giant pandas in 2006 spurred a revision of the       sampling strategy for China's fourth national giant panda survey;       molecular censusing will be carried out across the entire geographic range       of the survey.
The authorities will use the more accurate population       estimates to refine the protection measures for each region of the giant       panda's range5.6-5.7.
Cardiff's work on the genetic structure of panda populations has been       instrumental in guiding the strategic movement of individual animals into       the dwindling Xiaoxiangling population at the south of the species' range5.8.
This practice of `targeted translocation' is also included in the revised       management guidelines for the fourth national survey on giant pandas 5.6-5.8.
Conclusion     The ultimate impact of these management recommendations based on       Cardiff's research will take decades to evaluate, since they are measured       over generational timescales.
However, by using evidence-based management       practices, these emblematic species and others that benefit from the same       scientific approach, will have a much greater chance of long-term       survival.
