     Impact on debate about the theology and practice of mission in the         Anglican church [5.8, 5.9]     For the Parish has sold 3,137 copies from September 2010 until       August 2013.
It was reviewed in       Anglican newspapers and journals in the UK, including The Church Times       and The Modern         Churchman, and abroad, including the Episcopal New Yorker, The         Living Church, Anglican         Theological Review, and Journal of Anglican Studies .
Bishop       Stephen Cottrell in the Church         Times wrote: `this is the most serious and important book on       Anglican mission that I have read for       many years &#8212; not least because it is unashamedly theological..., every       parish priest and pioneer       minister needs to read this book as a matter of urgency'.
Dr John Habgood,       former Archbishop of       York, wrote in the Times Literary Supplement: `ought to be       standard reading for Church of England       clergy and leading laity'.
This led to:     The new Anglican-Methodist report Fresh Expressions in the         Mission of the Church [5.1].
This report, which has been accepted by the Synod, has a substantive       section on the critique in       For the Parish, as well as implicitly dealing with its criticisms       throughout and in the title: instead       of separating `God's mission' from the church as in the previous report,       now it is `mission of the       church'.
See especially pages 138-52 on For the Parish: `these       [Milbank &amp; Davison's]       criticisms raise important issues in relation to fresh expressions that       cannot be dismissed.
A       number of practical safeguards are required to ensure that the mixed       economy does not       compromise the integrity of the Church' (p. 151).
These are outlined on       pp.
153ff and       demonstrate the practical outcomes of the critique.
Fresh expressions are       now to be       committed to the sacraments (7.5), communion with other parts of the       Church (7.6.1), and       collaboration with the parish (7.9.1).
The need for this to be applied to       ministerial training is       emphasised (7.11).
Invitations to give lectures to audiences of Anglican clergy and       laity, both small-scale via       clergy chapters and local theological societies: Peterborough,       Chesterfield, Stafford, Leicester,       Oakham; and larger scale via cathedrals: Manchester (60 approx attendees),       Wells (80),       Southwell (120), Truro (100), Southwark (250).
Warminster Group (priest       alumni of King's       College, London) (60).
More recently, a clergy conference in Southwell and       Nottingham       (October, 2012, c. 200) has been followed in 2013 by Diocesan talks at       Wakefield (150),       Canterbury (60), and Ely (250), and clergy training for Bath and Wells       (May, 2013, c.50-100).
Debates with proponents of Fresh Expressions: Liverpool in       February 2012, also a       forthcoming day conference in Cambridge, which is to be published as a       special issue of clergy       journal, Theology.
Online discussion: Milbank's book was reviewed by the Australian       Broadcasting       Corporation in 2011 [5.2], leading to invitations to contribute online       articles [5.3].
A further       outcome was an invitation by Scott Stephens, Religion Editor, to publish a       non-European       version of the book appropriate to the Australasian parish system.
Fresh       Expressions is just       beginning on this continent.
Ecumenical discussion: Milbank addressed Churches Together,       London, in December       2010, as a representative of the Church of England (although she holds no       official role in this       area), which included 20 people in official roles of Anglican, RC,       Methodist, Baptist, URC,       Churches of Christ, Salvation Army, and independent churches, who were       persuaded of the       consumerism and privatisation of the church present in the Fresh       Expressions agenda and said       so strongly.
A debate was also held at the University of Edinburgh for the       Church of Scotland       (June 2013) with proponents of Fresh Expressions and clergy from the       Church of Scotland.
Radio broadcasts: Milbank contributed to a programme, `Tracing       Beauty', aired at       7.45pm on 8 January 2012 on Radio 3 which makes use of her approach to       apologetics       through literary tropes such as `making strange', which she applied here       to art and theology, as       also in a radio interview with Australian Religious Broadcasting, August       11, 2012, and the       Sunday programme, Radio 4, August 18, 2013.     International reach: For the Parish has been reviewed in       non-British Anglican journals,       including the non-academic Episcopal New Yorker, Living Church,       as well as journals that       reach the clergy, Anglican Theological Review, and Journal of         Anglican Studies.
Milbank also       gives an annual lecture to around 3,000 Catholic laity and clergy at the       Rimini meeting of       Communion and Liberation: the aspect of her research developed here is how       the religious       sense can be engendered through imagination, literature and art, and how       this may be linked       to mission.
As a result, she has been interviewed at Rimini by Corriere         della Sera (2008) and       La Republica (2011).
Clergy publishing books: Generous Ecclesiology [5.4] is a       book by three Church of       England clergy (Julie Gittoes, Brutus Green, James Heard) that is devoted       wholly to       addressing For the Parish.
It is marketed as seeking `to present a       positive theological response       to the issues raised by Mission-shaped Church and For the         Parish'.
This wide-reaching debate and discussion (in both secular and religious       domains) represents a       significant contribution to understanding the life and practice of the       church.
Creating new experiences of space, time and narrative for cathedral         visitors and congregations     A series of talks on theology of time, space and narrative based on For         the Parish at Ely in January       2011 was given to 20 canon chancellors/canons of education in Anglican       cathedrals.
These were       later disseminated to 50 stewards at Truro Cathedral and their education       officer, which led to the       Truro Cathedral Treasury Project.
This is a new Interpretation       method and reorganization of       visitor experience via video and barcodes to read objects.
This is       directly the result of Milbank's       research and the talks given at Ely, based on For the Parish.
The       Education Officer at Truro [5.6]       came to see Milbank, and developed the practical project from Milbank's       theological methodology;       Milbank also worked with interns on the project.
The project has gained EU       and lottery money,       and has continued 2011-2013 with support for University of Falmouth Film       Studies.
Southwell       Archbishop's Palace Project has also used the Treasury Project in their       National Lottery bid which       proved successful in April 2013.
The projects offer a methodology as well       as a practical       application of reordering ideas of time, pace and narrative for cathedral       visitors.
Impact on Anglican ministerial education:     Canon Prof. Martyn Percy writes:     `the book has a reasonable claim to be one of the most influential       critiques of contemporary       fads and fashions in missiology over the last decade.
Speaking personally,       I can testify that       virtually all ordinands at Cuddesdon have read and discussed all or part       of the book.
The       book is both a critique of Fresh Expressions, but also a profound and       lively argument for       ordinary parish ministry.
It is, simply put, essential reading for those       now training for       ordained ministry.
For the Parish has been one of the most influential       books to have       emerged in recent years in the field of missiology and ecclesiology.'
[5.5]     Theological colleges for the training of clergy and lay leaders have used       For the Parish for teaching       from 2010 onwards, including the ecumenical Cambridge Federation, St       Stephen's House, Oxford,       and Ripon-Cuddesdon College Oxford (at least 300).
Milbank gave talks to       ordinands at Westcott       College, Cambridge and to St Stephen's House, Oxford.
The Liverpool       Diocese Summer School       2011 for clergy and readers (about 150) used For the Parish.
A       follow-up seminar was held as well       by Revd Dr R. Garner [5.7].
The Diocese of Lincoln encourages all       prospective priests and       deacons to read For the Parish [5.10]
