     Influencing policy formation via `Red Tory' and `Blue Labour'         movements:       Milbank's research has proposed a religious politics that would invert our       present right-wing economic and left-wing cultural politics for a more       conservative set of social values and a more radical economic system based       on community, reciprocity and the common good.
He proposed that such a       `paradoxical politics' would be `red tory' or blue socialist'.
[5.1] Both       of these labels, along with the full range of ideas that underwrite them,       have been carried forward into the mainstream of British politics.
Phillip Blond, Director of ResPublica (an independent, non-partisan, and       not for profit think-tank) and author of Red Tory: How Left and Right         have Broken Britain and How we Can Fix It (London: Faber, 2010), is       a former doctoral student of Milbank's who has developed his political       ideas (since leaving a lectureship in theology in 2008) in constant       conversation with Milbank, whose influence can be seen on many pages of Red         Tory and in many ResPublica reports [see 5.2 &amp; 5.3].
Blond       himself has been described as `the man who wrote Cameron's mood music' (Guardian,       8th August 2009) and the `driving force behind David Cameron's       "Big Society" agenda' (Daily Telegraph, 13th November       2010).
Blond writes:     `In terms of my own work as Director of ResPublica (one of Britain's most       influential thinktanks) where John [Milbank] is Chair of Trustees, I       always discuss my own and our public and policy-led approach with him.
It       would not be an exaggeration to say that inasmuch as I have influenced       British public life with ideas on anything like Red Tory, The Big Society       and Military Academies &#8212; I have always drawn on John's work and advice       when formulating ideas and policy.'
[5.4]     Lord Maurice Glasman has taken up the `blue socialist' agenda under the       heading `blue labour', as one of the key intellectual movements       influencing the current policy of the Labour Party under Ed Milliband.
He       was quickly promoted to a peerage soon after he took up and propagated       Milbank's `blue socialism': the story of Milbank's influence and Glasman's       ascent has been documented by the journalist Rowenna Davis, Tangled Up         in Blue.
[5.5] Lord Glasman writes:     `Professor John Milbank has had a profound impact on the political       position that has come to be known as Blue Labour.
He spent some very       important time with me and urged me to "think paradoxically" and that has       been a very significant feature of the academic and political work.
A       seminar was created at Oxford University called "The Labour Tradition and       the Politics of Paradox" which generated 120,000 downloads in a week when       it was published as an ebook by Lawrence and Wishart [5.6].
Since then,       the ideas of Professor Milbank have informed a range of debates and policy       initiatives within the Labour movement from welfare reform to foreign       policy.'
[5.7]     Similarly, Jon Cruddas MP, Labour Party Policy Coordinator, writes:     John Milbank is one of the main thinkers behind the emerging post-liberal       politics in Britain.
... His thinking has influenced in equal measure the       Red Tory project of Phillip Blond and the Blue Labour movement founded by       Maurice Glasman.
Blue Labour's work on an ethical market, a mutualist       approach to welfare and a focus on vocationalism for all rather than just       equality of opportunity, has been considerably shaped by Milbank's work       and so, through the impact of Blue Labour, has in turn influenced debates       within the Labour Party, including the Policy Review.
Moreover, he has       made public interventions in the mainstream media and at public       conferences in which he has developed his own brand of Christian       socialism.
It can be summarised as a post-liberal, post-secular politics       that overcomes both neo-liberal capitalism and authoritarian statism in       the direction of a civic polity and a civil economy.
... By arguing for       the primacy of the social and the ethical over the political and the       economic, Milbank has helped to redefine the battleground of ideas in       British politics.
[5.8]     Milbank was invited to chair the ResPublica Trust to redirect it towards       being a non-party-political charity dedicated to postliberal politics in       general and with close links to religious bodies, Christian and       non-Christian.
He has also addressed a meeting at the House of Lords on       this topic in relation an alternative version of Lords' reform on 29th       February 2012, launching the ResPublica publication to which he       contributed, Our House: Reflections on Representation and Reform in         the House of Lords [5.2], alongside, amongst others, the Minister       for Political and Constitutional Reform.
This was instrumental in       inspiring the Alternative Proposal published and promoted by a number of       members of the Joint Committee for the House of Lords Reform Draft Bill,       arguing that the Second Chamber should embody a participative democracy       and reflect the diversity of communities in the country beyond political       and regional divides [5.9].
Milbank has also stimulated interest in and contributed to public       awareness of moral issues in party politics: he appeared on BBC Radio 4's       The Moral Maze: 8pm 2 December 2009 `The moral significance of       science in political and moral debate in society'; 8pm 4 July 2012: `Moral       leadership and public virtue in light of the bank crisis'.
Eight articles       he contributed on his political thinking to ABC online between March 2012       and May 2013 generated significant engagement and debate with 1,031 Likes       on Facebook, 303 Re-Tweets.
Of 370 comments, those generated by his essay       after the death of Thatcher include: `an outstanding contribution to the       debate', and `I don't often agree with John Milbank, but this essay is       superb' [5.10].
Complementing this media engagement with his work, Milbank       participates in regular public debate.
Recent examples include: a debate       on gay marriage, Westminster Hall, London, 18 April 2013; a conference on       religion and democracy, Coll&#232;ge des Bernardins, Paris, 20 April 2013; a       debate on Robert &amp; Edward Skidelsky's book, How Much is Enough?
Money and the Good Life, House of Lords, 23 April 2013; Blue Labour       Midlands seminar, 5 July 2013; seminar for Demos think tank 20th       anniversary celebrations, `Making markets moral', 17 July 2013.
The themes       of these events reflect Milbank's engagement with a diverse range of       constituencies, and the application of his research to wide-ranging       contemporary political, philosophical and theological debate.
Influencing church social teaching       Religious bodies have been attracted by his finding that a notion of the       common good needs a notion of objective values held in common and by his       call for an inherently moral market in the article, `A Real Third Way' in       The Crisis of Capitalism, based on talks given to many church       audiences [5.13].
Of his many other talks to church audiences [5.11], his       addresses to the international Communion and Liberation Catholic       lay movement have been particularly influential: his talk to several       thousand at their annual meeting in Italy (Rimini, August 2008) led to       subsequent annual invitations (2009-13), interviews for their journal Traces       and Foundation for Subsidiarity, a talk to their subsidiarity       movement of business people in Milan (March 2012) and a seminar in the       h&#233;micycle of the European Parliament (`National States within the European       Polity' 16 December 2009).
Milbank's research on the common good has also       involved a valuing of the churches themselves as co-ordinators and       creators of community, which has led the Church of England to commission a       report on the role of churches in society from ResPublica, Holistic         Mission, launched jointly by the Minister for Civil Society, Nick       Hurd MP, and the Archbishop of Canterbury, 10 July 2013 [5.3]: the       influence of Milbank is seen throughout the report.
Contributing to theological curricula on an international scale       The Radical Orthodoxy movement is widely studied in theological curricula       at universities worldwide.
Its influence has been summarised by Melanie       Newman in her article on the movement in THES 16th pril       2009: `A revival of interest in theology is evident in academic and       political debate, and John Milbank and the radical orthodoxy movement are       spreading the news' [5.12].
The production of The Radical Orthodoxy         Reader (coedited with Simon Oliver, also at Nottingham) within the       REF period has facilitated this impact.
