     Cunningham's book has had an exceptionally wide public reception for an       academic monograph.
In addition, the ideas and insights have been actively       disseminated through a series of public lectures, talks and interviews,       and through writing and presenting a BBC2 documentary, `Did Darwin kill       God?'
Through these means his research has influenced civil society and       public discourse in the following ways:     Influencing the self-understanding of the church     The Archbishop of Canterbury took the rare step of distributing       Cunningham's first essay on Darwinism to all 44 Diocesan bishops in the       Church of England in 2008, and subsequently quoted it in his public Lent       lectures that year.
Cunningham was then invited to speak at Lambeth Palace       to an audience including politicians (MPs and Lords), journalists,       celebrities, scientists, clergy, and school children in July 2009 &#8212; this       event was mentioned in The Times, the Guardian and The         Tablet, and Madeleine Bunting, who chaired it, wrote an article in       the Guardian citing Cunningham's work (which in itself generated       144 comments) [5.1].
This series of events at once illustrates the       contribution made by Cunningham's work to thought within the church, and       describes the further diffusion of his ideas beyond the church and into       public discourse through the media.
Informing the public debate &#8212; talks, sermons, reading groups     The American Vineyard Church theological conference 2012, consisting of       pastors, lay people and theologians, held a panel on the book, Darwin's         Pious Idea.
Similarly, Duke University and the Mormon Brigham Young       University held multidisciplinary reading groups on the book.
Cunningham has also delivered a number of sermons on the subject during       the REF period; one, to students and fellows at Jesus College, Cambridge       (February 2011), is published in The Unknown God (see above).
He       has delivered public lectures in schools (Belfast, October 2009;       Nottingham, December 2011; Leicestershire, September 2012) and churches       (Bottesford, June, 2008; Bexhill-on-Sea, April 2009), and talks at book       festivals, science festivals, and Nottingham Contemporary Art Gallery.
These include at the Darwin Festival, University of Cambridge, (June       2009); Open Shelf Book Festival, Sheffield (October 2010), as well talks       as far afield as Portugal (Braga, June 2009), Spain (Granada, May 2012)       and USA.
During Cunningham's fellowship at the Princeton Center for Theological       Inquiry, he gave three lectures to a non-academic audience on their `Youth       Day', and, together with an evolutionary anthropologist Agustin Fuentes,       delivered an online seminar to an audience of over 12,000 church leaders       and laity: the seminar showed how evolution makes more sense within       theism, rather than if theism and evolution are pitted against each other.
As a result of this public engagement work, Cunningham's ideas have       contributed to public debate about the compatibility of science and       religion, emphasising the misunderstanding of creation by fundamentalists       and the misunderstanding of evolutionary theory by ultra-Darwinists.
Informing the public debate &#8212; media and online discussion:     Darwin's Pious Idea has been widely discussed outside academia and       beyond domains one might expect for theological research.
Michael Ruse, a       biologist from the University of California, wrote in the Quarterly         Review of Biology: `The level of scientific sophistication on       display is remarkable for a theologian; his reading and his ruminations       have been extensive, more than sufficient to provide a devastating       critique of the narrative stories and metaphors of Dawkins not just with       respect to religion, but also with respect to evolutionary biology       itself.'
Since 2010, reviews have appeared in: Church Times (where       the reviewer described the book as `nothing short of magnificent.
Every       now and then Providence sends a book to save the day.
Darwin's Pious         Idea may be one of those books.
'), Times Literary Supplement,         commonweal, Symposia, Times Higher Education Supplement, hristian         Century, The Guardian [5.2], Perspectives on Science And         Christian Faith, National Catholic Register, The Tablet, Isis, Cosmos,         First Things, Christian Books, CBA Retailers and Resources, The Times,       and Scientific and Medical Network Review.
Reviews, discussions and symposia on the book have taken place on various       blogs, including: Biologos Foundation [5.3] By Common Consent; Regent       College: Cosmos; Vox Nova; The Socialist.Net; Logic of the Cross; The       Intention Experiment; Bensonian, A Greater Courage.
All of this activity demonstrates the reach, uptake and use by       educational, theological, faith and science communities along with the       wider public.
This circulation of his research findings through public       discourse is sometimes at quite a technical level of sophistication.
For       example, in a review of Darwin's Pious Idea reposted from the TLS       on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation website [5.4], Rowan Williams       wrote: `[T]he presumption of an omnicausal gene leads into the       fallacy-soaked morass of "misplaced concreteness."
A gene is not a thing,       not a biological billiard ball: it is a cluster of information-carrying       material.
Its unity or identity is given by the nature of the information       it carries; it does not exist as such independently of the chain of       "instruction" in which it functions.'
Informing the public debate &#8212; BBC documentary     One of the principal ways in which the research has reached a wider       audience is through the BBC2 documentary, `Did Darwin Kill God?
', written       and presented by Conor Cunningham, and aired at 7pm, Tuesday 31 March 2009       [5.5].
The documentary, while including interviews with the likes of       Daniel Dennett and Richard Dawkins, does also express clearly Cunningham's       own research findings.
It received the Sandford St Martin Trust Merit       Award for Religious Broadcasting.
The chair of the judging panel making       the award commended Cunningham's documentary for the way in which it       provided `relief from the ritualised combat of extremists such as Richard       Dawkins and assorted creationists, who are fighting a battle many think is       more suited to the early 19th century than the 21st'.
He also suggested that the high viewing figures (1.06 million) for such a       `demanding' programme attested to `its success in engaging viewers with       abstract argument', confirming its role in contributing knowledge and       insight to wider public debate, and, as the section above suggests, beyond       audiences one might expect for theological research.
[5.6] It has       subsequently been shown in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand, and has       been further disseminated by non-academic individuals copying it onto       Youtube in seven different locations, generating a further 10,000 views       and heated discussion, involving over 600 comments.
[5.7] The documentary       is now a bestseller on Classroom Video's Secondary Education catalogue for       summer 2013 [5.8].
Cunningham has given a number of interviews on radio, television, and for       websites [e.g 5.9], including contributing to a series of BBC Knowledge       Worldwide programmes, `Does God Exist?
', with separate contributions aired       6,13 &amp; 20 March 2012, two appearances on BBC1 `The Big Questions' (6       June 2010, 25 March 2012), and `Sunday Morning Live' (31 July 2011).
Overall, his media work has generated correspondence from teachers,       scientists, lay people, and philosophers who have reacted positively to       his argument that science and religion can exist side by side.
Sixth form       teachers write to say they are showing the documentary in their classes       [available at 5.5 &amp; 5.8].
He is thanked by one correspondent for his       `good work to restore the tender balance between between God and science'.
