     The cosmetics industry in Europe employs approximately 1.7 million people       and is worth an estimated &#8364;70 billion.
It is a high-profile industry with       a need to continually develop innovative products to remain competitive       within the market.
This case study describes the impact of research       undertaken at LJMU in the development of computational alternatives to       animal testing and the provision of expert opinion on the use of these       alternatives that has informed policy making at the European level.
Our       research has provided impact in two ways (i) providing highly curated       databases and computational models that are of use to the cosmetics       industry as alternative methods to animal testing and (ii) influencing the       future direction in which safety assessment may be performed i.e.
the       application of AOPs and the TTC approach to cosmetic ingredients.
(ia) The outcome of the CAESAR project was a suite of freely       available software for toxicity prediction (released 2011 and now       distributed via the VEGA website (http://www.vega-qsar.eu/use-         qsar.html).
VEGA supports the correct use of in silico/QSAR models       for the evaluation of chemical safety for regulatory purposes and to       reduce the impact of chemicals on humans and the environment.
The VEGA       platform is a series of QSAR models (many developed within CAESAR) that       predict a series of properties of environmental, ecotoxicological and       toxicological interest for regulatory purposes.
It is freely available       both online and as a standalone application to download.
Over 1000 users       had downloaded this software by April 2013.
Skin sensitisation is an       important element of assessing the toxicity of cosmetics and personal care       products and the alerts we developed for skin sensitisation, alongside       other models developed within the CAESAR project, were incorporated into       predictive models that showed substantial improvement on previous       approaches both in predictivity and applicability and importantly are       freely available to any user [5.1].
Structural alerts developed for skin       sensitisation were also coded into the Toxtree software by Ideaconsult,       now freely distributed within ToxPredict platforms; (https://www.ideaconsult.net/)       [5.2], and over 19000 downloads of Toxtree have been recorded since       January 2008 (http://toxtree.sourceforge.net/).
(ib) Our collaborations with Unilever, Proctor &amp; Gamble,       Shell, Lhasa, Marks and Spencer, the University of Tennessee and other       academic institutions (as part of the DEFRA-Link, InSilicoTox projects and       the Unilever-funded studentship), demonstrated the high level of       cross-sector industry interest in developing and using these predictive       techniques, particularly as the deadline for the Cosmetics Directive       approached.
Full compliance with the Directive required alternatives to be       developed to predict more complex endpoints, such as repeat-dose toxicity       and because traditional QSAR approaches were inadequate for these       endpoints, industry recognised that a new way of approaching the problem       needed to be developed.
To address this problem the European Trade       Association for Cosmetics Industries, Cosmetics Europe (formerly Colipa),       entered into a unique partnership with the European Commission to fund the       Seurat-1 Cluster of Projects.
Funding (&#8364;50 million) was provided to seven       projects and LJMU co-ordinated the COSMOS consortium of 15 partners       including world leaders committed to donating software and algorithms to       support open architecture workflows.
Data from our research have been       harvested and curated within the COSMOS database that links chemical       structure to repeat dose toxicity [5.3] COSMOS combines new and current       databases in a single state-of-the art, freely available public resource       delivering a single, comprehensive resource for repeated dose toxicity       data and although several other databases for chronic toxicity are       available, other than COSMOS, there is no other single repository that is       open, transparent and includes all aspects of the data available.
Research       has been carried out to assess the applicability of the TTC approach to       cosmetics, including assessment of the chemical space of the cosmetics       inventory (compiled by COSMOS) in relation to chemical space of an       existing TTC database.
(iia) As a member of the European Centre for the Validation of       Alternative Methods (ECVAM) and European Chemical Bureau working groups       (2003 and 2010), Cronin had an advisory role in developing policy for       alternatives to animals for skin sensitisation testing.
These working       groups provided realistic estimates of timescales for the replacement of       animal testing by alternative methods and recommendations on how to       achieve this.
This resulted in an increase in efforts to accelerate the       availability of alternative tests to enable industry to comply with the       deadlines of the Cosmetics Directive (March 2009 and March 2013) [5.4].
Due to his considerable expertise in this area Cronin was also invited to       attend the working group of an international panel of experts, organised       by the European Commission, to present on-going research in the area.
This       resulted in a publication used to inform policy development on the use of       alternatives for cosmetic safety assessment [5.4].
In 2012 Madden also       provided advice to the Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (the       European statutory committee that regulates cosmetic ingredients), the       outcome of which is to serve as a basis for the SCCS guidance on dermal       safety assessment [5.5].
(iib) Recently there has been much interest in the development of       AOPs as a framework for organising chemical and biological information       associated with toxic events.
Knowledge acquired through our fundamental       research into chemical-biological interactions is currently being used to       inform the development of AOPs.
In 2012 we produced a template and wrote       guidance for the development and assessment of AOPs which has been       incorporated into the framework adopted by the OECD for the development of       AOPs [5.6].
(iic) One of the major impacts of our research has been on the       thinking behind a new way towards risk assessment as demonstrated by the       influence of COSMOS (led by LJMU) in raising the possibility of extending       to cosmetics the TTC approach used by regulators for assessing food       contact substances.
This is now being considered at the European level via       expert groups co- ordinated by ILSI-EU which addresses major scientific       issues relating to public heath [5.7].
In 2012, a joint report       (SCCP/1171/08) by the Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS),       Scientific Committee on Health and Environmental Risks (SCHER) and       Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks       (SCENIHR) published the opinion that the TTC approach "in itself is       scientifically acceptable for human health risk assessment of systemic       toxic effects caused by chemicals present at very low levels''.
The report       acknowledged the work of COSMOS in developing a new TTC dataset more       relevant to cosmetics and the characterisation of the COSMOS cosmetics       inventory developed within the project [5.8].
In summary, research from LJMU has provided databases and computational       models for skin sensitisation that have been incorporated into freely       available predictive software for use by regulators and the cosmetics and       personal care industry for safety assessment of cosmetic ingredients.
It       has also influenced debate at the European level concerning the       possibility of extending the current regulatory TTC approach to cosmetic       ingredients.
