     Over the last 20 years, Prof. Ormerod's approach to improving water       management practices, in particular catchment management and river       conservation has influenced the policy-making and advocacy activities of a       range of government bodies and major NGOs.
These bodies include Defra, the       Environment Agency, Countryside Council for Wales, RSPB, Rivers Trusts and       Wildlife Trusts.
Specifically, Ormerod wrote two key documents5.1,5.2       which facilitated the implementation of the Habitats and Species       Directive (92/43/EEC) and the Water Framework Directive (EU 2000/60/EC) in       catchment scale risk assessments for acidification and climate change.
Influencing policy and practice: National Ecosystem Assessment     A key driver to changing the policy agenda in the UK has been the       National Ecosystem Assessment (NEA), the first benefit analysis of the       UK's natural environment, which was funded by Defra, all of the devolved       administrations as well as the Natural Environment Research Council and       the Economic and Social Research Council.
Between 2009-11 Prof. Ormerod       applied his research on river catchment and conservation management       directly to this policy framework as co- leader of the freshwater       components of the NEA3.5.
The NEA included specific conclusions based on Prof. Ormerod's research,       including:            Freshwater ecosystems were critical to human wellbeing, but         undervalued       Ecosystem management has emphasised resource production (e.g.
food,         forests) to the detriment of less tangible services downstream (e.g.
polluted water)       Freshwater ecosystems and their catchments should be restored and         managed positively to maximise ecosystem service benefits          Earl Selborne stated in the House of Lords that the NEA could prove to be       "a massively helpful tool to help decision-makers in government, business       and society put in place long-term measures to protect and enhance our       ecosystem services, including our biodiversity"5.3     Influencing policy and practice: a tool for government     The catchment management methodologies established by Prof. Ormerod have       since been embedded nationally as the key tool to maintain the ecosystem       services provided by the fresh- water environment through the policy       framework outlined in Defra white papers on the Environment and Water,       which adopt the methodology.5.4,5.5     The NEA forms the central basis for Defra's `Natural Choice', the first       White Paper on the natural environment in 20 years.
This document draws       heavily on what it calls the "groundbreaking studies" such as those       contained within the National Ecosystem Assessment5.4 (e.g.
p15       section 2.1).
The catchment approach has also had a direct Influence on the Defra white       paper on water, "Water for Life", where the NEA is placed "at the heart of       our drive to improve environmental water quality" 5.5 (e.g.
p30 section       3.5) and in which the UK government commits to the catchment approach for       managing water quality, abstraction and wider environmental issues5.5(e.g.
p28, 29, 30-35).
It also forms a central plank of Defra's biodiversity strategy (2011-20)       aimed at restoring England's terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity, with       Lord Henley, speaking on behalf of Government, attesting that the       "strategy builds on the evidence provided by the ground-breaking national       ecosystem assessment" 5.6(Lords Hansard 730 c26-7WS,       07/09/2011).
The NEA's ecosystem services concept has become a key pillar in the       development of Wales' Natural Environment Framework and its single body       for the environment5.7.
These Welsh Government policy       initiatives use the ecosystem services and catchment paradigms       specifically to link land and water management together through unified       environmental bodies with responsibility for both.
Subsequent initiatives empowered partnership between statutory agencies       and river-based NGOs (eg Rivers Trust) as key agents in implementing the       catchment management methodology, as part of concerted action to fulfil       the UK's obligations under the Water Framework Directive5.8.
Arlin Rickard, CEO of the Rivers Trusts, stated that Prof. Ormerod's       "research and the practical and achievable methodologies which he has       produced have benefited a range of organisations, including UK Government,       which adopted Professor Ormerod's catchment management approach as a       central plank of the NEA...[and his] research work on acidification,       climate change and land use change are used directly by the Rivers Trust       Movement in practice and in informing our own advocacy and policy with       governments in Westminster and Cardiff.
"5.9     In 2012, the impact of the research undertaken by Prof. Ormerod was       cemented further on his election as chair of RSPB, Europe's largest       wildlife NGO.
RSPB CEO Mike Clarke wrote that "the work of the Cardiff       Bioscience School on river conservation and catchment science has impacted       directly on a number of policy areas the most advanced of which is the       management of the water cycle (see Natural Environment and Water White       Papers)" and that "the river catchment studies developed by Prof Ormerod       and colleagues have been had pivotal effects on the development of       ecological, economic and policy decision-making tools in this sector."
5.10     By improving river management, Prof. Ormerod's research underpins       positive management for river ecosystems and the public benefits they       provide3.5,3.6.
Improved catchment management, as engendered by       Prof. Ormerod's analysis for the NEA has been enacted through a number of       UK government policies5.4,5.5,5.8, in order to reduce the       expenditure needed to sustain recreational fisheries, water treatment and       river biodiversity.
