     From the two phases of this research project described above, the       following principal beneficiaries may be identified:     Performers     As a consequence of Wright's and Rumbold's research, new repertoire,       much of it of high quality yet not performed or heard for more than 500       years, has been made available to specialist performers.
The lavish       manuscript facsimile (output 1) has sold 163 copies (source 1), and is now       held by major public reference libraries around the globe (including the       Deutsche Nationalbibliothek, the National Library of Sweden, the       Biblioth&#232;que Nationale de France, the New York Public Library, the British       Library and the Zentralbibliothek Z&#252;rich; source 2), making the repertoire       available to enquiring performers internationally.
Additionally, the       monograph (output 2) contains new performing editions of 13 complete works       from the manuscript.
The benefits of this research have been especially significant for the       principal collaborators in the dissemination phase of the project,       Stimmwerck.
First, the appeal of the new repertoire for concert         promoters is indicated by the fact that Stimmwerck have performed it       at 9 separate concerts in 4 European countries over a period of five years       (April 2007 to January 2012; all but the first of these fall within the       assessment period), and the group continues to offer it to venues (see       source 3).
Second, the group gained insights on context and         performance practice through the informed advice offered by Wright       and Rumbold, building on the insights on performance practice they offer       in chapter 5 of the monograph; in the words of the group's founder and       director, `we had a perfect musicological background: the highest quality       modern editions and a systematic analysis of the music made it very easy       for us to reawaken this marvellous music' (source 4).
Third, the group's prestige       was enhanced by involvement in this pioneering and scholarly project.
Notably, it has triggered further high-profile scholarly collaborations.
To quote the group's director again, `Since the St Emmeram Codex-CD it has       become a kind of trademark that Stimmwerck is in close contact with       musicologists.
In 2013 we plan an important recording with Professor       Reinhard Strohm (Oxford University) ... [who] mentioned in his initial       contacts that he has our Emmeram-CD' (source 4).
This second musicological       collaboration &#8212; a direct consequence of Stimmwerck's involvement with       Wright and Rumbold- is for the international project `Musikleben des       Sp&#228;tmittelalters in der Region &#214;sterreich' led by the universities of       Oxford and Vienna; the CD recording session took place in September 2013       (source 5).
The St Emmeram CD was also judged best `Late Middle Ages'       recording of 2009 by the Dutch classical music retailer Prelude, a fact       proudly trumpeted on Stimmwerck's website (source 6).
Audiences     Sizeable and diverse audiences have engaged with the repertoire made       available by Wright and Rumbold, and also (through programme notes, public       talks and the CD booklet) directly with their scholarship.
Since 2008       Stimmwerck have performed this repertory on 8 occasions in Germany,       Portugal and the Czech Republic, with audiences averaging over 300 at each       concert (source 4).
The reach of these performances has extended       substantially beyond the specialist early music audience, to include       concerts in the leading German multi-genre arts festival Movimentos       (2010), P&#243;voa de Varzim's summer international music festival aimed at the       city's tourist market (2011), and the cultural programme of the DIAK       social welfare centre for the sick and elderly in Schw&#228;bisch Hall (2011).
In addition to the purely musical satisfactions brought to these diverse       audiences (Stimmwerck report spontaneous applause after their performances       of the particularly ebullient contrafactum `Ad honorem / Par maintes       foys'; source 4), programme notes prepared by Rumbold enabled enhanced       appreciation of the music's historical context.
The CD released by Aeolus has sold 1217 copies since its release in May       2008 (source 7).
The recording is also distributed through leading       international online music sites, including iTunes and emusic (download       figures are not available from these sites).
Additionally, substantial       audio extracts and a 5-minute video about the project, including       commentary from Rumbold, are available from Stimmwerck's and Aeolus's       websites.
There is a further entire track from the CD on Youtube (749       views; source 8).
Indications of interest in the project amongst       non-specialists include the numerous enthusiastic reviews in non-academic       music journals (see below), a review on the German Kulturradio rbb (a       Berlin-based equivalent to BBC Radio 3; 21.8.08; source 4), a press review       in the Rheinische Post (24.5.08, cited in source 3), blog       commentary (see source 9), and two five-star reviews by Amazon customers       (source 10; `I cannot speak highly enough of this recording'; `the story       of how such compositions might have arrived in P&#246;tzlinger's hands is       fascinatingly told in the notes that come with this CD').
CD company     As mentioned above, the Stimmwerck CD has generated impressive sales for       a recording of previously unknown repertoire, and has received a       prestigious award.
These achievements benefit both the financial operation       and the reputation of Aeolus.
The company's reputation is also enhanced by       the rave reviews of the St Emmeram CD in non-academic sources (source 11):       see Toccata (cited on Aeolus website: `Ein faszinierendes       Klangdokument und eine modellhafte Produktion'); Fanfare (May/June       2011; `this is both a scholarly treat and entertainment of a very high       order'); Musica-dei-donum reviews website (`a project like this       which shows how fruitful a close cooperation between musicologists,       archives and performing musicians can be ...
The booklet [by Rumbold,       Wright and Weller] is &#8212; as in all productions of Aeolus &#8212; exemplary:       lucidly-written and informative programme notes and all lyrics with       translations in English, French and German'); Early Music (37       (2009), 315: `Rumbold and Wright have taken a vital first step in bringing       the codex's music to life by collaborating with the Munich-based vocal       ensemble Stimmwerck in the production of a splendid recording...The disc       is an inspiration to discover what other treats the codex has in store'.
