     The work of the Centre for Public Health (CPH) places Liverpool John       Moores University (LJMU) in       a unique position whereby our researchers are influential in informing       national and international       policy and procedures with respect to NPS.
Our work in this area has       demonstrable policy impact,       and this is likely to continue as the UK Government and the European       Commission (EC) have       indicated their intention to develop new legislation and recommendations       in this area.
Our work has been particularly influential with respect to EU policy       making.
For example, as part of       coordinated EC actions developed in response to the emergence of NPS       planned actions referred       to implementation of "Minimum quality standards to improve drug       prevention, treatment and harm-reduction       services".
The prevention component of this action comprises the EU Drug       Prevention       Quality Standards developed by Sumnall, which is also included in the       overall EU drugs strategy       (2013-2020) (corroborating reference 1).
The group also provides dynamic scientific responses to NPS.
When an NPS       is first detected in       any EU Member State, detailed information on the manufacture, traffic,       use, and harms is sent to       the European Police Office (Europol) in The Hague, and the European       Monitoring Centre for Drugs       and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) in Lisbon.
The EMCDDA also runs a "European       Database on New       Drugs" which is a European information system and database on new drugs.
Our work regularly       contributes to this by making available important forensic data that are       shared across European       forensic providers who need to be able to identify new and unknown drugs.
The UK NPS Early       Warning System (EWS), based at LJMU and led by Atkinson and Brandt,       contributes the UK's       response to this network through collation and analysis of scientific       submissions from a wide       variety of UK providers including police, forensic science organisations,       drug workers, and       academics (corroborating reference 2).
For example, forensic chemistry and       pharmacology work       published by Brandt, was included as a key analytical reference in a joint       EMCDDA-Europol risk       profile assessment of the synthetic hallucinogen drug 5-IT (April, 2013).
In October 2013, the EC       recommended an EU wide ban of this substance (Council Decision       2013/496/EU).
The EWS at LJMU also reports directly to UK policy makers (e.g.
Department of Health; Home       Office; Department for Business, Innovation &amp; Skills), who are able to       use the evidence       synthesised to inform their own decision making.
The Advisory Council on       the Misuse of Drugs Act       (1971) was established under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 and provides       independent advice to       the Home Secretary on drug classification and issues of drug harm.
The       ACMD's Consideration of         the Novel Psychoactive Substances (`Legal Highs') report was       published in November 2011 and       makes recommendations to Government on options for controlling access and       availability of NPS,       and how harms from use may be reduced.
Sumnall was appointed to the ACMD       in 2011 (one of six       academics in the 23 member panel) and contributed to the drafting of this       report, and CPH's       forensic work identifying the illegal content of products sold as `legal       highs', is cited throughout.
The better use of medicines regulatory and consumer protection mechanisms,       as suggested by       Evans-Brown et al (2011) is also recommended.
Our research group has also       contributed to other       ACMD work.
The ACMD's Consideration of the Anabolic Steroids       report included McVeigh and       Evans-Brown as working group co-optees.
As well as contributing to the       drafting, the report was       informed by substantial elements of research produced by the team       (corroborating reference 3).
As       a result of recommendations outlined in the report anabolic steroids were       placed in Class C under       the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.
Due to changes in the demand on NSP, new guidance was required and the       research conducted       by our group informed this guidance.
This has had a direct impact on how       services are       commissioned and practiced by staff within specialist services and       pharmacies (corroborating       reference 4).
