     Professor Martin served on the Royal Society `Scientific Century' working       group in 2009-10.
Chaired by Sir Martin Taylor FRS, Vice-President of the Royal Society,       this comprised over a       dozen leading scientists, including two Nobel Laureates (one being Sir       Paul Nurse, the future       President of the Royal Society), and two former Ministers of Science       (Lords Waldegrave and       Sainsbury).
Martin was the only science-policy researcher on the       committee, which provided an       ideal opportunity to feed directly into the discussions the results of       over ten years of SPRU       research on the nature and extent of the benefits from publicly-funded       research.
From the start, the group saw their report as having two aims:            raising the visibility of science in the 2010 election campaign; and       persuading the incoming government that research funding should be         protected in the Spending         Review that was to be held after the Election, despite the severe         financial constraints imposed         following the 2008 financial crisis.
The focus here is on the latter         impact.
While the eminent scientists on the group could provide cogent arguments       as to why science       should be generously funded, and the two politicians offered advice on       what would be politically       feasible, Professor Martin, working with the group's secretariat (drawn       from the Royal Society's       Science Policy Centre) was able to provide systematic empirical support       for the group's analysis       and recommendations, by drawing on the results of the extensive research       at SPRU.
This helped       to ensure that the resulting report was soundly evidence-based and could       not be dismissed by HM       Treasury and others as `special pleading' by the scientific establishment.
After the coalition government was formed in May 2010, the Spending       Review got under way, and       was completed in October 2010.
Initially, the proposed settlement for       science was not particularly       generous, with envisaged cuts of 15-20 per cent over four years.
However,       during the final week       before the results were to be announced, the latest Treasury calculations       revealed that the       government had available several hundred million pounds more than       previously thought.
At this       point, Vince Cable (the new Secretary of State for BIS) and David Willetts       (the Minister for       Universities and Science), both of whom had read and been impressed by the       Royal Society       report, decided to use this and related evidence to propose that the extra       funds now available       should be added to maintain the `ring-fence' around the &#163;4.6 billion       research budget and ensure it       was not cut.
Ministers and senior officials (such as Sir Adrian Smith FRS,       then Director of       Research and Innovation at BIS) drew repeatedly on the Royal Society       report to argue that this       investment made good economic sense for the UK, despite the wider       pressures on public       spending.
Besides benefiting scientists substantially, this also       represented a political benefit to the       new government, who were able to argue that the ring-fence commitment to       science had been       maintained.
