     Research on the function of the promotional and ephemeral (short-form)       texts that surround film and television content has helped generate         new ways of thinking that influence creative practice.
The ephemeral       media workshop (July 2009) held at Nottingham was especially influential       in giving the BBC a new vocabulary for how it can use and repurpose       ephemeral items from its archives and give them value as assets.
Victoria       Jaye (BBC Vision) confirms that the term ephemeral media `has really got       some traction in this organization thanks to the AHRC workshop at the       University of Nottingham' (Source C p.114).
Jaye explains how the       BBC has looked anew at the value of audition tapes and artefacts from its       archive, and how these can be used within the online programme pages of       the BBC.
As such, the ephemeral media workshop provided a stimulus to a       senior BBC executive for thinking about how broadcast ephemera might be       utilized to offer promotional and public service value for the BBC.
According to Jaye, the `BBC has benefited from the thinking and the       language I have brought back to the organisation in terms of how we       conceive the opportunity and describe our public service role in the       digital media landscape' (Source D).
For Charlie Mawer, the Executive Creative Director of Red Bee Media with       responsibility for all creative work in the Creative Division, the       workshop provided `new references and case studies that [he] could use to       stimulate new thinking' about promotional design (Source D).
Moreover, the event led to strategic networking opportunities between       Mawer and Jaye, deepening agency/client relations between Red Bee and the       BBC that have underpinned subsequent projects such as the TV promotion of       the BBC iPlayer (2012).
The workshop enabled Jaye and Mawer to `gain       kudos' and develop `thought leadership' in their sectors, something which       has practical currency and economic value in selling market expertise (Red       Bee's Creative department brought in revenues of &#163;35 million in 2012) (Source         D).
Jaye was invited to MIT and has written `presentations and       strategic documents that draw on the insights and discussions we had as       part of the ephemeral media workshop' (Source D) and Mawer has been       cited by journalists based on videocasts and a prime-time television       feature on BBC East Midlands Today (22 November 2009) that stemmed       from his plenary.
The workshop generated new ways of thinking about the       role of promotional short-forms for industry beneficiaries, and these new       ways of thinking have been furthered in presentations by Johnson on       branding and the television industry to Ofcom in 2010.
This knowledge has       been shared at an institutional level at Red Bee and the BBC helping to develop         relationships that have enabled media companies and professionals to         refine and sell their expertise.
In industrial terms, sustained collaboration with Red Bee Media, central       to the AHRC Follow-on award, has informed strategic business planning         and helped professionals and organizations adapt to changing cultural         values, specifically, as mentioned, the challenges of `build[ing]       bridges between content and viewers' in a multiplatform environment.
Through engagement with strategic Red Bee projects/personnel, including 32       practitioner interviews, the research facilitated self-reflection about       disciplinary practice in the promotional screen industries.
Knowledge       exchange resulted in two internal reports to Red Bee's Creative division,       the chief beneficiary being Red Bee's senior management team.
According to       Red Bee's Director of Creative, responsible for the overall management of       the Creative Division, the reports have `helped us to think more deeply       about the theories and disciplines of our work in TV promotion and design       .. .
and have been influential in informing our strategic business       planning' (Source A).
He continues: `a further benefit of this work       has been to widen our company's awareness of academic work currently       happening in the UK with a focus on our industry .
.
.
enriching our       understanding of our craft and influencing our thinking on new areas of       research to guide and inform our future business models' (Source A).
In this last respect, the research has catalyzed industrial-academic       collaboration in the emerging area of social television, with a `hothouse'       on the subject hosted by the University of Nottingham in September 2012       bringing together industry practitioners with academics from the major       research hubs Horizon (see above) and Research and Enterprise in Arts and       Creative Technology (REACT), funded respectively through RCUK's Digital       Economy and Creative Economy themes (for more on collaborations with both       Horizon and REACT, see REF5).
This event brokered the partnership       of Red Bee, Thinkbox (the trade body for television marketing), British       Telecom and Ofcom in audience research on the multi-screen household,       funded by Horizon.
As a direct result of the hothouse, one Red Bee planner       `reached out to the Heads of Research at UKTV, Channel 4 and the BBC to       discuss the possibilities of collaborating with all of them and Horizon to       help shape academic research questions that might inform future business       strategy and audience understanding' (Source B).
The research has       therefore helped stimulate and shape a key collaborative project around       social TV that will continue to inform business strategy in this area.
Finally, the research has had public impact raising the visibility of         the creative and professional discipline of promotional screen design.
Specifically, Grainge/Johnson's engagement with key practitioners led to       the presentation of promotional work and heritage at the BFI Southbank in       two panel events funded by the AHRC Follow-on Fund (28 November 2012).
These panels focused on `The Contemporary Art of TV Promotion and Design'       and `Pioneers of TV Promotion and Design' and featured the Executive       Creative Directors of Red Bee and Crystal CG, major industry figures       including Martin Lambie-Nairn and David Liddiment, and continuity       announcers and trailer-makers from the 1960s including David Hamilton and       Maurice Kanareck.
Curated by Grainge/Johnson in collaboration with the       BFI, these panels offered public audiences the opportunity to learn about       the creative process of TV and digital promotion, now and in the past, and       were both sell-out events attended by 250 people (125x2).
Of the 66       feedback cards collected, 99 per cent of respondents said `the event       increased their understanding of the art of TV promotion and design' and       that they had `learnt something new about the way TV promotion and design       is created' (Source E).
Members of the public commented on the       events being `wonderful' and `highly informative' with the `archive promos       being extraordinary.'
Some said it was `great to have an unexplored art       form given prominence,' and others encouraged `more BFI joint sessions       like this' (Source E).
This impact has been broadened through       YouTube videos made by Grainge/Johnson on `Interstitials' and `Idents'       which have received 3,500 views (2009 &#8212; present) and a range of user       comments (e.g.
`that was surprisingly interesting.
I haven't even thought       about those things that much before' (Source G)), further enhancing       the visibility of the promotional screen industries.
Curating these events had a wider impact on the BFI, enabling personnel       within its television archive to digitally restore examples of       historically valuable promotional texts for future public screenings, and       helping the BFI to develop educational content planning.
According       to the TV Programmer at BFI Southbank, `working with the University of       Nottingham enabled us to identify an area we haven't addressed before and       to stage an event that attracted a new constituency of students studying       Media and Design at Art College' (Source H).
Specifically, the       panel events were preceded by a BFI masterclass for 15-25 year olds on       ident and logo design, led by two creative directors from Red Bee.
The       masterclass was part of a broader competition in which young adults across       the UK were invited to submit ideas for a logo/ident for the BFI's `Future       Film' educational programme.
The masterclass was attended by fifty       students from leading design colleges including Ravensbourne and Edinburgh       Napier, and provided insight into the creative practice of promotional       design.
In the feedback questionnaires, 100 per cent of respondents said       they `agreed' or `strongly agreed' that the `masterclass taught them about       the creative process of making idents and logos' and were `more likely to       consider a job creating logos and idents' as a result (Source F).
More broadly, promotion was included as a dedicated panel session (led by       Grainge) at the BFI Media Conference (4-5 July 2013), an event       focusing on the professional development of teachers of screen media.
Through curation of the public events, the development of the masterclass       as an educational event, and the contribution made to the conference,       Grainge and Johnson worked with two divisions of the British Film Insitute       &#8212; BFI Southbank and BFI Education &#8212; illustrating just some of the ways in       which the Department of Culture, Film and Media is benefitting from       Nottingham's status as the BFI's HEI partner of choice (Source I       p.42; see also REF5).
