     The value and importance placed against the published research of Evans       and Pearson was recognized when both researchers were commissioned by the       RNIB, PBQ and Fox Soccer to conduct three demand-led audience research       projects.
Each project responded to specific concerns within these       organisations and led to changes in policy and practice towards strategies       that were focused on audience needs and desires.
i) Research Commissioned by the RNIB: Improving Television for         Visually Impaired Audiences     By raising awareness of the value placed by visually impaired audiences       on Audio Description (AD) for television dramas and factual programming,       research by Evans and Pearson prompted communications regulator Ofcom to       increase mandatory AD content from 10% to 20%, producing a material       improvement in the media engagement and experience of visually impaired       viewers.
The RNIB was concerned that visually impaired people were       excluded from valuable viewer experiences by the lack of AD programming.
Via public relations firm Blue Rubicon, RNIB engaged Evans and Pearson as       consultants for its March 2008 campaign, with the aim of persuading Ofcom       to raise the mandatory percentage of AD content provided by television       broadcasters.
RNIB described the research as providing `an excellent case       for increasing the number of programmes that are Audio Described' (Source         A).
While the RNIB had intended to focus their campaign around the       need to increase AD for news and current affairs only, Evans and Pearson's       research persuaded Blue Rubicon and the RNIB to shift the emphasis towards       drama programming as not only requiring more explicit AD provision but       also as representing the most important genre for generating a sense of       audience community amongst the visually impaired (Source B).
The       research played a central part in the extensive publicity campaign, acting       as the foundation for claims concerning the value of television in forming       a sense of community amongst visually impaired audiences.
In a nationwide       press release (Source C), the RNIB noted how `TV plays a pivotal       role in the lives of people with sight problems' and acknowledged the       research of Evans and Pearson confirmed that `lack of TV viewing can leave       people isolated' and the importance of AD for how `an additional       commentary which describes body language, expressions and movements,       making the story clear through sound.... can transform the enjoyment of TV       for people who have difficulty seeing what's happening on the screen'.
On       the research and campaign, the BBC reported (Source D): `Research       suggests that most of the 2m people with sight problems in Britain spend       time watching television for relaxation and entertainment.
The RNIB is       encouraging people with sight problems to use the free AD service on       digital TV.... research, by the University of Nottingham, found that more       than half of those interviewed said they watched dramas and factual       programmes.
And nearly three-quarters watched TV for five hours or more       each week, with 86% saying they would watch more if there were more of the       AD service available'.
ii) Research Commissioned by the PBQ Consortium: Improving Audience         Development Strategies for Independent Cinemas     Independent `specialised' cinemas face substantial competition for       audiences from commercial chains and home cinema technologies.
In this       context, the PBQ consortium needed a better understanding of current and       potential audiences to develop their programming, promotional and audience       development strategies in ways that would help the venues address these       challenges and improve their economic and cultural standing.
Aware of       research on cinemas in Nottingham conducted by Jancovich, PBQ commissioned       audience research from Evans and Pearson.
This led to workshops with       audience development staff and two reports outlining recommendations for       audience development strategies.
Broadway's Chief Executive and QUAD's       Director of Audience Engagement confirmed (Sources E and F)       that the research crucially assisted their organizations in three ways.
First, the research led Broadway and QUAD to revise their audience       development strategies to steer away from plans to broaden the demographic       scope of their respective customer bases and towards concentrating instead       on growing the existing base of older, more educated, cinema-goers who       have traditionally characterized audiences at the venues.
Secondly, the       research influenced Broadway's decision to extend the employment of their       Audience Development Coordinator.
The precise value of the research to the       organization is acknowledged in the Chief Executive's statement that `As a       result of a better understanding of its audience and its brand, Broadway       has been successful in increasing footfall and box office revenues year on       year.
Compared to the period before the findings of the report were acted       upon in 2009/10, cinema tickets sales have increased by 22.5% to more than       190,000 in 2012/13.
Whilst the impact of the research isn't the only       factor in this impressive increase, it has without a doubt been a major       contributory factor' (Source E).
QUAD similarly reports that       `cinema revenues have increased by 20% and overall attendance by 9%' (Source         F).
Finally, both organizations have become part of the British Film       Institute's UK Film Audience Network, an initiative launched as part of       the BFI's Film Forever plan.
Broadway was recently successful in       becoming the Lead Organisation for the Film Hub Central East and QUAD is a       steering group member.
A key objective of this initiative is to expand       audiences for specialised film, and in this context the Chief Executive       and Director of Audience Engagement cite the value of maintaining an       on-going relationship with the Department of Culture, Film and Media in       helping them to meet current and future goals (Sources E and F).
iii) Research Commissioned by Fox Soccer: Improving Local Strategies         in Global Television Sports Broadcasting     Research conducted for Fox Soccer informed a clearer understanding of       television audience taste that improves the sports channel's operational       decision-making by raising the profile of local conditions and preferences       in terms of content, distribution and marketing outside of the U.S. (Source         G).
When the research was commissioned, the U.S.-based channel was       intending to expand its position within the global football television       market through a behind-the-scenes documentary series on Liverpool       Football Club, Being: Liverpool.
Working at a significant cultural       and geographical distance from their documentary's subject and the       economically important European football market, Fox commissioned a team       at Nottingham to prepare a report evaluating whether they could       successfully apply the format to similar programming in the future.
Evans       led the team (Grainge, Johnson, McDonald, Pearson, Sergi) in researching       this report, which reinforced the value of the Being: Liverpool       format and its potential for further development, while also revealing the       limitations of the format.
As a result, the research informed Fox Soccer's       future global strategy in the following ways:            recognising how the stylistic presentation of U.S. produced content,         especially documentary, influenced audience perceptions of         `Americanisation' in globally distributed programming       understanding specific characteristics of local television markets and         institutions in order to match their brand profile with national         audience tastes and the identity of local broadcasters.
At Fox Soccer, the General Manager and Executive Vice President commented       that the research has `highlighted how we... needed to understand out       global markets in more detail... As a result of this report we have       implemented changes in the way we assess the nature of quality of       information that needs gathering prior to the release of a new product on       the international market' (Source G).
