     Contemporary Chinese art has become a major focus of interest for public       museums and art galleries world-wide.
Gladston is a researcher at the       forefront of advances in scholarship in this area and the value of his       published research was recognized when he was requested to serve as an       advisor to the Hayward Gallery's Chief Curator to assist in improving the       intellectual depth and richness of the gallery's exhibition Art of         Change: New Directions from China, a major international exhibition       of contemporary Chinese art staged by the Hayward between 7 September and       9 December 2012 (see http://china.southbankcentre.co.uk).
Beyond his contribution to the Hayward exhibition, the influence of       Gladston's published work was further recognized when his article       responding to a review of the exhibition by the renowned contemporary       artist Ai Weiwei (Source E) stimulated a critical debate by       problematizing predominant perceptions of Chinese art and artists, thereby       further opening up a broader and more nuanced public understanding of       contemporary Chinese art.
Adding complexity to a curator's perspective on contemporary Chinese         ArtRecognition of the fresh and challenging insights presented by       Gladston's published research resulted in him being invited to act in an       advisory capacity by the Chief Curator and curatorial team for The Art         of Change.
In this role, Gladston's advice in particular drew       attention to:            the ways in which Chinese artists seek to negotiate their identities         in relation to the continuing climate of political authoritarianism         within the PRC (References A and C)       the negative as well as productive effects of cultural translation on         the work of Chinese artists (References A, B and C)       the complex relationship of contemporary Chinese art with         indigenous-traditional as well as modern Western cultural influences (References           A, B, C, E, and F).
Gladston also provided the curator with insights into the problematic       contestation between localized Chinese and international discursive       perspectives on the significance of contemporary Chinese art.
The sharing       of Gladston's research in these areas added significant complexity to the       Hayward's existing curatorial view.
It also served to problematize       conventional views held by the Hayward's curatorial team, particularly in       relation to the political management/control of contemporary art in the       PRC.
Art of Change was amongst the first exhibitions of       contemporary Chinese art to be staged by a major public institution in the       UK and attracted an audience of over 22,241 (Source C).
The close       attention given by the exhibition to indigenous Chinese thought and       practice, as well as the ambiguous critical positioning of contemporary       Chinese art (References A, D, E, F and G) (all elements of       the exhibition to which Gladston contributed research data and critical       insight) was acknowledged in positive media reviews including 4 and 5 star       reviews in The Times (Nancy Durrant), The Sunday Times       (Waldemar Januszczak), The Telegraph (Andrew Graham-Dixon) and BBC       Radio 4's Front Row (Charlotte Mullins) (Source D).
Gladston's advice helped the curator to develop and present new critical       perspectives on the relationship between contemporary art and the wider       conditions of its making and showing both within and outside the PRC with       particular insights on; the problematic effects of cultural translation,       helping them to look beyond Westernized cultural perspectives on the       significance of contemporary Chinese art (References D, E and, F);       the relationship between contemporary Chinese art and aspects of       traditional Chinese cultural thought and practice; and the persistently       uncertain positioning of artists in relation to centralised authority       within the PRC (References A, B, C, F and G).
This advice       helped the curator to `focus and give confirmation of [my] existing       vision' (Source A).
Through the provision of research insight, fact       checking and critical analysis, Gladston helped to shape the       specially-created interactive digital archive, which formed the backbone       of the exhibition.
The archive combined video materials, a timeline and       detailed discussions of works included in the exhibition.
Drawing on his       published research (References A, B, C, D, E and F)       Gladston was able to contribute a selection of key events and an       individual perspective in the section of the exhibition entitled       `Arguments' which focused on China's complex relationship with modernity       and tradition (Source C).
This contribution provided insights into       the problematic and often contested historical/cultural significance of       the artworks on display in the exhibition.
Gladston was also able to offer       advice on the factual accuracy of materials used to contextualise the       exhibition and to peer review an introductory essay written by the Chief       Curator for the exhibition's accompanying catalogue (Source B).
The       article cited Gladston's previous work (Reference G), confirming       the contribution of his research to the development of her curatorial       approach.
Gladston contributed an essay to the catalogue on the       relationship between contemporary Chinese art and traditional Chinese       cultural thought and practice (Source B).
The catalogue reached a       wide readership amongst visitors, with gallery sales reaching 720 copies.
A key indicator of the interest in contemporary Chinese art that the       exhibition stimulated is the fact that this figure was 220 in excess of       the Hayward's target (appealing to 1 in 31 visitors, rather than the       target of 1 in 73 originally forecast).
A further 351 copies were       subsequently bought through direct sales (including at other galleries,       through Amazon, and by standing orders) (Source C) suggesting wider       cultural penetration of the ideas and content of the exhibition beyond       visitors to the exhibition itself.
Problematizing dominant cultural perspectives on contemporary Chinese         Art and ArtistsWhen the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei wrote a challenging       review of Art of Change which appeared in The Guardian (Source         E), Gladston countered online with a critical response published on       Randian (a project seeking to promote independent cultural debate       in China and to foster intellectual exchange between China and the rest of       the world by publishing independent commentary on art, artists,       exhibitions and galleries, as well as video, architecture and design) (Source         E).
Ai's review of Art of Change criticized Art of         Change for its failure to show art that engaged directly and openly       with political authority within the PRC.
In response, Gladston's article       drew attention to the exhibition's more subtle and varied engagement with       the relationship between contemporary Chinese art and political authority.
It also discussed the problematic status of Ai's standing as a media       celebrity which has, arguably, obscured in-depth discussion and debate       about the wider context of artistic criticality in the PRC.
Circulation of       Randian's e-newsletter reaches approx.
40,000 addressees, while the       site attracts approximately 20,000-30,000 page views per month.
By 29       April 2013, Gladston's article had attracted 2,474 unique page views with       an average reading time of 3mins 45secs, and as the article had attracted       2,994 views as of 9 September 2013, this indicates that it has continued       to attract approximately 100+ views per month (Source F).
The       article stimulated interest from members of the art world internationally,       being subsequently published in the art magazine/journal Broadsheet       (circulation 4,500 print copies per issue and 30,000-40,000 web downloads       per annum) (Sources E and G).
Ai Weiwei's critique and       Gladston's response were translated in full and discussed on the blog of       Vietnamese art writer Nh01b0 Huy, who commented `This is a very useful       discussion, since it refers to the same situation that exists for       contemporary art in Vietnam - for example: the relationship between art       and politics and the difference between Western and local perspectives on       contemporary art' (Source E).
Also Shanghailist, a major online       filter of China related news stories for the international media, ran a       feature on Gladston's Randian article, quoting substantially from       the original text (Source E).
International interest in this debate       resulted in the Director of the New York-based organization and exhibition       space AW Asia contacting Gladston to say `I really enjoyed reading your       "Getting Over AWW" piece.
Bravo [...] a well-written "reality check" such       as yours is needed [...] your critique adds a necessary dimension to the       overall conversation about the field of contemporary Chinese art' (Source         H).
The extent of engaged response to Gladston's article attests to       its contribution in problematizing existing cultural narratives about       contemporary Chinese art, and the specific mythologization of Ai Weiwei       within that narrative.
Gladston's advisory role with the Hayward has lead to further invitations       to critically inform the work of other public museums and galleries,       including a major exhibition of contemporary Chinese art at Michigan State       University curated by Wang Chunchen, organizer of the China Pavilion at       the Venice Biennale in 2013, and a forthcoming exhibition of contemporary       Chinese art in the PRC curated jointly by Dr. Marko Daniel of Tate and       Carol Lu (an internationally active curator and critic).
