     Key impacts have been:            2 new businesses (Chemtrix BV and ChemtrixUSA).
13 jobs created including 4 PhDs, 3 MScs and 4 engineers.
The development of 3 innovative products (Labtrix&#174;&#9633;         KiloFlow&#174; and Plantrix&#174;) with a growing         international industrial and academic customer base.
New businesses: After receiving substantial investment from Dutch       investors, the Headquarters of       Chemtrix was established in Geleen (Netherlands) in April 2008; and       product development and       sales actively commenced.
Chemtrix Ltd.[A] remains the holding       company trading under the name       `Chemtrix BV'.
In 2009 Chemtrix USA was registered to facilitate sales in       North America and       Canada whilst management and product development/engineering remains in       the Netherlands and       R&amp;D at The University of Hull where 2 full-time employees (Drs Wiles       and Ngamsom, previous Hull       postdoctoral workers) develop customer-initiated processes/products       related to process       optimisation.
In total Chemtrix BV employs 11 full time staff (split       between the Netherlands and UK)       and Chemtrix USA has 2 employees.
In addition Chemtrix has sales       representatives in Europe,       Taiwan, India, Israel, Korea and China; and is actively investigating       other worldwide market       opportunities with the Asian market developing rapidly.
Instrumental in securing initial investment were two patent families       licensed from the University of       Hull and two patents licensed from Lionix, BV.
Since then, Chemtrix has       applied for two patents       [B,C] with two more patent applications are in progress, IP generation       remains key to the on-going       technical development of the Company.
New innovative products: Based on early research conducted at       Hull, the commercial advantages       of micro-reactor technology, as it relates to organic synthesis under flow       conditions, has underpinned       the development of new products which now meet previously unfulfilled       industry needs [D] (Figures 1-3).
Competitor analysis reveals that other micro-reactor companies either       specialise in small scale       screening equipment (e.g.
Syrris, Mikroglas, Future Chemistry) or       large scale production systems       (e.g.
Corning, Alfa Lafal) and it is not facile to directly       translate research from one system to another.
Chemtrix believes that it is the only Company currently developing       equipment to directly link both       markets; specifically using the slogan `scalable flow chemistry'.
The first product launched was Labtrix&#174; (2009), a fully       automated flow reactor platform (Figure 1a)       containing a glass micro-reactor (Figure 1b) (volume 1-20 &#181;L), allowing       processes to be optimized       using minute quantities of reagent (200 experiments day-1 using       10's mg of material[C]).
Furthermore, the equipment enables researchers to conduct organic       synthesis more safely[D] as       well as generating less chemical waste.
Independent evidence is reported       by Ley.
[E] In addition,       Chemtrix is the only micro-reactor supplier to manufacture a reactor       (Figure 1c) that enables the       incorporation of heterogeneous catalysts.
[D]    Figure 1.
(a) Labtrix&#174; system (launched 2009) and (b/c)       micro reactors.
Through discussions with industry it was identified that although process       chemists are content       using fully automated computer controlled equipment, many bench chemists       prefer manual       equipment.
Consequently, reacting to market demand, Chemtrix in 2010       launched Labtrix&#174; Start       (Figure 2).
Sales of this product have been particularly high, both within       academia and industry       (independent evidence reported by Kappe[F]) with more than 40       units of this type sold to date ~       40:60 academic to industrial end users.
Figure 2 Labtrix&#174; Start (launched 2010).
Scale up production from Labtrix&#174;using `meso' scale reactors       (KiloFlow&#174; launched 2011, 3 installed and 2 in production)       which consists of mm-size channels (Figure 3a).
Through       carrying out detailed ongoing research into available static       mixer technology, the Company has developed the ability to       translate the reaction conditions identified in micro-channels to       meso-channels, where combination of these modules (Figure       4b) affords access to production-scale quantities (g-kg's) within       a standard laboratory fume cupboard.
[G,H] A partnership with       ESK has enabled Chemtrix to develop silicon carbide reactors       capable of achieving production rates at the tonne-scale (Figure       3b) which will service a growing industrial market estimated to       be &#8364; 50million.
[I] This partnership was strategic in giving       Chemtrix access to larger production units and ESK access to       the continuous flow reaction knowledge of Chemtrix.
Figure 3.
(a) KiloFlow&#174; system (launched 2011) and (b)       Plantrix&#174; system.
Chemtrix is working closely with major international pharmaceutical and       fine chemical companies       (under CDAs and NDAs), with publicised examples including Sanofi-Aventis       (Hungary),[J] DSM       Pharmaceutical Products (NL), Janssen Phamaceutica NV (Belgium) and       Iolitec GmbH (Germany)       who presented results at a Symposia held at CPhI 2011 and Flow Chemistry       Europe, Munich,       2011.
The work focuses on access to new processing conditions (higher       temperatures &amp; pressure)       with simplified synthetic processes that can be transferred from R&amp;D       to production.
In one       example, a new route for an API was identified at the lab-scale, resulting       in an increase in product       purity which upon transfer to the production plant led to significant cost       savings due to a reduction       in the complexity of the downstream separation process.
In addition to the       publicised work,       Chemtrix are currently working on multiple projects with industrial       partners focussing on the       translation of batch processes to continuous flow, with the aim of       developing sustainable, cost       effective production processes.
Chemtrix maintains its links to the       University of Hull, collaborating       in the development of new chemical processes beyond those initially       identified as having       commercial interest; this includes for example the synthesis of inorganic       nanoparticles with Dr       Grazia Francesconi.
[K]
