     The research described above has resulted in a paradigm shift in the       treatment of valvular heart       disease.
The wealth of data and experience generated through research at       UCL was used for       regulatory approval of the Melody&#8482; device in Europe and Canada in 2006.
The safety and       effectiveness of PPVI have since been demonstrated in several additional       studies performed by       other investigators, including an FDA-sponsored trial in the US [a].
Importantly, the FDA trials were       designed using our PPVI protocols and our imaging and clinical pre- and       post-PPVI assessments.
In 2007, NICE interventional procedure guidance (IPG 237) approved the use       of the PPVI, with       subsequent update in 2013 (IPG 436) [b].
FDA approval was obtained       in the USA in 2010 for both       the device and procedure [c].
Our data and subsequent protocol for       monitoring valve fracture were       instrumental in FDA approval.
Following approval, we were responsible for training practitioners from       the first 30 centres to       implement the procedure.
All sites planning to implant the Melody&#8482; device       had to visit UCL/       GOSH prior to becoming and approved implantation site, and for many sites,       members of the UCL/       GOSH team visited the site at the time of their first implantation [d].
As a result of our invention, optimisation of implantation and       monitoring, and training of       cardiologists, the device and procedure is now used routinely in cardiac       centres worldwide to treat       patients with either narrowed or leaky pulmonary valves [e].
By       July 2013, over 5,000 valves had       been implanted in 35 countries worldwide [f].
Patients have       therefore avoided open-heart surgery       with its greater risk of mortality and morbidity, its longer stay in       hospital and its prolonged       recuperation time.
In 2012, the Melody device was awarded the Prix Galien       USA 2012 award for       Best Medical Technology [g].
The Melody device has also had significant commercial and economic       impacts.
With each device       costing &#163;17,000, total sales to date have been around &#163;85m.
There are also       wider economic       benefits due to the avoidance of open-heart surgery.
A recent cost       evaluation conducted in the US       found that PPVI holds a significant cost advantage over the surgical       approach for both health       services and patients, since it requires fewer hospital days, and incurs       less patient wage loss [h].
Moreover the introduction of cardiac valves that can be implanted without       the need for open-heart       surgery has transformed the landscape of the management of valvular heart       disease throughout       the world, and is a paradigm shift in this field of cardiovascular       medicine.
Our work on the PPVI       device has been at the forefront of this new wave of treatments.
Although       developed for the       relatively small population of congenital heart disease, PPVI has       established the way forward for       much more common valve diseases in adults (transcatheter aortic valve and       mitral clip).
We have       also influenced the way devices are designed, how they are introduced into       man (`first-in-man'       implantations), how patients are investigated prior to implantation and       how they are followed up.
The PPVI programme has gone hand-in-hand with the development of       transcatheter aortic valve       implantation (TAVI).
Indeed, without the success of the PPVI programme,       TAVI may not have       developed as quickly, because in its early stage of development, TAVI       mortality rates were very       high (&gt;60%), and the whole TAVI programme underwent ethical review in       France.
Our successful       PPVI programme at UCL, with very low complication rates, permitted the       TAVI programme to       continue [i].
The new device we have developed with Medtronic (Native Outflow Tract       Transcatheter Pulmonary       Valve (TPV) &#8212; shared IP with UCL/ GOSH) is in the process of being       commercialised by Medtronic,       and is currently in early phase clinical testing, with three patients       implanted so far [j].
This new       device can be used for many of the patients with right ventricular outflow       tract disease (~1 in every       1,000 live births [f]) who are not suitable for Melody&#8482;, replacing       open-heart surgery in these       patients.
