     Our early work on large animal models underpinned trials undertaken by       ourselves and by others, which in turn have resulted in therapeutic       hypothermia becoming standard care for infants with moderate to severe       neonatal encephalopathy.
The importance of the early work at UCL in       particular, as the basis for later work and impacts was described in       detail in a recent article [a].
As a result of these important       international collaborations, over 3,000 infants so far in the UK have       benefitted from this treatment, which was incorporated into NICE guidance       in 2010.
Our work also resulted in the commercial development of the       CoolCap.
Immediately following the conclusion of the enrolment of the TOBY Trial,       the UK TOBY Cooling Register was set up and was operational between Dec       2006 and Dec 2012.
All newborns treated with cooling in the UK have been       eligible to be registered.
During this time over 3,000 babies cooled at 74       neonatal units were registered, showing how the treatment has been adopted       into normal clinical practice [b].
Analysis of these data in 2012       suggested that the number of babies registered was close to the estimates       of all babies suffering from moderate to severe neonatal encephalopathy [c].
The impact on long-term outcomes for these babies is clear.
A recent       meta-analysis including seven trials and 1,214 infants shows that       therapeutic hypothermia results in a reduction in death or major       neurodevelopmental disability (risk ratio 0.76; 95% CI 0.69-84) and an       increase in the rate of survival with normal neurological function (1.63;       1.36-1.95) at age 18 months [d].
Based on the number of infants       treated by cooling we can predict that approximately 450 have avoided       death or serious neurological disability between 2006 and 2012.
Following our trial of the CoolCap, this device received FDA approval in       2006 [e] and has been sold commercially since that time [f].
It is now in use in 30 hospitals across the United States (many of them       covering a wide geographical area, due to the specialist nature of the       services provided) [g].
In 2009, children's charity Bliss endorsed the positive reports from       research into cooling: Carmel Bartley, of the children's charity, Bliss       said: "This is welcome research into an area which is known to save         lives.
It is a specialist treatment we would like to see used more         widely" [h]     In 2010, the recommendation for therapeutic hypothermia was incorporated       into NICE guidelines [i].
The British Association of Perinatal       Medicine (BAPM) also recommended this treatment in guidelines issued in       the same year [j].
Enrolment into the cooling Registry increased       dramatically after this, and shows that there has been a timely,       systematic implementation of therapeutic hypothermia in the UK to a       standard protocol.
There has been a steady rise in the uptake of       therapeutic hypothermia across the UK.
Elsewhere in the world, in October       2010, the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) and       American Heart Association released its revised statement recommending       therapeutic hypothermia as a standard of care for moderate to severe HIE [k].
A health economic study done by Imperial College London set out the clear       economic case for this treatment.
Using current lifetime costs for each       child with cerebral palsy (about &#163;750,000) and the economic benefit of       additional healthy lives (&#163;800,000), the total benefit to the UK economy       as a result of the implementation of therapeutic hypothermia is likely to       be over &#163;125 million so far [c].
