     Through a substantial range of dissemination activities, nanoq       has reached a wide range of       stakeholders, influencing both lay audiences who viewed the work and by       stimulating professional       discourses outside of art, including in museums, human geography and       animal studies, causing       significant reappraisals in those fields.
Dissemination of the work has       been extensive, both through       exhibitions across the UK and northern Europe, but also through the       referencing and discussion of       the work at a range of international conferences (both by the artists and       by academics and others       across a range of fields), including a number of conferences intended for       practitioner and       generalist, rather than academic, audiences.
The project has been used as a central or key point of discussion in a       wide range of book       chapters and articles aimed at practitioner or general public audiences       published in the UK, the       USA and Australia.
Such citations are indicative of acceptance of the work       as significant in respect       both of its content and its methodologies.
Whilst it is difficult to       evidence the specific impacts that       viewing nanoq will have had on audiences, such discussions       highlight the types of consideration       and influence that the work can engender.
Specifically, the questions       raised by the work can help       individuals to challenge engrained assumptions and attitudes towards       environmental issues and       towards the human relationship with animals and physical spaces by       approaching from an       emotionally provocative and non-scientific visual angle.
The Breathless Zoo: Taxidermy and the Cultures of Longing (Dr.       Rachel Poliquin, 2012,       Penn State Press, USA), is a definitive work on the history and       contemporary significance of       taxidermy.
The introductory chapter of this volume (pp.
2-11) is devoted       to nanoq:     "...The display of ten polar bears is most probably a unique historical       occurrence.
It would be       rare to see ten polar bears&#8212;a typically solitary species&#8212;together in the       wild, and such an       assembly would never occur in a natural history museum.
Most museums have       a solitary bear,       having neither the space nor the educational need to display more than       one.
More than one is       unnecessary repetition.
Amassed together within the neutral space of an       art gallery,       disconnected from the didactic trappings of a natural history museum, the       polar bears are       transfigured by their multitude and setting, together becoming       animal-things that are neither fully       science nor fully art: mysterious, unsettling, provocative, and       overwhelmingly visually magnetic."
The book's perspective on the work has reached a wide audience, including       professional       artists, as shown in the range of online reviews and discussions of the       citation, such as on       coolhunting.com (a site about creativity and innovation in design, culture       and other areas of       modern life) and The New Enquiry online cultural discussion space.
Poliquin was also interviewed       in Antennae &#8212; Journal of Nature in Visual Culture (Issue       #6, Summer 2008) and referenced the       implications of the work, bringing the work to a wider audience of       practitioners.
Another example is Silence of the Polar Bears: Performing (Climate)         Change in the Theater of         Species (Una Chaudhuri, chapter 4 of Readings in Performance and         Ecology, 2011, Eds.
Arons,       W. and May, T.J.: Palgrave and Macmillan, USA), which presents nanoq       alongside two other       art/performance works as a model of how art can bring new challenging       insights to human       conceptions of ecology and environmental risk.
Of nanoq:     "These photographs...are exemplary documents of ... the infliction&#8212;by       humans, on the other       animals&#8212;of the vicissitudes of displacement...The presence in       these photographs is not that of       the bears but of the places they are in and the objects that       surround them.
Without exception,       these places are "elsewheres" for these animals (notwithstanding the       frequent attempts at       recreating the bears' original habitats), making this a photographic       record of the very principle       that made polar bears the poster animals of climate change: the principle       of the last resort, the       endgame, the final corner: nowhere left to go."
In 2007, New Scientist magazine published a full-page article on       nanoq entitled Stuffed and         mounted: are polar bears finished in the Arctic?
in response to       exhibition in London.
Whilst this       took place before the beginning of the assessment period, it exhibits the       wide reach of the work       beyond Fine Art audiences, and is indicative of the stimulation to public       discourse and perceptions       of the relationship between humans and environment that the work continues       to provide.
"Rethinking our attitude toward displaying [bear specimens]...could help       counter public       indifference to the plight of living bears: if we are ashamed to display       these dead bears today,       imagine how we will feel if the entire species is gone tomorrow."
In the art world magazine Modern Painters (The Right Stuff,       pp.58-63, March 2009), Steven       Connor wrote of nanoq:     "Unlike other artists, for whom the stuffed animal is always a bodily       witness, however dismal, or       damaged, of an animal life that has been lived...Sn&#230;bj&#246;rnsd&#243;ttir and       Wilson aim to show the       irreversible "eclipse" of the "real" animal' and its entry into a second       `Cultural Life'".
The influence on arts practice and education is demonstrated by the use of       the project as       an exemplar of artistic research at the 10th Biennial       Conference of the European League of       Institutes of Art (ELIA), October 2008.
Images from the installation and       archive were featured in the       web-based and printed publicity material, including delegate packs.
The       main conference hall       exhibited the larger framed works.
Delegates included arts students,       journalists and practitioners       including architects, conservators, and professional artists.
Museological impact has best been demonstrated by the declaration by the       Director of the       Hunterian Museum (London), Dr Sam Alberti, at the Cultures of         Preservation conference at the       Natural History Museum, London (April 2011) that nanoq, with its       radical focus on the individual       specimen and its provenance, had led him and many other UK Zoological       museum curators to       reappraise their approach to the collections in their charge.
This is also reflected in a review of the nanoq archive at the       Manchester Metropolitan       Museum (2010), which quoted Stephen Booth (the museum's Curator of       temporary and touring       exhibitions) as saying "the show is a thought-provoking insight into the       relationship between man       and bear.
This exhibition challenges perceptions we have about our       relationship with nature," and       "it highlights the cause and effect of human behaviour, and makes us think       about the legacy of our       actions".
In 2013 a publication by the Museum entitled New Light on         Old Bones itself devoted to       the contemporary reappraisal of zoological collections acknowledges the       shift in interpretation of       natural objects precipitated by the work:     "For museum specimens, the notion of an afterlife has become a       particularly popular way of       acknowledging that natural objects (in particular those that were once       alive) acquire their own       biographical histories in which their meanings and values may vary...[A]       particularly early       example of research into the afterlives of animals [is] `nanoq &#8212; flat out       and bluesome'".
In 2012 for a Canadian publication entitled Museums: Marginality and         the Mainstream, Helen       Gregory wrote:     "...In the exhibition nanoq: flat out and bluesome, the       confrontation between the body of the       viewer and the body of the polar bear creates an almost palpable physical       and spiritual       relationship.
It connects the viewer to both the hunter and the hunted and       elicits a visceral       response that supersedes that of an interactive museum experience that       privileges       representations over authentic objects".
[and]     "By situating the polar bears inside sleek glass cubes, Snaebjornsdottir       and Wilson mimic       both the trope of the Victorian glass vitrine, as well as the glass window       of the diorama.
While       dioramas mimetically simulate the appearance of realism and require       viewers to accept a       prescribed narrative of nature, these polar bears are stripped of       artifice, severing all illusions       of naturalism.
The inclusion of photography showing the polar bears in       their usual "habitats,"       as well as their "biographical" information, forces the viewer to renounce       any fictional       narratives they had previously accepted."
