     The MMU poets have always sought to widen access to their poetry beyond       the pages of their       published works.
The expressive power and aesthetic allure of their poetry       in print has attracted       the attention of broadcasters, literary editors, composers/choral       directors, opera commissioners       and educators/examiners who have then, on the basis of the strength of the       poetry, offered them       opportunities to adapt their poetic outputs to reach and influence ever       wider and new audiences.
This move to poetry `beyond the page' is enabled further by the poets'       broadcasting expertise and       skilful promotion of their work through public readings, introducing to       many an art form often       regarded as `too difficult' to engage with.
Awards and critical acclaim       for their work on and off the       page have generated opportunities for the poets to pursue their public       engagement agenda by       widening access to poetry at festivals and events both at home and abroad,       serving on judging       panels for awards, and broadcasting extensively about contemporary poetry.
The impact-       generating public engagement activities of the poetry cluster at MMU fall       into three broad areas:     1) Impact on new writers:     Through the power and accessibility of their poetry on and beyond the       page, the MMU poets have       become trusted mentors and teachers.
Between them, they have personally       mentored more than       300 new writers since RAE 2008 through teaching Arvon creative writing       courses, Poetry School       courses Arts Council and Complete Works mentoring schemes.
[This is a       conservative estimate, in       that Sprackland's count alone is 8 Arvon courses x 16 participants = 128,       plus 4 Poetry School       courses, again with an average of 16 = 64, plus longer-term Arts       Council/NAWE mentoring       schemes for 3 new writers.
So Sprackland alone has 'mentored' at least 195       writers since 2008.]
Many of these writers have gone on to become published poets themselves,       including Andrew       Philip (Salt), Carole Coates (Smith Doorstop) and Alan Buckley (Tall       Lighthouse) and Karen       McCarthy (OUP/Carcanet &#8212; forthcoming).
Sprackland has contributed to the       sustainability of this       impact by pioneering (with Greta Stoddart, through the Poetry School and       Arvon Foundation) a       course teaching experienced writers how to teach new writers.
This course       took place in 2009, with       10 participants.
Roberts serves as a trustee of the Arvon Foundation [1],       the largest and best-       established creative writing teaching organisation in the UK.
Through       establishing new poetry       prizes [The Ted Hughes Award (C Duffy), Rosamond Prize [2] (Roberts) and       the Manchester       Poetry Prize (all)] and judging existing prizes like the Arvon       International Poetry Competition       (Roberts and Sprackland) and Poetry London Prize (Roberts) the MMU poets       have helped to       discover and publicise the work of new poetic voices such as Kate Tempest       (Ted Hughes Award       2013 [3]) Jack Underwood (Manchester Poetry Prize shortlist 2010) and       Anthony Rowland       (Manchester Poetry Prize winner 2012).
C Duffy's readings series at       Manchester's Royal       Exchange Theatre [4] provide a platform for new poets to give their first       public performances       alongside established figures.
Internationally, the MMU poets have       travelled widely (often via the       British Council) giving public readings and workshops in (for e.g.)
Germany, Greece, USA,       Switzerland, Austria, Italy.
2) Impact on poetry in schools:     The accessibility of the MMU poets' work on the page, and their ability       to communicate with young       poetry readers on regular school visits, has enabled them to impact on how       poetry is taught in       schools.
The Manchester Children's Book Festival [5], created and hosted       by MMU's Writing       School, has provided a vehicle for the MMU poets to generate impact from       the dissemination,       discussion and presentation of their work.
This impact includes the direct       encouragement and       nurturing of writing by as well as for children, including       Mother Tongue Other Tongue [6], which is a       multilingual poetry competition, run as a pilot in 2012 in partnership       with the COLT (Routes into       Languages NW) project [https://www.routesintolanguages.ac.uk/northwest].
The competition       celebrates cultural diversity and the many languages currently spoken in       secondary schools across       the North West of England.
Trained student ambassadors delivered workshops       in schools across       Greater Manchester and helped judge the competition, which attracted 550       entries in 41 languages       from 30 secondary schools across the North West.
Through the reach and       accessibility of her       poetry, and her work with the Poetry Society on education and outreach       projects, Sprackland was       a founding figure (with Sir Andrew Motion) in the development of the       Poetry Archive [7], which       allows for the first time free access to hundreds of recordings of poets       reading their own work.
This       is a project with global reach, used by an average of 150,000 visitors per       month.
It is used       extensively in teaching and learning across UK schools.
It has helped to       set the agenda and       influence public policy on poetry and education, developing a renewed       sense of importance of       voice and recitation in the understanding of poetry.
In 2012, Sprackland       and Motion collaborated       again, this time on Poetry by Heart [8], a new national project for young       people aged 14-18, which       won &#163;500,000 funding support from the Department for Education and has       generated a broad       public debate on the merits of memorising poems in schools, e.g.
[http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/commentators/howard-jacobson/howard-jacobson-simon-armitage-is-wrong-learning-a-poem-by-heart-is-a-joy-for-life-not-class-warfare-7855056.html]       Inclusion in the most widely used English GCSE and A-Level syllabus (AQA)       (C Duffy, Sprackland)       and C Duffy's regular performances at GCSE `Poetry Live' events (attended       by 75,000 pupils per       year in 50 venues across the UK) have ensured sustainable impact       generation in introducing and       communicating contemporary poetry to pupils aged 14-18.
3) Impact on new audiences:     The MMU poets have worked to open access to contemporary poetry through       strategies to build       new audiences beyond the existing poetry-book-buying public.
These       strategies have included       O'Riordan's reviews and articles about contemporary poetry in the       Guardian, Telegraph, and       Independent.
Financial Times, C Duffy's regular poetry columns and pages       in the Guardian and       Daily Mirror and Roberts and Sprackland's extensive broadcasting on BBC       Radios 2, 3, 4, 5-Live       and World Service.
E.g.
[http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01rv3ml       http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b02v25nw       http://www.theguardian.com/books/2009/jul/25/war-poetry-carol-ann-duffy]       These events and broadcasts have reached audiences new to poetry,       many of whom have gone on to become poetry readers and some of whom have       signed up to       poetry courses to make a start as writers themselves.
Sales for poetry       books are modest (even a       well-established poet might not sell more than 5,000 copies of a single       collection) but the reach for       a broadcast such as `Book of the Week' [9] is over 3 million.
This       strategy to develop new       audiences has extended into collaborative ventures, in which audiences for       opera, choral music,       theatre, painting and photography are introduced to contemporary poetry       through collaborative       work with such organisations as Welsh National Opera, Royal Exchange       Theatre, Opera North,       Scottish Opera [10] (Roberts, C Duffy), Tate Gallery, National Gallery,       Manchester City Art Gallery       (Sprackland, Roberts).
