     Supported by ESRC's Growing Older Programme 2000-2002, Scharf's research       continues to have an enduring impact on public policy/practice.
It has       been one of two highly influential pieces of research (out of over 100       pieces commissioned 2000-2009) that those working in the public sector       report referring to frequently to help them understand the social       exclusion challenges that older people face, and has been widely used to       shape policy making.
Initial findings from the Growing Older research published by       Help the Aged (Scharf et al., 2002) attracted media interest,       eliciting a formal response from the then Minister for Social Exclusion,       who described the research as `invaluable'.
The Guardian's       Assistant Editor suggested that ministers/policymakers pay particular       attention to the study's findings [source 1].
Then followed an invitation       by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to review the impact of       government policies on older people vulnerable to social exclusion       (Phillipson &amp; Scharf, 2004).
This led the Social Exclusion Unit to       identify `excluded older people' as a key target group for service       innovation, with Scharf et al.
(2005) informing the resultant key       government strategy A Sure Start to Later Life [source 2].
This       advocated a new approach to service provision for older people and led to       the development of a range of two-year (until mid-2008) Link-age Plus       projects providing a `one-stop-shop' for advice and services in a bid to       combat isolation and promote well-being.
Ultimately it led to a range of       recommendations to local authorities about how they could best link older       people to services [source 3].
The Local Government Association report All         our Tomorrows [source 4] cites evidence from Scharf on the number of       pensions not being drawn.
This report is still shaping Local Government       strategy around ageing, for example it is drawn on by Lancashire's ageing       strategy to 2025 [source 5].
Arising from the Growing Older research, related work was       commissioned by the Commission for Rural Communities (Scharf &amp;       Bartlam, 2006) and by Help the Aged (Scharf et al., 2006), which       the Department for Work and Pensions drew on to develop a set of material       deprivation indicators better suited to the situation of older people.
These were tested in an Office of National Statistics Omnibus Survey and       have since been added (in 2008 &#8212; continuing in 2013) [source 6] to the       annual Family Resources Surveys (FRS).
The FRS is a major survey; its       results are used to shape government policy around income and benefits;       the material deprivation work was taken up in a report by Stephen Mackay       for DWP [source 7].
Most recently, in 2012, Scharf's Growing Older work (with Victor)       has been used in the Government White paper Caring for our Future:         reforming care and support [source 8] to identify the high levels of       loneliness felt by older people and that this is an important       consideration for providing for future needs.
In this context, Scharf's       research formed the very basis for the launch of the Campaign to End         Loneliness in 2011.
This launch was preceded by his providing the       originators of the Campaign with relevant material to ensure that the       Campaign was truly evidence-based.
Founded by four partner NGOs, the       central aims of the Campaign are to identify the causes of loneliness in       later life, identify what works in reducing this loneliness and campaign       for this action, and to create a vision for the future where loneliness is       not an issue.
The Campaign states that Scharf's work has been distinctive       and a factor in the success of its work.
They cite their key success to       date as being the Care Services Minister adopting the issue of loneliness,       commissioning funded work on a toolkit for Health and Wellbeing Boards,       and putting loneliness as a measurement area into the adult social care       outcomes framework.
Information from the Campaign is also used in much       media coverage of the issue, with the profile of loneliness being       significantly raised in the public press since the Campaign's launch [for       example, source 9].
Alongside work relating to national policy making, the social exclusion       research has influenced the development of local ageing policies,       particularly since 2004 through collaboration with Manchester City Council       (MCC).
The ESRC study was used by MCC to develop the city's first ageing       strategy (MCC, 2004) and, with further involvement by Scharf, has since       contributed to the shaping of an innovative and forward-looking strategy       aimed at making Manchester a `great place to grow older' (MCC, 2009).
During this period Scharf was a member of the city's Ageing Strategy       Expert Advisory Panel, along with other notable research and practice       leaders.
Their developing relationship has resulted in numerous joint       initiatives between Keele and MCC, including several of the projects that       have been implemented as a result of the ageing strategy.
The CALL-ME       study involved developing a series of initiatives across four       disadvantaged communities in Manchester.
For example, a gardening project       in Moss Side was implemented with Scharf playing an active role in       engaging local residents across the generations in the creation and       development of the garden, the existence of which has also provided a       sense of pride to Moss Side &#8212; an inner city area previously viewed       negatively by others (Community Garden Member, Sept 2009) and with high       levels of social deprivation.
As indicated by the research findings of the       project, the participatory nature of the research had an impact on the       research participants, leading to their improved physical and social       well-being.
These small-scale projects with direct impacts on the lives of those in       Manchester were brought together at an event at Manchester Town Hall in       2009, at which Scharf presented research findings to those involved in       many of the projects &#8212; academics, practitioners, and older people (over       200 people in total).
This event provided a forum for discussion and point       of connection across the city, strengthening each of the projects.
This       was just one of many such events that Scharf has contributed to in this       capacity.
The age-friendly cities strategy has been adopted by local       councils across the UK (for example in Newcastle, Glasgow and Cardiff),       with Manchester City Council being an active member of the age-friendly       cities network, which is affiliated to the World Health Organization's       Global Network of Age-friendly Cities and Communities, that facilitates       the sharing of best practice [source 10].
Manchester was also involved in       the first global conference on age-friendly cities in Dublin in 2011,       with Scharf also contributing on the theme of older adult loneliness, and       so has contributed more broadly to age-friendly developments in the       international arena.
Drawing on the increasingly close relationship with Manchester City       Council, Keele subsequently piloted educational programmes aimed at       engaging older people in the study of ageing and, latterly, developing the       skills base of staff involved in delivering services to older people.
The       positive pilot project review, founded on a series of focus groups with       key stakeholders [source 11], has led to the formalisation of an on-going       certified Ageing Studies Programme.
The programme in Manchester has now       run four times and involved over 100 participants from the public,       independent and voluntary sector in interdisciplinary CPD.
Funding was       achieved via the Department for Work and Pensions which also meant that       the programme was rolled out and delivered to the Wirral (35       participants), York (25 participants), Stoke (30 participants) and, again,       to Manchester.
Feedback from participants has been very positive, with       many saying the course challenged their beliefs and ways of working with       older people and, for example, has led them to seek out and pay greater       attention to the opinions of the older people they work with [source 12].
