     Cardiff's research on chronic inflammatory diseases has had a direct       economic impact on major global manufacturers of health supplements and       pet foods (total global markets worth $142bn5.1 and $58bn5.2,       respectively in 2011) through:            contributing to the development of new products containing omega-3,         and       providing a credible scientific basis for successful marketing         campaigns for these products, based on their beneficial         anti-inflammatory effects.
Further economic benefit has been gained through the commercialisation of       neoepitope mAbs developed at Cardiff through direct sales and licensing       agreements with major pharmaceutical companies.
Patent driven Sales of Pet Food.
Cardiff performed in vitro research in collaboration with Hill's Pet       Nutrition, Inc, a subsidiary of the Colgate-Palmolive group (a Fortune 200       company).
Specifically, the three principal omega-3 PUFAs found in fish       oil were tested using the biochemical readouts developed at Cardiff       (Section 2) in collaboration with researchers from Liverpool University       who performed clinical trials (Vet School).
The director of Professional       and Veterinary Affairs at Hill's Pet nutrition stated;     "Their research revealed that eicosapentaenoic acid ("EPA") was the most       potent at reducing the breakdown signature seen in cartilage degradation.
These trials led directly to a successful patent filing in 2010       (US2010/0261793A1, Method for Reducing Cartilage Damage in Dogs), in which       both Harwood and Caterson were named3.6.
The aforementioned       research, and by extension the patent, provided a verifiable foundation       for Hill's to develop effective EPA dosages for dog food to be tested and       brought to market.
It led directly to the company's development of new       products containing specific ratios of EPA to the other constituent       PUFA's.
Pet food products arising from this research are now marketed and       sold by Hill's worldwide under the name Prescription Diet&#174; j/d food5.3.
The Hill's Pet Nutrition currently accounts for $2.16billion (13%) of       Colgate-Palmolive's global net sales of $17 billion5.3, 5.4.
Product sales are driven by a marketing campaign which specifically cites       the research findings, viz "Hills&#174; Prescription Diet&#174; j/d&#174; helps your dog       walk, run and jump more easily in just 21 days"5.5.
New nutraceuticals     The Cardiff team also has an on-going collaboration with Seven Seas (now       owned by Merck, a Fortune 100 company), which has included a successful       preliminary clinical trial on the effects of omega-3 PUFA's on joint       cartilage5.6.
This collaboration has led, during the REF       period, to the enhancement of existing products within the Seven Seas       JointCare range (eg Jointcare Max, Supplex and Complete) for the       alleviation of arthritis symptoms5.7.
Seven Seas acknowledges       the contribution of Cardiff, which `provided scientific support for our       existing omega-3 supplements and helped in the development of additional       product variants...[and] helped strengthen the credible scientific basis       for our marketing activities in relation to omega-3 PUFA based products.
In turn, this helped consolidate our position in the global marketplace'5.6.
The market value of dietary supplements in the UK was $1.1Billion in 2009       and Seven Seas accounted for 6.5% of the market5.8.
Omega-3       PUFA-containing products are currently worth about &#8364;13 billion5.9       globally.
Changing research practice     The five neoepitope mAbs developed by Caterson and Hughes have been       commercialised by Cardiff University through licensing and direct sales to       three of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies (Dupont, Hoechst, and Ely       Lilly).
They are also marketed through five major antibody- reagent sales       and distribution companies (Abcam, Novus Biologicals, Millipore, MD       Biosciences and ThermoFisher) which has generated royalties to Cardiff       University of &#163;85,000 since 2008, reflecting sales of approximately       &#163;450,000.
During the REF period the Cardiff team was involved in a Knowledge       Transfer Partnership (KTP) with Obsidian Research Ltd.
This company is a       nutraceuticals formulation manufacturer, based in South Wales, which       develops its own range of products for the global market.
Since the KTP       with Obsidian the company has adopted two scientific methods developed in       Cardiff University to provide efficacy data for new formulations.
These       methods are:            in vitro experiments using bovine cartilage explants to analyse the         efficacy of active ingredients (developed by Caterson and Hughes);       lipid analyses: for the quality control of lipid based products         (developed by Harwood).
The KTP associate trained four Obsidian employees so that all new       products could be validated using these improved methodologies5.10.
