     Three related strands of impact come from the School of Education &amp;       Professional Development's research on young people on the margins of       education and training: raising awareness of the complexity of the issues       involved; informing policy debate; and directly benefiting young people       participating in the research.
A significant feature of ethnographic       research with marginalised young people is that engaging in the research       process can be a rewarding and supportive experience for participants, who       often lead isolated and restricted lives.
One of the most significant findings to emerge from these studies is that       much negative discourse about marginalised young people is based largely       on over-simplistic, individualised assertions.
Two research monographs,       Russell's Understanding Pupil Resistance: Integrating Gender,         Ethnicity and Class and Simmons and Thompson's NEET Young People         and Training for Work: Learning on the Margins, both published in       2011, encourage practitioners, students, academics and policymakers to       challenge these claims.
The research team recognise the importance of communicating their       findings &#8212; and the need to challenge inaccurate stereotypes &#8212; to the       general public.
Simmons was interviewed on BBC Radio Leeds in response to       national developments in NEET policy and changing patterns of unemployment       in June 2010, July 2011 and March 2012.
He was also interviewed about       youth unemployment on BBC1's Spotlight news in July 2013.
In July       2013, Simmons was interviewed on BBC1's Breakfast News and Radio       4's Woman's Hour on the implications for NEET young people of       raising the participation age (Refs.
1 and 2).
The policy implications of the team's research are acknowledged at the       local, national and international level.
Simmons has presented findings at       a number of high-profile events targeted at policymakers and practitioners       working with NEET young people, including keynote addresses at the       Westminster Education and Employment Forum in October 2011 (3); the       National NEET Conference in Birmingham in February 2012 (4); and include       the Youth Conference in Belfast in October 2012 (5).
These events       attracted policymakers from national and local government, representatives       from voluntary organisations, and employers and employers' associations.
Simmons has also been invited to give a keynote address at the European       Youth Unemployment Conference, NEET Ideas for the New ESF Programming         Period 2014-2020 in Belfast in November 2013 (9).
This conference       will feature sessions run by government ministers from Germany, Greece,       Spain, the Netherlands, and the UK, and focused on using the European       Social Fund to tackle youth unemployment.
In October 2011 Russell, Simmons and Thompson presented an overview of       their research at a NEET Breakfast Summit, which brought together       practitioners and local authority policymakers from across Kirklees.
Russell and Thompson attend the Kirklees NEET Strategy Group and in 2012       and 2013 presented research findings as part of the local authority's       planning process.
This included giving advice on identifying "at risk"       young people, the likely implications of replacing Education Maintenance       Allowance (EMA) with more targeted bursaries, and the causes of labour       market "churning" between various sites of education, employment and       non-participation.
Russell (6) also presented research findings at the New       Local Government Network Seminar in Manchester in July 2012.
Simmons is a       member of the Kirklees RPA Strategy Group and presented findings to       members in July 2013.
These activities influence policy decisions at a       local level and feed into frontline practice with marginalised young       people, particularly in relation to advice and guidance.
In May and November 2011, Thompson presented papers on NEET policy and       work-based training for young people at meetings of the Consortium for       Post-Compulsory Education and Training, events which attracted teacher       educators from more than 20 further education colleges across the north of       England.
In 2012, Simmons (7) presented research findings at two public       lectures in Oldham and Barnsley attended by local authority       representatives, students, teachers, youth workers, careers advisers and       others working with NEET young people.
In 2013, Simmons was invited to       become policy advisor for Learning First, a voluntary organisation       providing education and advocacy services for marginalised learners.
He       was also invited to write the foreword for a Universities and Colleges       Union (10) research report on NEET young people, published as part of its       Knowledge Economy project, and to present research findings to the UCU's       Education Committee in October 2013.
In 2013, Simmons and Thompson edited "Reclaiming the Disengaged: Critical       Perspectives on Young People Not in Education, Employment or Training", a       Special Issue of the journal Research in Post-Compulsory         Education.
This publication engages with key international debates       on marginalised young people and features papers by leading researchers       from England, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Eastern       Europe.
In June 2013, Simmons organised the international symposium, Reclaiming         the Disengaged which was attended by 30 delegates including       representatives from the prison service, local authorities and the police       service and featured seminars by Profs Deuchar (West of Scotland), Neves       (Porto) and Simmons (Huddersfield).
