     The Prevent policy represents a crucial element of the government's       response to the threat of Islamist terrorism.
As such, it is vital that       its conception and implementation are as effective as possible.
Thomas's       research has played a major role in highlighting significant flaws and       helping to reshape Prevent on both local and national levels.
The conclusions and associated recommendations of the Rochdale study were       presented to the Rochdale Pride Partnership in July 2008 and subsequently       used by Rochdale Metropolitan Borough Council Youth Service and other key       local agencies to orientate their Prevent and cohesion activity with young       people.
This included the council's Youth Strategy and 2008-2011 Prevent       programme.
This shift was supported by a number of local and regional       briefings on the key findings and insights for 100 key professionals,       including youth workers, teachers, police officers and other professionals       concerned with implementing Prevent approaches and promoting community       cohesion (Source 1).
Through its `Gold' multi-agency coordination structure, which provides       strategic direction and overview and has senior representation from all       statutory stakeholders, Kirklees Metropolitan Council used Thomas's       qualitative evaluation of its first year of Prevent activity as part of       its planning for the subsequent 2008-2011 tranche of government funding       for Prevent (2).
The key findings were also shared with Prevent co-ordinators and elected       members of local authorities from across the Yorkshire and the Humber       Government Office region at a seminar held in Leeds in July 2008 (3).
The findings from both studies and the subsequent theoretical analysis       formed the basis for an evidence submission to the Committees and Local       Government Select Committee Inquiry into Prevent in 2009-2010.
A written       submission by Thomas highlighted the conclusions and the recommendations       regarding policy modification, leading to an invitation to give oral       evidence to the Committee at the House of Commons in December 2009.
Thomas's oral and written evidence was reproduced in the Committee's       report of March 2010, which accepted and supported the call for much       greater emphasis on community cohesion and cross-community contact within       policy approaches to preventing violent extremism.
Aspects of Thomas's       evidence were quoted and supported by the Committee's report on pages 18       (paragraph 41), 37 (paragraph 92), 45 (paragraph 116) and 59 (paragraph       158).
The Committee's conclusions included that "much greater training and       support for front-line workers such as council staff, police, teachers and       youth workers should be provided" (page 49, paragraph 129) and that       "funding for cohesion work in all communities should be increased" (page       62, paragraph 170) (4).
Many of the Committee's recommendations were       subsequently enacted by the Coalition government in its re-launch of the       Prevent strategy in June 2011, with the DCLG removed from Prevent activity       and tasked with focusing solely on promoting community cohesion (5).
The research findings also contributed to and informed the evaluation of       Prevent activity by Youth Offending Teams nationally.
The University of       Huddersfield's Applied Criminology Centre carried out this research from       2008 to 2011 for the Youth Justice Board, with Thomas participating in the       literature review and analysis process.
The key findings of the evaluation       were also highlighted and accepted by the government when Prevent was       re-launched in 2011 (page 91, paragraphs 182,183 and 186)(5), with the       review observing: "Many of the problems identified by the University of       Huddersfield could have been overcome with greater clarity from the       outset."
In addition, Thomas collaborated with colleagues from the University of       Huddersfield's School of Human and Health Sciences to evaluate progress by       two West Yorkshire local authorities around community cohesion and       Prevent.
The findings were presented to representatives of regional local       authorities and police services at a seminar in December 2010 (6).
This       research relationship with regional policy-makers and practitioners has       continued with Thomas and colleagues being commissioned in 2013 by two       West Yorkshire local authorities to devise field research approaches to       investigate feelings and dispositions within marginalised, mainly white       communities, including the degree of sympathy for the positions and       actions of extreme groups like the English Defence League.
This data will       be utilised to inform community-based policy and practice responses going       forward.
Continuing to raise wider awareness of the key issues, Thomas also made a       number of media appearances to discuss his research and its implications.
He was quoted by the Financial Times Magazine in February 2010 (7)       and the Financial Times in March 2011(8) and was also interviewed       on BBC Radio 4's Analysis in March 2011(9) and live on BBC2 TV's       `Newsnight' in May 2011 (10).
All these media appearances have contributed       to greater public understanding both of the Prevent/Cohesion policy       operations and controversies themselves, and so to greater public       understanding of academic research.
In October 2013 Thomas shared his       research findings and analysis with elected members and educationalists at       a conference staged at the Welsh Assembly, Cardiff, and with international       academic colleagues at a seminar staged at Sciences Po, Paris.
