     The migration of sand dunes can be a huge problem for the construction of       pipelines through       desert terrain.
This is because a dune could migrate on to a pipeline and       bury it, or migrate away       from a pipeline and leave it suspended (`free-spanning'), which could       result in a fracture and a       damaging leak of oil or gas.
Wind-blown sand is also a hazard to pipelines       as it causes abrasion       and blocks filters.
In addition, safety regulations in the countries       concerned often demand that       pipelines be buried to a specific depth (e.g.
2m in Algeria), which is       difficult to achieve in a mobile       dune field.
The method developed by Birkbeck's Vermeesch allows hydrocarbon companies       to use COSI-Corr       to identify desert areas with the greatest sand flux (where dunes are most       active) and areas with       low sand flux (where dunes are least active).
They can then use this       information to plan the       location of pipelines and other desert infrastructure to militate against       damage from wind-blown       sand.
The determination of the thickness of active dunes using GPR, as first       demonstrated in Birkbeck       research, is also useful to the hydrocarbon industry.
It helps to       constrain pipeline construction cost       estimates, which depend on the volume of sand that has to be moved during       construction, and also       helps determine the safe burial depth for a pipeline.
Past practice was to       route pipelines around       dune fields, but this is not possible in parts of Arabia and the Sahara       where oil and gas fields are       directly overlain by dune fields.
Given typical construction costs of       $1-$5 million per kilometre,       deviating pipelines is inherently expensive, so it is critical to know the       safest, most direct route.
Following publication of the underpinning research and presentations at       conferences, links were       formed in 2009 with a geomorphology consultancy, Ebor Geoscience Ltd.,       which advises the       hydrocarbon industry on the natural hazards posed by migrating sand dunes.
This led to a number       of pilot studies being commissioned by leading hydrocarbon companies to       evaluate the commercial       benefits of the new methodologies.
In 2010, BG commissioned and invested &#163;68,818 in a study (through       Birkbeck's research office) of       sand dunes in the Grand Erg Occidental using the GPR method.
The aim of       the study was to       determine the thickness of active sand dunes within a sand sea where dune       migration is identified       as a hazard for oil and gas pipelines and the construction of processing       facilities.
Within the Grand       Erg Occidental, GPR was used to determine if dune sands were thick enough       for pipeline       construction, to test models of dune stratigraphy and to determine if       there is a layer of mobile       dunes migrating over older stabilised dunes, as well as to pick sample       points for OSL dating to       determine longer-term rates of sand dune migration.
The results provided a       demonstration that the       methodology is suitable for identifying areas that are most prone to       wind-blown erosion and sand       accumulation (i.e.
where dunes are most active), as well as for locating       stable areas that are better       suited to construction.
Companies also commissioned and invested money in       pilot studies using       the COSI-Corr method in Algeria and Libya in 2010-11: &#163;13,000 by BP,       &#163;5,000 by ARUP       Consulting and &#163;3,500 by Pipeline Routing Ltd.
The Director of Ebor Geoscience, which served as an intermediary between       the companies (BP,       BG, ARUP and Pipeline) and the Birkbeck researchers who conducted the       pilot studies, reports       that these studies "confirmed that GPR and COSI-Corr represent a       cost-effective way to quantify       the mobility of sand dunes over annual to millennial time scales,       providing key constraints on the       assessment of geo-hazards in arid areas."
[A]     Although recent political instability in North Africa has set back many       new infrastructure projects,       with some companies withdrawing from the area, companies have recognised       from the pilot       studies that these new methods provide an advantage over competitors, and       have therefore       adopted the technology.
ARUP has used the new techniques on two separate,       very large multi-million       pound pipeline engineering projects in the Algerian desert in 2010 (In       Salah Gas for BP [B]       and Hassi Ba Hamou for BG [B, C]).
Both methodologies were used to inform       the recommended       alignment of the route for construction of the pipelines [B].
The work has       also informed decisions       that will result in long-term maintenance cost savings, estimated by ARUP       to be in the order of       several millions of US dollars.
The feedback from their clients (BP and       BG) on the results of these       techniques has been very favourable [B].
The Associate Director of ARUP       reported: "Our clients       benefit from application of these techniques through the better informed       decisions and subsequent       cost savings that are made by refining the alignment of major       infrastructure."
[B]     Furthermore, as a result of these initial studies and the recognition       that these methods provide an       advantage over competitors, companies have changed their practices to       include assessment of       future damage by wind-blown sand in their tender documents for       infrastructure projects in desert       regions.
For example, Pipeline Routing Ltd. has changed their business model and       will include the COSI-Corr       methodology in future tender documents.
In addition, they are developing       an asset       management model based on constant modelling of sand dune migration [D].
The company's       Director said: "COSI-Corr has had a tangible impact on our work because we       can now quantify the       movement of the `terrain', enabling a classification process to feed in to       a Geo-Hazard risk register"       [D].
Pipeline Ltd. produces maps of natural hazards for engineers to use       when picking optimal       routes for new pipelines that minimise the risk at an affordable cost; the       company sees COSI-Corr       as an important tool to quantify the risk posed by migrating sand dunes.
In 2012, ARUP also changed their practice to include assessment of future       damage by wind-blown       sand in their tender documents for infrastructure projects in desert       regions.
Their Associate       Director said: "Working with Professor Bristow and Dr Vermeesch, and       application of these new       techniques, has resulted in a step change in our practice for this type of       work."
[B] ARUP has       tendered for multi-million pound projects using the new methodologies,       including a railway in the       Emirates (2013) and two projects for which contracts had been won by the       end of July 2013: a BG       pipeline, and a pipeline and gathering station for Petroceltic, all in       Algeria [E].
ARUP has also benefited from the enhanced reputation brought about by the       success of their       COSI-Corr and GPR work.
The Associate Director said: "ARUP benefits by       gaining technical       advantage that helps us win future work.
We cannot estimate the amount of       commercial work that       has been won directly as a result but we do feel our work with UCL has       enhanced our reputation       and this does protect existing workload and lead to future work with our       clients."
[B]
