     The case described here centres on the impact of our new technology on       the business sector.
a) Improving piracy detection for the film industry [C1]     The geometric techniques developed at Swansea are being used as a tool       for inserting robust       watermarks in individual frames of a film in order to improve piracy       detection in the film industry.
Fortium Technologies Ltd were impressed by a test example of using the       technique to embed a       text-based watermark in an X-ray.
Piracy is a major commercial problem for       film companies,       costing the US economy alone over $20 billion per year#, and       there are currently only a couple of       companies worldwide involved with film watermarking.
There is thus a       strong interest within the film       industry to find alternative approaches; Fortium is seeking to develop a       method of embedding a       watermark in each frame of a film so that, if the film is pirated,       information about when or where the       piracy took place can be obtained.
Zhang, Crooks and Orlando have subsequently entered into a formal       contract with Fortium to       develop their geometric method to meet the specific needs of film       watermarking.
Trials of       embedding a watermark into a test image provided by Fortium have shown       that our approach       allows embedding of a watermark in a localised way that gives a high PSNR       (peak signal to noise       ratio) that is well above the threshold that the industry accepts as being       enough to ensure the       watermark will be imperceptible to the viewer: the PSNR for our locally       embedded watermark is       66dB and the industry threshold is around 45dB.
Our technique allows       watermarks that are either       image or text based, and can be incorporated anywhere within the image       frame, both of which are       seen as key advantages in comparison with existing watermarking       techniques.
The inclusion of       text-based watermarks allows the possibility of human-readable watermarks.
Current development       is focussing on trying to improve the robustness of our watermarking       approach.
"...the project has already enough promise to get some of the biggest         content owners and         producers in the movie and television industry eager to monitor its         progress"         (Fortium CEO)     b) Feature and gap detection for computer aided design [C2, C5]     Working with BAE Systems, the Department has provided a confidential       report concerning the       extraction of intersection and high curvature parts and gaps for       geometrical objects based only on       given loosely sampled point clouds defining the surfaces of the object.
Following a visit of Zhang       and Crooks to BAE Systems Advanced Technology Centre in Bristol in June       2011, including a       well-received presentation on some of our new methods and subsequent       discussions, we were       provided with some data files of surface meshes for the surfaces of       aircraft, to which our       intersection/high curvature and gap detection methods were successfully       applied.
One application of our gap-detection method is as an automatic tool to       find gaps between parts of       the underlying geometric design of an aircraft, for instance in data files       provided by manufacturers       to engineers for the purpose of performing fluid-dynamics simulations.
These gaps are deliberately       left for soldering purposes, whereas for fluid dynamics simulations,       different parts must be       connected.
Currently such gaps are detected by a time-consuming manual       process, while our       methods provide a fast, automatic gap-detection tool.
Work is ongoing in       the field of application.
c) Quantitative comparison for medical images [C3, C6]     A further confidential report was provided in June 2012 to clinicians       from the John Radcliffe       Hospital, Oxford, who are investigating the feasibility of replacing       traditional, benchmark       computerised tomography (CT) scans of children's skulls, known to be       accurate but also to impart       high levels of radiation, by safer magnetic resonance (MR) scans.
The       report was concerned with       quantitative Hausdorff-distance measurement between image sets based on       magnetic resonance       (MR) and computerised tomography (CT) scans of a phantom box, with the aim       of providing a       quantitative method of comparing CR and MR scans.
d) Commercial potential identified by consulting company [C4]     After a demonstration in January 2013 of a selection of our image       processing and feature       extraction methods using the interface initially developed with the EPSRC       `Pathways to impact'       grant described above, the consulting company Cadarn Technik, which has       extensive experience       of dealing with video algorithms and of interacting with electronics,       chemical, materials, and life       science companies, expressed an interest in commercialising our       technology.
A draft of a licence       for the purpose of commercialisation of this technology is in process.
# http://www.theguardian.com/film/2012/may/11/release-date-piracy-time-warner
