     LJMU research underpinned the following impacts:            Informed the location, management and monitoring of four newly         Protected Areas for Forest         biodiversity in the Liang Shan region of southern Sichuan       Increased the understanding of the effects of human activities on         wildlife, creating opportunities         for changing human behaviour patterns to benefit both local people and         wildlife       Created better understanding of Chinese wildlife and conservation         locally in Sichuan and within         the UK          LJMU Research informed the location, management and monitoring of four         newly         Protected Areas for Forest biodiversity in the Liang Shan region of         southern Sichuan     The research outputs that feed into these aims are an understanding of       population size and       distribution, habitat preferences and ecological requirements of       threatened endemic birds that have       informed location and management of protected areas [ 1, 3, 4].
Research (1997 - 1999) on       population size and distribution of the Sichuan Partridge [1,2]       ran parallel to active attempts that       were being made by the wildlife conservation division of the Sichuan       Forest Department (SFD) to       secure protection for some of the rapidly diminishing forest habitat       within the bird's range.
As part       of a wider plan to protect remaining forest cover, four new nature       reserves containing the species       covering a total of 100,000ha were established by the SFD from 2000 [H,I,J].
Two of the four       supported reserves have achieved national status in the last two years and       these now benefit from       central Government funding [H,I,J].
These reserves conserve       endemic birds and mammals, such       as the Giant and Lesser pandas, and the Tibetan Macaque [H,I,J].
As a direct result of his research, Dowell founded the Sichuan Forest       Biodiversity Project as a       project of the Chester Zoo Conservation outreach programme for China in       2002 and he acted as       project coordinator until 2013.
[A,B,E,H,I,J].
The project       supports four nature reserves (Heizhugou,       Ma'anshan, Laojunshan and Mamize Nature Reserves) established since 2000.
The project is in       collaboration with the Sichuan Forest Department, a Chinese Government       agency based in       Chengdu [E,H,I,J].
The overarching aims of the project are to       enhance the network of Protected       Areas for forest biodiversity (especially broadleaf forest) in the Liang       Shan region of southern       Sichuan and to engage the local Yi tribal people in their sustainable       management and       development.
Detailed ecological studies have led to new insights into the habitat       requirements of endemic bird       species providing the opportunity for research-informed conservation       action in the newly       established reserves [3,4,5].
Dowell has worked closely with       nature reserve rangers to develop       wildlife monitoring schemes based on the underpinning research.
Annual       monitoring of all       Galliformes (considered to be important as indicator species) using       systematic line transect and       point count methods has been developed through intensive training and       active support for data       entry and analysis.
There is now a data set going back to 2006 which is       beginning to allow the       impact of management actions to be monitored.
Further monitoring of       Galliformes and mammals is       being piloted using camera traps [H,I,J].
The project has been highly successful in building capacity for       conservation in the Liang Shan       region.
All four nature reserves are managed by teams of rangers derived       from the local       population, including many Yi tribal people.
The project has actively       assisted them in this by       providing training in species identification, wildlife survey and       monitoring techniques, use of GIS       and other computer software to assist management, community project       management and publicity       raising [A,B,H,I,J].
Management of the project has moved from       central coordination by the Sichuan       Forest Department to local management by the nature reserves themselves,       working to a 5 year       Conservation Strategy for the Liang Shan region that was prepared by       Dowell in 2010 in       collaboration with Sichuan Forest Department and nature reserve colleagues       [E,H,I,J].
There is an       annual meeting of all senior staff from all four reserves to share       practice at which research results       are fully disseminated and there is discussion and agreement as to how       they can be used to inform       their management plans.
LJMU Research increased the understanding of the effects of human         activities on wildlife,         creating opportunities for changing human behaviour patterns to benefit         both local people         and wildlife     Since disturbance, especially during the breeding season, has been found       to affect habitat       selection and productivity in the target bird species, a key impact of our       research has led to work       with local communities to find viable alternatives to the activities that       cause disturbance.
Many of       the local communities living in and around the nature reserves in the       Liang Shan are ethnic Yi tribal       people suffering from severe economic deprivation due to rural poverty and       unemployment.
One activity which causes disturbance to wildlife is the collection of       firewood from within the       protected forest reserves.
This cause of disturbance has been successfully       reduced through the       establishment of biogas or fuel saving stoves.
At one site, Laojunshan       Nature Reserve, installation       of biogas stoves that utilise methane gas generated from pig dung as a       fuel has been shown to       reduce wood collection by up to 95% [A,B,C,H,I,J] and to date 28       households have benefited       [H,I,J].
At Mamize Nature Reserve, the installation of enclosed       fuel saving stoves into 20       households has reduced wood collection by one third and led to       improvements in human health       due to the reduction of smoke inhalation from open fires [B,H,I,J].
A second example is the establishment of bee hives for the generation of       honey as a sustainable       alternative economic activity to the collection of forest products to sell       as a supplemental source of       income.
At Heizhugou Nature Reserve, where 15 families have been provided       with hives, stock       and equipment since 2009 [H,I,J], it has been found that the       income generated from honey can be       up to one hundred times that gained from collection of wild plants with       edible or medicinal       properties [B,H,I,J].
It is sustainable, contributing to the       pollination of wild species of plants and       removes the incentives for local people to collect forest products.
Recent       monitoring shows that       conservation activities have been successful, with populations of Sichuan       Partridge and other       species on the rise [B,H,I,J].
LJMU research created better understanding of Chinese wildlife and         conservation locally in         Sichuan and within the UK     The Sichuan Forest Conservation Project is the main part of Chester Zoo's       China Conservation       Outreach Programme [C,D,E,H,I,J].
It was founded by Dowell, in       collaboration with the Sichuan       Forest Department to translate his ecological research on threatened birds       into conservation action       to prevent their extinction.
The project provides financial and technical       support to local       communities in the Liang Shan region of southern Sichuan for capacity       building and community       development in order to protect forest habitat for wildlife.
Dowell acts       as project coordinator and       provides the liaison between partners in China and Chester Zoo.
The       project has succeeded in       supporting four new nature reserves and their local communities in finding       sustainable alternatives       to activities that cause disturbance.
In addition, the research findings have contributed to activities       designed to raise public awareness       of the international importance of birds and other wildlife in the Liang       Shan region via promotional       leaflets, local campaigns and work with schools in the villages around the       nature reserves.
The       latter has been implemented since 2008 by the education department at the       Chengdu Base for       Giant Panda Breeding which is a partner in the project [C,D,H,I,J].
The work of the project, including the ecological research, has been       promoted by Chester Zoo on       their website, in their publications and at public lectures [C,D,G,H,I,J].
Some of the species       conserved in the wild are held by the zoo for successful captive breeding       [B,H,I,J].
In 2009 the       project was adopted by the World Association of Zoos and Aquaria and       featured on their website       as their `project of the month' in October of that year, further promoting       public awareness of this       conservation activity [F,H,J].
