     The LSTM's work on strategies to improve access to TB diagnosis and       treatment was driven by       our pro-poor and equity perspectives and our understanding of the barriers       that prevent       disenfranchised populations accessing healthcare services.
These research       programmes have       directly influenced policy and local TB control programmes practice.
Policy: Achieving policy change in TB healthcare at the       international level requires primary       research evidence, time and extensive engagement with researchers,       policymakers and funding       agencies.
Squire and Cuevas were invited to the WHO's       annual Strategic and Technical Advisory       Group (STAG-TB) meetings to discuss new evidence and give perspectives on       TB, SM, poverty       and access to services in 2009, 2010, 2011 2012 and 2013.
Cuevas       served as the Chair of the       Stop TB Partnership New Diagnostics Working Group on SM (2007-2011).
These       contributions       yielded numerous contributions to policy and practice.
Including the STOP       TB Departments       adoption of a new milestone within its End of TB strategy, `No families       should face catastrophic       health costs as a result of TB'.
As documented in the slides of the 65th       World Health Assembly in       May 2012, when Member States including Brazil, UK, Italy, Swaziland, Saudi       Arabia and others,       called upon the WHO to develop a new post-2015 TB strategy.a     As a member of the WHO Advisory Committee for TB and Poverty Squire       co-wrote the WHO       Options for National TB Control Programmes `Addressing the Poverty in TB       control' not previously       documented within WHO guidelines.b This document addresses the       integration of pro-poor       measures in TB control programmes and offers guidance for national TB       control programmes on       the practical issues involved such as engagement of close-to-community       providers.
The LSTM also       facilitated, through the work of the TB &amp; Poverty Subgroup of the Stop       TB Partnership the further       development and publication of the patient costing tool, c used       to estimate patients' costs to assess       the impact of TB on the welfare of households and individuals.
Squire       was the Secretary from       2007 to 2009.
The LSTM were commissioned as members of the core writing team of the       2011 normative guide       `Priorities in operational research to improve TB care and control',       jointly sponsored by the WHO,       Stop TB, and the Global Fund for AIDS, TB &amp; Malaria.
The opening       statement on the WHO       website refers to evidence from operational research projects paving the       way for ensuring many       more people have access to vital TB health services.
The LSTM research       findings are referenced       within the documented linking the LSTM operational research to recommended       practice.d       The WHO revised the SM definitions for smear-positive TB in 2007e,       recommending that the third       smear examination could be dropped, based on the evidence presented.
The       findings of LSTM       systematic reviews commissioned in 2010 by the WHO were sent to the expert       group who       considered available options.
Cuevas and Squire were       members of the expert groups convened       to examine the evidence.
The LSTM supported the group as most of the       relevant data came from       LSTM studies.
Cuevas attended the meeting in September 2009, where       the evidence was       discussed and then again at the STAG with Squire where the expert       committee report was       approved as policy.f The revised policy for same-day diagnosis       includes the revised definitions and       an accelerated method for collecting specimens as conducted in the LSTM       studies.
Although       implementation of policies takes time, several countries (for example,       Nigeria, Somalia and       Tanzania) and international organisations (for example, Doctors Without       Borders (Medicins Sans       Frontieres)) are already implementing this approach.
Although it is too       early to document impact at       the population level, the US Agency for International Development (USAID)       has funded the LSTM       (2010-present) to model the medium-to-long-term cost and/or health       benefits of these approaches.
Practice: The National TB Programme in Malawi is currently       engaging informal providers in       recognising disease and referring patients as part of national policy.
The       Nigerian National TB and       Leprosy Control programme is exploring whether the Global Fund could       provide financial support       to include Community-based approaches within its programme, a       statement can be provided from       the National Coordinator to corroborate Nigerian approaches.g       The Ethiopian Regional and       National Health services are expanding a Community-based approach from a       base of three million       to seven million population as a package of the regional and national       Health Extension       Programme.
Our work engaging community health workers has been described       as a `pathfinder for       TB' by the WHO.
Work in Ethiopia was highlighted on the WHO website in       2013, where the,       Executive Secretary of the Stop TB Partnership said: "To stop TB, we         must bring quality TB care to         poor and marginalized communities we can capitalize on two of the         world's greatest resources -         people and communities - to ensure that no one gets left behind.
I am         particularly pleased to see         that this project has served as a pathfinder, encouraging further         investment and scale up from the         Ethiopian government and the Global Fund".
h     The successes of these approaches have received international publicity,       and were promoted in       2013 by the WHO Stop TB Partnership as `leading the way'.
During the       United Nations General       Assembly in New York in 2013 the governments of the UK and USA hosted the       `Millennium       Development Goal Countdown 2013'.
For Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 6,       a single case       study was selected; the case study was the LSTM `TB REACH Ethiopia'       project on community       level health extension workers, which Theobald (LSTM) presented on       behalf of the Global fund, i       as case detection more than doubled in south Ethiopia in the 2 years after       the project was       implemented.
A figure illustrating this can be corroborated in reference.j
