     Impact from the research was primarily generated by working directly with       leading financiers and business leaders in two projects (the first leading       into the second), instigated by the Archbishop of Westminster and       president of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales,       Vincent Nichols.
The ethics of finance       The first project began in October 2009.
Cowley was involved by the       Archbishop in a private seminar of leading international financiers, viz.
the Chairmen of Barclays Bank, Lloyds TSB, Roundtable Investment Partners,       HSBC Holdings, the Treasury Select Committee, and Marshall Wace; the       Presidents of the CBI, PPF Partners Ltd, and Schroders; the CEO of Tudor       Capital UK, the Global Head of Healthcare JP Morgan, the Director of       Rothschild's, and senior representatives of McKinsey &amp; Co, Goldman       Sachs International, Deloitte, Schroders, Syntel, and Bain &amp; Co. Also       present were a former Chief of the Defence Staff, an Auxiliary Bishop in       Westminster, the Vice- President and Assistant General Secretary of the       Catholic Bishops' Conference, and Professor Stefano Zamagni, adviser to       the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace on the papal encyclical Caritas         in Veritate.
The meeting was convened to discuss the implications of Caritas in         Veritate, which seeks to place economic and financial activity in       the broadest context of human flourishing and fulfilment.
The encyclical       outlines a vision for how `integral human development' can be promoted       through economic development and the opportunities afforded by       technological change.
Cowley was consulted in the preparatory note that       raised questions for discussion, which drew heavily on her research into       the ethics of financial markets, in particular, her analyses of (i) the       relationship between the nature of derivatives, the use of risk assessment       models and remuneration packages, and (ii) the relationship between market       assumptions, the nature of the regulatory framework and the nature of       moral decision-making.
The purpose of the preparatory note and the       discussions that followed, in which Cowley participated fully, was to help       senior personnel to reflect on how these relationships operate and how       behaviours might be modified.
The financiers were very positive about the first seminar, and requested       a second seminar, convened in March 2010.
They identified the need for a       clear statement of their responsibilities as financial leaders and for a       more philosophical statement of the underlying issues.
Both were produced,       with Cowley's involvement.
The Assistant General Secretary of the Catholic       Bishops' Conference drafted a letter, in consultation with Cowley, which       was published in the Financial Times on 28 September 2010,       entitled `Financial leaders pledge excellence and integrity'.
It was       promoted by key participants from the seminars, and attracted significant       support from other City leaders who co-signed.
Archbishop Nichols comments       that Cowley's `detailed knowledge of both the Church's social teaching and       the financial economy enabled her to act as a vital interpreter.
She has       greatly helped to shape and focus the work we have done to ensure that it       is fully grounded in the reality of the market economy and the practical       decisions of business leaders.
At the same she has helped our secular       audience to understand and engage with the moral and ethical challenge of       CST [Catholic social teaching].'
The project was taken up by the Lord Mayor of the City, Nick Anstee, at a       conference at Mansion House on 4 October 2010, at which the Financial         Times letter was a focus for reference and discussion.
Archbishop       Nichols spoke at the conference, and his talk was informed by previous       discussion with Cowley.
The next Lord Mayor of the City, Michael Bear,       took the work forward in a project entitled `Trust and Values in the       City', leading to a symposium in July 2011, a further conference in       October 2011, a report on the conference, and the establishing of several       further initiatives, including the City Values Forum and the Integrity       Resources website.
The Financial Times letter and the conference       of October 2010 were identified as the origin of these development in a       press release from the City of London Corporation on 27 October (`City       institutions respond to demands for greater ethical accountability', note       1).
To further extend the reach of impact, Cowley also engaged extensively       with the media, including a 30-minute television interview for HARDTalk       broadcast on BBC News and BBC World News on 9 September 2009; The         Greed Imperative, a 30-minute programme written and presented by       Cowley and broadcast on Radio 4 on 23 May and 28 June 2010; a four-page       feature interview in the monthly journal Islamic Banker in       February 2010; and numerous appearances on Radio 4 and World Service panel       discussions on the ethics of finance, including flagship programmes such       as `Beyond Belief', `The Sunday Programme', `The Moral Maze', and `Front       Row'.
Blueprint for Better Business       The second project was initiated in 2012, when Cowley was involved in       wider discussions hosted by Archbishop Nichols, not confined to the       financial sector, but on the purpose of business.
These discussions       involved a working group that included senior representatives from       JPMorgan, KPMG, private equity firms, a former Permanent Secretary for       Tax, and Cowley.
This work led to an initiative called `Blueprint for       Better Business?
', with members of the working group becoming the `core       group' running the initiative.
The Archbishop comments that Cowley `plays       a key role as a member of the core group guiding this initiative'.
The aim       is to turn the insights of Catholic social teaching and the tradition of       virtue ethics into a body of knowledge that can be accessed by business       leaders in a practical way.
Cowley was involved in drafting and critiquing       all the documents produced in creating the initiative, including a 20-page       document `Better Business' prepared for the conference, a Framework of       Principles, and Archbishop Nichols's speech at the public launch.
This       work drew heavily on Cowley's research in the application of Catholic       social teaching to business ethics in the first half of her monograph.
She       continues to assist in drafting and refining documents, ensuring that they       both remain true to the tradition of Catholic social teaching and yet use       everyday language and provide clear and actionable principles that those       of all faiths and none can readily adopt.
The initiative was publicly launched at a conference on 18 September       2012, at which the CEOs of McKinseys, Vodafone, and Unilever addressed an       audience of 200 business executives, mostly from `the next generation' of       CEOs &#8212; those on leadership development programmes in the top 20- 30       companies internationally.
After the conference, a number of work streams       commenced, with funding raised and staff hired to co-ordinate.
Cowley       leads the group working with institutional investors.
The work has       included meetings with the CEO of Hermes Capital and other international       players on how investors can encourage companies to embrace the principles       outlined in the Framework as a practical way to enhance long term value,       influence the allocation of capital and encourage seeking both a financial       return and a return to society.
This was followed, in spring 2013, by work       with two of the largest asset managers in the world on how institutional       investors can bring about change by changing the metrics demanded from       fund managers.
The group also introduced an interfaith dimension to its       work by organising a meeting involving Chairmen and CEOs of different       faiths and Jewish, Muslim and Sikh theologians.
Cowley was also centrally involved in work with Unilever and another       large multinational to refine and shape a version of the Framework that       can be used within a business, e.g.
with employees, as well as a meeting       with 25 CEOs of the largest UK companies.
As of the end of July 2013, the Blueprint core group was in preparation       for two major events: a conference in October on `Business Success Through       Serving Society', with speakers to include, among others, the Archbishop       of Canterbury, the former CEO of Oxfam, the Director General of the CBI,       and business leaders from Unilever, Hermes, Blackrock, Credit Suisse,       Morrisons, KPMG, Barratt's, and a former Director of the Institute of       Fiscal Studies; and a `soft launch' of the Framework of Principles at       Davos in January 2014.
As the list of companies and executives with whom Cowley has worked       indicates, the reach of the impact of Cowley's research extends throughout       the international financial and business sector.
Its significance cannot       be exaggerated, as her work is at the vanguard of developments in business       ethics at a time when there is more interest and dynamism in this field       than ever before.
It is notable that her involvement has, throughout, been       at the request of research users, resulting in repeated engagements and       the development of long-term projects and relationships.
