     Understanding changing patterns of biodiversity and the ramifications       those changes have for economies, resource infrastructure, ecosystem       services, social development and human well-being is central to       environmental policy.
There is growing recognition that biological       diversity is a global asset of tremendous value to present and future       generations, and consequently the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD)       has been established as an international legal instrument for the       conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.
All bar six       nations are signatory to this convention.
Research undertaken at IOZ has       achieved significant impact through its unique contribution to the       development of environmental and biodiversity policy, particularly under       the auspices of the CBD, by developing the IUCN Red List and Living Planet       Index biodiversity indicators that enable better quantified and more       effective measures to be included in evaluations of biodiversity change [a].
The IUCN Red List Index and the Living Planet Index were adopted by the       CBD in 2005 to help measure progress towards the target of `reducing the       rate of biodiversity loss' by the year 2010 [b], and 193 nations       are signatory to this globally binding legislation.
IOZ research has had       direct impact in evaluating whether and how the biodiversity target was       met, linking science directly to global biodiversity policy, and in       informing countries about how national biodiversity is faring.
The       indicators developed by IOZ underpinned the main CBD report published in       2010, Global Biodiversity Outlook 3 [c], which evaluated whether       or not the 2010 target had been reached.
They also formed the basis of       subsequent publications such as the Global Environmental Outlook 5       (published by United Nations Environment Programme in 2012), of which       Collen is a co-author, and which has the specific aim of informing       environmental decision-making and facilitating the interaction between       science and policy [d].
Our collaborators at IUCN, through their press releases, reports and       updates of the IUCN Red List, and WWF International, through the biennial       publication of the Living Planet Report (e.g.
in 2008, 2010, 2012),       provide evidence of further impact and outreach by raising public       awareness of the on-going biodiversity crisis affecting the planet.
The       Living Planet Index forms a central part of the Living Planet report,       which is published biennially, translated into 13 languages, and has a       print run of 70,000 copies.
Free downloads of the PDF number in the       hundreds of thousands [e].
As a result of the expertise we have developed through the underpinning       research described above, and our collaborative work with IUCN and others,       we have been commissioned to undertake further work on biodiversity       indicators, with associated impact.
For example, the Arctic Council, a       high-level intergovernmental forum to promote cooperation, coordination       and interaction among the 10 Arctic nations for the protection of Arctic       wildlife, commissioned IOZ to evaluate trends in Arctic wildlife,       culminating in the Arctic biodiversity report produced by IOZ in 2008 in       collaboration with the Circumpolar Biodiversity Monitoring Program.
This       report used LPI data and methodology to assess trends in Arctic       biodiversity over a 34-year period, and was endorsed by Senior Officials       of the Arctic Council [f].
The abundance and extinction risk monitoring tools developed by IOZ       researchers are now being used by the UN Convention on Migratory Species       (CMS), an intergovernmental treaty that aims to conserve terrestrial,       aquatic and avian migratory species throughout their range.
Migratory       species threatened with extinction are listed on Appendix I of the       Convention.
CMS Parties strive towards strictly protecting these animals,       conserving or restoring the places where they live, mitigating obstacles       to migration and controlling other factors that might endanger them.
Our       tools are used to track trends in species listed on the CMS, a vital part       of their remit and key to measuring the success or otherwise of the policy       decisions taken under the CMS [g].
We have been centrally involved in the development of Red Lists at       national levels.
IOZ was involved in the 2009 workshop on the development       National Red Lists (held at ZSL), and developed the National Red List       website (the first centralised source of national-level biodiversity data,       launched in 2010 [h].
IOZ scientists have also worked with       countries around the world advising on the development of National Red       Lists (e.g.
Nepal 2011, Tajikistan 2010).
In Mongolia, National Red List       data feeds into a tool used for all Environmental Impact Assessments, and       the resulting website has been adopted by the Ministry of Environment and       Green Development [i].
National Red Lists have also been included       in the CBD Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological       Advice (SBSTTA) 17 draft recommendations [j].
