     Between 2008 and 2013, UCL's research into arsenic pollution of       groundwater has had significant       impacts on policy, practice and public health security in Bangladesh.
Specifically, it has guided the       development and refinement of policy on groundwater pumping in response to       the groundwater       arsenic crisis and underpinned practical approaches towards arsenic       mitigation and groundwater       monitoring; as a result, it has improved public health security across the       region.
Globally, the       research has contributed to the development by UNICEF of policies relating       to the investigation       and mitigation of arsenic contamination.
Key research findings were shared       widely with       stakeholders beyond academia, partly as a natural outcome of the       collaborative nature of the       research, to which Bangladesh government departments and NGOs contributed       through their       provision of access and data.
The reach of the impact was further extended       by UCL contributions       to national meetings and workshops in Bangladesh, including a workshop       titled Deep groundwater         in Bangladesh: UCL research in support of policy development in       January 2013 in Dhaka.
Supporting UNICEF policy and directives: UNICEF has been a leading       international provider       and facilitator of mitigating actions responding to the arsenic crisis in       Southeast Asia.
The       organisation has adopted UCL's explanation of the underlying processes and       causes of       groundwater arsenic in the Bengal Basin as the standard paradigm for       understanding arsenic       pollution in alluvial aquifers worldwide [A].
UCL research provided       fundamental support for       UNICEF's assessment of global health impacts of groundwater arsenic, which       underpinned its       development of policies and directives for its country offices, published       in 2008 [B].
By       demonstrating that the existing state of contamination in Bangladesh was       both predictable and       manageable, UCL research particularly facilitated UNICEF's proposals for       rational and effective       responses [A].
Significant projects supported by UNICEF since 2008, and       reflecting or responding       to those proposals, include the Bangladesh Government's Department of       Public Health       Engineering (DPHE) 15-year water supply and sanitation `Sector Development       Plan' [C], published       in 2011 by the DPHE Policy Support Unit (PSU).
The Sector Development Plan       describes national       strategy for the investment of approximately $20 billion in the water,       sanitation and health (WASH)       sector.
UNICEF Bangladesh's Water and Environmental Sanitation Specialist       stated: "Completely       outside academic circles, the UCL work, both directly, and indirectly by       shaping DPHE reports,       quite simply transformed the policy debate in Bangladesh and India, and       indeed beyond because it       guided my 2007/08 global predictive modelling for UNICEF" [A].
Guiding Bangladesh government policy development: The DPHE Policy       Support Unit leads the       development of government policy in the water supply and sanitation sector       in Bangladesh.
The       January 2013 Dhaka workshop on Deep groundwater in Bangladesh,       co-convened by UCL, Dhaka       University and the PSU, was attended by representatives of the DPHE, the       Bangladesh Water       Development Board (BWDB), the Bangladesh Agricultural Development       Corporation, the       Geological Survey of Bangladesh, the Water Resources Policy Organisation,       and the donor       (including UNICEF and WaterAid) and NGO communities [D].
It resulted in       the submission of an       advisory policy statement ('Deep Groundwater in Southern Bangladesh - a       vital source of water')       [E] to the PSU [D].
This statement promotes deep groundwater as a       long-term secure water source       to mitigate the effects of arsenic and salinity in southern Bangladesh,       and identifies seven points of       consensus around which policy should be framed.
According to the PSU       Director, the UCL       research has "made a highly regarded impact in helping the Government of       Bangladesh develop       its policy towards deep groundwater pumping and water quality protection"       [D].
Support for arsenic mitigation programmes: The DPHE is the       Bangladesh government       authority with principal responsibility for arsenic mitigation through       provision of safe water supplies,       and BRAC (formerly the Bangladesh Rural Advisory Committee) is the leading       NGO in the WASH       sector.
UCL research has been used by the Arsenic Management Division of       the DPHE to develop       deep groundwater pumping as a mitigation strategy [F], and informed deep       tubewell mitigation       provisions developed by BRAC [G].
Decisions on the optimum depth of       arsenic mitigation wells in       the DPHE 2011 Sector Development Plan [C] and the BRAC 2011 WASH Programme       II [H], have       been supported by the research on the spatial and depth-distribution of       the arsenic source, and the       hydraulic structure of the Bengal aquifer system [F, G].
Contributions to public health security: Deep groundwater in       Bangladesh is free of excessive       arsenic.
The implementation of deep groundwater pumping strategies by DPHE       and BRAC       between 2000 and 2013, to designs informed by UCL research [F, G], is       estimated to have       reduced arsenic exposure &#8212; thereby enhancing health, welfare and quality       of life &#8212; among a       combined total of some 10 million people across southern Bangladesh [F,       G].
The BRAC WASH       Programme alone involved the drilling of 3,966 deep tubewells between 2006       and 2011, targeting       8.5 million people, mostly living in rural areas [H].
Public health       security has also been protected by       the UCL research finding that arsenic pollution in Bangladesh is natural,       and not caused by       pumping for irrigation (reference [1] above).
This finding has helped       underpin the maintenance of       food-grain self sufficiency in the country from 1998 to the present day.
In 1998, there were       demands both within civil society and at ministerial level for a ban on       groundwater irrigation, then       thought to be the cause of arsenic pollution.
The UCL discovery catalysed       and informed public       debate about the issue, supporting counter-demands that ensured the       continuation of groundwater       irrigation.
The enduring impact of this reversal is affirmed by UNICEF       Bangladesh's Water and       Environmental Sanitation Specialist, who notes that "UCL research was       central to this process",       which has itself been "critical to maintaining food-grain self-sufficiency       in Bangladesh and a       substantial part of India" [A].
Influence on groundwater monitoring practice: The BWDB is the       Bangladesh government       authority with responsibility for monitoring the quality and quantity of       the groundwater resources       nationally.
McArthur's research findings on the rate of groundwater flux       at the arsenic source       regions (reference [4], above), and Burgess's research on the rate of       migration of arsenic towards       pumping wells (references [5] and [6] above), alerted BWDB [I] and UNICEF       [A] to the       requirements and timescales for groundwater monitoring.
The research       findings influenced the       BWDB's approach to groundwater monitoring, specifically regarding the       security of deep       groundwater, and informed their establishment in 2012 of a coastal       groundwater network of over       120 monitoring points [I].
BWDB continues to appraise the design of its       national deep groundwater       monitoring programme in the light of UCL research, most recently through       consultation at the       January 2013 Dhaka workshop.
That workshop, according to the BWDB Deputy       Director (Ground       Water Hydrology), "gave the opportunity for us to consider the       contributions of UCL research and       their implications for our approach towards groundwater monitoring.
Our       joint effort has been       guiding BWDB to plan and develop appropriate investigation and monitoring       technologies in order       to generate good quality hydrogeological data and information for the       sustainable use of limited       fresh and safe groundwater resource" [I].
