     New clinical intervention and impact on health outcomes       The research described here has led to the development of an entirely new       therapeutic approach to patients with severe obesity due to congenital       leptin deficiency.
This was a life threatening disorder which their       research demonstrated could be fully treated with injections of       recombinant human leptin which were safe and well tolerated.
Addenbrooke's       Hospital is internationally recognised for pioneering treatment of this       condition which has been provided to 22 patients worldwide on a named       patient basis since 1997.
Following treatment, patients undergo normal       progression though puberty, have a significant improvement in quality of       life and all adults are in full time education or employment (personal       testimonies; www.goos.org.uk).
Development of diagnostic tests and clinical guidelines for         investigation       O'Rahilly and Farooqi's demonstration in 2000 that pathogenic MC4R       mutations are found in up to 5-6% of children with severe obesity led to       the evaluation of MC4R sequence as a routine part of the diagnostic       evaluation of the severely obese child since 2006 (1).
The impact of this       pioneering Cambridge research and the replication of these findings by       groups worldwide, has led to the development of new genetic tests,       guidelines and policies established in the UK and in many European and US       healthcare systems and commercial laboratories (1-3; www.orpha.net/,       www.athenadiagnostics.com,       www.correlagen.com).
Diagnostic testing for the monogenic obesity syndromes became available       to Physicians in the UK and worldwide in 2007 through links between the       GOOS study and the NHS Clinical Genetics Service at Addenbrooke's       Hospital.
Several centres across Europe and North America have offered       testing for genetic obesity syndromes since 2010 (www.kumc.edu/gec/prof/labs.html,       www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/GeneTests/),       many of which were discovered in Cambridge.
These practical advances have       led to the development of international guidelines in relation to the       assessment of severe early onset obesity and University of Cambridge       researchers have played a leading role in many of these initiatives (1-3).
Public debate and attitudes       The stigma associated with obesity in domains of employment, health care       and education has been well documented, as has its impact on the quality       of life of obese individuals and their willingness to approach health care       professionals (Puhl and Heuer, Obesity 2009).
Evidence is emerging that       the comprehensive descriptions of the world's largest cohorts of patients       with MC4R and leptin receptor deficiency in high impact medical journals       have altered approaches and attitudes to severe obesity among medical       professionals (4. personal testimonies).
For example, in a recent study of       medical students, reading about the genetic basis of obesity significantly       reduced negative stereotyping of obese patients (Persky et al, Ann Behav       Med 2011).
Widespread stigma towards obese patients also negatively impacts on       public support for policies aimed at tackling obesity (4. personal       testimonies; www.goos.org.uk).
In       studies of interventions that might reduce weight bias in the general       public, a discussion of the multidimensional aetiology of obesity which       includes genetic/biological factors, has been associated with less       negative attitudes in several studies (reviewed in Sikorski et al.
BMC       Public Health 2011, 11:661).
This work has also formed the basis for       public engagement and debate on translational outcomes of genetics in       medicine, on the causes of obesity and on the role of the brain in the       regulation of appetite (5).
Social policy       Since 2000, identification of pathogenic mutations in 26 patients with       leptin receptor, MC4R, SIM1 and SH2B1 mutations by the Cambridge group has       prevented severely obese children from being taken away from their       families and placed into the care of social services, under the assumption       that a dysfunctional family environment was the cause of the child's       obesity.
This has major impact on the health and well-being of the       families involved (4. personal testimonies).
Training       Since 2009, Professor Farooqi, with the Society for Endocrinology, has       organised an annual symposium `Obesity Management for the         Endocrinologist', for specialty registrars and consultants with an       interest in the practicalities of obesity management (6).
Drug development       Advances in understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of severe       obesity, which have been ongoing since 1997, have informed drug       development with the realisation that targeting central pathways involved       in the regulation of appetite may have considerable benefit.
Current       collaborations with a number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies       including GSK, Merck, Pfizer, Takeda, Astra Zeneca and Rhythm       Pharmaceuticals are based on exploiting these observations for the       development of novel drugs for the treatment of obesity and other       disorders of weight regulation such as cachexia (CDAs and MTAs in place       2012; 7).
A novel melanocortin receptor agonist targeted specifically at       patients with MC4R deficiency is scheduled to enter Phase 2 studies in       2014, with Cambridge as the lead centre.
Awards and prizes based on this research and its impact       The achievements of Professor O'Rahilly and Professor Farooqi are       recognised nationally and internationally.
Prof O'Rahilly has received       numerous awards relating to this work, including the 2010       InBev-BailletLatour Health Prize (value, EURO 250000) for `his         pioneering research in the field of human obesity and its relationship         to type 2 diabetes.
He was the first person to show that a change in one         or two genetic factors may lead to serious forms of obesity and as a         result he succeeded in negating the accepted hypothesis that obesity is         mostly the result of individual behaviour' (ref 8).
He was       elected to Fellowship of the Royal Society in 2003, membership of EMBO in       2009 and became a Foreign Associate of the National         Academy of Sciences, USA in 2011.
He gave the 2011 Croonian Lecture       to the Royal College of Physicians, London.
Additional to be added in late       2013.
Professor Farooqi received the European Society for Clinical       Investigation Award for Excellence in Clinical Research in 2010, the       Society for Endocrinology Medal (2012) and the Graham Bull Prize of the       Royal College of Physicians in 2012 in recognition of this research.
She was elected to Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences in 2013.
