     In 1993, the health, development and climate consequences of household       energy in Lower and       Middle Income Countries (LMICs) were barely recognised outside a small       number of specialist       agencies.
The UoL's research has shown that HAP is the 4th most       important risk factor globally       leading to 4m premature deaths and 11m DALYs.
The research has been       significant in generating       international awareness and mobilising action.
The Liverpool WHO CC has       had a central advisory       role in many initiatives including the (i) United Nations Foundation       Global Alliance for Clean       Cookstoves (GACC) &#8212; a public-private partnership aiming to secure the       health, economic, climate       and related benefits of clean cooking, and (ii) the United Nations       initiative on Sustainable Energy       for All (SE4All).
Bruce co-chaired the GACC health working group which       informed the strategic       plan (Igniting Change, 2011 [8]), Bruce and Pope led an NIH-sponsored       workshop (May 2011)       informing GACC research agenda, and have consulted on research funding       allocation for GACC.
The work is influencing global household air pollution initiatives.
For       example, through secondment       with the WHO Public Health and Environment Department (PHE) from 2009 to       present, Bruce has       contributed to the UN SE4All strategy, including the recently published       tracking framework and       work to strengthen data collection on household energy use through       national surveys including the       Demographic and Health Survey.
He has also contributed to health impact       assessment from       climate change mitigation strategies through recently-established       collaboration between WHO and       the United Nations Environment Programme-led Climate and Clean Air       Coalition (CCAC) which is       focused on securing climate and health co-benefits of action on       short-lived climate pollutants and       which builds on UoL's modelling approach.
The Executive Director of UN       GACC, stated in 2013       that "the University of Liverpool research led by Professor Bruce has         spurred global efforts over the         past 15 years to quantify and communicate the health burden from         household air pollution,         particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America... it has certainly         helped gain commitment for         action at the highest levels and will support the development of the         clean cookstoves and fuels         markets" [10].
These actions are also leading to health       improvements, lower costs for poor       families and reducing carbon emissions.
Liverpool WHO CC systematic reviews provided estimates of risk for the       GBD-2010 study, and       intervention effect estimates for several important preventive strategies       and tools.
These include       (i) the Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia       &amp; Diarrhoea (GAPPD) &#8212; a       WHO/UNICEF initiative integrating evidence-based prevention and treatment       measures for the two       largest causes of death of children under 5 years, and (ii) the       Lives-Saved Tool which is used to       prioritise interventions for child and maternal survival and which the UoL       has been working on with       the Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG) since 2009.
Bruce       served as a key       adviser on HAP for both GAPPD and CHERG, and recently served on the expert       committee       advising the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation on financing strategy for       supporting work on HAP       and child pneumonia.
The Director of Maternal and Child Health and       Development at WHO       Geneva, stated in 2013 that "UoL-led research has been instrumental in         developing the         environmental component of our integrated strategy for the prevention         and control of pneumonia,         which remains the single largest global cause of under-5 mortality"       [11].
Bruce was a WHO steering group member of WHO's indoor air quality       guidelines in 2010 [13].
The       Liverpool WHO CC is coordinating new WHO Guidelines on indoor air quality,       designed specifically       to address the scientific and implementation issues for household fuel       combustion with a focus on       LMICs.
They are in an advanced state of development (publication expected       early 2014).
Bruce,       Pope, Stanistreet and Dherani are on the expert Guidelines Development       Group (GDG).
The GDG       is responsible for defining the guidelines scope, evidence review       including methodological quality,       and drafting recommendations.
The guidelines incorporate much of the UoL's       systematic review       and primary research (including RESPIRE).
The Director of the Department       of Public Health and       Environment, WHO stated in 2013 "The University of Liverpool research         led by Professor Bruce         has, over a number of years, made an important and influential         contribution to WHO strategy on         energy, air pollution health and climate.
This evidence, together with         direct technical inputs from         the Liverpool University team, have provided much of the core evidence         base for new indoor air         quality guidelines for household fuel combustion, reports and other         collaborative work which is         supporting WHO's contribution to implementing effective policy for this         issue."
[12] These new       WHO guidelines will be used by governments and other implementing agencies       to develop policy,       standards and regulation affecting the lives and health of almost 3       billion people, and make an       important contribution to preventing up to 4 million premature deaths       annually.
