     BOADICEA: Breast and Ovarian Analysis of Disease Incidence and Carrier       Estimation Algorithm (1) is a risk model for familial breast and ovarian       cancer, which computes BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carrier probabilities and       age specific risks for breast and ovarian cancer.
This model was developed       by Antonis and Easton, (Department of Public Health and Primary Care at       Cambridge) as a direct result of Ponder's work on the relationship between       BRCA1/2 and breast cancer susceptibility, and made use of the large data       sets of epidemiological data developed by Ponder.
BOADICEA models the       simultaneous effects of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations.
BOADICEA was adopted by       NICE in 2006 (CG41; 2) and incorporated into subsequent guidance in June       2013 (3).
Beneficiaries: The beneficiaries of BOADICEA are: 1) healthcare       providers, notably organisers of breast cancer screening programmes (e.g.,       the NHS in the UK); 2) clinicians and genetic counsellors; 3) family       members of women with breast cancer or otherwise at high risk of the       disease; 4) the general public; 5) research scientists for planning       screening or intervention trials and for designing research studies.
Indicators of extent of impact: The web-interface of BOADICEA has       been available since November 2007 and currently has more than 1,500       registered users.
These include not only clinical geneticists and genetic       counsellors but researchers and users from the insurance sector       (anonymised ethical data).
Users are located in the UK, elsewhere in       Europe, North America, Australia, and several other countries.
Recent       monitoring of the web servers revealed an average of 50 concurrent users       at any given time.
Clinics in North America and Australia recommend       BOADICEA as part of their guidelines and oncology programmes (4, 5).
Nature of impacts: BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation screening is expensive       and is also associated with adverse psychosocial effects.
Hence, it is       crucial that genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2 is targeted at       individuals most likely to be carriers, particularly in the context of the       National Health Service (NHS) and other publicly funded health care       systems.
Use of BOADICEA has had several inter-related impacts in this       regard:     (1) To identify women eligible for screening by magnetic resonance           imaging (MRI)     Under the guidelines adopted by the UK National Institutes of Health and       Clinical Excellence (NICE), women at moderate or high risk of developing       breast cancer are offered mammographic screening from age 40, and a subset       of high risk women, including BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers should be       offered screening by MRI.
MRI screening is more sensitive than mammography       but is approximately ten-fold more expensive.
BOADICEA was adopted by NICE       (2, 3) from 2006 as a risk prediction algorithm for classifying women at       risk of familial cancer into three risk categories: women at or near       population risk, raised risk, or high risk and remains the tool of choice       to date.
Since 2006, women predicted to be at raised or high risk by       BOADICEA have been offered annual mammographic surveillance from age 40,       compared to age 50 under the standard NHS screening programme.
Women at       high risk are offered MRI screening.
As an ancillary impact in the same       vein, BOADICEA has also been used to determine eligibility for entry into       the MARIBS screening trial evaluating the efficacy of x-ray mammography       and MRI (6).
Other guidelines also include BOADICEA data (7)     (2) To refer women for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation screening     Predictions obtained by BOADICEA are used by geneticists to refer       individuals for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation screening (usually a combined       mutation carrier prediction of over 20%).
(3) To guide prophylactic surgery and chemoprevention options for           women at high risk     The cancer risk predictions of BOADICEA are being used to guide       prophylactic surgery and chemoprevention options for women at high risk.
As noted above, BOADICEA is one of the risk prediction algorithms       recommended in the UK and other countries (e.g.
American Cancer Society       and Ontario Breast Screening program incorporated in guidelines since       2011) for determining eligibility for high risk screening (8, 9, 10).
(4) To counsel women carrying BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations     BRCA1 and BRCA2 cancer risk estimates obtained from the studies in the       list of references provided above and based on BOADICEA are being used to       counsel women carrying such mutations.
These estimates have also been       widely used by various support groups such as FORCE for providing       information to individuals at risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer       (http://www.facingourrisk.org/).
Process of dissemination:     BOADICEA is well established internationally as indicated above.
A recent       high impact review noted: "BOADICEA also provided the best         discrimination between mutation carriers and non-carriers" (11)     A web-based user-friendly interface was developed for BOADICEA       (http://www.srl.cam.ac.uk/genepi/boadicea/boadicea_home.html)       allows users to obtain rapid estimates of BRCA1 and BRCA2 carrier       probabilities and risks of developing breast or ovarian cancer.
