     Direct impact on patient management     The MRC high-risk PT-1 study (NEJM 2005) remains the world's largest       randomised study of any       MPN, defined first line therapy for patients with essential       thrombocythemia and has been widely       acknowledged as having had a major influence on the management of ET       patients around the       world (e.g.
refs 1-4).
Prior to the PT-1 trial, only a single much smaller       randomised study of       patients with ET had been reported, and this compared hydroxyurea with no       cyto-reductive       therapy.
The approval of anagrelide by the FDA was having a major effect       on prescribing patterns,       with many clinicians using it as first line therapy despite the absence of       randomised trial data.
Publication of the results of the PT-1 trial firmly established       hydroxyurea plus aspirin as first line       therapy for patients with ET and a high risk of thrombosis (refs 1-6).
The       trial also demonstrated       that anagrelide was less effective at reducing thrombosis than       hydroxyurea, and was much less       well tolerated, with twice as many patients withdrawing from treatment       because of side effects.
Importantly the PT-1 results showed that anagrelide increases the risk of       myelofibrotic       transformation and so, when anagrelide is used as a second-line agent, it       is now recognised that       patients need regular bone marrow trephine biopsies to look for the       development of myelofibrosis.
This trial defined hydroxyurea and aspirin as first line therapy, an       outcome that is estimated to       have saved the NHS over &#163;22M per year in drug costs (based on cost of       Anagrelide and       hydroxyurea in 2005) and has influenced management of ET worldwide.
The       central role of the PT-       1 study in defining current first-line therapy is described in multiple       reviews (refs 1-4) and its       findings were embedded in current national and international guidelines       (e.g.
refs 5 and 6) in 2010       and 2011, that remain current.
Impact on classification and diagnosis     Essential thrombocythemia has long been recognised to be a heterogeneous       entity which overlaps       with other MPNs, particularly polycythemia vera (PV) and primary       myelofibrosis, but the       demarcation between these various disorders was unclear.
This led to       difficulties in classifying       individual patients and in determining optimum therapy.
The banking of       samples from the       beginning of the PT-1 trial in 1997 combined with the collection of       comprehensive prospective       clinical data, generated a unique resource for studying the       classification, diagnosis and       pathogenesis of ET.
Multiple studies by University of Cambridge       researchers have utilised this       resource over the past seven years, and the insights thus gained have       altered the way ET is       classified and how it is distinguished from other MPNs.
Particular       highlights with practical impact       include: (i) the demonstration that JAK2 mutation status (now a routine       diagnostic test; for       example of usage see ref 7) identifies two distinct subtypes of ET with       JAK2 mutation-positive       patients resembling a forme fruste of PV - the realisation that       JAK2-mutant ET forms a phenotypic       spectrum with PV has led to simpler diagnostic algorithms that are       embedded in guidelines (e.g.
refs 5 and 6); (ii) the results of the PT1 trial also led to the concept       that primary myelofibrosis in       fact represents patients presenting in accelerated phase of an occult       undiagnosed MPN; (iii) the       demonstration that the WHO category "prefibrotic myelofibrosis" is not       clearly distinguished from       ET and may not exist as a distinct entity has resulted in a reduced       requirement for bone marrow       trephine histology in the BCSH diagnostic guidelines (ref 5); (iv) the       demonstration that LDH levels       are not useful in distinguishing ET from primary myelofibrosis; (v) the       demonstration that reticulin       levels provide an important prognostic marker in ET.
