     Research by Cox and collaborators has led to i) innovative therapy for       glycosphingolipidoses now approved for Gaucher's disease and Niemann-Pick       type C disease, UK/worldwide, ii) further adoption of this strategy in       Phase 3 clinical trials iii) development of novel monitoring and       diagnostic tests for managing Gaucher's disease &#8212; adopted by the NHS and       international clinical trials.
Impact on health and welfare       New clinical interventions: After Cox's paper in the Lancet (2000)       on the efficacy of miglustat in adults with Gaucher's disease, with a       2-year extension phase, Oxford Glycosciences gained approval as (Zavesca&#174;)       in 2002 and 2003 from the EMA and FDA for Gaucher Disease; the drug was       acquired by Actelion in 2005.
The suggestion by Cox (Lancet 2000), that       the therapy warranted exploration in other glycosphingolipid disorders,       prompted trials by Actelion (2002-2008; NCT00517153) in Niemann Pick type       C disease; ultimately leading to approval of miglustat (in the UK/ world)       for both conditions [1, 2].
Cox has also led post-marketing studies into       the efficacy of miglustat for disease maintenance in Gaucher disease [3].
Cox is currently lead investigator of the multinational Phase 3 "ENCORE"       trial (sponsored by Genzyme) for the compound eliglustat with the same       therapeutic target in Gaucher disease (NST00943111); early results (9th       Annual Lysosomal Disease Network WORLD Symposium in Orlando, Florida       February 2013), show that this study has met its primary efficacy endpoint       [4].
Novel diagnostics: After showing that high concentrations of       CCL18/PARC in Gaucher disease decreased after treatment; this biomarker       was incorporated into NHS's Standard Operating Procedures (2007 updated       2012) for determining disease severity and treatment success [5] The       chemokine is now in widespread use and is a primary outcome in therapeutic       trials where it is used as a response marker and to compare competing       preparations e.g.
velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase (for example see ref       6)       Impact on society, culture, creativity       Public understanding and debate: Professor Cox has been actively       engaged in raising awareness of lysosomal disorders amongst both the       general public and patient groups and their families so that they may       better understand the aetiology and management of these disorders.
He made       a presentation interview with The Naked Scientists (BBC radio programme;       19th April 2011), regarding gene therapy for lysosomal diseases attracted       approximately 55,000 downloads worldwide with an equivalent audience       estimated for the live radio show (The Naked Scientists, personal       communication; Ref 7).
Cox frequently communicates with charitable patient       organizations to apprise them of advancements in the field.
He hosted a       WebEx (20th May 2013) for the UK Gaucher Association.
On 14th       October 2012 delivered the 17th McFadzean Oration at the Hong Kong College       of Physicians on the funding of treatment for rare disorders such as       Gaucher disease was delivered to a multi-faculty audience of practitioners       during the principal training days of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine.
In 2011 he helped start the UK Cure Tay-Sachs Foundation (Patron) and       interacts with the National Tay-Sachs and Allied diseases Foundation,       Boston USA through the Tay-Sachs Gene Therapy (TSGT) Consortium, which was       founded on the discoveries of the Cox group in gene transfer.
Impact on commerce       New product development and business performance: Firstly,       publication of the Lancet (2000) article (ref 2, section 3) and marketing       of Zavesca&#174; by Oxford Glycosciences reduced the stock value of Genzyme       corporation which had the exclusive market for Cerezyme, the enzyme       therapy for Gaucher disease [8].
This drove Genzyme to forge an academic       partnership to develop other orally active UDP-glucosylceramide synthase       inhibitor molecules &#8212; thus generating the licensed eligustat tartrate       programme with late-phase 3 clinical trials in Gaucher disease.
Secondly,       approval of the drug miglustat, facilitated for Oxford GlycoSciences by       the research of Cox, Lachmann (Clinical Research Fellow) in Cambridge and       FM Platt and T Butters (cell biologist and biochemist in Oxford) and       colleagues has brought substantial revenue; the Actelion website citing       sales figures of approximately CHF20m (Swiss franc) per quarter since 2012       [9].
Thirdly, the assay for CCL18/PARC, mentioned above, based on ELISA,       sold by R&amp;D systems (product DY394; &#163;450 per kit) whose website cites       Cox TM et al.
as evidence for use as a biomarker of Gaucher       disease.
Academic consultancy: Beyond senior academic and clinical roles Cox       is specialist advisor to several organisations (including: charities       (Gaucher Association.
Cure Tay-Sachs, Tay-Sachs Gene Therapy Consortium       and pharmaceutical companies (trial design, regulatory issues).
He is a       member of the Scientific (Rare diseases) Board of Genzyme-Sanofi (2013-)       and has advised EMA (marketing approval and trial design for aldurazyme       (for MPS1), Replagal (for Fabry disease), miglustat and velaglucerase       alpha (Gaucher disease) &#8212; and on Clinical use of Biomarkers workshop of       the Food &amp; Drug administration, Washington DC (2011) Through       membership of the TSGT consortium he advised the US Food and Drug       Administration on the design of a Clinical trial of Gene Therapy.
Cox is       chairman of the Scientific Advisory board of the Niemann-Pick Research       Foundation.
Impact on practitioners and services       Professional standards and guidelines: Cox's research has directly       introduced miglustat as second-line therapy in adults with Type 1 Gaucher       disease, for whom enzyme replacement therapy is not suitable.
His research       into biomarkers has directly led to the incorporation of the CCL18/PARC       diagnostic test into the NHS SOP for management of this disorder, as above       [5].
Miglustat is the first and only licensed therapy for children and       adults with Niemann-Pick disease type C [1].
Professional training: Cox's paper entitled "Gaucher disease:       clinical features and natural history" (1997) continues to have impact on       healthcare practitioners in their understanding of the disease.
The paper       is currently cited on the Gaucher Care website as a source of information       to aid healthcare professionals in making a diagnosis [10].Professor Cox       has frequently lectured at training courses for metabolic clinicians in       the University of Mainz from 2006, and from 1996 the biennial European       Working Group for the Study of Lysosomal diseases (ESGLD) as well as the       Gaucher leadership forum (2008-) - all targeted to healthcare       professionals looking to develop improved management protocols and       innovative therapies.
Professor Cox is joint Editor (2003-) of the       three-volume Oxford Textbook of Medicine, 5th edition OUP       (2010) - the most comprehensive work of its kind with international sales       ~10,000.
Professional Services; In 1997 Professor Cox founded the first       National Gaucher service at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge (now the       Lysosomal Disorders Unit [11]), paving the way for a further seven       National Centres by 2005.
The Unit continues to provide a unique service       of clinical management and support that is essential for patients with       these disorders, and for their families.
