     `Rheumatic' types of shoulder pain, including CFS, cause more GP       consultations than any other musculoskeletal condition except spinal pain;A       and in a primary care physiotherapy setting, May (2003) reported a       prevalence of 11-14%.B The commonness of such pain is matched       by its potential severity.
CFS is extremely debilitating and typically       associated with disturbed sleep (often the reason for consultation), as       well as daytime pain and major functional deficits.C Despite       conventional wisdom that the condition is self-limiting in 1 to 3 years, a       recent study of patients referred to tertiary care found that over a third       had persistent mild symptoms, usually pain, at 4.4 years (range 2-20       years).D     Development of guidelines     Meeting the challenge of this condition will require evidence-based       interventions, so it is crucial that evidence is presented in a form       accessible to clinicians.
We have developed physiotherapy guidelines         for the diagnosis, assessment and management of CFS.
The Guidelines       Development Group (GDG) included strong representation of clinicians from       across the spectrum of care settings, and this ensured clinical         relevance and usability.
In addition, we engaged our diverse target       audience as expert panellists in the development process, which used the       Delphi approach to reach consensus.
This early, formative engagement of       stakeholders is a vital improvement on the norm in guidelines development.
Engagement of the guidelines' target users was secured throughout, by       means of two separate panels.
The first was a `Delphi panel' in which       orthopaedists, rheumatologists, general practitioners and managers were       represented, as well as service users.
The latter were included because we       intended that the guidelines should be accessible to patients, and       incorporated identifiable lay sections for this purpose.
The Delphi panel       advised on the guidelines' direction at an early stage in the development       process.
On completion, the submitted document underwent external review       by a second panel of independent experts, commissioned by the CSP, using       the validated AGREE instrument, available at http://www.agreetrust.org/resource-centre/the-original-agree-instrument/     Dissemination and impact of the guidelines     These have been endorsed by the CSP on the basis of extensive expert peer       review, targeting physiotherapists and other health care professionals.
They were advertised in January 2011 in the CSP's e-news bulletin and Physiotherapy         Frontline, the CSP news magazine.
An independently peer-reviewed       quick-reference summaryE facilitated implementation and       enhanced interest in the full-text, online version.
There have been &gt;       18,000 downloads from our research repository, with c.12,000 of these in       the UK (TeesRep data).1 Considering that chartered       physiotherapists and students number fewer than 50,000 (this figure       includes physiotherapy assistants), and assuming that half of qualified       physiotherapists do not treat frozen shoulders, this spread is impressive,       and suggests that the guidelines are considered a valuable resource.
Large       numbers of downloads have also been made in the Australia, Canada, Egypt,       Germany, India, Ireland, the Netherlands, the USA and other countries.1     We evaluated 366 CSP members' implementation of the guidelines 12-18         months post- publication.2 The median       recommendation-practice correspondence was 66%, reflecting some validation       of existing practice and some change of practice into line with our       recommendations.
Change was especially evident among some       diagnosis-assessment recommendations.
Thus 75% of responders said they       used passive external rotation as the primary diagnostic test, and in a       quarter of these this represented change.
Our novel       pain-predominant/stiffness-predominant classification had been adopted by       66% and, crucially, 88% of those who had discussed this with their       patients said that they too found the terminology meaningful.
Change in       response to the other diagnosis-assessment recommendations and to the       treatment recommendations was smaller, but evident.
The extent to which       our recommendations for research have been acted upon will become clear       from future research reports of interventions.
A key issue concerns       whether researchers will better characterise the stage of the condition.
Their uptake of the `pain-predominant' and `stiffness- predominant'       classifications would simplify interpretation of research and aid       translation into practice.
It is too early to judge the success of this       element, as implementation requires the criteria to be built into project       design, but awareness is developing among researchers.3,4     Background references (citations in superscript capitals)     A. McCormick A, Fleming D, Charlton J (1996).
OPCS RD.
Morbidity       statistics from general practice.
Fourth national study 1991-92.
London,       HMSO, 55.
B.
May S (2003).
An outcome audit for musculoskeletal patients in primary       care.
Physiotherapy Theory Pract, 19, 189-98.
C. Jones S, Hanchard N, Hamilton S, Rangan A.
(2013) A qualitative study       of patients' perceptions and priorities when living with primary frozen       shoulder, BMJ Open, e003452, doi: 101136/bmjopen-2013-003452     D. Hand C, Clipsham K, Rees JL, Carr AJ.
(2008) Long-term outcome of       frozen shoulder.
J Shoulder Elbow Surg, 17, 231-6.
E. Hanchard NCA, Goodchild L, Thompson J, O'Brien T, Davison D,       Richardson C. (2012) Evidence-based clinical guidelines for the diagnosis,       assessment and physiotherapy management of contracted (frozen) shoulder:       Quick reference summary.
Physiotherapy, 98, 118-121.
