     The transformation of the literary field is difficult to demonstrate.
But       the reception of Sutherland's work has been singularly full of variations       on and emphatic repetitions of the claim that he has transformed literary       culture.
Steven Critelli writes `I know of no contemporary poet in the US       (or the world) who has attempted to portray our cultural plight in so       comprehensive and symphonic a style of writing.
...
Yes, by this I mean to       put Sutherland in the class of Eliot, Joyce, Pound, Bellow.
...
The         Odes to TL61P is "a leap forward that can only be compared to the       way T.S.
Eliot's poetry must have struck the eyes and ears of readers       weaned on the Romantics and Victorians"' [see Section 5, C1].
John       Wilkinson claims Hot White Andy (1st ed.
2007, 2nd       and 3rd eds.
2009) is `the most remarkable poem in English       published this century' [C2].
These are indications of esteem but also of       impact: there is a virtual consensus among critics and reviewers that       Sutherland's work has transformed poetry culture and inspired a       proliferation of previously unimaginable new experiments in form and       argument.
Sutherland's impact is especially significant on practicing poets.
The       poet Kent Johnson singled him out as the leading poet of the `New British       School', describing his influence as reinvigorating literary culture in       the UK [C3].
Sutherland's work has influenced the writing and performance       practice of both emerging and established poets, including Justin Katko,       Josh Stanley, Marianne Morris, Simon Jarvis, J.H.
Prynne.
This has       prompted The New Statesman to joke that he `commands an army of       acolytes' [C4].
A survey presented in the introduction to the anthology of       young British poets, Better than Language (2011), found that the       majority of younger poets represented in the anthology claim that       Sutherland has been the most significant influence on their work [C5].
Sutherland's impact also extends both beyond the academy and the       professional poetic environment to impact on the poetry-reading public.
David Wheatley in The Guardian cited Sutherland's `high-voltage       postmodernism', next to Carol Ann Duffy and Geoffrey Hill, as a       development that defines `the public life of poetry today' [C6].
The         White Review credits Sutherland with prompting `a major       reconsideration of the field of contemporary poetry in Britain today'       [C7].
Sutherland was one of two poets singled out by Giles Foden as the       most promising of the decade so far in The Guardian &#8212; `Noughties       so far: the book' (Wednesday 2 January 2008).
Sutherland's books of poetry       sold 3,578 copies from 2008 to July 2013, in a market where `most       single-author collections published by the independent and commercial       sectors today sell fewer than a thousand' (Arts Council report Mapping         Contemporary Poetry 2010), and his work has been frequently       anthologised, most recently in Dear World and Everyone In It       (Bloodaxe 2013).
Translations of his poetry have appeared in Chinese,       Czech, Dutch, French, German and Greek.
His work is the subject of       numerous discussions and blogs online across the world [C8].
Significant,       too, have been the performances of his poetry &#8212; readings which themselves       contribute to the public appreciation and understanding of his work.
A       performance of Hot White Andy had been viewed on YouTube by 10,818       people by July 2013, and all his readings online attract around 1,000       viewers within weeks of being uploaded.
He has been invited to read at       numerous literary festivals and universities, including the most popular       festival in the UK &#8212; StAnza &#8212; and the Paris Poetry Biennale, where he       represented the UK two years running.
He has given reading tours with his       translators in Germany, Finland and the Czech Republic.
Sutherland's poetry has affected the curricula of universities.
It is       taught at many universities in the US and the UK (e.g.
Berkeley, Chicago,       Sheffield, Cambridge, and London).
A draft of The Odes to TL61P       was the subject of the prize-winning undergraduate dissertation in English       at the University of Chicago in 2012.
In 2008, the examiner's report for       the Cambridge Tripos paper `Literature post- 1970' stated that the two       authors on whose work the greatest number of essays had been written by       students in their final exams were Salman Rushdie (prose) and Keston       Sutherland (poetry).
It has also had an impact on the experimental poetry scene: Sutherland is       the editor of Barque Press and has published more than 40 books of       poetry, helping to bring into existence a new culture of poetic experiment       and dialogue.
Since joining Sussex he has brought more than 100 poets to       read on campus and at Brighton's Nightingale Theatre.
Consequently, Sussex       is now recognised as a thriving centre for cutting-edge poetry.
BBC Radio       4's `Today' programme singled out Sutherland and Sussex in `A guide to the       artistic underground' in 2008 as the most exciting `scene' for       experimental poetry in the UK [C9].
