     Recent years have seen a growing public engagement with slavery on both       sides of the Atlantic.
The subject is one of the compulsory history topics       in the UK National Curriculum, provides the focus of numerous museum       exhibitions and has stimulated a new interest in heritage tourism.
This       engagement with the history of slavery demonstrates an on-going search for       social justice on the issue of race.
Follett's research informs the teaching of slavery in schools and       universities.
In 2009, Teachinghistory.org &#8212; a high-traffic education       website produced by George Mason University and the US Department of       Education and providing teaching material for high-school and university       instructors &#8212; produced a downloadable video on Follett's research.
The       video focused on teaching methods and how to interpret different       narratives of slavery.
It was included as one of the `examples of       historical thinking' and is designed to assist educators with best       practice in using primary sources [see Section 5, C1].
The film has been       widely accessed on the Teachinghistory website and digital       classroom.
According to Google Analytics, the video has had 6,468 page       views since launching in October 2009 and 2,692 unique page views.
It is       also available in episodic form on YouTube, where it has attracted 886       views [C2].
In addition to high schools, Follett's scholarship is employed       widely in teaching at HEIs.
The Sugar Masters is a core text for       courses taught on both sides of the Atlantic.
In the US, this includes       Auburn, Brown, Elon, Georgetown, Louisiana, Louisiana State, Mississippi       State, New York, Rutgers, Shippensburg, Southern Mississippi and Tulane.
UK institutions include East Anglia, Portsmouth, Warwick and New York       University, London.
Beyond classroom use, Sugar, Slavery and Society       serves as an important resource for a public increasingly engaged with       family history, and the Race and Labour digital research project is       publicly accessible on the web for use by genealogists and public       historians.
One user exclaimed: `Found ancestral papers and learned so       much about family history previously undisclosed...Thank you &#8212; you have       inspired me' [C2].
Follett's research has also contributed to the cultural heritage of       slavery and to promoting public education in the Louisiana tourist       industry.
His book The Sugar Masters bridges the divide between       scholarship and public knowledge.
It won numerous awards, including the       Louisiana Literary Award for the most outstanding contribution by a book       in any genre to public understanding of the state.
Louisiana Cultural         Vistas, the primary arts and culture periodical in the state with       over 50,000 readers, republished and fully illustrated part of the book       [C3].
Follett's scholarship has also been publicly disseminated through       popular publications such as BBC History Magazine [C4] and online       resources, including the Louisiana state encyclopaedia [C5].
The Sugar         Masters is also available for purchase at tourist sites across       Louisiana, including many of the plantation houses discussed within it.
This includes the Evergreen, Laura and St Joseph's plantations, the Rural       Life Museum and the West Baton Rouge Museum.
The reach of the book beyond       an academic readership has contributed to the sale of 2,400 copies since       2008.
The Sugar Masters informs the intellectual content of       plantation and museum tours and is promoted to visitors interested in       furthering their knowledge of state history.
At the West Baton Rouge       Museum, for example, the book is integral to training tour guides in the       interpretation of historical artefacts to the public.
According to museum       education curator Jeannie Luckett, `The book is a perfect complement to       the tour and interpretive programming' [C6].
Follett's research is used by       organisations including the New Orleans Research Collaborative and the       Southern Foodways Alliance to promote public interest in Louisiana's       distinctive culinary traditions [C7] and even to provide historical       context for visitors planning motorhome tours of the state [C8].
Follett's public lectures on slavery and emancipation further promote       broader understanding of often-controversial aspects of history.
In the       US, this included addresses at public symposia in Louisiana in 2011 and       2013.
According to an attendee at the second event, Follett's lecture       demonstrated the importance of studying the past as a means to inform       contemporary public debate about race: `Absolutely!
Makes one realize that       we need to look at the past to learn better ways forward' [C9].
In the UK,       Follett gave the Marcus Cunliffe Lecture at Sussex, a public event that       resulted in the publication of Slavery's Ghost (2011), a cutting       edge but accessible book co-authored with two of the most distinguished       American historians, Eric Foner and Walter Johnson [see Section 3, R1].
Slavery remains a troubling aspect of the past that Follett's research       has, through collaboration with non-academic partners, helped to preserve,       explain and underline its enduring relevance.
