     In addition to the research publications cited above, dissemination of       research included:            June 2008, `Metaphor and Metonymy in Bond's plays', a practical         workshop.
November 2012, a paper on `Bondian Accident Time' presented at the         University of         Warwick Symposium `Bond@50'.
January 2013, a practical workshop on `The Edge' by Edward Bond, which         was toured by         Big Brum in 2012/13.
To assess impact, a range of audiences were invited to comment on how       useful they had found the       research and to what extent the research had impacted their practice.
A       combination of       questionnaire and focus group methods were used to assess impact with the       data being       scrutinized using both qualitative and quantitative techniques.
All four Members of Big Brum, who are active in working with communities       in acting and teaching       roles, completed an open ended questionnaire.
The artistic director (who       also undertakes freelance       director, trainer, workshop leader, and consultancy work in a variety of       countries), and schools       workshop leader (responsible for the theoretical and practical development       of the Company's       work), participated in a follow-up focus group discussion.
The participants agreed that Dr Katafiasz's workshop had helped them       understand Bondian drama,       which had a direct impact on their rehearsal preparation.
From a       directorial perspective, Dr       Katafiasz's research added theoretical depth on the dramatic-enactive       moment and this new       thinking now underlies and informs how parts of the plays are approached       and interpreted.
The       director said that he used what he had learnt about the `underlying       mechanics' of metaphor and       metonymy to grasp how objects are viewed by an audience, and understand       more about the       structure of plays he later directed.
Participants further commented that       the research addresses       questions which ordinarily create challenges for those involved with       creating a meaningful       theatrical experience.
Dr Katafiasz's research is therefore a useful tool       for actors who wish to       engage with Bond's plays.
The workshop had also highlighted useful       connections between theatre       and education, for use in schools workshops.
In terms of changed practice, the participants explained that an entire       production (Frankenstein,       2011) had been defined around the concept of identity, and this could not       have been achieved       without a thorough grounding and understanding of Bondian concepts such as       Accident Time, the       Drama Event, and the Invisible Object provided by Dr Katafiasz.
The       company are especially keen       to work with Dr Katafiasz because her research focuses particularly upon       the plays which Bond       has written specifically for Big Brum, as part of their sixteen year       collaboration.
Other academics       have tended to focus on work from twenty-five years ago, or longer.
They       believe that by working       together, they are breaking new ground.
As a result of their collaboration       with Dr Katafiasz, the       Company has developed a unique approach to Bond's work, which will       undoubtedly have had an       effect on the audiences across the world that has seen their work.
Participants of Dr Katafiasz's workshop on `The Edge' by Edward Bond,       were invited to common the value of the session through the medium of an       open-ended questionnaire (n=35).
Participants were drama lecturers, drama education students and members of       a community theatre       group.
The workshop introduced semiotic theory as a useful approach to       understanding the three       dimensions of dramatic texts in general, and Bond's plays in particular.
When asked "Would you       say the workshop has developed your understanding of drama in any way?"
100% agreed.
57%       indicated that the session had raised their awareness of semiotics and       convinced them of the       application and validity of semiotic analysis to drama practice.
A further       31% commented that the       session had given them new knowledge in addition to semiotic theory.
32       participants' comments       indicated that the workshop had in some way brought about a change towards       their own analytical       approaches and interpretation of texts.
For a minority (9%) this meant a       clarification of semiotic       theory, building on previous knowledge.
Whilst others (49%) commented that       the workshop had a       direct impact on how they would analyse texts in future.
In addition to       the value of semiotic       analysis, six participants (17%) commented that their analysis of stage       direction would also change       as a direct result of the workshop.
Authors Lynne Bradley (2010: 132-134), Sean Carney (2013: 303) and James       Hudson (2013: 13)       all cite Dr Katafiasz's research on Bond.
They refer respectively to her       work as `an immensely       useful study of Bond's technique'; to her `recent analysis of Bond's       critical distance from Brecht';       and to her understanding of Bond as a `pioneering theoretician of the       status of the body in       performance'.
