     i) Impact on the development of European and national policies In       2009 WHO Europe with the European Commission launched a co-funded       partnership project with a brief to promote the empowerment of people with       mental health problems and their carers across Europe.
Through the       prominence of the work of the EMILIA project, Middlesex University       (represented by Peter Ryan) was invited to take part as a member of the       steering committee for this initiative.
The WHO statement described the       challenges, and identified the perspectives and the elements that comprise       empowerment, and suggested proposed actions to promote empowerment in       mental health (1).
Subsequent research by the steering committee was presented at the EU       Thematic Conference on Social Inclusion and Combatting Stigma for Mental       Health (Lisbon, 8-9 Nov. 2010) (2) and the core recommendations of this       group were accepted for `horizontal action' (3), and later developed into       guidelines for the training of health and social care professionals in       mental health promotion across the European Union Member States (4).
ii) Knowledge Transfer: Impact on the profession and mental health         service users The research on service user empowerment and lifelong       learning was disseminated at conferences in 16 European countries: Bosnia,       Netherlands, Malta, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Ireland,       France, Spain, Slovenia, Lithuania, UK, Greece and Italy.
These       conferences identified training and service development approaches as       positive mechanisms for promoting organisational and institutional change.
Our research was specifically used as the evidence base for organisational       change across Europe within 8 demonstration sites [See: (7) Flores et.
al       2009].
The EMILIA project found that partner universities and health care       centres benefited from the knowledge and experience of mental health       service users and, based on this finding, systematically restructured       their strategic and operational decision-making processes to include the       views and opinions of these service users.
The universities involved also       took on board the findings and subsequently included service users in the       planning and delivery of their educational programmes [See: (5): Flores et       al (2010); and (6) Greacen &amp; Jouet 2009].
The impact of this research       on the profession has been noted in several European countries including       Greece (8), Poland (10) and Slovenia (11).
Since the conclusion of the project, the research findings were used to       underpin the development of innovative ways to address empowerment among       partner service organisations.
The findings have been disseminated even       further through the 250 registered subscriber organisations on the EMILIA       website, based in 43 countries.
The impact of this research can now be       seen across the profession, across Europe and beyond.
For example:     a) service users are now represented on the regional executive mental       health planning council in Bodo, Norway;     b) in North East Paris, the continuous professional development training       course offered by Maison Blanche, is now open to service users;     c) in Zealand, Denmark, mental health service users are now trained as       peer medication mentors.
The role of our research in influencing these changes can be corroborated       by WHO Europe's Mental Health Adviser Dr Matt Muijen; Tim Greacon,       director of Research at Maison Blanche; and Ian Dawson, Quality Care       Coodinator in Bodo, Norway.
[Contact details provided].
