     The impact of CCMH's research spans a number of different contexts and       there is overlap between       the three bodies of work outlined in section 2.
For example, changes in       the understanding of voice       hearing have impacted on service redesign and the education of       professionals but also contributed       significantly to international developments in mental health.
This new       understanding of voice       hearing has led directly to improvements in the lives of people who hear       voices by creating spaces       in multiple professional and public spheres, in which voice hearing can be       discussed openly and       without censure (S1); developing resources to inform and support both       those who hear voices and       those who attempt to help them (S1-3); and facilitating the development of       a wide range of       practical solutions that enable those who hear voices to cope and lead       fulfilling lives.
The nature and evidence of impact can be seen in the development of Intervoice,       the International       Hearing Voices Network, an interactive coalition of voice hearers, carers,       mental health       practitioners and academics, which aims to improve the lives of voice       hearers through education,       research and facilitating the development of practical solutions.
Intervoice's website is available to       anyone seeking information about voice hearing There are now national       networks in 22 countries       providing help, advice and support to those coping with voice hearing.
Intervoice is now managed       as an independent concern which acts as an umbrella organisation for the       national networks (S1).
Impact can also be seen in service re-design via CCMH's contributions to a       comprehensive       training package aimed at empowering mental health service users to become       expert patients,       able to provide peer support and training for others (S2).
In addition,       other resources such as       Living with voices: 50 stories of recovery which presents an       analysis of individual experiences as a       basis for explaining why people hear voices, the importance of accepting       rather than dismissing       such experiences and the pathway to recovery (S3), has sold nearly 4000       copies since publication.
The book is recommended reading for students of mental health       professions, in a number of       universities, including Dublin City University, Kings College, the       University of London and the       University of York.
Mental health organisations in the NHS have also drawn       on Professor Romme's       publications to produce local resources for those who hear voices.
One       example is Hearing Voices,       a booklet published jointly by The Hive and the Scottish Association for       Mental Health which       recommends Living with Voices to patients and carers (S4).
Other       resources based on this work       are available to patients, carers, professionals and the general public       through mental health       services.
The book is also recommended by mental health organisations In       the USA and Australia       (S5).
The BMCMH was adopted by the Labour Government of 1997-2001 which       prioritised mental       health.
The National Service Framework Mental Health emphasised the need       for early intervention,       assertive outreach, crisis resolution and carer support as essential       components of primary care       (S6, S7).
Further evidence of the impact of the model can be seen in       exports to numerous other       countries, including Belgium and Norway, which are effected through       consultancy and advisory       services to governments and ministries seeking to modernise mental health       services in line with       the WHO action plan for mental health.
Application of the BMCMH and the       approach to voice       hearing outlined above have proved appropriate and effective in societies       as diverse as Sri Lanka       and Norway in terms of service design and professional education.
The       Director General of the       Belgium Health Ministry declared that `Professor Morris is one of the         most solicited experts from         abroad in this formation programme, his advice resulted in the         engagement of other experts from         Birmingham and in selecting the right beacon sites or learning places in         Birmingham and         elsewhere in the UK' (S8).
Most recently, Professor Morris's       expertise was recognised and       solicited by the World Health Organisation which commissioned him to       develop a report (S9) and       he has now been invited to assist Vietnam to redesign community mental       health services in a       project attempting to address the plight of chained patients.
The impact of studies addressing the needs of members of special and       underserved social groups       is evident in many different spheres.
One example is Birmingham and       Solihull Mental Health NHS       Foundation Trust in which CCMH's studies have been instrumental in       improving care for members       of black and other minority ethnic groups suffering with mental illness.
The Trust has changed its       practices to involve mental health service users from diverse backgrounds       at every level within the       organisation, including the Board of Governors and induction training for       new staff.
Diversity issues       and cultural competency are now addressed routinely through staff       development (S10).
