     Jones' publications, research experience and background in the field of       nuclear history, Cold War diplomatic history, and the general area of       Anglo-American relations were central to his selection by the Cabinet       Office to be the official historian of the UK strategic nuclear deterrent       and the Chevaline (Polaris improvement) programme (see source 1       for Jones' formal appointment to this position by the Prime Minister).
The       research has equipped Jones with the knowledge, experience and arguments       about the place of nuclear weapons in the Cold War, and British defence       policy, that enable him to engage with senior officials in Whitehall,       provide them with the historical background and context within which       current strategic nuclear policy is situated, and to identify some of the       key issues and generic problems associated with the maintenance of a       strategic nuclear capability.
The primary beneficiaries of this research       have included MoD and Cabinet Office officials who are currently engaged       with the UK nuclear programme and strategic nuclear policymaking.
Due to       the sensitive nature of the research used in the workshops and activities       listed below, it is not possible to get individual feedback from       participants (please refer to source 2 in lieu).
Using an official history to inform current policy-making     The act of researching and writing an official history accrues, in and of       itself, benefits to government.
It is apparent that the Ministry of       Defence has relatively little `institutional memory', and the official       history commissioned in 2008&#8212;with full access to the UK documentary       record&#8212;is intended to provide an authoritative account of the evolution of       UK strategic nuclear policy, in its full military, political, diplomatic,       and technical context, between the Nassau Conference of 1962, when it was       agreed that the Polaris missile system would be supplied to Britain, and       1982, when the Chevaline programme came to fruition with the first       deployment of an improved version of Polaris.
Kept very secret throughout       the 1970s, Chevaline (a system designed to overcome Soviet anti-ballistic       missile defences) was a hugely controversial programme, notable for major       costs overruns, technical uncertainty, and delay.
The history provides       full detail of this central episode in post-war UK defence policy so that       lessons learned from it can usefully inform future policy and strategy.
Expanding the knowledge base and historical context of policy-makers     Senior Cabinet Office and Ministry of Defence officials have been aware       of the official history, and have been interested in exploring the       historical parallels and analogies that are thrown up in their current       areas of work from previous episodes in nuclear policymaking.
At four       `learning from history' seminars, Jones debated and discussed some of the       issues raised by the Chevaline programme, as well by the study of UK       nuclear history in the Polaris era, including the origins, background, and       development of the Polaris improvement programme, and the historical       parallels to today.
Two seminars were high-level events, involving a small       group of senior officials (15 November 2011 and 23 January 2012), and two       were for a wider audience of mid-range Ministry of Defence officials (24       November 2011 and 15 December 2011).
Then on 20 November 2012, at the       express invitation of the Cabinet Office official leading the group that       is writing the Trident renewal alternatives paper for the Coalition       Government, Jones offered a briefing to officials engaged in this process,       and discussed issues connected with nuclear deterrence.
On 29 November       2012 Jones led another session, this time with Treasury officials who were       particularly concerned with the cost overruns associated with the       Chevaline programme.
Attendees at these briefings and seminars have       included the current Chair of the Joint Intelligence Committee (then       Second Permanent Secretary, MoD); Director-General Security Policy, MoD;       Chief Scientific Adviser MoD; Director of Strategic Technologies, MoD;       Assistant Chief of Defence Staff (CBRN&#8212;Chemical, Biological, Nuclear,       Radiological); head of CBRN Policy, MoD.
An important indicator of impact       achieved has been the requests for further briefings coming from       officials, some of whom have attended more than one session.
One of the avowed aims of the Government's official history programme is       that it represents an opportunity for `learning from history', where       knowledge and findings regarding past episodes can be used to inform       consideration of current issues of policy.
The seminars have       expanded the knowledge base and historical context of the decision-makers       involved in key decisions in the field of 21st-century British       defence and nuclear policy&#8212;involving the prospective expenditure of over       &#163;20 billion of public money during the period up to the late 2020s&#8212;as the       issue of Trident renewal comes to a head, and the role of an independent       nuclear deterrent is once more debated.
In this context, the breadth and       depth of Jones' research (references 1-4) fulfils the role of       expert advice.
It has been highly valued and sought-after by the senior       officials who make these decisions to allocate large amounts of public       money for a project that will inevitably receive high levels of public and       political scrutiny.
The source named in section five can confirm the       benefits that have been conferred by the impact activities stemming from       Jones' official history work.
