     Dissemination of ideas       In order to better disseminate their research, Bernier and Lewthwaite have       worked to publically redefine the terms "Black" and "Latino".
Bernier       discussed black stereotypes in the context of 19th-century       cultural depictions on Melvin Bragg's Radio 4 programme "In Our Time" (source         1), while Lewthwaite used her research on the relationship between       Latino culture and identity politics for a video lecture on the term       "Latino," which received 8000 views between March and July 2013, and       prompted an online debate in which viewers reflected on their own       identities and the power of ethnic labelling, while questioning       assumptions about the meaning of the term "American" as well as "Latino" (source         2).
Retrieving previously neglected art and influencing institutional         decisions about its collection and display       In early 2010, Lewthwaite recovered artwork by local Dallas-based Mexican       American sculptor Octavio Medell&#237;n while on a fellowship at Southern       Methodist University (SMU).
Her discovery highlighted the need for       archivists at the SMU Hamon Arts Library's Bywaters Special Collections to       develop more inclusive and representative archival resources, and       supported their decision to expand the digitization of the Medell&#237;n       archive.
The head of the Bywaters Special Collections stated that       "Lewthwaite's research has validated the decision to digitize the Medell&#237;n       archive and is evidence of the project's value" (source 3).
The       Digital Collections Developer added that Lewthwaite's research provided       "documentation to support the funding of continued digitization efforts"       by "demonstrating how the digital collection can promote the study of       Mexican-American art, Texas regional art, and art history" (source 4).
Lewthwaite's research has since helped promote the recovery of Medell&#237;n as       a Texas modernist.
An art historian, who has included Medell&#237;n in a       forthcoming book as a result of Lewthwaite's research, explained that       Lewthwaite "did much to `recover' [Medell&#237;n] as a truly bicultural       modernist" and that she had successfully situated his work "within a       broader, international sociological and cultural context" (source 5).
Between 2010 and 2013, Bernier retrieved more than 150 photographs of the       black abolitionist Frederick Douglass, most of which were long-lost and       never published.
Bernier's research has contextualised these many       photographic portraits as Douglass launching a black heroic tradition in       visual culture.
The recovery process has included the identification of       images that were uncatalogued and unrecognized as Douglass, and       the dating of rare images for archivists at the collections that hold the       photographs.
In one of many examples of consultation, Bernier helped       archivists at Michigan's Clements Library understand the significance of a       rare Douglass photograph that the library displayed for the first time.
Her insights added "another layer of meaning" to "a never-before-seen       image", explained the librarians.
The "investigation" undertaken with       Bernier "makes the image more intriguing" and the library appreciated       Bernier's advice that the scrapbooked photograph in its original form "may       have been an ambrotype, although there's a considerable likelihood that it       was a daguerreotype, which would make the original image an even greater       rarity" (source 6).
Creating networks around Black and Latino visual culture that lead to         new practice, exhibitions, and areas of knowledge       As well as working with archivists on recovery, Bernier and Lewthwaite       have brought together archivists, curators, museum professionals, artists       and academics to share research and ideas about African American, Black       Diasporic and Latino art and artists.
Bernier worked with Black British       artists, the Institute for North American Studies at King's College       London, and the Rothermere American Institute (RAI) at Oxford University       (as Senior Visiting Research Fellow in 2013) to offer a number of public       events and initiatives that helped to reshape curatorial thinking.
For       example, as a result of Bernier's Terra Foundation-sponsored conference,       "Art Across the Black Diaspora: Visualizing Slavery in America" (RAI, May       2013, attended by 60 people) which brought together artists, curators, art       critics and scholars, one black British artist claimed that Bernier is       "transforming the way that the work of artists and curators from the black       diaspora is critically discussed in studios, galleries and museums,"       especially by encouraging audiences to connect black art with "political       histories."
She added: "By consistently giving artists a most valuable       platform upon which to share the critical challenges of practice and       process, theory, history and politics, [Bernier] has allowed space for the       development of future partnerships and the possibility of new ways to       connect with future audiences" (source 7).
In an example of       early-stage impact that will be developed over the next three years,       Bernier also partnered with the Institute of International Visual Arts (a       leading UK contemporary visual arts organisation) to produce a new archive       of interviews with black British artists, many of whom were interviewed       for the first time.
A curator who attended Lewthwaite's Terra Foundation-sponsored       international symposium, "Art Across Frontiers: Cross-Cultural Encounters       in America" (April 2011; 28 attendees) has since used the work presented       at the symposium to organise a public lecture and exhibition on the       Guyanese artist Frank Bowling at Tate Britain titled "Focus: Frank       Bowling" (April 2012-March 2013).
The Bowling exhibition generated a       series of online resources, including an artist's interview, a TateShots       video interview, a long form interview in Frieze Magazine (May       2012), and reviews in major UK newspapers and magazines (The Guardian,         Independent and TimeOut).
The curator said of Lewthwaite's       symposium: "These connections are invaluable.
As a curator, I need to be       attuned to how exhibition practices vary widely in different national       contexts.
One of the major outcomes from the symposium was the chance to       gain feedback on this research whilst working on the [Bowling] exhibition.
`Art Across Frontiers' was a useful method of connection for me with       scholars working in the UK and in the Americas" (source 8).
