     The Ainsa basin is of considerable interest to the hydrocarbon industry       because it is an analogue for producing oilfields in deep-marine sandstone       reservoirs in hydrocarbon provinces worldwide.
The hydrocarbon companies that participated in the Ainsa Project have       been impacted upon by the UCL DWRG's research in three ways between 1       January 2008 and 31 July 2013:     1) UCL research results have been used by oil companies including         Chevron, Nexen Petroleum UK, ExxonMobil and BP to create improved         in-house computer-generated hydrocarbon reservoir models aimed at       helping with reservoir characterisation and simulation.
These improved       models allow the companies to manage and develop their reservoirs better,       leading to improved company performance.
UCL Ainsa Project results provided hard data on likely reservoir       continuity, porosity-permeability, vertical and lateral pathways and       baffles to fluid flow, which the participating oil companies use to       explore and define levels of uncertainty in their reservoirs.
This, in       turn, allows them to value their assets and projects better (e.g.
calculate volumes of recoverable hydrocarbons), leading to more informed       business and investment decisions.
The Head of Stratigraphy at BP noted that the UCL outcrop studies provide       the company with data and ideas at a sub-seismic scale, and are therefore       critical in their development of a range of alternative in-house models       for producing oilfields.
He said: "The detailed studies and publication of       the work is one of the key elements in allowing us to understand and plan       the development of our reservoirs" [A].
The underpinning research is used       for the same purpose at ExxonMobil; their Senior Technical Consultant for       Hydrocarbon Systems said: "deep-water systems are important reservoirs for       our company and research like yours help us explore and develop these       resources more effectively" [B].
Nexen Petroleum UK benefits from the research in the same way.
Their Lead       Geologist for the Buzzard Field said: "The real value in Kevin Pickering's       work and on-going research to Nexen is in the manner we create and       populate our reservoir models.
His and his student's Ainsa Basin research       provides hard data that we use to define certain levels of uncertainty in       our reservoirs.
This, in turn, allows us to better value our assets and       projects, leading to more informed business and investment decisions" [C].
Similarly, one of Chevron's Research Geologists said: "Deep-water       reservoirs are extremely important for Chevron's exploration and       production, and understanding of the geology is fundamental to their       success.
Quality outcrop field work, such as is provided by the research       group at UCL, is required to provide analogue models, test predictive       stratigraphic concepts, and provide key data on sub-seismic heterogeneity       that impacts fluid flow in these reservoirs.
The research undertaken by       UCL in the Ainsa Basin, and the group's publications have greatly assisted       Chevron in this effort" [D].
An example of a hydrocarbon reservoir that has been impacted upon by the       UCL DWRG research results is the Buzzard Field in the northern North Sea,       which is principally operated by Nexen Petroleum UK [C].
This asset is in       its early field life, producing about 200,000 barrels per day (May 2013),       and holds enough crude oil to deliver potentially about 10% of the UK's       annual forecast oil demand.
Reservoir complexity and potential reservoir       variability away from well control remain key issues on Buzzard,       accounting for significant volumetric uncertainty and representing the       primary risk for new drilling opportunities.
The new model for the spatial       variation of sedimentary lithofacies within reservoir intervals in the       Ainsa basin, developed by the DWRG, has directly impacted upon predictions       of spatial variation in primary sandstone reservoir quality in the Buzzard       Field.
Subsequent drilling has corroborated the revised depositional       framework in the reservoir intervals.
Revisions to the existing       lithostratigraphic correlation scheme were therefore made and incorporated       into Nexen's subsequent reservoir model updates for the Buzzard oilfield       [C].
2) UCL Ainsa Project research results are used to run in-house         training courses at hydrocarbon companies for geologists,       geophysicists, reservoir engineers and managers.
This training improves       understanding amongst company employees and results in them being able to       make more informed decisions throughout their careers about how to manage       their reservoirs, leading to the companies being able to extract more oil       from reservoirs and making more money.
The four companies mentioned below       ran at least one in-house training course per year during the REF impact       period.
At Nexen Petroleum UK, "staff are encouraged to participate in       field-courses to the Ainsa Basin, where UCL's work including the UCL-based       Ainsa Drilling project are discussed as it provides a unique dataset       allowing workers to compare 1D well data with 2D and near 3D outcrops"       [C].
A letter from their Lead Geologist for the Buzzard Field says: "I'm       sure anyone who has utilized this data has learnt valuable lessons in       subsurface uncertainty" [C].
Over 500 BP subsurface professionals from around the globe have visited       the Ainsa basin over the last 15 years to take part in training courses       underpinned by the UCL research and have "directly benefited from the UCL       studies" [A].
The Head of Stratigraphy noted that because of UCL's "superb       dataset" on the outcrops in the Ainsa basin, "these outcrops provide       excellent teaching tools, and within BP form the backdrop for regular       deepwater exploration and production courses and an annual reservoir       modelling course" [A].
Chevron also runs a training course in the Ainsa basin, and "has made       extensive use of the research products of the UCL group" [D].
Their       Research Geologist said: "the core and wire-line log data collected from       behind the outcrop provides a unique teaching aid which can be used to       relate subsurface data and well-correlation principles to outcrop       observations" [D].
Similarly, ExxonMobil's Senior Technical Consultant       noted: "We have an intense training effort in Ainsa and the materials and       learnings generated by this program [the Ainsa Project] are a key       component of our training" [B].
3) Hydrocarbon companies benefit from the employment of skilled         research students from the DWRG.
Chevron has employed three Ph.D.       students from the DWRG (two in the REF impact period), and is benefiting       from the skills acquired by these employees whilst conducting the       underpinning research [D].
Ph.D. students from the DWRG have also been       employed by ExxonMobil in 2010 [B] and Nexen Petroleum has created       internships in 2012 and 2013 for two of the DWRG's current Ph.D. students       [C].
