     This case study involves two levels of impact: i) the impact that our       research has had in providing evidence for Save the Children UK to launch       a UK roll-out of FAST and ii) the evidence for replicability has shaped       the programme design leading to improved impacts of the programme on       families.
Governments in many countries have recognised the importance of       supporting families with young children, particularly those on low income       and from disadvantaged and socially marginalised groups.
However, they       also require research evidence in order to make choices about which       particular programmes to endorse or fund.
Increasingly governments and       other funders look to the published lists of `evidence based' programmes,       tested in randomised controlled trials, to inform their strategic       decisions.
In order to identify and support evidence-based programmes,       researchers, including those at Middlesex, have developed such evidence.
However, our own work goes a stage further in having identified the       transferable features of these programmes which lead to high levels of       participation and low levels of drop-out on the part of socially excluded       families.
In the challenges of `scaling up' such programmes, we have met       the strategic need on the part of funders for predictable rates of       completion and consistent child outcomes across diverse settings.
This is       over and above RCT evidence of programme effectiveness, based on studies       conducted in the US.
In 2009 Save the Children UK decided to adopt one evidence-based       parenting programme that was focussed on low-income children and schools.
They requested the Institute of Education (IoE) to review available       research on evidence-based parenting programmes and the IoE recommended       FAST, among 7 programmes, based on the quality of the existing evidence.
Save the Children subsequently chose FAST as a result of this evidence       base and funded a pilot programme in five low-income communities across       the UK.
Our research into drop-out rates in these sites then provided the       research intelligence required by this charity in its decision-making to       adopt FAST across the UK with funding from the commercial sector.
A crucial part of their decision to fund was the evidence which indicated       not only that FAST was effective on a number of measures but it also led       to consistently high rates of completion.
Whilst other parenting       programmes have been supported by evidence of effectiveness, only our       research, to date, adds evidence to improve programme replication,       evidence which programme funders require to make decisions about the large       scale roll out of any project.
Save the Children supported 15 FAST       projects in 14 primary schools across the UK between April 2010 and August       2011.
Some 338 families attended at least once and 80% of those families       attended at least six of the eight sessions and completed the programme.
Approximately 85% of families attending had an annual family income of       under &#163;20,000.
The evidence of low attrition rate is the first level of       impact we present here.
The end beneficiaries are children aged 3-8 and families, schools and       communities, with a focus on low income and disadvantaged and socially       marginalised groups.
Our evaluations employing outcome measures with       established reliability and validity have guided the design of the       programme roll out.
These include: the Social Skills Rating System (SSRS)       and the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) with subscales for social skills,       aggression, and academic performance.
Using these measures, the programme       has been shown in evaluations (see first reference in Section 5) to       deliver the following outcomes:     Parent outcomes:            Increased parental involvement in schools and increased social         capital; improved parent to parent support networks, increased parent         community leadership       At two-year follow-up, 86-90 per cent of parents who have completed         the programme report continued improved parent to parent support         networks       Improved parent-child bonds.
Child outcomes:            Positive child mental health outcomes and increased social skills;         improved academic and school behaviour; reduced aggression and anxiety       Parents report small to medium decrease in children's externalizing         behaviours       Teachers report a large decrease in children's externalizing         behaviours and small to medium improvements in academic performance       Decreased family conflict       Reduced aggressive and delinquent behaviours after eight weeks; both         that result and academic outcomes were maintained after two years
