     The two technology platforms (SAS for protein targets and SAMBA for       nucleic acid targets) have       been successfully commercialised by DDU's spinout company, Diagnostics for       the Real World       (DRW) established in 2002, with the Wellcome Trust and the University of       Cambridge as corporate       shareholders (Ref 1 in section 5).
To meet the diagnostic needs of the       developing world, the       company limits its profit to 10%.
In the past 10 years, the spinout       company has raised &gt;$30 million       using a diversified funding strategy (Ref 2 in section 5), of which       &gt;$20million is since 2008       (including $8million from NIH, $12million from the Children's Investment       Fund Foundation and       &#163;0.5million from the UK Technology Strategy Board).
Both the female and the male Chlamydia SAS-based rapid tests have       undergone clinical trial in 3       UK clinics and in the Philippines (Refs 3 &amp; 4 in section 5).).
Since       their launch in 2008 at the       national OB-GYN conference in the Philippines, &gt;150,000 tests have been       provided to diverse       geographic regions through its distribution partner (Oxoid Thermo-Fisher)       and direct sales: France,       Italy, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Senegal, Madagascar, the Republic of       Niger, the Ivory Coast,       Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Kenya, Malaysia, the Seychelles, Vanuatu,       Samoa, the Falkland       Islands, Ghana, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
They were used as a       diagnostic tool for       Chlamydia infection in symptomatic individuals as well as a screening tool       in pregnant women (e.g.
Samoa where Chlamydia is endemic), military personnel in the Falklands and       in asymptomatic       populations in general.
The Chlamydia rapid test was funded by the UK       Technology Strategy       Board in 2012 as a tool to generate a cost effective model for `test and       treat' at the point of care vs.       centralised testing in 3 UK sexual health clinics.
The FirstBurstf0e4       first void urine collection device       received the 2003 Medical Futures Best Diagnostic Innovation Award and       continues to be used in       the DRW Chlamydia test with on-going impact in studies such the UK       national survey for sexually       transmitted diseases in the general population.
DRW has also launched the first CE marked HBsAg rapid test kit on the       market due to its improved       sensitivity and has begun its launch activities in north African countries       and in France after a       successful evaluation.
The test generated a large number of internet-based       articles during the       World Hepatitis Day in 2010, including comments from Prof Baruch Blumberg,       the Nobel Prize       laureate for the discovery of the Hepatitis B virus and invention of the       HBV vaccine: "Approval of       the new Hepatitis B Rapid Test is positive news for the estimated 400       million HBV carriers       worldwide.
Being able to identify carriers, initiate immediate treatment       of appropriate candidates,       and vaccinate family members and close contacts, has the potential to       greatly accelerate the       programme to control HBV infection and spread.
The Hepatitis B Rapid Test       developed by       Diagnostics for the Real World can make a significant contribution to the       solution" (Ref 5 in section       5).
The first assay based on the SAMBA platform is the HIV-1       Semi-Quantitative Test for the       monitoring of patients on antiretroviral therapy.
Having been successfully       trialled by Medecins sans       Frontieres (MSF), the first batch of 4,000 tests and 10 SAMBA instruments       were shipped to 3 MSF       clinics in Malawi and Uganda in Q2, 2013.
This is the first time a nucleic       acid amplification test is       implemented in a point-of-care setting.
MSF has already committed to       screening &gt;30,000 patients       for treatment efficacy using SAMBA.
Product registration for the SAMBA       HIV-1 Semi-Q Test is       currently being sought in 6 other high-burden African countries (Cameroon,       Kenya, Nigeria, South       Africa, Zambia, Zimbabwe).
Given the recent WHO recommendation to monitor       all HIV infected       patients at least once a year, the SAMBA HIV test will be an effective       tool for the monitoring of HIV       infected individuals in sub Saharan Africa (estimated to be 15 million in       2015).
Currently, HIV-exposed babies in sub-Saharan Africa can only be tested by       nucleic acid       amplification methods at centralised laboratories.
This requires the       transport of dried blood spots       from peripheral clinics and leads to unacceptable delays to treatment due       to long turn-around times       and loss to follow up ranging from 30 to 70% depending on the country.
A       quantitative SAMBA HIV       test has been developed for the early infant diagnosis at the point of       care, and access to this       simple, rapid and effective molecular test at peripheral clinics where       mothers can receive the       results in one visit will fill the current diagnostic gap.
Ethical       approvals have been obtained in       Malawi, Uganda, South Africa and Kenya for clinical trials in Q3-Q4 2013.
A Memorandum of       Understanding was signed with the Ministry of Health, Zimbabwe for       implementation of the SAMBA       EID test.
