     This project achieved a range of impacts by collaborating with the       public, with schools and with a       range of other research partners:     - engaging the public by raising the profile of the Scots language &#8212;       The SWAP project had       community engagement at its heart, using social media to encourage the       public to interact with       academic researchers and thereby raising the profile of the Scots       language.
Input forms on the       SWAP website allowed members of the public to submit either Scots words or       place-names       containing Scots elements.
This fed into a wider public discussion forum       on the website, to       which anyone with an interest in Scots could contribute, as well as       reading and commenting on       the contributions of others.
SWAP's Facebook and Twitter platforms       provided an additional       forum for discussions and maintained the momentum of the interaction       between the SWAP       team and their informants, helping to generate sustained greater public       interest in the       development of the Scots language.
The public contributions generated by       the SWAP project       were used to populate a Glossary of Scots Place-name Elements, created for       the project and       available at swap.nesc.gla.ac.uk.
The first comprehensive glossary of its kind, it was compiled       by Alison Grant of Scottish Language Dictionaries and the Scottish       Place-Name Society, using       place-name citations from the Dictionary of the Scots Language       supplemented by the public       contributions gathered through social media.
The results of the SWAP       project have also       contributed to the Word Collections of Scottish Language Dictionaries,       helping to form new       dictionaries of the Scots language.
By engaging the public in the project,       the SWAP team       promoted a sense of ownership, and encouraged the use of the resource       after the project had       finished.
- engaging schools by encouraging participation in university         research and education &#8212;       There is a perceived gulf between schools and universities in Scotland; a       gulf which is       particularly acute among schools in less affluent areas.
While this is       being tackled at an       institutional level by the University through a range of widening       participation activities, a central       aim of the SWAP project was to link directly with these schools.
This was       achieved through the       creation of a competition and supporting academic material.
Scotland's new       national curriculum,       the Curriculum for Excellence, gives teachers greater freedom in designing       lessons and       selecting teaching materials, and informal feedback from teachers       indicates that they found the       SWAP material useful, incorporating it into class activities prior to       engaging with the competition       itself.
Digital media once again played a major role in the project, with       the competition engaging       with all Scottish schools through the new Glow intranet, which provided an       online space for       entries, resources and peer-voting.
The competition ran from May to August       2011 and was       available to every school pupil in Scotland.
Entries could relate to any       aspect of the Scots       language or Scottish place-names, and included essays, stories, poems and       songs.
The       competition received over 200 entries from schools across Scotland, from       Oban on the west       coast to Edinburgh in the east, Shetland in the north and the Scottish       Borders in the south.
The       judging panel included the novelists Amal Chatterjee and Louise Welsh,       whose participation       helped to raise the public profile of the competition.
Three finalists       from each of the five age       groups were selected by the judges, and the winners were then decided by       peer vote on Glow.
The University held a prize-giving ceremony in September 2011, attended by       finalists, teachers       and families and hosted by the University Rector, Charles Kennedy.
The 20       children (including       two group entries) and their guests were taken on a tour of the       University, followed by a       specially-curated exhibition which charted the progress of Scots in print       from the 16th century to       the present day.
This material has been made available to the public as a       web         exhibition (From       'makaris' to Makars: Scots literature in Special Collections) via the       Glasgow University Library       website.
Informal feedback on the day suggested that these children now       saw university as       somewhere more accessible to them, and it is hoped that they have taken       this attitude back to       their schools.
The competition was covered in media outlets local to some       of the prize-winning       schools, such as the Eskdale and Liddesdale Advertiser, Hawick News,         New Shetlander and       The Shetland Times.
- Engaging partners by forging sustainable links between academic and         cultural bodies &#8212;       The SWAP project shared expertise and collaborated closely with       educational and cultural       organisations, thereby forging and consolidating links between the       University of Glasgow and       other bodies which have an impact on public life.
The educational body       Learning and Teaching       Scotland, which has now been incorporated into a larger Scottish       Government body, Education       Scotland, has been crucial to the University's current and future plans       for engaging effectively       with schools in Scotland, and the links created by the SWAP project are       benefitting subsequent       school engagement work.
University researchers are now working with       Education Scotland to       develop a place-name resource within the Studying         Scotland website, which has been piloted       by participating primary and secondary schools from March 2013 and is       going live later this       year.
The SWAP project has also built upon links between the University       and its project       partners, Scottish Language Dictionaries and the Scottish Place-Name       Society.
For example,       editors at Scottish Language Dictionaries are utilising material developed       as part of the SWAP       project in their revision of the Concise Scots Dictionary, which       is currently in progress,       particularly using data from the Glossary of Scots Place-name Elements for       the purpose of       ante-dating.
These relationships are crucial in constructing a broad       research culture which       incorporates external expertise, enriching Scottish cultural life through       the exchange of       information between academics and professional lexicographers.
In       addition, the University of       Glasgow researchers have actively promoted the SWAP project at a number of       conferences       and public engagement events.
A paper by Ellen Bramwell and Carole Hough       at the       International Congress of Onomastic Sciences, held in Barcelona from 5-9       September 2011, led       to discussion of the potential for similar projects in other parts of the       world, including Australia       and Scandinavia.
Other conference presentations include a paper by Carole       Hough at the       autumn day conference of the Scottish Place-Name Society in Dingwall on 5       November 2011, a       poster by Ellen Bramwell, Dorian Grieve and Carole Hough on `Vernacular       varieties: social       media sources for Scots lexis and toponymy' at the Language in Glasgow       workshop on 9 March       2012, and a paper by Alison Grant on `The impact of the SWAP project on       the revision of the       Concise Scots Dictionary' at the Annual Conference of the Society       for Name Studies in Britain       and Ireland, held in Glasgow from 5-8 April 2013.
The team also ran a       programme of public       engagement events, including a partnership activity on place-names for the       BBC's The           Great           British Story: A People's History road show, held at the       Riverside Museum in Glasgow on 9       June 2012, and a workshop on SWAP at YouthLink Scotland's Digitally         Agile Community         Learning and Development Key Stakeholders Event [video         link], held at Dynamic Earth in       Edinburgh on 24 January 2013 [link         to event report; see pg 7].
