     Over 90 million people were affected by earthquakes between 2000 and       2012, with more than 800,000 losing their lives.
Prior to the research       described in section 2, seismic hazard worldwide was usually mapped solely       using the locations and frequencies of instrumentally recorded       earthquakes, mostly without knowledge of active fault locations.
The       improved methodology developed by Roberts and collaborators, which uses       the five parameters listed in section 2, has been used in 2008-2013 for       seismic hazard assessments within institutions in both Greece and Italy,       the most seismically active parts of Europe.
It has impacted on their       working practices and is resulting in more informed calculations of       seismic hazard in the two countries.
Change in the Bank of Greece's seismic hazard assessment: The       Birkbeck research led in 2013 to a change in the way that the Bank of       Greece approaches seismic hazard assessment and calculation of       probabilistic seismic risk, following discussions between the bank,       Roberts and a Senior Lecturer from the Agricultural University of Athens       (who was Roberts' co-author on underpinning research reference [3]).
As of       July 2013, the Bank of Greece was running a project to facilitate the use       of the five parameters listed in section 2 together with the new       seismic-hazard mapping methodology that was developed by Roberts.
This new       method is being implemented for an upcoming new European Union (EU)       Directive, known as Solvency II, which codifies and harmonises EU       insurance regulations in order to enhance consumer protection.
The new       directive requires a credible scientific background that offers a       probabilistic estimate, something which is found in Roberts' method.
Another co-author on the underpinning research has been employed by the       Department of Private Insurance Supervision in the Bank of Greece to       implement the method and discuss the work with Greek insurance companies.
The Agricultural University of Athens Senior Lecturer, who is involved in       the project, writes: "The work of Prof. Gerald Roberts has changed the way       that the Bank of Greece works in terms of seismic hazard" [A].
In       addition, as a result of the work with the Bank of Greece on earthquake       insurance risk, the Senior Lecturer has now been elected as a member of       the EIOPA (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority)       Insurance and Reinsurance Stakeholder Group for a more than 2.5-year       mandate as an advisor on earthquake hazard.
Adoption of new tools and methods at the Italian Institute for the         Protection and Research of the Environment: The role of the Natural       Hazards Unit of the Istituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca       Ambientale (ISPRA) is to map, catalogue and risk assess all faults capable       of earthquakes for the Italian Civil Protection, which then uses this       information to formulate government policy on earthquake risk (e.g.
civil       defence, infrastructure planning and building regulations).
The Head of       the Natural Hazards Unit reports that the Birkbeck research has "produced       changes to working practices at my institution in terms of new tools and       models available to manage seismic hazard and risk, which directly impact       on the information we provide to the Italian authorities" [B].
Since 2008,       the unit's adoption of methods laid out in the research has changed how it       advises the Italian Civil Protection on earthquake hazards and the       approaches it uses to collect data and work in the field.
The Head of the       unit reports: "we now use fault slip-rates, elapsed times since the last       earthquake and variability in recurrence intervals in our seismic hazard       calculations" and "strain-rates from 15 kyrs [ka] are used to compare       against strain-rates from GPS and historical seismicity to gain insights       into temporal development of seismicity and hazard" [B].
Insights from the       Birkbeck work are used to "guide our approach to research and in our       seismic hazard assessments, in that (a) our staff now subtract       post-seismic slip from calculations of maximum magnitude from       palaeoseismic earthquakes, and (b) use shallow geophysics to help assess       fault slip-rates" [B].
These impacts were enabled through research       collaborations between Birkbeck and ISPRA.
The research is also having an       impact on public understanding, with the Head of the Natural Hazards Unit       reporting that he has used the research insights to "improve communication       with the public about earthquake risks through a series of publicly       available videos" [B].
Adoption of new techniques at the Italian Istituto Nazionale di         Geofisica e Vulcanologia (INGV): The INGV is an Italian civil       service institution that helps to guide government policy on seismic       hazards.
It conducts 24-hour countrywide seismic surveillance, and early       warning and forecast activities.
Since 2009, the Birkbeck research has       impacted upon working practices at the INGV.
For example, an Earthquake       Scientist at the INGV, who works on improving seismic hazard mapping       methodology, reports: "For the last 4 years, my work has been influenced       by that of Professor Gerald Roberts.
His work has had an impact on mine,       changing the way I have been working, because he has convinced myself and       others that faults need to be included in seismic hazard assessments so       that we can use their slip-rates, earthquake recurrence intervals,       variability in recurrence intervals and elapsed time since the last       earthquake to calculate and map earthquake probabilities.
Before his work,       these parameters were not used" [C].
A Senior Researcher at the INGV also       reports that the Birkbeck research is "having [an impact] on my work and       in my institution" [D].
These impacts on the INGV took place following       research collaborations between the institution and Birkbeck.
The ultimate benefit of the research to the Greek and Italian       organisations above is that they have greater understanding and decreased       uncertainty concerning the locations, numbers and behaviour of active       faults that are the sources of devastating earthquakes.
Improved understanding of seismic hazard within industry and the         financial sector: Birkbeck research findings are also being       communicated, through the new PURE (Probability, Uncertainty and Risk in       the Environment) Knowledge Exchange Network and Research Programme, funded       by NERC, to industrial partners including Narec Capital Ltd., Hiscox Ltd.,       Aon Benfield, EuroTempest, Arup Group, Lighthill Risk Network, and Met       Office.
PURE, which is being coordinated through UCL's Institute of Risk       and Disaster Reduction, will help the UK Government prepare for natural       hazards and disaster situations, and will help insurance industries meet       the requirements and risk management standards of the new Solvency II EU       Directive.
In particular, through the PURE network blog, websites and       meetings, Roberts is involved in communicating to industrial partners the       hazards associated with devastating earthquakes, elapsed time science, and       the effects of stress transfer between faults, improving their       understanding and knowledge of these issues [E].
