     The research described has had a major impact on renal and other types of       organ transplantation: it has helped increase access to deceased donor       kidney transplantation and informed organ storage and allocation policy,       locally and nationally, particularly for kidneys from circulatory death       (DCD) donors.
The novel finding that organs derived from patients dying from primary       intracranial malignancy, including those with high-grade tumours, posed a       very small risk of tumour transmission has helped change practice in the       UK and internationally.
The Department of Health Advisory Committee on the       Safety of Blood, Tissues and Organs (SaBTO) in the UK recently (2012)       published a report (1), citing the Cambridge findings as key evidence, and       recommended that organs donated by donors with primary CNS cancer should       generally be used for transplantation, thereby increasing access to       transplantation and giving an estimated gain of 320 life-years in UK       kidney transplant recipients annually (1).
The Cambridge research was also       instrumental in determining international policy for transplanting organs       from donors with intracranial malignancy (2).
The Cambridge study on time-to-circulatory-death after withdrawal of life       sustaining treatment in potential organ donors has been recognized as the       most authoritative publication on this subject.
It has influenced planning       and resourcing of organ recovery after cardiac death and helped maximize       donor numbers locally and nationally.
Extending the stand-down time after       withdrawal of life supporting treatment in potential DCD donors from one       to four hours has increased DCD numbers by 30% and Cambridge became in       2009/10 (and remains in 2013) the largest UK centre for DCD kidney       transplantation (3, 4).
This influenced practice nationally and the       National Organ Retrieval Service in the UK recently increased the stand       down time for potential DCD donors from two to three hours (plus a further       two hours if the potential donor became unstable)(5).
In the UK the number of kidneys donated after circulatory death rose from       264 in 2008 to 674 in 2011/12 and continues to increase (6).
The       Cambridge-led Lancet study showing that long-term transplant outcome was       equivalent in recipients of kidneys from DCD and brain death (BD) donors       greatly stimulated the use of such kidneys.
The article was accompanied by       a complimentary editorial and initiated correspondence, a review and       considerable media interest (7).
While kidneys from BD donors have been       shared according to a national allocation scheme, kidneys from DBD donors       have not been shared nationally but used locally instead.
On the basis of       the two Lancet papers, which also identified the key factors influencing       outcome after DCD kidney transplantation, a working party of the Kidney       Advisory Group of NHSBT was established (8), and advised a national       sharing scheme for kidneys from DCD donors.
The second Lancet paper,       showing that kidneys from DCD donors were more susceptible to cold       ischaemic injury than kidneys from brain death donors, led the Kidney       Advisory Group working party to recommend a regional (three regional       zones) rather than full national sharing to minimise transport times of       shared DCD kidneys.
The Kidney Advisory Group and the policy       implementation group of NHSBT fully accepted the report and a UK sharing       scheme for DCD kidneys is currently being implemented     The multi-centre, randomised controlled trials led by Watson and Bradley       which reported that machine perfusion offered no advantage over cold       storage, which was cheaper and more straightforward, were used by NICE in       preparing NICE technology appraisal guidance 165 `Machine perfusion       systems and cold static storage of kidneys from deceased donors'.
The NICE       Committee took into consideration the Group's clinical effectiveness       evidence and concluded, in agreement with this evidence, that the LifePort       kidney transporter could not be preferentially recommended over other       forms of storage of kidneys from deceased donors (9).
Finally, the Cambridge experience which demonstrated for the first time       the safety and feasibility of selective omission of the pre-transplant       cross-match test to reduce cold ischaemic times during kidney       transplantation was incorporated into the British Society of       Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics/ British Transplantation Society       Guidelines for the Detection and Characterisation of Clinically Relevant       Antibodies in Allotransplantation and has had a major impact on UK       practice (10).
