     Although not due to complete until 2015, the importance of AM and the       critical role of the final outcome of ProtecT have already had major       impact on National Health Policy through developing the role of       conservative approaches that underpin NICE Guidance, and decisions on       screening.
Active monitoring (AM) was developed in late 1998 within ProtecT as a       method for deferring radical treatment in men with low risk prostate       cancer, whilst keeping them in a "window of curability".
Over-treatment is       clearly identified world-wide as the major problem of early detection of       prostate cancer.
AM has been adopted and adapted internationally through       the use of additional biopsies into a management protocol known as active       surveillance (AS).
Critically, these conservative approaches have been       incorporated into the NICE Guidance published in 2008 (1) and later       clarified through a joint statement with the British Association of       Urology (led by Neal) (2).
The guidelines stated that men with low risk       prostate cancer should be offered conservative approaches such as Active       Surveillance.
The trial underpinned the hugely important medico-political decision not       to introduce screening for prostate cancer in 2010.
Screening would only       be introduced if it was known what the best treatment was for       screen-detected cancers, and that this was cost-effective.
A recent       overview for the Department of Health by ScHARR (3) has explicitly and       extensively referred to knowing the outcome of ProtecT as being a key       benchmark.
A reference from ProtecT (4) was one of only five quoted in the       expert review for the main national screening document (5) and the       requirement for ProtecT to report was by one leading international opinion       leader (Wilt) as being of critical importance to national health policy on       prostate cancer screening (6).
A recent independent review; published in       the Lancet confirmed that "ProtecT has affected clinical practice, even       before announcement of its results, by allowing the UK to reaffirm its       policy of no routine screening".
(7) Also we recognised within the ProtecT       Trial the critical importance of presenting men with information in a       neutral way to allow them to make an informed decision, so that they       understood the uncertainty behind the requirement for a RCT.
Our       experience of developing such information was recognised through the       appointment of Neal to a group tasked by the Department of Health to       produce an "informed decision making aid".
This involved collaboration       with health service researchers in Boston and Ontario and the urological       input to the final document was led by Neal.
This decision aid was then       rolled out within the NHS via NHS Direct (8).
The work on shared decision       making between patients and their advisors is now part of Health Policy:       "no decision about me without me" and the Urological Decision Aid has been       used as an exemplar in documents produced for the Health Foundation by       Coulter (9).
Neal also led the Clinical Advisory Group for the Department       of Health on the development of a new patient website where the role of       conservative approaches to the management of localised prostate cancer is       fully explained (10).
Advice about prostate cancer and the pros and cons of early detection has       been sent out by the Department of Health to all General Practitioners       under the government's Prostate Cancer Risk Management Programme, which       builds on quoted evidence that has already come out of ProtecT (11, 12).
The report noted: "The Prostate Cancer Risk Management Programme ....         will be piloting a recent finding from the ProtecT study which showed         that two PSA tests performed 7 weeks apart allowed more accurate risk         prediction and may assist in decision-making as to whether or not to         proceed with referral...
ProtecT has made a major difference to the quality of care for men with       prostate cancer in that more men nationally and internationally with low       risk disease are now being offered conservative approaches such as AM to       keep them "in a window of curability", which will have reduced       significantly the impact of morbidity associated with unnecessary radical       treatments: an approach supported by the US NIH (13).
The concept of       strategies to keep men in a window of curability so that those who       progress are offered radical treatments, is the principle within the       active monitoring arm within ProtecT and other active surveillance       protocols being developed.
