     UCL's research on extreme weather has underpinned significant commercial       and humanitarian impacts around the world.
Central to the process of       developing the research into successful products and services were       marketing, regular clear presenting and, most importantly, the steady       gaining of credibility through the demonstration of accuracy, reliability       and independence.
There were a number of important contributions to achieving credibility:       (1) TSR winning two prestigious insurance industry awards: the British       Insurance Awards for London Market Innovation of the Year (2004) and for       Risk Management (2006); (2) TSR successfully predicting the very active       2004 and 2005 Atlantic and U.S. hurricane seasons (which prompted Lord       Leven, the Chairman of Lloyd's, to state that "TSR are the first to offer       a level of precision which is of practical use"); and (3) TSR being       selected to provide real-time alert feeds to Reuters AlertNet, the global       humanitarian news portal, and its warnings helping to save many lives from       Cyclone Sidr's devastating impact on Bangladesh in November 2007.
The gaining of credibility was a key factor in the decisions to launch       the commercial ventures EuroTempest Ltd (ET) in 2007 and Tropical Storm       Risk Business (TSRB) in 2009.
Products from TSRB are disseminated to       customers via annual licences managed by UCL Business (UCLB), the       technology-transfer company of UCL, and complement the publicly available       TSR storm alerts, seasonal forecasts and warnings to humanitarian       organisations, which are disseminated via online web feeds and email       alerts.
ET and TSRB received a total income of &#163;1.319 million from sales       of the commercial services between 1 January 2008 and 31 July 2013 [A].
Extreme weather alerts and forecasts informing decision making: As       of 31 July 2013, there were around 22,000 TSR storm alert subscribers and       around 2,000 TSR seasonal forecast subscribers [B].
A market survey       conducted in 2010 showed that 85% of users of TSR services rated the storm       alerts at either 4 or 5 (on a scale of 1 to 5) in terms of accuracy, ease       of understanding, meeting their needs, timeliness and overall satisfaction       [C].
Hundreds of the storm alert subscribers are companies around the       world who employ the alerts, with other information, in their risk       awareness and decision making.
These companies cover a wide range of       industries and activities, from shipping and construction, to       manufacturing and golf course maintenance [C].
During the REF impact       period the TSR website also received over 9.5 million visits [D].
TSR's seasonal forecasts are widely reported and followed in the       (re)insurance industry and contribute to the anticipation of upcoming risk       and to insurance pricing.
The service is regarded as one of the top three       forecast providers for North Atlantic hurricane outlooks [E].
For example,       Risk Management Solutions (RMS) &#8212; one of the two largest global       catastrophe modellers &#8212; included TSR forecasts in their "2013 Atlantic       hurricane season outlook" white paper [E], which was distributed to their       clients (who include 85% of the top 40 global reinsurance companies and       80% of the top 10 global reinsurance intermediaries).
Companies benefiting from TSRB and ET commercial services: Between       1 January 2008 and 31 July 2013, TSRB and ET data were incorporated into       the commercial products and systems of 22 international organisations [A],       and therefore contributed to the financial benefits accrued by these       organisations.
These companies comprise 20 in insurance and reinsurance,       one in global telecommunications and one that is a technical service       provider for the global oil and gas industry.
Thirteen of these companies       are/were subscribers for at least three successive years [A].
Five       examples of companies that have benefited significantly are:     1) TSR products enhance the ImpactonDemand platform sold by Aon Benfield       &#8212; the world's leading reinsurance intermediary &#8212; by providing live feeds       and historical footprints of global tropical cyclone tracks.
ImpactonDemand is a highly innovative and versatile platform that enables       Aon Benfield's many clients to visualise and quantify their exposures to       risk, and perform sophisticated, detailed data analysis to drive       insightful business decisions.
Their Managing Director of Product       Development and Applied Research said: "The input from TSR underpins the       mission of Aon Benfield Research [...] to deliver relevant research that       helps insurers and reinsurers to build their understanding and management       of risks."
[F]     2) Lloyd's &#8212; the world's specialist insurance market &#8212; uses TSR products       in its services to its 57 managing agents (which comprise much of the       London insurance market).
The company's Head of Exposure Management and       Reinsurance noted: "The regular hurricane updates are invaluable in       providing early warning of potential impacts.
The additional business       service [...] gives us an independent early view of likely losses from       live hurricanes.
This assists us with catastrophe response planning, media       liaison and regulatory discussions."
[G]     3) The Norwegian Hull Club (NHC) &#8212; one of the largest marine insurers in       the world &#8212; uses TSR products in alerting its portfolio of over 9,200       vessels worldwide to steer clear of approaching dangerous storms.
NHC       started using TSR products after losing two vessels in September 2009 due       to tropical storms and a "lack of storm awareness" by vessel masters,       which cost the company over US$12 million.
This experience caused the       company to introduce measures to ensure that such losses did not happen       again, and it "identified TSR as providing the desired type of reliable,       regularly updated and easily understandable tropical storm warning       information."
NHC's Director of Communications and Client Services said:       "The TSR warning information is embedded within the NHC in-house satellite       data assimilation system and is dispatched to vessel masters and       management companies to warn of approaching dangerous storms in an easy       understandable (Google Earth) format.
This system provides 24/7/365       operational monitoring and advice [...] Since September 2009 the NHC have       not experienced another total loss from tropical storms!"
[H]     4) At SCOR &#8212; a leading global reinsurance company &#8212; TSR products have       enabled, since 2010, the "rapid dissemination of new information [relating       to tropical storms] across interested parties throughout the business,       including underwriting, claims and senior management personnel."
SCOR's       Head of Natural Catastrophe Risk Modelling added: "the free storm tracking       TSR website is the `go-to' source used by the many underwriting       organisations with natural catastrophe portfolio risk."
[I]     5) The claims management team at RSA &#8212; a FTSE 100 company providing       insurance products and services in 32 countries worldwide &#8212; greatly       benefit from "EuroTempest's accurate and timely forecasts of the loss from       high winds before and immediately after a windstorm event striking Europe       [...] in assessing risk and in allocating resources."
RSA's Head of       Technical Services reported that the claims division has for several years       employed "EuroTempest's database of weather observations across the UK in       order to help validate weather related claims by postcode."
[J]     Influencing humanitarian work and contributing to saving lives:       TSR warnings and data have contributed to preparedness work and the       reallocation of funds for tropical storms affecting several countries       worldwide since January 2008.
A recent example is tropical storm Mahasen       which struck Bangladesh in May 2013.
TSR warnings and data for Mahasen       triggered successful preparedness and disaster risk management work in       Bangladesh and Myanmar by teams from Plan International (one of the       largest children's humanitarian organisations in the world) [K].
According       to the United Nations (UN), this preparatory work by humanitarians for       Mahasen contributed to the saving of "countless lives" in Bangladesh,       where an estimated one million people were evacuated from 13 coastal       districts in the 24 hours before the storm hit [L].
