     Doherty's research has created impact through a body of outputs that has       contributed to the emergence of video installation within contemporary       art, while also engaging with the dissemination of these works into the       public realm in a manner that contributes to their wider cultural meaning       and understanding.
The significance and reach of these impacts have been achieved through       national and international public exhibitions and installations,       exhibition catalogues and monographs, broadcast and web-based media,       screenings and other public events.
Doherty's video works have been       acquired by national and international public collections including Tate,       Imperial War Museum, London, IMMA, Dublin and MOMA, New York, ensuring       that these works will remain accessible in the public sphere and that the       aspiration of the research to contribute to the representation of       landscape and the understanding of conflict will be supported.
Since 2008 Doherty's research has generated impact among creative       practitioners and scholars by initiating fresh debate and informing the       production of video works that challenge the mutually exclusive spaces of       the cinema and the gallery.
Doherty's distinctive use of voiceover aligned       with his careful use of locations of historical or political significance       have informed and stimulated other artists' methods for producing artworks       that address issues of conflict.
Doherty's research has been cited in       several prominent surveys on video art including Film and Video Art,       Stuart Comer, Tate Publishing, 2008 and The Place of Artists' Cinema:       Space, Site and Screen, Maeve Connolly, Intellect, 2009.
It has been the       subject of numerous one-person and group exhibitions including Buried,       Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh, 2009, Requisite Distance, Dallas       Museum of Art, 2009, Manifesta 8, Murcia, 2010 and Traces, The       Speed Art Museum Kentucky, 2011.
In 2010 Doherty was invited to       participate in dOCUMENTA (13).
Doherty engaged with one of the strands of       dOCUMENTA (13) addressing history and place and produced a new video       installation, Secretion.
dOCUMENTA(13) attracted more than 860,000       visitors and 12,500 accredited journalists over 100 days.
5,300       professionals were also accredited for the preview.
Secretion was       one of five artworks commissioned for dOCUMENTA(13) that were acquired for       the permanent collection of the city of Kassel by the government of the       state of Hesse.
Secretion was installed in Neue Galerie, Kassel in       January 2013 where it will remain on display for two years as part of the       city's permanent collection.
Secretion has also been exhibited at       SMK Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, 2012 and the Irish Museum of       Modern Art, Dublin, 2013.
The reach and significance of the impact has been further enhanced beyond       the academy by Doherty's engagement in outreach programmes that expand the       diversity of communities, organisations and individuals who engage with       the research outputs.
This activity contributes to enhancing understanding       of the centrality of landscape and memory to processes of memorialization       and reconciliation in post-conflict Northern Ireland and elsewhere.
The       supporting programme of events and talks surrounding Doherty's 2009       exhibition Buried at Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh is       representative of this approach.
The programme included a collaboration       with the Edinburgh International Film Festival to screen Ghost Story       followed by a discussion and audience Q&amp;A with Doherty and the       cinematographer Seamus McGarvey.
Doherty has further explored the       potential of the crossover between artists' video works and cinema by       actively engaging with a number of film festivals in order to expand the       reach and significance of his research to new audiences.
These include       Kunst Film Biennale, Cologne, 2007 and Berlin and Paris, 2009, the Prince       Charles Cinema, London, 2008, followed by a discussion with the       broadcaster, Tim Marlow, and the Foyle Film Festival, Derry, 2008.
Following the inclusion of Secretion in dOCUMENTA(13) Doherty also       accepted invitations to screen this work to a wider audience in CPH:DOX       2012.
Copenhagen International Documentary Film Festival, 2012, the 42nd       International Film Festival Rotterdam and the 51st Ann Arbor       Film Festival, 2013.
Doherty has sought further ways in which to expand the reach and       significance of this impact by contributing to public understanding of       processes of commemoration and reconciliation in Derry, the place where       much of his research has been produced.
Doherty's most recent video       installation Remains, 2013 addressed the issue of punishment       shootings, an unresolved matter in post-conflict Northern Ireland, and       engaged with the UK City of Culture 2013 core theme of `purposeful       inquiry'.
Remains was exhibited in Doherty's solo exhibition,       UNSEEN, part of the programme of Derry/Londonderry UK City of Culture       2013.
Remains evolved from `Lost Boys', a collaboration       with the journalist and author Susan McKay commissioned for a special City       of Culture edition of the literary publication Field Day Review.
