     The research led by Professor O'Rahilly has had impact on patients,       practitioners and the wider public as follows;     Impact on Health     Public health and wellbeing has improved.
Patients who have serious diseases, the cause of which is not known to       medical science, suffer not only from the direct adverse effects of their       disorders but also from the anxiety and demoralisation that result when       they cannot be provided with any meaningful explanation for their disease.
O'Rahilly's research has provided patients with meaningful explanations       for the causes of their serious sometimes life-threatening disorders when       previously there were none, leading to an immediate and positive impact on       patient wellbeing and satisfaction and, in an increasing number of cases,       initiation of trials of novel approaches to therapy.
Specifically,       O'Rahilly, Savage and Semple have discovered or made major contributions       to the discovery of 10, previously unrecognised, genetic syndromes of       severe insulin resistance / lipodystrophy and two further syndromes of       excessive insulin-like action.
In several of these disorders understanding       the molecular basis has suggested specific new treatment strategies which       are currently being explored in pre-clinical models and a subset in the       clinic.
The publication of these discoveries and their presentation at       international meetings has led to the same benefits being conferred on       patients world-wide (1).
The team have, together with several remarkable patients, also       established a patient support group for lipodystrophy, one of the more       common causes of severe insulin resistance, with a website that commenced       in August 2006 (2).
The support group now comprises &gt;150 members and       the website is visited ~500-1000 times per month on average by people in       the UK and internationally.
The patient support group is autonomous but       the Cambridge team (led by Dr Savage) provide medical advice where       requested and host annual meetings for the patient group, the most recent       of which took place in March 2013.
Feedback collected at this meeting       shows support group members greatly value the clinical and research       insights into the condition that it provides, as well as the opportunity       to meet others with similar conditions (3).
New diagnostics have been adopted     The success of this research programme has played an important role in       driving clinical diagnostic innovations.
This has permitted the use of a       simple, cheap, biochemical screen that involves measurement of serum       adiponectin (4) for these patients, allowing highly efficient (by limiting       inappropriate and expensive genetic analysis of large genes (INSR gene has       &gt;20 exons)), targeted genetic testing of the gene encoding the insulin       receptor and greatly accelerating molecular diagnosis (5).
This work       culminated in publication of a proposed revised classification of severe       insulin resistance syndromes which facilitates both accelerated diagnosis       and optimises intervention strategies (reference 1; Section 3).
The development in Cambridge of novel diagnostic algorithms (first       implemented in 2008) to expedite molecular diagnosis in insulin resistance       has resulted in rapidly increasing rates of genetic diagnosis among       patients with severe insulin resistance and lead to increasing numbers of       patients receiving a specific molecular diagnosis (~42% of new referrals       to the service).
The diagnostic improvements made by the Cambridge team       have been complemented by access to and clinical use of new peptide-based       treatments with rarely available therapeutic agents including recombinant       human leptin (made available by Amylin Inc. solely to Cambridge within the       UK for named patient use since 2008) and recombinant human IGF-1.
Impact on commerce and economy     Amylin was recently acquired by Bristol Myers Squibb Ltd who are       currently pursuing the licensing of leptin as a therapy for orphan       diseases of metabolism in the USA and Europe.
This work culminated in a       successful application to the (now) NHS England National Specialist       Commissioning Team for national commissioning of a multidisciplinary       clinical service for patients with severe insulin resistance (6,7).
This       was commissioned in April 2011, with support totalling &#163;450,000 per annum,       funding a full-time NHS consultant and specialist nurse, part-time       dietician and administrative support, a full range of diagnostic testing,       and clinical use of leptin and IGF1.
This service, which opened in July       2011, provides clinical, biochemical and genetic assessment for patients       with severe insulin resistance (7).
Impact on practitioners and services     The multi-disciplinary team also provides management advice to referring       physicians and, in a subset of patients, they initiate and supervise       either leptin or IGF-1 therapy.
To date 88 patients have been seen in this       specialist clinic and rates of referral are increasing rapidly.
Diabetic       patients with suboptimal glucose (glycaemic) control who have attended our       service have already, since July 2011, achieved an average reduction in       HBA1c (standard index for diabetes control) of 1.1%.
This level of       reduction exceeds the goal of a 1% reduction in HBA1c for novel treatments       for type 2 diabetes and is expected to significantly delay micro- and       macrovascular complications.
Results from a patient feedback survey of the       service are included in (8).
