     The long-standing relationship between UCL and NASA Jet Propulsion       Laboratory and NASA Goddard Space Flight Centre founded on the research       outlined above has been sustained to the present day via invited       presentations at those institutions; publications in scientific journals       (including joint publications with NASA scientists, e.g.
[6]) and in       conference presentations.
Ziebart has convened conference sessions on       orbit dynamics at the American Geophysical Union and the European       Geosciences Union, stimulating further work in the field.
As well as       supporting this important relationship with NASA's research centres, the       work led to the UCL's participation (2003 onwards) in the NASA Ocean       Surface Topography Science working team.
Ziebart became a board member of       the International GNSS Service (IGS) in 2011, and provided leadership of       the IGS working group on satellite orbit dynamics.
These relationships       have provided vital pathways for the impacts of the research described       above.
They have led, in particular, to the use of UCL research to correct       errors in the orbit prediction and orbit determination of satellites,       enabling these satellites to provide more precise data for a range of       applications, including monitoring the effects of climate change, and in       GPS satellite navigation systems.
Contributions to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate         Change (IPCC):       Because thermal expansion and ice cover loss (glaciers, ice sheets)       contribute to rising sea level, ocean monitoring provides one of the best       ways of modelling long-term climate effects.
Sea level monitoring is       carried out using high-accuracy altimetry satellites that are able to       record millimetre-level changes, enabling precise calculations of       temperature changes in the ocean over time.
NASA's primary mission for       measuring sea level change was the Jason-1 satellite, which was       operational from 2001 to 2013.
Every ten days, Jason-1 produced a model of       the shape of the world's oceans, providing accurate indications of       long-term changes in sea level.
Jason-1 data constituted a critical       element in the geophysical data records (GDRs, compiled by NASA, and used       widely by oceanographers to monitor and model ocean dynamics) determining       changes in the ocean's surface, thus forming one of the most powerful       pieces of evidence to show that the Earth's climate is changing.
Throughout Jason-1's lifetime, the GDRs were submitted to the       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the world's principal       climate science assessment body whose members include representatives of       195 governments.
The solar radiation pressure and thermal re-radiation       modelling techniques established by Ziebart's team, which were adopted as       operational standards by NASA in 2010 removed significant systematic       biases in the satellite orbits, reducing aliasing and anomalies in the sea       level records passed to the IPCC [6].
In December 2007, the IPCC released its Fourth Assessment Report on the       scientific basis, impacts and mitigation of climate change.
It included       details of the recorded change in sea level to that point, based on       Jason-1 outputs.
Between 2008 and 2013, data from Jason-1 continued to be       passed to the IPCC, feeding into its 2008 Climate Change and Water       Technical Report [f] and informing the subject matter of its Working Group       1, which monitors and reports on the physical science bases of climate       change.
Reports from this working group are discussed by policymakers and       other stakeholders at the UN's annual climate change conferences (UN COP,       four of which have been held between 2008 and July 2013).
The first draft       of the group's contribution to the IPCC's Fifth Assessment Report,       including a summary for policymakers, was made available to governments       for comments in July 2013.
A lead author for IPCC Working Group 1 says:       "This mission [Jason-1] provides one of the fundamental inputs to the       IPCC... the computation of orbits is an integral step in the chain of       producing meaningful data.
This data is being used by sea level scientists       to improve projections of future sea level rise."
In turn, the IPCC's data "then affects directly the formulation of policy       seeking to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change upon the entire       population of the Earth."
One direct application he points to is the use       of the data to determine planning for coastal infrastructure.
[d]     GPS satellites: The development of Ziebart's techniques and their       subsequent testing (in particular the demonstration of the effectiveness       of earth radiation pressure and antenna thrust modelling) changed the way       in which the orbits of all GPS satellites are calculated &#8212; specifically       considering the directions and characteristics of forces previously not       considered.
Those satellites have applications in monitoring the       earthquake cycle, measuring plate tectonics, precision agriculture as well       as for routine navigation applications in electronic devices such as       smartphones, which are used by many millions of people worldwide.
The main       impact has been at the scientific end of the spectrum leading to an       accuracy improvement by a factor of 2.5 in the computed satellite orbits       [b].
These techniques were adopted as standard in 2010 by the International       GNSS Service, a voluntary federation of more than 200 worldwide agencies       that generates precise open-data GPS and GNSS products.
The IGS produces       daily orbit calculations for all satellites; its adoption of the       techniques developed through UCL's work allowed it to improve its orbit       accuracy from 5cm to 2cm.
IGS data usage is characterised by 700,000 site       visits a year, with circa 90 million downloads [e].
This data is used to       determine the terrestrial reference frame (TRF), the system of coordinates       used for monitoring the shape of the earth.
The TRF forms the fundamental       basis for monitoring plate tectonics and height variation at tide gauges,       among other applications such as modelling sea level change and       post-glacial rebound, as well as commercial positioning services.
