     The research presented in section 2 was vital to the development of a       licensed implant which now forms part of the Stanmore Juvenile Tumour       System &#8212; a customised endoprothesis for use in children after massive bone       removal.
The implant has benefited paediatric patients and healthcare       providers around the world, while also having a significant commercial       benefit for the licence holder, Stanmore Implants Worldwide (SIW).
Development and commercial adoption of a new technology, with         wide-ranging subsequent economic benefits: A full UK and       US patent on the technology was granted in 2001 [a].
A licence       to manufacture the device was granted to Stanmore Implants by the tech       transfer company at UCL in 2007.
Stanmore Implants, originally a UCL       spinout company, was then sold for &#163;10 million in February 2008 [k].
In       2011, the device received FDA approval for use in the USA [b].
In the USA       the market for this product is estimated to be worth over $30 million.
The       device has now been used in 15 countries worldwide, including the US.
More       than 400 devices have been sold around the world since 2008.
This has       provided Stanmore Implants Ltd., a UCL spin-out company set up to       commercialise the research, with an income of over &#163;6 million [d].
A recent US study assessed the cost of a non-invasive lengthening       procedure at $267, compared with approximately $8,000 if surgery is       required [b].
On average, a patient with an invasive device would have six       surgical interventions over the course of their growth period and the       calculated saving would be over $46,000.
In the UK, the cost to the NHS of       performing a single invasive lengthening procedure &#8212; including the costs       of a two-night stay in hospital and the operation is &#163;3,500.
On this basis       alone, using the non-invasive implant, which in the UK costs &#163;18,000,       produces a saving of around &#163;19,000 per patient.
If we factor in freeing       up operating facilities and surgeon time then the saving increases even       more.
In a number of patients who would have had an invasive prosthesis       there would been an increased infection risk with a even greater cost       implication.
Given that about 50 children require this procedure in the UK       each year, the use of the non-invasive technology therefore allows UK       health service savings of over &#163;10m per annum, the "hidden" savings       including the cost of in-patient care, rehabilitation and the       inconvenience associated with invasive lengthening for both the patient       and their family.
Provision of a superior surgical device: In a study presented to       the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) 2012 Annual Meeting,       the Stanmore endoprosthesis compared favourably to other mechanical       prostheses on the market with a higher MSTS (Musculoskeletal Tumour       Society) score than other available devices, with a score of 27.4 (out of       30).
The score is an internationally recognised method of evaluating       endoprostheses, with the system assigning numerical values (0-5) for each       of six categories: function and emotional acceptance, pain, walking and       gait quality for lower limbs, functioning in upper limbs, demographic       information and patient satisfaction.
Likewise, only three implants failed to extend, out of a series of 44       patients followed up for between 22 to 104 months [output 5, above].
The       UCL research team developed a programme of testing for each individual       device before they were implanted and there have been just 12 failures of       the 400 devices that have been sold since 2008.
These implants have been       sold over the entire world [d].
Describing the UCL growing prosthesis, the President of the British       Orthopaedic Association said: "as an orthopaedic surgeon who specialises       in sarcoma treatment and working in a world-renowned centre for bone       cancer surgery, this innovation has changed the way I treat these       patients."
[h] Certainly, the prosthesis developed by Professor Blunn and       his team demonstrates reproducibility and reliability superior to other       implants extendable in situ.
It has a much lower failure rate than       mechanical lengthening prostheses: in one clinical trial of a rival       device, mechanical failure affected 7 of 15 implanted devices [c].
In       comparison, in a series reported in 2011 from the Royal National       Orthopaedic Hospital in London, of 55 children aged between 5 and 16 who       underwent reconstruction with the UCL prosthesis, 10 of the 11 patients       (20%) who were skeletally mature at follow-up had equal leg lengths and       nine had a full range of movement of the hip and knee.
Such is the       superiority of the UCL growing prosthesis, in fact, that a number of the       devices supplied by Stanmore Implants have been used to revise competitor       implants that have a high failure rate.
Improved health, welfare and patient wellbeing: In direct       comparison to surgical treatment, the use of the UCL-developed prosthesis       reduces, by an average of six per patient, the number of surgical       interventions &#8212; with all their attendant risks of infection and additional       trauma &#8212; required.
Additionally, after insertion, the prostheses can be       extended more gradually than other invasive expandable implants and for       this reason nerve palsies, stiffness and pain is reduced [f, g].
The       reduced pain and trauma, as well as the reduced risk of infection       associated with this new technology is particularly welcome given its use       to treat young patients.
Each year in the United Kingdom, approximately 50       child sarcomas necessitate limb salvage surgery for children who need an       extendable implant able to be lengthened periodically to keep pace with       the growth in the opposite limb.
The UCL-developed prosthesis delivers a       good functional outcome and numerous patient benefits in comparison with       both standard treatment and other non-invasive implants.
Since 200, it has       been the standard UK treatment for children with these bone cancers,       although some minimally invasive devices are still used.
Using       electromagnetic induction, the prosthesis allows for gradual, painless       controlled extension that can be undertaken in the clinic, reducing the       need for repeated surgeries with the attendant increased risks of       infection and the inconvenience and distress of hospitalisation for the       patient.
Furthermore, after the initial implantation surgery, no       anaesthesia is required for the lengthening process.
The device also has       wider applications than paediatric patients: 1-2% of the implants using it       have been to treat skeletally mature patients with shortening after failed       joint replacement surgery [e].
The Macmillan Nurse Consultant &amp; Lead Cancer Nurse in charge of the       day-to-day care of paediatric patients at the Royal National Orthopaedic       Hospital indicates that: "Patients no longer have to fear repeated surgery       and more scars from surgery.
It increases patient participation and       ownership in their physical recovery and rehabilitation.
The lengthening       procedure is now coordinated and undertaken in a nurse-led clinic.
This       has resulted in reduced hospital stays, consultant surgeon and       anaesthetist time and physiotherapy requirements.
The lengthening       procedure is completely painless for the patient and many patients have       reported this time as being therapeutic as they sit and talk with the       nurse.
In conclusion, the non-invasive growing implant provides multiple       patient benefits and improved patient outcomes whilst also reducing       clinical risks and financial costs related to hospitalisation."
[i]     The mother of a teenage patient said: "The implant is remarkable.
It       means that as long as the cancer stays away, she can grow gradually       without having regular follow-up surgery... Until five years ago, Sophia       would probably have had to have her leg amputated."
[j]
