     The Good Practice Guidance we have produced is the first and only       official guidance on psychiatric reports for sentencing in England and       Wales endorsed by HMCS.
The authority of the Guidance is increased by the       fact that the research received the support of a steering group of senior       staff from the MoJ, HMCS, the Department of Health, a senior judge from       the Central Criminal Court, a district judge heading an MoJ pilot project       mental health court and the Chair of the Faculty of Forensic Psychiatry of       the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
Reports may be commissioned by the       magistrates' courts and the Crown Court when a defendant is considered       possibly to have a mental disorder and an expert medical opinion is       necessary to assist sentencing.
The Bradley Report (April 2009) indicates       that the estimated number of mentally disordered suspects passing through       police stations in England and Wales varies between 2% and 20%.
In 2010 the Mental Health Policy Lead for HMCS (A) supervised an       extensive programme of dissemination of the Guidance.
This involved the       publication of the Guidance in the web site of the MoJ and the posting of       a notice on the intranet system for magistrates and Crown Court's judges.
In addition the Guidance was incorporated into the manuals for magistrates       and Crown Court's judges containing operational guidance in relation to       the court work.
During the first few months (especially the first three       months) after the publication of the Guidance, the Mental Health Policy       Lead office was contacted by a number of forensic psychiatrists and       members of the judiciary (between 20 and 40 people) feeding back on the       usefulness of the Guidance in overcoming the previous lack of       consistency/relevance of psychiatric reports for sentencing, and/or asking       for advice and explanation in relation to the use of the Guidance.
In       particular a number of inquiries from the courts concerned some aspects of       the commissioning process (including how to identify/access suitable local       forensic psychiatrists and what skills are required for the production of       relevant/high quality psychiatric reports for sentencing).
Courts must       ensure that the Guidance is complied with, as failure to do so may lead to       objections raised by defence solicitors or the judiciary.
In 2010 the Guidance was endorsed also by the Faculty of Forensic       Psychiatry of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, which contributed to its       dissemination among practitioners by making it available at various levels       to Divisions and Faculties across the UK and on the Forensic Faculty       website.
According to the former Chair of the Faculty (in office until       July 2012) and current Clinical Director of Forensic Services at Oxleas       NHS Foundation Trust (South London)(B), the implementation of the       Guidance produced impact especially in relation to the relationship       between forensic psychiatrists and local courts.
One example is that in       2012 in South London a single point of access to psychiatric services was       created, as advised by the Guidance.
This is a single point of access       system allowing the commissioners to request a report from local health       providers by directing their request to the Bracton Centre (forensic       service) which will deal with the request and source a suitable       psychiatrist for the report.
This Service Level Agreement has ensured       timely supply of psychiatric reports of consistent quality to the       magistrates' courts.
Another area of impact of the Guidance concerns the training of trainee       forensic psychiatrists and their communication with non-psychiatrists in       the commissioning of reports.
B informed us that since 2010 the Guidance       has been used in training forensic psychiatrists by Educational       Supervisors and in Court Liaison Teams operational throughout South       London.
The adoption of the Guidance for training has also been confirmed       by the Medical Director and consultant forensic psychiatrist at the South       Staffordshire and Shropshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust (C).
She teaches the principles of the Guidance to core trainees and higher       trainees in forensic psychiatry and noted that the Guidance will enable       two significant improvements in the production of relevant psychiatric       reports, properly addressing the questions raised by the commissioner of       the report.
Firstly, prior to the guidance, such reports lacked focus or       were `all purpose' reports not responding to the specific needs of the       commissioner.
Secondly, psychiatric reports used to be written in a       specialist clinical language not accessible to a non-psychiatrist.
By       learning the principles laid down in the Guidance, trainee forensic       psychiatrists are developing skills in the production of relevant,       well-written reports that more effectively address the needs of the       commissioner.
C also cited improvements in interaction with the       commissioners as a result of the Guidance.
Previously there was little       specific instruction on how to commission and produce a psychiatric       report.
Accordingly there was a lack of consistency in the practice across       the sector and so commissioners occasionally questioned aspects of the       reports and required supplementary reports where they felt that issues had       not been satisfactorily addressed.
She notes that the existence of the       official Guidance provides a solid source for practitioners' reference,       both for commissioners and consultant forensic psychiatrists.
In this way       commissioners are clearer about what can be expected of a psychiatric       report and how a report should appear in terms of structure, language and       content, and consultant forensic psychiatrists can direct commissioners to       this Guidance for reference.
Impact on training and practice has been further confirmed by a       consultant forensic psychiatrist at the Ashworth Hospital (D) (one       of the 3 high secure psychiatric hospitals in England and Wales).
While       doing research for his master's thesis at the University of Manchester       (2012), D learned about the Guidance, which became part of his       professional background.
D learned about the Guidance also during an       expert witness training course at UCLAN (2012).
Whilst the Royal College       of Psychiatrists' 2008 Report aims to achieve similar aims as the MoJ 2010       Good Practice Guidance, D finds that the latter is more detailed and       better fit for purpose.
D informed us that he wrote 10 psychiatric reports       in 2012 and 5 in 2013, in all cases abiding by the Guidance and putting in       practice its recommendations.
D brought to our attention that the Guidance       impacted on his practice beyond psychiatric reports for sentencing.
When       writing psychiatric reports for admission to high secure care D follows       the recommendations of the Guidance as they are transferable to this other       field of activity.
We have recently been informed by the Head of Consultancy Service (E)       at St Andrew's Healthcare (the largest UK mental health charity) that       during 2013 the Service distributed the Guidance to over 70 clinicians       working within the Consultancy Service (including consultant forensic       psychiatrists) for information when they act as expert witnesses for the       courts through the Service.
