     Its work on next-generation biomaterials and development of the patented       POSS nanocomposite polymers allowed the UCL research team to bring the       first fully synthetic organ into the clinical setting.
This has had a       transformative effect on organ development and replacement therapies and,       in turn, the outcomes for and wellbeing of patients around the world.
Introduction of new therapy: Although it is possible to surgically       resect tracheal tumours, most are already of an inoperable size by the       time of diagnosis.
As such, the synthetic trachea addressed a pressing       clinical requirement for alternative therapeutic options.
In 2011, a       patient with advanced tracheal cancer who had exhausted all existing       treatment options was referred to cardiothoracic surgeon Professor       Macchiarini at the Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm.
In turn, Macchiarini       approached Seifalian for help.
Seifalian used his POSS-PCU polymer [output       1] and knowledge of developing and seeding 3D scaffolds [output 4] to       manufacture the synthetic trachea implant, which consisted of a 12cm       trachea along with two bronchi &#8212; the largest such implant ever attempted       and the world's first wholly tissue-engineered synthetic organ         transplant [a,b].
By using the patient's CT scans, Seifalian was       able to model the implant on the exact dimensions of the patient's own       trachea, making implantation significantly easier.
Mechanically, the       synthetic trachea had similar properties to a native organ, including       ring-like cartilage structures, with porous materials between them       allowing 15% stretchability.
UCL's researchers developed a bioreactor for       the organ's development, which dripped the patient's own stem cells onto       the porous scaffold under physiological conditions in an incubator.
Because it used his own stem cells, there was no need for the patient to       take the immunosuppressive drugs required after donor transplants.
The       trachea and bronchi were implanted in June 2011; more than two years on,       the patient has a functioning organ and is doing very well.
Describing the       implantation and its effects, Professor of Laryngology at the Royal       National Throat, Nose and Ear Hospital said: "This is the first time that       a trachea made from a synthetic scaffold (here repopulated using stem       cells), has preserved life and quality of life for longer than a few       months...follow up is now 2.5 years" [c].
This was the first instance in which doctors had ever been able to       manufacture human organs using synthetic scaffolds, and then incorporate       autologous stem cells.
As such, the work not only saved the life of the       patient in whom the synthetic trachea was implanted, but revolutionised         the development of organs more broadly.
The success of previous       lab-generated transplants, which lined a decellularised donor trachea with       the patient's stem cells, had been limited by a number of problems that       Seifalian's trachea was able to overcome.
These included the very real       difficulties of obtaining the necessary donor organs; even assuming that       these could be found, moreover, the decellularising is suitable only for       small sections of trachea, rather than an entire organ, and risks damaging       their underlying structure, leading to their collapse once they are       implanted in the patient.
The danger of donor cells not being completely       removed produces a further, significant risk of prompting a potentially       serious immune system response in the organ recipient [c].
The       considerable comparative benefits of Seifalian's synthetic organ       development are explained by a Professor of Plastic Surgery at the Royal       Free Hospital, who explains that the POSS nanocomposite: "provides a       platform to create innovative solutions to reconstructive problems facing       military and civilian casualties.
It has applications in many regions of       the body...
It has the advantage of being a material that can be modified       to allow tissue integration or to reduce adhesion as well as being       biodegradable and non biodegradable" [g].
The global significance of the       contribution made by the synthetic trachea to organ development and       replacement was acknowledged by Seifalian's receipt of the "most       innovative new product" award at the 2012 Life Science Awards in Germany       [f].
The research has, moreover, been used to develop organs other than the       synthetic trachea.
These include lacrimal (tear) ducts, which have       been implanted into five patients since September 2010.
Without treatment,       patients whose tear ducts have had to be removed because of cancer or       trauma, would have constantly watering eyes, making effective replacement       imperative for those affected.
The UCL tear duct conduit, which is made       from nanocomposite polymer and coated with silver nanoparticle, replaces       the previous standard therapeutic use of a glass tube to direct tears into       the nasal cavity, a practice with generally poor clinical outcomes and a       high risk of breakage.
The surgeon who performed the surgery in several       patients reports that complications have been almost non-existent and tear       flow well-regulated [d].
The conduit was filed for patent in 2011 [h].
The UCL team has also developed the world's first bypass graft         capable of in-situ endothelialisation from the patient's own       endothelial progenitor stem cells in circulating blood.
Bypass grafts can       be manufactured using a specially designed and developed automated       extrusion system, which produces grafts up to 100cm in length with a       diameter ranging from 1-16mm, suitable for replacing even long blood       vessels in legs.
Vascular bypass grafts were carried out in two patients       in 2010 and 2011; both patients are doing well.
POSS-PCU is a particularly       suitable material for cardiovascular devices because of its       anti-thrombogenicity and viscoelastic properties.
In October 2013,       clinical trials of the use of this graft for coronary artery bypass began       at Heart Hospital London, and of vascular access at Royal Free Hospital.
[e]     Commercial impacts: UCL has used the research to develop more than       10 patents, with the POSS polymer granted a US patent in 2010 [j].
A number of other patents have been filed since 2008, including a heart       valve prosthesis made from POSS-PCU, and synthetic scaffolds and organ and       tissue transplantation [j].
Seifalian's POSS materials have also begun to       produce commercial benefits, with new businesses established to       commercialise the technology.
These include SmartTech, set up in 2013 as a       joint venture with Pharmidex and Flexicare Medical, which is       commercialising the use of POSS-PCL for nerve regeneration and stents.
Another spinout business, Belsize Polymer, was also established in May       2013 in order to take organs including trachea, facial organs and breast       filler to clinical trial and commercialisation [j].
