     In the period after 31 December 2007, the research embodied in Professor       Copsey's ground-breaking history of the BNP (2004) complemented by his       widely read 2007 article, continued to feature in national conversations       occasioned by the BNP's electoral emergence.
An entire chapter from output       1, on the `modernisation' of the BNP, was taken up and published online by       the Marxist discussion journal, What Next?
Although the work was       critical of Marxist perspectives on fascism, the preamble endorsed the       underpinning research: "This is Chapter 5 of Nigel Copsey's excellent book       Contemporary British Fascism and the Quest for Legitimacy (Palgrave 2004)       which is highly recommended, particularly now it is available in a [2008]       paperback edition" [1].
Extensively referenced prior to 2008 (his 2004 monograph was cited, for       example, in a major public-facing Democratic Audit report into the growing       appeal of the BNP published prior to the 2006 local elections), Copsey's       book continued to draw citation in various reviews, reports, and policy       documents circulated by civil society organisations (and thus contributed       to wider public understanding of the challenges that the rise of the BNP       presented).
Examples of the different constituencies reached by this       material include: the legal campaign group, One Law for All; the NASUWT;       as well as various religious congregations [2].
Copsey's book was       also selected for inclusion in the British Library's bibliography on the       BNP one of 21 topical bibliographies that functions as introductory guide       to the public [3].
In 2010 Copsey was commissioned by NGO Faith Matters to write the first       detailed study of the newly emerging English Defence League.
Through       recognition of the quality of his research, Copsey caught the attention of       Fiyaz Mughal, Director of Faith Matters.
Working closely on dissemination       with Faith Matters, Copsey's 10,000-word, public-facing report secured       national media coverage (e.g.
Independent, 28.11.10; BBC Radio 4,       12.12.10).
Over 500 people immediately placed the Independent's       article on their Facebook site.
Through this channel alone, between 5,000       and 10,000 people (a conservative estimate) secured links to the report [4].
The report was cited by five news agencies; there was also take-up by       various websites and campaign groups, including ENGAGE, an NGO working       towards enhancing engagement by Muslim communities in national life,       particularly in politics and the media [5].
In order to assist with raising awareness of contemporary far-right       extremism amongst young adults, Copsey spoke to the Young Foundation at a       central London event in March 2011.
This event &#8212; "Are we entering a new       politics of extremism?"
&#8212; was chaired by Labour MP Rushanara Ali.
It       formed part of the UpRising project (a project dedicated to supporting       young adults from diverse backgrounds as future leaders across public,       private and voluntary sectors).
Copsey spoke to an audience of around 100       stakeholder participants, mainly young adults from areas particularly       affected by the challenges of right-wing extremism, such as Barking and       Dagenham, Newham and Tower Hamlets.
This event was followed by an invitation from the Research and       Documentation Committee of the Muslim Council of Britain to write a       critical online opinion piece on the latest iteration of the Government's       counter-terrorist Prevent strategy.
The piece, which was aimed       specifically at Muslim communities, was published online in June 2011 [6].
The revised Prevent strategy recognised an existential threat from       far-right radicalisation.
Informing implementation of Prevent, the       Home Affairs Committee undertook an inquiry into the root causes of       violent radicalisation.
As part of this inquiry, Copsey contributed to the       Home Affairs Conference on Violent Radicalisation in December 2011.
In the       subsequent Home Affairs Committee report, which was published in early       2012, Copsey was referenced in terms of reiterating the risks of       `cumulative extremism' [7].
The point about `cumulative extremism' (one extremism feeding off       another) was also made by Copsey at the Home Office in a closed meeting       with the Research, Information and Communications Unit of the Office for       Security and Counter-Terrorism in January 2012.
The following month,       Copsey's influential report on the EDL was selected as a key resource in a       Cross-Government Working Group Report on anti-Muslim hatred [8].
Copsey also assisted in the drafting of an internal DCLG report on       anti-Muslim hate crime in March 2012.
Given his valuable research       examining the rise and impact of the EDL, Copsey was then invited to       participate in a private roundtable meeting of experts, activists and       practitioners at St Ethelburga's Peace and Reconciliation Centre in       London.
In the wake of the Breivik massacre in Norway, Copsey's work on the EDL       featured in forskning.no (an online newspaper devoted to       disseminating Norwegian and international research) [9].
In May       2012 Copsey featured in a Finnish TV documentary &#8212; Spotlight &#8212; on       the growing anti-Islamic movement in Europe (he had been approached after       the programme's chief reporter had read his report on the EDL).
Filmed       extracts from a Copsey lecture on the EDL and an interview were screened       across two separate broadcasts (3.5.12) and (10.5.12) by the Finnish       equivalent of the BBC [10].
Eager to further locate his research       in the broader international context, on 25 April 2013 Copsey delivered a       public lecture at De Balie, Amsterdam, to an audience of around one       hundred.
A condensed version of the lecture, which examined continuities       between fascism, neo-fascism and radical right-wing populism, was       published in the Dutch quality daily NRC Handelsblad (circulation       approx.
200,000) [11].
As a pathway to sustaining future impact in this area, Teesside       University launched the new Centre for Fascism, Anti-Fascism and       Post-Fascist Studies (with Feldman as co-director).
The decision to launch       the Centre attracted extensive local, national and international media       coverage (e.g., Independent, 29.12.12; Guardian, 14.1.13; Muslim         Weekly, 18.1.13; BBC Radio 4, 27.1.13; Gulf Times, 30.12.12;       Philippine Times, 13.1.13; FM4 (radio) Austria, 27.4.13).
Norwegian       MP, H&#229;kon Haugli (Labour) submitted a question to the Norwegian Minister       of Justice, asking whether a similar research Centre should be established       in Norway [12].
Coinciding with its formal launch, the Centre published a quantitative       report entitled Anti-Muslim Hate Crime and the Far Right in June       2013, featuring Copsey as lead-author.
As part of our on-going engagement       with NGO Faith Matters, this report attracted extensive media coverage,       both nationally (e.g., Independent, 29.6.13; Observer,       30.6.13; Channel 4 News, 1.7.13; ITV Daybreak, 4.7.13) and       internationally (Zeenews.com 29.6.13; Zaman, 1.7.13; The         Nation Pakistan, 2.7.13, Press TV, 8.7.13).
During a       parliamentary debate on extremism and integration in early July 2013, the       report was cited by Labour MP Keith Vaz in a question to Eric Pickles,       Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government.
Pickles       recognised that anti-Muslim hate crime incidents should be graded [13].
Impact in this area is embedded and on-going.
Beyond the impact       assessment period, the resignations of the EDL's leaders in October 2013       involved a belated recognition that the EDL had clear links to the extreme       right, as Copsey had originally identified in his 2010 report.
The Centre       once again secured international media coverage [14].
Needless to       say, an occupational hazard of this type of research is that it can impact       upon the far right itself.
The standard response is for groups, like the       EDL and BNP, to dismiss it as the work of `biased leftists' or `cultural       Marxists' [15].
