     Nearly all solid medicines like tablets and capsules contain drugs in       crystalline form; and all crystals have the potential to `morph' into not       one but many alternative forms.
The likelihood of the crystals actually       changing and becoming a danger to patients is very small but it can and       does happen, with catastrophic consequences.
In 1988, a clinical failure of Tegretol (carbamazepine) tablets, the       anticonvulsant widely used with epilepsy, was observed.
It was believed to       be caused by a phase conversion from the anhydrate to dehydrate form.
In       1998 Abbott Laboratories withdrew Norvir (ritonavir), essential at that       time in the treatment of HIV/AIDS, because the capsules unexpectedly       failed dissolution tests.
The public were without an essential drug while       researchers investigated.
They finally identified that the drug crystals       had changed into a more stable, less soluble polymorph which contaminated       laboratories and effectively halted production processes.
They had to       completely reformulate the drug and develop a new capsule product.
The       case cost Abbott hundreds of millions of dollars and over 600 scientists       working for nearly a year to resolve the issue.
The estimated loss in       sales in 1998 alone is $250m.
Pfizer experienced similar problems with two drugs in development and       concluded that a deeper scientific knowledge of polymorphism was an       emerging need in the pharmaceutical industry.
The consequences were       typically catastrophic, hard to predict, clinically and economically       unacceptable, and damaging to patients' trust in the company to produce       the quality products they relied on.
Pfizer identified internal and external drivers for the need to       understand polymorphism on a more scientifically rigorous basis.
These       drivers included:            emphasis on the chemical rather than physical attributes of drugs and         excipients;       the instrumentation used to characterise polymorphism was relatively         simplistic and unable to predict the potential for phase transition;       the existing protocols to test physical performance required large         quantities of expensive pure solid drug, and occurred too late in the         development process to stimulate the re-engineering of defective         crystalline drug forms;       an industry-wide drive for more rapid drug development and clinical         testing.
Pfizer turned to the University of Greenwich to develop the scientific       methodology to:            produce small quantities of highly purified drug crystals, alone and         in drug product matrices, from side streams of conventional pilot         batches;       use the pure drugs to develop tests on single crystals, a process         which is much cheaper and can be performed at the start rather than end         of the drug development process;       develop tests that could predict polymorph instability and how they         behave during manufacture, and in turn allow the engineering and         understanding of new solid-state forms for development.
Since 2008 Pfizer has been able to apply the resulting methodologies,       systematically to the development of crystalline APIs for use in solid       oral and inhalation dosage forms.
The company has also applied them to       understand the risk for products licensed from other companies not using       this scientific paradigm.
Pfizer has invested &#163;2.4m in the university to       date.
The programme has resulted in critical technology and human resource       transfer to the company as well as 27 refereed publications.
To date 24       researchers have progressed through the scheme; 40% have taken up posts       within Pfizer and 42% with other leading pharmaceutical companies.
The larger impacts are that Pfizer has vastly reduced the risk of       polymorphism in its drugs, increasing the confidence of patients and       health professionals.
Examples of what might have happened without the       university's pioneering research abound, for instance to UCB with       Parkinson's disease drug rotigotine.
Filed in 2003 as a drug that did not       exhibit polymorphism, rotigotine was delivered through Neupro skin patches       and many patients experienced an improved quality of life.
In 2008,       dendritic structures were observed: a new form polymorph had crystallised       which reduced the patches' efficacy.
The product was withdrawn in the US       in 2008 and did not return to the market until 2012.
Similarly, in 2010       BMS withdrew 64 million Avalide tablets (hydrochlorthiazide and       irbesartan) over concerns that irbesartan crystals had converted to a less       soluble polymorph.
Avalide sales were calculated to be $310 million in the       first nine months of 2010.
Pfizer is able to safeguard its patients and       avoid the cost associated with recalls and the redevelopment and relaunch       of clinically essential products.
