     Professor Margaret MacDonald and her research team's major commitment to       publishing the work       and correspondence of James McNeill Whistler have transformed how       curators, art dealers, critics       and the public understand Whistler, his work and techniques.
James McNeill           Whistler: The Etchings &#8212; A Catalogue Raisonn&#233; has become a       significant, definitive       resource and reference point, encouraging further appreciation and       knowledge of the art market,       influences and collaborations involved in 19th century       print-making.
It brings together 490 etchings,       covering the history of individual prints in a wider context.
It is a       comprehensive guide based on the       works themselves, the copper plates, and documentary or published records.
It includes exhibition       reviews and publications, identifies sitters, collectors, sites and       subjects, and is fully annotated and       searchable.
The website, launched in October 2011, receives over 900       visits a day (27,000 a       month) from countries worldwide.
The catalogue has had       consistently positive       feedback from the art       community.
A prominent       American Realist artist,       based in Hawaii, stated:     I have often looked at       his etchings in books       with a magnifier, but       what you and your       colleagues have done       on the website is simply       phenomenal &#8212; you have       made it possible to       actually see the wizardry       of Whistler's lovely and living lines on the copper.... Take for instance,       Black Lion Wharf, in       fact the entire Thames set &#8212; I can't stop studying the zoomed-in lines,       Whistler's way with the       needle is now able to be seen clearly, learned from, and marvelled at.
I       dearly love Whistler,       as all etchers do, and have studied his work all these years, without a       true knowledge of it until       now &#8212; with the website, I can actually see into Whistler's mind while he       worked &#8212; zooming in       on the lines that are still full of life today....
The project relied on collaboration between the University of Glasgow,       Art Institute of Chicago and       the Freer Gallery of Art, supported by major collections including the       National Gallery of Art (USA),       and British Museum.
It involved extensive collaboration with dealers,       curators, and collectors.
The       network of experts has continued to benefit from MacDonald's expertise.
Examples include the St       Louis Art Museum and Toledo Museum of Art which subsequently contacted       Professor MacDonald       for her expert opinion; the Baltimore Museum of Art and Art Institute of       Chicago revised their       catalogues to conform with the catalogue raisonn&#233;.
The Curator,       National Museum of Western Art,       Tokyo, writes:     Thank you ... for your support in our catalogue of Monet exhibition.
The       information you       gave us about our Whistler print was very helpful for editing the       catalogue.
And your       Whistler project on web also very much helped us.
That is generous and       wonderful idea       [sic], I believe it helps many researchers in the world.
Professor MacDonald is regularly consulted by art dealers and auction       houses.
For instance she       has authenticated previously unknown works,       including a drawing, Three Figures, bought (at       her suggestion) from a Swiss dealer for the       Colby College Museum of Art (Maine, USA);       and a watercolour, The Three Clouds for       Boisgirard-Antonini, Paris (sold 12 June 2013).
She advised on a pastel, White and Pink (The         Palace), sold at Doyle's, NY, 9 May 2012       (reproduced at right) and bought by the       National Gallery of Art (USA).
A Specialist in Prints for Sotheby's wrote (August 2013): `We       have been using the online catalogue       raisonn&#233; since the beginning of the year.
I refer collectors to it often       as well and they always       marvel at the wealth of information that is now more widely available.'
The Deputy Managing Director of the Fine Art Society, London, stressed       the catalogue's       importance:     The study of Whistler's etchings has been transformed by the work       undertaken by Margaret       MacDonald, Grischka Petri, Meg Hausberg, and Joanna Meacock at the       University of       Glasgow, now available online.
[...] The catalogue entries record a wealth       of information       about the prints, their subjects, their history and collections: I have       found it invaluable in       preparing this catalogue.
MacDonald and her colleagues are involved in education outreach       activities, providing guided tours       of Whistler exhibitions in The Hunterian, public lectures to art clubs and       museums, including the       National Gallery of Scotland, and conference lectures.
MacDonald launched       the Etchings       catalogue raisonn&#233; to a wide audience in October 2011 at a       conference in her honour at the Freer       Gallery of Art, Washington DC, followed by a seminar in the National       Gallery of Art (USA), where       the catalogue was received enthusiastically.
Curators in, for instance,       The Hunterian, Freer Gallery       and Art Institute of Chicago now direct enquirers to the website, and       MacDonald answers       numerous enquiries on Whistler's work from all over the world.
An exhibition on Whistler:           The Gentle Art of Making Etchings (2009) led by Professor       MacDonald       attracted over 15,000 visitors to The Hunterian (Glasgow) and was then, by       special request, lent to       the Lady         Lever Art Gallery (Liverpool).
It was widely praised by the press,       including The List,       Liverpool Echo and Scotsman.
The Senior Exhibitions       Officer, called it:     a very popular show with our visitors, who really appreciated the       opportunity to discover       another facet of Whistler's art and to see the etchings so close up.
We       had nearly 32,500       visitors over the period [...] with a daily average of 405 over 80 days.
[..] .This compares       very well indeed with our previous exhibitions [...] and we were delighted       with the response.
A vibrant research community fosters further projects, particularly       online publication and       exhibitions.
The reputation of Whistler scholars, including MacDonald and       colleagues such as       Professor Pamela Robertson in the Hunterian has led to many interesting       enquiries, related       research projects and exhibitions.
Examples include An American in         London: Whistler and the         Thames, co-curated by MacDonald with de Montfort for Dulwich Picture       Gallery, Addison Gallery of       American Art and the Freer Gallery of Art (2013-14).
An extended version       of the exhibition will       travel to Japan (The National Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto and Yokohama       Museum of Art, 2014-       15), curated by a University of Glasgow graduate, and MacDonald and       colleague have been asked       for advice and invited to contribute to the catalogue.
