     In terms of primary impact, the research findings directly led to the       development of Liverpool City Council's media campaign (detailed below)       which aimed at raising awareness around alcohol involved sexual assault.
Moreover, the research was also the primary driver in both the decision to       focus the messages on potential male perpetrators and educating young men,       as opposed to potential victims.
Due to existing contacts between the       Council and LJMU Centre for Public Health (Dr Karen Hughes), in July 2011       Dr Gunby was invited to present a paper on the underpinning research to       the Liverpool Student Safety Group (comprised of Student Union       representatives from Liverpool John Moores, Liverpool Hope and Liverpool       University, along with representatives from the police, Liverpool       Licensing, Sexual Assault Referral Centres, Domestic Violence Team, Fire       Service and Liverpool City Council).
Following the presentation, Dr Gunby       was invited in August 2011 to work with Liverpool City Council to develop       a campaign.
Clare met twice with Citysafe and corresponded via email       throughout the development phase (August-December 2011).
The campaign ran       in Liverpool city centre from January to March 2012, and was co-funded by       the Liverpool City Council Community Safety and Cohesion Team and the       Liverpool Primary Care Trust.
Other stakeholders involved in the       consultation process included the City Council's Youth Services team, the       BRM Domestic Violence Group, lead officers from SAFE Place Merseyside       (Sexual Assault Referral Centre) and RASA Centre (Rape and Sexual       Assault).
The key aims of the campaign were:     - To clarify that in England and Wales engaging in sexual activity with       someone unable to consent, due to voluntary or involuntary intoxication,       is rape,     - To reduce and prevent the offences of rape and sexual assault, and     - To raise awareness of the impact of non consensual sex against young       women and girls using the night time economy (Nowak 2012: 2).
The campaign was aimed at men aged between 18-24, specifically students       and night time economy users, and involved the distribution of posters,       beer mats and mirror stickers, which depicted a drunk woman along with the       phrase `can't talk, can't consent' and the message `sex without consent is       rape'.
These were distributed across Liverpool &#8212; in the Students' Unions,       around the Liverpool Universities campuses, and in City Centre pubs and       bars.
The campaign was also supported by information posted on various       websites, including Student Safety, Citysafe, PCT, Merseyside Fire and       Rescue/Merseyside Police, a facebook advert and a webpage link, in       addition to adverts in newspapers and on the radio.
Accordingly, the       messages promoted in the posters were supported by a range of       communication channels.
Analysis has indicated that the campaign was       effective in reaching a significant audience.
The facebook page generated       6,506 clicks from over 27 million impressions.
Nowak has commented that       `as a passive form of advertising, the number of clicks is very       encouraging for the campaign, whilst the exposure gained from the activity       will have had a significant impact on the campaign's awareness' (2012: 5).
The campaign materials also included a link to the Citysafe Community       Safety Webpage which contained details to services providing support to       those who have been victims of sexual violence.
Over the campaign period       4,670 unique views were generated to this page (including another 190 in       the month post campaign).
A number of positive `tweets' citing the advert       were also identified on twitter, commenting in particular on how it was       important that the campaign was aimed at men, as opposed to women as       potential victims.
In terms of secondary impact, quantitative and qualitative evaluation       demonstrates that the campaign was effective in educating and raising the       awareness of young men.
A street based survey, organised by Liverpool City       Council, found that from a sample of 275 males, 92% agreed that the       campaign raised an important issue, 73% agreed that the images and       information made men think about their behaviour and 78% agreed that the       campaign made it clear that if someone is so drunk they are unable to       meaningfully respond, then having sex with them would be a criminal       offence (Nowak, 2012: 17).
Findings from six focus groups with a total of       41 male students, organised by Dr Carline and Dr Gunby, also support the       finding that the campaign effectively conveyed the message that having sex       with someone who is exceptionally intoxicated amounts to rape.
Respondents       also thought it was positive that the campaign informed the public that       the majority of sexual assaults are committed by someone known to the       victim and in a domestic setting.
Accordingly, it can be seen that the research had a direct impact on the       Liverpool City Council, the NUS and the student population.
This is       because the findings informed the Council's decision to develop a media       campaign that was intended to focus on potential perpetrators, as opposed       to victims.
The impact upon the NUS occurs due to their involvement in the       campaign, in particular the placement of posters around campus, and in       turn this impacts upon the student population as they are the recipients       of the campaign message.
