     Exhibiting primary resources to deepen public understanding about         historical and contemporary population displacement, migration and         asylum     A touring exhibition (a collaboration between the universities of       Nottingham and Manchester) on the experiences of European refugees in the       aftermath of the Second World War titled `When the War Was Over: European       Refugees after 1945' deepened public understanding of population       displacement, migration, asylum, resettlement and community relations,       which have resonance in contemporary Britain and further afield in terms       of contemporary cultural and community cohesion.
Baron drew on research he and Balkelis had undertaken as part of his       involvement in the 2004-2009 Nottingham/Manchester AHRC research project       (specifically reference 3.1) to work with colleague Siobhan Peeling (a       postgraduate member of the AHRC project team) to write historical texts       for the exhibition panels, posters and a brochure (also available through       the project website [5.1]) Photographs, scanned images of documents and       artefacts, oral history material and film collected by Baron, Balkelis and       Peeling during their involvement in the AHRC project were also used in the       exhibition.
The exhibition was hosted by Nottingham Castle Museum &amp;       Gallery (16 August to 23 September 2012, venue footfall for the period was       24,313), the Centre for Advanced Studies, University of Nottingham       (October 2012; May-June 2013), and at the University of Glasgow Memorial       Chapel (February 2013).
Comments from visitors to the Nottingham exhibition (attracted partly in       response to local media coverage &#8212; including a 20 August 2012 appearance       on BBC Nottingham prime-time `Breakfast Show' (audience figures for this       show average 15,714 per day, peaking at the time of Baron and Peeling's       interview) [5.2]) include: `As one of the ex-DPs, this exhibition prods       (sic) me to think about the fate of refugees caught up in the conflict of       this present day'; ' What role did the DP story play in the development of       the UN Refugee Convention and Human Rights?
'; `Interesting to see how       mass-migration and the way it is managed is not a very recent phenomenon';       `Gives us a very different perspective onto the origins of multi-cultural       Britain than that familiar from the media.
Well done!
'; `This exhibition       raises interesting questions about the relationship between history and       the present: have things `improved' or `deteriorated'?
Are the crude ways       in which DPs, many of whom had suffered such horrible fates, were then       ...separated from their families etc.
worse that the much more `humane'       but totally subtract, bureaucratic procedures of today?
Both?'
`I didn't       know how long the DP camps lasted &#8212; or their origins &#8212; very interesting';       `Fantastic, I had no idea of the number of ordinary people turned into       refugees by the war'; `I had not realised about post-1945 importance of DP       in the UK' ; `I had no idea how many people were affected' (5.3).
Feedback from the Glasgow exhibition includes the following comment from       the German Honorary Consul: `This is such a valuable exhibition giving a       little insight into the tragedy of the war and all its consequences: both       on a grand almost incomprehensible scale, and for the individuals and       families, the sadness, the longing....'.
He continues that the exhibition       gives a `perspective on this issue in modern times.'
An Estonian DP now       living in Scotland, commented on the exhibition's historical accuracy and       the validating effect of seeing his own history presented accurately and       publicly.
(5.4) These comments attest to the success of the exhibition in       stimulating reflection on and providing new knowledge and perspectives         on migration &#8212; historical and contemporary.
Enhancing the capacity of teachers to teach controversial or sensitive         subjects     An innovative mixed media resource pack (5.5) for use in UK secondary       schools was co-developed by the project team at Nottingham and Manchester.
It provided new knowledge, resources and approaches for teachers which         have already begun to inform and enrich their approach to the delivery         of aspects of the history and citizenship curricula.
The pack included documentary, visual and audio-visual sources including       those drawn directly from Baron's and Balkelis' research (3.1-3.5), as       well as background and analytical texts written by Baron and Peeling on       the basis of this research.
It drew on earlier research undertaken by       Baron, Balkelis and Peeling (including Peeling, S. `"Out Of Place" In The       Postwar City: Practices, Experiences And Representations Of Displacement       During The Resettlement Of Leningrad At The End Of The Blockade', PhD       thesis submitted to the University of Nottingham, September 2010) at       Nottingham on post-1945 East European population displacement and       resettlement.
The pack was launched at a one-day workshop at the       University of Nottingham, 24 November 2012, attended by 30 trainee and       newly-qualified teachers as well as experienced educators, including one       Head Teacher and the Nottinghamshire County Council Education Improvement       Advisor.
Attendees thought the pack: was useful to them in their       professional capacity; gave them a better understanding and knowledge of       the modern history of displaced persons and of contemporary issues related       to refugees, asylum and immigration; gave them a better understanding and       knowledge of the challenges, problems and opportunities associated with       teaching about difficult, controversial or divisive histories and       contemporary issues'.
All agreed that the resource pack would be useful in       the classroom, and 80 per cent that it would improve how they teach       refugee history.
A senior English teacher who attended the workshop       stated: "The resource pack will give me the ideal OFSTED lesson".
Another       respondent commented that the resource materials `will extend, enhance and       facilitate my classroom practice and promote my students' learning and       skills development.'
(5.6)     Follow-up enquiries into early use of the resource pack in the classroom       revealed that where it had been used it was valued as a teaching-aid for       higher-level independent learning: `On a recent inset day we were asked to       look at why so few students reached level 8 and beyond in our subject.
We       identified the problem as being that they need to do some kind of       independent original research project.
I am going to use the package to do       this.
Students will follow a person's story through evidence and will have       the knowledge that this is totally original historical work.
I think this       is the greatest resource I have seen for this', and, `These resources have       an immediate use in the classroom and will fit in nicely with a Unit of       Work I am currently writing.
', `It has been very useful in Citizenship       lessons &#8212; resources [sic] have helped show the concept of the refugee in a       European context which can then be linked to more recent world wide [sic]       events especially in a multi-cultural school.
(5.7) These comments on the       role of the resource in classroom practice demonstrate the early-stage         impact of the resource as a tool for deepening understanding of the key         issues, and in stimulating higher-achieving pupils to extend their         understanding.
Contributing to the preservation of physical material and cultural         capital     Valuable historical oral testimony that provides insight into the lives       of the Ukrainian community in the UK has been preserved through its         digitisation, and its value as an educational resource enhanced       through the provision of specialist support, training and facilities, and       the addition of visual and textual material from Baron's own research on       Ukrainian DPs (3.1) The Nottingham Castle exhibition stimulated       considerable interest among regional and national community organisations       in the underpinning research, leading to a member of the local Ukrainian       community establishing contact with Baron and work beginning (with Baron       and the IS team at the University) to digitise the oral history video       recordings.
Once digitised, the testimonies were transformed into new       educational resources (one 45-minute long subtitled documentary film; and       one 7 hour unedited compilation of all the interviews) for use by       Ukrainian community organisations in Nottingham and elsewhere in the UK       and abroad.
The training in the communication of historical knowledge and       understanding (specifically via film production technologies and       techniques) added significant new capacity to the organisation.
(5.8)     Supporting a national Polish diasporic community to engage new         audiences with its work and histories     Community support and professional development work undertaken by Peeling       with Polish diasporic history organisation Kresy-Siberia provided       expertise, skills support and resources that have improved the       organisation's knowledge base and in future will help with their public       engagement work.
Responding to an approach by the UK Director of the       organisation, Peeling drew on historical knowledge (3.1-3.5) and research       skills developed during the AHRC project to offer research guidance to       underpin the planning of a gallery aimed at engaging new audiences with       Kresy-Siberia's work and resources.
Her contribution provided `very useful       and much deeper research guidance about where to find materials and what       was available in some UK archives which could be incorporated into, or       used as a basis for, a full gallery' (5.9).
Peeling worked in London       alongside community researchers to identify relevant sources in libraries       and archives, advising on the use of archives, training them in a range of       analytical and interpretative methodologies, and thereby adding capacity       to the organisation's skills and research base.
