     Haase's research helped Berlin city council deliver community         consensus around the politically-sensitive renaming of a square in the         city centre.
The renaming of urban sites is a highly-sensitive issue       in post-reunification Germany.
Citizens have a legal right to appeal       against renamings and this can delay developments almost indefinitely.
The       renaming of the Countess-Marion-D&#246;nhoff-Square was particularly       contentious.
The Square lies in the middle of historic Berlin, on the       Leipziger Strasse, near the Unter den Linden and has been at the centre of       contests over the city's identity since the square's establishment in       1734.
It was transformed during the two German dictatorships: the Nazis       chose it as the site for the `Aryan Birth Clock', to remind the population       of their `duty' to produce children.
The GDR abolished the name in 1975       and declared the square as a memorial site to the victory of the Red Army       in the Second World War.
When plans for the renaming were discussed in 2010, there was significant         opposition from both sides of the political debate.
Some older       residents, mainly composed of former communist functionaries, rejected the       renaming on the grounds that Countess D&#246;nhoff was a descendant of a       `militaristic Junker'-family.
In contrast, some more traditionalist       citizens wished to re-instate the old name, arguing that there was no need       to give it a specific modern and liberal new bent.
But the renaming was       supported by liberal-minded residents and had the approval of the elected       representative for cultural and media affairs of the district of       Berlin-Mitte.
The renaming was also supported by such key political       figures as the former chancellor of Germany, Helmut Schmidt, and the       former president, Richard von Weizs&#228;cker, as well as by members of main       political parties, local businesses and leading figures of the German       parliament, such as the then vice-president of the house, Antje Vollmer.
By the time Haase became involved, the conflict had escalated to the       extent that the communists threatened to appeal against the renaming and       boycott any ceremonies.
In this situation, the supporters of the renaming       felt it would be inappropriate to enforce the name-change &#8212; even if a       parliamentary majority could be secured &#8212; and that it would be better to       argue the case on detailed historical evidence.
A member of the liberal       resident association (IG Leipziger Strasse/Krausenstrasse) contacted Die       Zeit due to the threatened boycott of the renaming by the communist       resident organization.
Die Zeit then contacted the D&#246;nhoff Foundation, who       recommended Haase's involvement.
Haase was then introduced to Volker       Hobrack, the elected representative of the district Berlin-Mitte.
Local       political leaders and the D&#246;nhoff Foundation asked Haase to undertake         further research on the history of the square to inform community         consultation and to provide residents with historical information       about the Square so that they could better understand the historical,       political and cultural significance of Marion Countess D&#246;nhoff and the       Square.
Haase's research helped to facilitate a more democratic         participation in a local community decision-making process by using       scholarly research to take the heat out of sensitive intra-community       meetings and negotiations.
The further research (3.6) (undertaken by Haase, assisted by his research       assistant J&#246;rn Kreuzer), established the original and new location of the       Square in relation to the former parliament and underlined the democratic       significance of the Platz in the 19th century when the first       Prussian-German parliament was erected there.
It also explained: the       square's history during the Third Reich, including the history of the       birth clock and the history of the Jewish department store Tietz which was       located at the there; the square's history under the German Democratic       Republic (GDR) and the reasons why the GDR had decided to abandon the name       "D&#246;nhoff Square" in 1975.
It explained how Marion D&#246;nhoff's close       friendship with Willy Brandt, the former mayor of West-Berlin, had       underpinned the democratisation of the Federal Republic.
In particular he       clarified that the GDR did not abandon the square's name because the       D&#246;nhoffs were "Junkers", but because the regime needed to appease the       Soviet Union and wanted to cover up delays in the construction of       surrounding buildings by staging a spectacular renaming.
Using these research findings, Haase then engaged directly with local         residents in a variety of ways: through a series of public meetings       with the local residents' associations in 2010 (where he presented his       results, distributed copies of his book (3.1) and made the residents aware       of the online publication on the Website of the University of Nottingham       in 2011) (3.6); through online discussion (5.1) and in exchanges with       Count Hatzfeldt (5.2).
With Kreuzer, he also produced a briefing document       for district Mitte (5.3) and provided advice to the elected representative       for cultural and media affairs for District Berlin-Mitte, Volker Hobrack       (5.4).
The effect of this community engagement was such that the         renaming of the square subsequently occurred without any serious         opposition.
Indeed, there was a substantial turn-out (from       previously opposed sides) at the renaming ceremony, when a speech was       delivered by Dr Haase (5.6).
A long-term result of the research is a       memorial plate in the Square, which explains its history and can be read       by the hundreds who pass by each day (5.5).
Haase's contribution to the process of community consultation in renaming       the Square is attested by former German President Weizs&#228;cker, who saw       Haase's research as `exceptionally interesting' [au&#223;erordentlich       interessant] (5.7).
Haase's work can be considered exemplary in its use         of research to underpin community consultation and to effect community         engagement with, a broad-based consensus on a decision.
It was       showcased in a recent book on the renaming of streets, places and schools       in the historical centre of Berlin (5.8).
Volker Hobrack summed up Haase's       contribution as follows: "your research into the history of the       D&#246;nhoff-Square history was vital for renaming in 2010 / 2011.
In       particular, you made important contributions to illuminating the square&#180;s       history, contributing to discussions with various resident organizations,       setting up a memorial plate, and publishing a research article on the       square&#180;s history.
I was fascinated by the presentation of your results in       your speech at the renaming ceremony in March 2011.
The Marion Gr&#228;fin       D&#246;nhoff Platz is now one of the central sites of historical memory in the       capital of the unified Germany.
I was glad to include a chapter on the       D&#246;nhoff-Square in our recent book on memorial plates in Berlin-Mitte.
The       memorial plate, which is seen by hundreds of tourist every day, and the       book are testimony to the lasting significance of your work (5.9)."
