 Impact on legal practice and capacity building: Wray's report in Chapti was placed on the website of the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants (JCWI) where it could be used to support appeals brought by other claimants (http://jcwi.org.uk/2011/12/16/chapti-ors-v-sshd-pre-entry-language-test-judgment).
Wray was also asked to provide support in other court proceedings and received unsolicited emails from lawyers thanking her for the quality and usefulness of her work.
Wray (2011) and Kofman (2012) were asked to present to the AGMs of the JCWI, their work for these reports, in each case addressing an audience of over 100 lawyers and activists from across the UK.
In 2011, Wray addressed about 40 immigration lawyers at a meeting convened by the Immigration Law Practitioners Association and in 2013 at the Migrants' Rights' Network (MRN) Annual Summit (5.1), addressing about 100 activists.
Their work was cited by Habib Rahman, Chief Executive of JCWI, in a keynote speech to the Oxford Migration Studies Conference in 2013 (5.2).
It has also been posted and highly recommended on the Asylum and Migrant Network (Council of Churches) (5.3) and Britcitz websites, thus reaching out to a wider public and those affected by the changes.
Impact on public debate: Working closely with several leading NGOs in the campaign against the new regulations (MRN, JCWI) (5.1, 5.2)), the findings of the judgement and the critique of the potential savings to welfare expenditure made by Middlesex researchers have been widely reported in the BBC, regional and national newspapers, for example, &#8212; the Belfast Telegraph and the Daily Express (http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/413433/Warning-on-migration-shake-up-cost) &#8212; and on politics.co.uk (5.4).
This dissemination has made a significant contribution to campaigns and debates inside and outside Parliament which is creating considerable momentum for reform of the rule (see below).
Parliamentary impact: Based on their work, Kofman and Wray made a joint submission on the new income requirement to the All Party Parliamentary Group on Migration (APPG) in its Family Migration Enquiry.
In March 2013, Wray gave oral evidence to the Enquiry at the House of Commons and its quality was singled out for praise by its Chair, Baroness Hamwee (5.5).
Their submission was cited at several points in the Enquiry Report (June 2013) and received widespread publicity.
In addition, the essential points of their evidence were put into a joint briefing with Minority Rights Network which was circulated to all MPs ahead of a Westminster Hall debate on 19th June 2013.
Kate Green, MP Stretford and Urmston, made extensive use of the evidence during her contribution to the debate (5.6).
The briefing was later circulated to Peers ahead of a Lords debate on 4th July 2013 and formed the basis of a press release timed to coincide with a national demonstration and parliamentary meeting on 9th July.
There is evidence of growing political pressure to amend the rule (http://www.migrantsrights.org.uk/blog/2013/09/tide-beginning-turn-family-migration).
Impact on court proceedings: The first set of expert reports and witness statements, on the compatibility of pre-entry language testing with human rights, was submitted in the case of Chapti.
This high profile test case was argued not only by the parties but by JCWI and the civil liberties organisation, Liberty, whose counsel, relied on the report in their submissions (5.7).
Wray was thanked by the lawyers involved for the quality of her work which in particular underpinned a key argument relating to the nature of discrimination in this situation (5.8).
Although the initial judgment found against the claimants in this regard as did the majority of the Court of Appeal (Bibi v SSHD), in a dissenting judgment, Keene LJ, took a different view and relied on Wray's evidence to find that the Government had not met its obligations to show the necessity of the rule and therefore its compliance with human rights.
Leave to appeal to the Supreme Court has been sought and there is a good possibility that the question of the weight to be attached to expert evidence in cases of this kind will form the basis of a decision by the UK's highest domestic court as to the lawfulness of the pre-entry language test and therefore its applicability to thousands of spousal migrants entering the UK.
The judgement on MM and Ors vs SSHD, delivered on 5 July 2013, found that the combination of the new regulations was disproportionate, unjust and unduly harsh for a wide range of the population, especially young people, women and those on low incomes and would therefore breach article 8 ECHR in many cases.
The judgment drew in many places on the findings and arguments in our expert report (5.8).
Impact on Family Migrant Sponsors and Spouses: In response to the MM judgment, the Home Office called a pause in the decision making of applications pending its appeal against the judgment.
If the judgment is upheld by the higher courts, the government will be required, under the Human Rights Act, either to change the law or to legislate and risk an unfavourable judgment in the European Court of Human Rights.
In the meantime, the findings in the judgement on article 8 incompatibility in most cases is assisting many applicants whose claims have already been rejected because they do not meet the income threshold to appeal their individual claims successfully (http://www.freemovement.org.uk/2013/07/22/hope-for-families-divided-by-the-income-threshold/#more-9205).
Impact on European policy: Kofman's report on family reunion legislation in Europe was relied on by the European Women's Lobby (EWL), the largest non-governmental umbrella organisation of some 2000 women's associations in the European Union and the European Network of Migrant Women (ENoMW) &#8212; a European network of more than 100 non-governmental and non-profit organisations from 16 European Union states in their response to the European Commission Green Paper on the Right to Family Reunification of Third Country Nationals Living in the European Union  (Directive 2003/86/EC).
The EWL submission (5.9) cites from Kofman's report at length and explicitly recognises her research.
The report states `Facts and figures in this response to the Green Paper are mainly based on the research by Prof. Eleonore Kofman, Middlesex University, London.
She has accompanied and advised EWL's EPIM funded project on: "Equal Rights.
Equal Voices.
Migrant Women in the EU" from 2008-2011.'
The submission by the EWL/ENoMW informed debate among stakeholders who were invited to submit comments.
