     The P.D.
Leake Lecture to Chartered Accountants, regulators and policy       makers [Source 1] became part of the Institute's strategy for change; up       to 400 copies of the DVD were distributed during the assessment period and       the Lecture was prominent on the ICAEW website for two to three years       [S2/3].
One Irish Chartered Accountant commented, `This talk was       particularly helpful not only in my own professional life, but       also helpful as an Education Board and Council member of Chartered       Accountants Ireland as we were guiding the profession along the right       path, including raising the prominence of business ethics, both in our       education and in practice' [S4].
Positive reactions to the Lecture opened       the way for significant impact at the heart of the profession when Cowton       was the first academic to join the ICAEW's Ethics Standards Committee       (ESC) in 2009.
He has consequently helped staff to promote professional       ethics and has become the `go to' person for a research perspective on       professional ethics at the Institute [S2/3].
Four specific arenas for       impact are:     1.
Shaping the ESC's agenda       From f) above, Cowton's role on the ESC ensures that the agenda is not       dominated by financial reporting issues and responses to policy proposals.
`The contributions we particularly value are those concerning business       members' [S2/3].
2.
Thought leadership       Source [2/3] comments, `Professor Cowton is regarded as a very useful       resource for our thought leadership work' which has two `well respected'       strands: Integrity and the Public Interest.
`Professor Cowton has used his       research to contribute to both of these.'
His research was an impetus for       both, thus contributing to agenda-setting at the ICAEW.
As a key stimulus       for the Integrity thought leadership strand, the P.D.
Leake Lecture `was a       catalyst for change since it emphasised the importance of ethics, in       particular integrity, as the glue that binds the accountancy profession       together, irrespective of the role or industry that members are involved       in.... [It was] crucial in framing ICAEW's further work in the wider area       of professional ethics' [S1].
His insights into professional culture,       codes and the organisational positions of accountants were also       influential.
`This key point prompted further work by the ICAEW on how you       go beyond a written code of ethics or conduct to embed integrity in the       culture of an organisation.'
[S1]     At the beginning of the Public Interest work, Cowton helped to frame the       Institute's way forward by addressing its 84-strong Council in July 2010,       using his analysis of professions.
He also provided input to the final       report, Acting in the Public Interest: A Framework for Analysis,       which the Institute has used both nationally and internationally [S2/3].
3.
Professional accountants improving ethics in business       To advance its Real Integrity agenda, the Institute drew on       Cowton's insights on `embedded professionals' in designing the Valuing       Integrity Programme (VIP).
The first module ran in June 2013, attracting       participants from six major international banks, an international insurer,       and global drinks company.
Cowton's input was `essential' to this       initiative [S2/3].
4.
Preparing the Chartered Accountants of the future       S2/3 confirms that, `During his time on the Committee Professor Cowton has       become involved in a significant piece of work on the ACA syllabus.
Not       only is he very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about education but he also       brings his knowledge of business ethics to the fore'.
In particular, he       helped staff to reflect the `business' role of accountants in the new       Ethics Learning Programme (ELP), which is expected to be taken by up to       5000 aspiring Chartered Accountants a year as a requirement for gaining       professional membership.
To conclude, a key insight from Cowton's research is that, although there       is a risk that professional bodies `self-serve', they can be influenced to       act in the public interest.
This impact case demonstrates this and shows       how research at Huddersfield has impacted on the ICAEW.
Cowton's insights       have critically affected the agenda and thinking of the ICAEW and have       supported a varied range of activities in relation to professional ethics,       particularly regarding integrity, the public interest, the nature of a       true professional body and the importance of promoting integrity `in       business' as well as `in practice'.
Source 1 commented, `Professor Chris       Cowton's on-going participation in ICAEW's Ethics Standards Committee and       support, advice and encouragement ... has helped to ensure that the       momentum which was started with the publication of the Reporting with         Integrity paper in 2007 and subsequent P.D.
Leake Lecture later that       year continues for the benefit of the accounting profession and       generations to come.'
