     Missing Out was initially given a rehearsed reading with       professional actors in Peterborough prison,       summer 2008.
After rewrites it was directed by Anna Herrman and performed       by graduates from Clean       Break Theatre's acting courses.
These women have a history of imprisonment       or record of involvement       with the Criminal Justice system.
The play toured prisons and training       conferences for professionals       October-November 2008 and received very positive feedback.
In terms of the immediate impact of the performance, the stage version       enabled women in prison to       see how former inmates had turned their lives around through the creative       arts.
For the actors, it       provided an opportunity to have their journey acknowledged.
For both       professionals and inmates, it       provoked discussion of crucial questions regarding prisoners' families       which are very often avoided for       fear of `upsetting the girls'.
In conference and training settings, the       play raised questions about good       practice in maintaining links between prisoners and their children, and       provoked discussion about       sentencing policies for women.
Grandparents' and parents' group members       commented that, for the       first time, their point of view &#8212; that of grandparents looking after their       grandchild while the mother       serves her sentence &#8212; was being publically and accurately presented.
In 2009, due to further demand for the show, Action For Prisoners'       Families raised funds for Missing         Out to be professionally produced (Knifedge Productions) as a short       film.
Cooper worked with the       director, Tom Hadley, and the producer, Jonathon Bridgden, to adapt the       play for the screen.
The film       was very well received and entered for the International Visual       Communications Award.
It was Highly       Commended in the Best Directors Award Category and won the IVCA Best Drama       Award, 2010.
As a       result, it is now in the collection at the British Film Institute.
The tour of Missing Out to prisons led to further discussion       between Action for Prisoners' Families and       prisoners.
One direct result of this was the decision to publish a series       of leaflets, Your children; Your         Rights, in collaboration with Rights of Women.
These leaflets are       now available to all mothers in       prisons in the UK (http://www.rightsofwomen.org.uk/pdfs/Legal/Guide_to_Adoption_lo_res.pdf).
All three DVDS are still widely used in training.
Lesley Dixon, APF       Regional Development Manager for       the North of England, said:     The DVDs are used all the time in training.
They're used perhaps twice a       week in sessions for       professionals.
These can include training for probation, police, health       visitors, magistrates,       social workers; right across the board.
I've trained 60/70 people in       `training the trainer' sessions       this year who are given copies of the DVDs to use in their own training.
Homeward Bound, in particular, has had a huge impact, with       feedback along the lines of the following       comment: `Excellent DVD.
Made me think of issues I wouldn't otherwise be       aware of.'
Sandra Wells, formerly Manager of the Visitor Centre at Styal Prison, now       founder and co-ordinator of       the Cheshire Support Cheshire Group, said, `The APF DVDs are the first       thing I will show volunteers for       the organisation.
They are a brilliant way of introducing the experiences       of prisoners' families, to people       who may have never thought about these questions, and because they are       dramas, they hit home.
When I work with the Youth Offending Teams in the region I will always       suggest they buy the DVDs       from APF for training.'
Child Protection trainer, David Gammage, formerly responsible for all       child protection training for Action       for Children, previously known as National Childrens Homes, commented:     I use Missing Out regularly in training.
I must have used it with       more than 500 people over the       last three years.
These are intensive training sessions for a mixture of       professionals who are       involved in child protection and child support; for example, family centre       managers, school       learning mentors, drug workers and family support workers.
The film raises       difficult and       complex issues in a sensitive and truthful way, creating empathy,       stimulating discussion and       enabling professionals to review their own practice.
In particular, I use       it as a case study to       assist professionals in analysing increasing levels of risk to children in       a family setting.
It's both       compelling as drama and effective as a tool for change.
Action for Prisoners' families are currently considering updating the       DVDs in line with recent legislation.
They have also talked about a further production (pending funding) on       Indeterminate Sentencing       Orders.
Cooper is now working on a radio drama series based on the       workings of the Parole Board,       and the tension between the need for cuts (shorter/community sentencing)       and Home Office policy of       being seen to administer 'tough' sentencing.
