     Sim's analysis of penality has attempted to hold to account politicians,       policy makers and prison       staff through interrogating the impact of their respective roles and       responsibilities on the       experiences of for prisoners and their families (5a-h).
Indeed a       representative of the HM       Inspectorate of Prisons (5e) has lauded Sim's scholarship as providing       `the kind of concise,       articulate and powerful critique of apparent criminological realities,       which is necessary to motivate       genuine reform and can help to ensure that practitioners and others do not       forget the big picture'       (Bhui, 2010:94).
The Governor of HMP Grendon (5d) notes that the       intellectual attention that Sim's       work has brought to the issue of deaths in custody has contributed to `a       climate' that has not only       enabled significant improvements in the processes for managing prisoners       who are at risk of       suicide and self-harm, but also raised the public profile of this issue so       that it has been necessary       for these improvements to take place.
For example, HMP Grendon's suicide       and self-harm       prevention policy is subject to regular review and the institution was       described by the HM Chief       Inspector of prisons, in 2011, as a `fundamentally safe prison' which,       given the nature of its       population, is `a significant achievement'.
While impact can sometimes be traced directly in terms of a causal link       between research       conducted and public policy, academic impact on social policy can also be       traced through       proactive involvement in policy making processes which subsequently feed       into the broader policy       and popular debates in an area of significant public concern.
In Sim's       case, there is evidence to       suggest that his research has been beneficial through making a distinct       and material contribution to       INQUEST's campaign activities and, by association, to the policy processes       and reforms which       have emerged directly as a result of the charity's campaigns (5a,b,c,f).
INQUEST is a small charitable organisation which provides a specialist,       comprehensive advice       service on contentious deaths and their investigation to a range of key       stakeholders.
INQUEST       provide briefings for Parliamentarians, policy makers, the media, legal       representatives and other       interested parties including penal reform groups.
Thus these stakeholders,       alongside bereaved       families, comprise the key beneficiaries with respect to the impact of       INQUEST's work.
INQUEST's recognition of the significance of Sim's research led to him to       become involved with       the organisation initially as a member of the charity's advisory board and       subsequently, via an       interview process, as a Trustee of the charity.
In this role his research,       expertise and critical       criminological perspective has contributed directly to INQUEST policy with       respect to deaths of       children and women in custody while his critiques of penal policy and       practice, and his       championing of progressive reforms, have enabled him to play a key role in       helping to strategically       guide INQUEST's highly effective evidence based campaigning alongside       families to secure a       number of significant policy successes and changes to the legal landscape.
These reforms include the establishment of independent investigation       processes following       deaths in police custody and in prison and legislative reform including       the Corporate Manslaughter       and Corporate Homicide Act 2007, enacted in 2011, which lifts crown       immunity from the prison       service in relation to custodial deaths, and the Coroners and Justice Act       2009 which is notable for       successfully saving the post of Chief Coroner.
These policy reforms were       accomplished at the       same time as successfully campaigning to elicit cross party opposition       against government       proposals to introduce secret inquests: firstly in the Counter Terrorism       Bill 2008: secondly in the       Coroners and Justice Act 2009 and most recently in the Justice and       Security Green Paper 2012.
In additional to his academic expertise on penal policy, Sim provided       practical help to support       INQUEST's campaigns on these issues (5a, b).
For example his attendance at       board meetings has       ensured his research has helped to formulate and develop INQUEST's       policies and approach; he       has written briefing papers for the charity (2008); he has commented on       INQUEST's briefings to       policy makers, practitioners, and the media; and he has offered advice to       INQUEST's case workers       and Co-Directors via email and telephone discussions.
It has also been a mark of Sim's work that he has attempted to       disseminate it to the widest       possible practitioner and popular audience.
He has had a number of letters       published in the       Guardian relating to penal and wider criminal justice matters (1 July       2012; 19th July 2011; 14th       April 2009, with others).
He has utilised other media outlets for       dissemination purposes such as:       documentaries (See Punishment: A Failed Social Experiment, October       2013 which was listed as one       of the top 100 documentaries 'inspiring the shift to a sustainable       paradigm'); blogs (October 2012);       and writing for Criminal Justice Matters, a journal that is concerned with       engaging with practitioners       (March, 2010; December, 2010; September, 2012; June 2013).
It is through       his proactive       engagement across these diverse areas that Sim's impact can be traced and       gauged.
