     What is the link between the research and the benefit?
There is a       clear and direct link between the specification produced as underpinning       research and the impact, due to the specification being recommended by the       GSMA as an authentication algorithm for GSM networks and subsequently       adopted by over half of all GSM operators.
[2]     Who benefits?
Phones based on the GSM standards were first       commercially released in 1992; the GSM Association (GSMA) of network       operators announced in 2010 that more than 5 billion phones have been       manufactured under this standard to date.
There are billions of GSM       subscribers and hundreds of GSM networks and a significant proportion will       be using the COMP128-2 and COMP128-3 algorithms for authentication.
Then       there are all the businesses and services that rely on these networks as a       trusted infrastructure.
The Chair of ETSI Security Algorithms Group of       Experts, states [2]:     COMP128-2 and COMP128-3 have been a huge success.
Although we do not have       precise figures, we estimate that more than half of the world's network       operators, representing a number of subscribers in the billions, use one       of these algorithm variants.
How do they benefit?
As an individual, the COMP128-2/3 algorithm       safeguards you in a number of ways.
It protects against cloning, which       stops criminals making costly calls charged to your account; when a clone       is detected by the network you will be blocked from the network, whereas       the criminal will pick a new identity.
Furthermore, the clone is linked to       your telephone number, so when the criminal makes a call it appears to be       you in a friends/family phone book.
Phone numbers are also used in       business systems and form parts of security processes such as text message       warnings when changing bank instructions, as well as alerts that may leak       other personal information and location; cloning compromises these       processes.
The algorithm prevents your secret key from becoming known to a       criminal to safeguard the authentication process, but also stops a       criminal from regenerating the current cipher key in order to decipher       radio transmission to obtain private or sensitive call data.
Cloning is a real threat to mobile networks.
The introduction of GSM,       replacing analogue systems, led to a sharp reduction in phone cloning, a       practice that was close to making analogue mobile telephony uneconomic       towards the end of its operating life (with 1% of all phones in the UK       found to be cloned in 1994/5 [6]).
The GSMA originally distributed an algorithm known as COMP128 (or       COMP128-1) to its members, as an example of an authentication algorithm       that complied with the GSM standard.
Though a specific authentication       algorithm was not mandated by the GSM standard, in practice many operators       used COMP128 rather than developing their own algorithm.
The specification       of COMP128 was not made public, but COMP128 was reverse engineered in 1998       by Briceno, Goldberg and Wagner, and in 2002 Rao, Rohatgi, Scherzer and       Tinguely were the first to publicly demonstrate that a GSM phone using       COMP128 could be cloned after access to the SIM card for only one minute.
Thus cloning was possible on networks still using COMP128.
Indeed, by       mid-2002 shrink-wrapped cloning kits for COMP128-based SIM cards were       being sold in some countries; blank cards and cards with multiple       identities became available [4].
In order to prevent cloning attacks on their networks, several mobile       operators commissioned the group at Royal Holloway to design an algorithm       to replace COMP128.
Recognising a common need, the GSM Association       commissioned the group at Royal Holloway to design the algorithm that       became known as COMP128-2, and this algorithm and its variant COMP128-3       became the example authentication algorithms provided by the GSMA to its       members.
No successful cryptanalysis has been demonstrated to date, and       there is no evidence that SIM Card cloning has returned on networks using       these algorithms [2].
Ten years on, the algorithm is still recommended by       ETSI, and authorisation to use this algorithm is regarded as a significant       benefit of a network operator's membership of the GSMA.
One single fraudulent SIM card on a network can lose an operator in       excess $3000 (&#163;1,885) a month and these operations usually use hundreds or       even thousands of cards.
This illegal activity often goes on to fund other       criminal activity.
says Andy Gent, CEO of Revector (a company detecting fraud on mobile       networks) in a 2012 BBC Technology interview [5].
The research effort to       design COMP128-2/3 has led to the elimination of SIM card cloning for over       ten years on networks using this technology [3], resulting in significant       financial benefits for operators and users alike throughout the REF       period.
