     Wadsworth's research has influenced policy made by government and       quasi-government bodies.
Successive governments have tightened up       immigration of unskilled labour while forming policies to assess skill       shortages.
This is shown by:     i. Wadsworth is a member of the Home Office sponsored Migration Advisory       Committee (MAC), a position he has held since 2007.
This is the public       body set up specifically to advise the government on migration issues.
ii.
Wadsworth's research (as outlined above) is cited and used in the MAC       reports advising the Home Office on:            The formulation and establishing of the Home Offices skill shortage         list for the UK and for Scotland &#8212; now used as a determinant of entry         for skilled migrants from outside the EU (sources 1i &amp; 1ii).
The effect of relaxing restrictions on employment of A2 nationals         (1iii).
The labour market effects of immigration (source 1iv).
iii.
The reach of the MAC reports, including the fact that it was cited       by a government minister.
Home Office Minister Damian Green commenting on       source 1i said "uncontrolled immigration can put pressure on public       services, on infrastructure and on community relations.....This report       makes clear that it can also put pressure on the local labour market."
(source 2)     The research has also fed the debate over the labour market effects of       immigration and there are numerous examples of it being cited in the       public discussion by key policymakers and stakeholders.
The underpinning       research itself has been cited and discussed, for example, by The         Department of Work &amp; Pensions research on the effects of       Immigration in the Labour Market (source 3i), The Low Pay Commission's       concern with the effects of immigration and the National Minimum wage       (source 3ii), and the House of Lords Select Committee on Economic         Affairs investigation into the economic impacts of immigration       (source 3iii).
The Local Government Association used the research       to motivate its own analysis of the effects of the downturn on the demand       for migrant labour (source 3iv).
It is also noteworthy that influential       think tanks on both sides of the immigration debate, citing the       underpinning research including the Migration Policy Institute       (source 3v), The Migration Observatory (source 3vi), the Work       Foundation (source 3vii), the IPPR (source 3viii) and the Information       Centre about Asylum and Refugees (source 3ix).
Outside the UK, the       New Zealand government cited the paper in its own study of the labour       market impacts of immigration (source 3x).
The impact in terms of public discussion of Wadsworth's research is       further demonstrated by the fact that he was invited to speak about and       discuss the migration work of the MAC at a World Bank sponsored       workshop in Moscow ("Domestic Labor Shortages, Foreign Labor Demand, and       the Recruitment of Workers in Russia &#8212; Lessons from Host Country       Experiences toward a Future Work Program," Moscow, 19-20 June 2012) where       members of the Commonwealth of Independent States were interested in       adopting institutions that will encourage skilled migration and manage       less skilled migration.
He has also been invited to speak at an ESRC China       Academy Social Sciences workshop (presenting "Immigration and the UK       Labour Market", at the "Migration &amp; Labour Markets" workshop, Beijing,       8-9 June 2009), a Greater London Authority workshop (presenting       "Immigration and the Recession" at "The Impact of Immigration on London"       workshop, June 16th 2009), and a Westminster Legal Policy Forum       in London (presenting "View from the Migration Advisory Committee" at       keynote seminar: "Immigration &#8212; assessing the impact on new legislation"       (Source 4)
