     The beneficiaries of Eaglestone's research can be grouped according to       the two areas of       impact outlined above: 1) Education; and 2) Economic and Cultural       benefits.
1) Through long-standing engagement with curriculum reviews, Eaglestone       has become a       leading advisor about matters concerning the English Literature         A-level, and transition to       University.
As his research has developed within numerous publications, so       the number of       advisory roles has increased.
The beneficiaries of his work include:            Government/public bodies: the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority         (QCA);         OfQual and the Department of Education;       Exam Boards (the Oxford, Cambridge and RSA exam board (OCR) and the         Assessment and Qualifications Alliance (AQA)       Charitable Educational Organisations: the National Association for         Teachers of         English (NATE), the English and Media Centre (the EMC), and the English         Association (EA).
Teachers and students of A-Level English Literature          Eaglestone's research on theory and its place in the Academy,       crystallised in Doing English:       `the first substantial engagement with the relationship between A Level       and University       English' which `led to a resurgence of discussion about transition between       A Level and HE       English' (see References &#8212; NATE).
His earlier research had led to an       invitation to join the       English Reform Group, which fed into Dearing's `Curriculum Review 2000'       and subsequently       to the invitation in 2005 to advise the QCA/QCDA which was refining       Curriculum 2000 for       implementation in 2008.
In this advisory role Eaglestone helped to       review existing       specifications and syllabi, and to design a new set of specifications and       assessment       objectives.
He played a major role in establishing, against some       resistance, two of these       new specifications.
First, he argued successfully that there needed to be       one set literary text       dated post 1990.
This position was based on his research into the mutually       illuminating       evolution of both Literature and Literary Theory.
Secondly he argued,       again successfully,       that there should be an increase (from 8 to 12) in the number of texts       studied, to diversify       available methods of interpretation.
Here Eaglestone promoted both       theoretical and       contextual approaches, reflecting his research into the dynamic       relationship between       literature, history and trauma.
He also advised on reform of the       Assessment Objectives to       better reflect the kind of theorized work practised in Higher Education,       especially AO3 and       AO4.
Direct impacts of Eaglestone's work are to have introduced critical       theory and       contemporary literature into the A-Level specifications.
This has helped       bridge the gap       between A-Level and HE English Literature.
It has also encouraged and       facilitated the       teaching of contemporary literature in Universities, a noticeable trend in       recent years.
Eaglestone, put simply, is at the forefront of transforming the subject of       English Literature &#8212; in       Secondary Schools and at University.
Responding to the new specifications, Examination Boards developed new       syllabi.
Eaglestone's expertise was here critical and both the OCR and the AQA       consulted him and       have continued to do so: he is advising both AQA and OCR in Autumn 2013 on       their A-Level       Literature specifications.
In 2010, after the QCA was disolved, Eaglestone       was consulted by       Ofqual, the Department of Education, and AQA and OCR for advice on A-Level       reform.
It is       a measure of the significance of Eaglestone's impacts that his earlier       recommendations are       being maintained by these Exam Boards under the new A-Level structure.
Eaglestone has also frequently been consulted about HE education by three       leading       charitable organisations for the teaching of Literature &#8212; NATE, the EMC       and the EA.
Two       NATE reports in 2005 (see References), which drew extensively on       Eaglestone's work were       submitted to the QCA.
Addressing the NATE annual conference in 2013 and       now a member       of the HE Committee of the EA, Eaglestone advises these groups who provide       inputs to       Ofqual and the DfE, thus ensuring further strong policy impacts.
Eaglestone's work has, of course, affected the c.50,000 students taking       English Literature A-Level       each year since 2008 (making a total of c.300,000).
It affects the content       of the A-Level,       but also teaching practice, evidenced by teacher testimonials about his       work in the third       (revised) edition of Doing English.
The book's influence is not       just national: it has been       translated into Japanese and Arabic and has been excerpted in Australian       and American texts       books.
An edition is being prepared for the US market.
2) Eaglestone's research leads to economic and cultural benefits.
These       are by no means       negligible impacts, especially to his publishers Routledge, who have       benefitted from the high       sales of Doing English (current total 23,150) and his General       Editorship of the Routledge       Critical Thinkers (a series that has sold in total upward of 140,000       books).
Eaglestone       appears at about 2 Literary Festivals a year, addressing audiences of       between 50 and 100       and thus contributes to the Festival Industry, and to cultural life.
