     The areas in which the impacts of this research and its related project       are found include            civil society, by sparking debate and challenging cultural values       and cultural life, by forging and inspiring new religious and cultural         forms, while also bringing cultural heritage to life.
Both of these were enhanced by the interdisciplinary nature of the       project.
Crossing the borders of secular and theological domains,       academics joined forces with poets and priests, composers and actors,       designers and directors, musicians and members of the public.
The project's aims of reaching civil society beyond academia &#8212;       including religious institutions &#8212; brought both anticipated and       unanticipated results.
Public awareness of key issues of religion,       nationalism, cultural identity, and the meanings of spiritual and sacred       icons, was achieved in a range of powerful ways.
Using material from the       conferences and workshops, a new civic liturgy was presented as       part of a special service at Manchester Cathedral shortly after St       George's Day 2011 (delayed because of the timing of Easter).
This       incorporated giant puppets of St George and the Dragon, designed by a       Catalan group, and constructed by people from the Booth Centre and the       Mustard Tree, two of Manchester's largest homeless shelters.
Publicity was       widespread with reports in the media, including Radio 4's `Today         Programme' (see References).
The event was well attended and aroused       controversy: the fact that St George was represented with dark skin       (drawing on Mark Cazalet's 2001 reredos painting in the Cathedral)       generated hostile responses from the English Defence League and the       British National Party, who sent hate-mail to the Cathedral and threatened       to picket the Cathedral on the day of the service.
This led to further       coverage and debate in the national press (see References), on blogs and       in sermons at Manchester Cathedral, to which the congregation responded       supportively.
The Independent's report, for instance, was followed       up by 217 comments, and the controversy was picked up by Diarmaid       MacCulloch in his 2012 BBC documentary `How God Made the English'.
The Liturgy strand led to several events, enhancing cultural life:       (1) the collaborative work `Redcrosse', devised by Fernie, Shapcott,       Motion and Michael Roberts, with music by the composer of `Acoustic       Triangle', was premiered in St George's Chapel at the Windsor Spring       Festival in 2011; (2) a new musical work `The Faerie Queene Canticles'       based on the devised liturgical text was subsequently commissioned with       music, again, from the composer of the trio Acoustic Triangle.
This was       performed and recorded before 360 people at Romsey Abbey (8 July 2011),       accompanied by the Royal Holloway choir.
This has been performed again       since (at St George's Bristol, 5 May 2012).
Royal Holloway choir and       Acoustic Triangle now collaborate regularly.
(3) The `Redcrosse' project       was, moreover, taken up by the RSC for performance in Coventry at the       Cathedral's jubilee celebrations in 2012, directed by one of the RSC's       Assistant Directors.
Not in the original plans, this illustrates how the       research inspired new cultural forms.
This and the project's other strand (Fable and Drama) were united for two       distinct interdisciplinary events: first, a cross-sector conference       reflecting on poetry and spirituality, hosted by Cumberland Lodge in       January 2011 which in turn contributed to a closed performance at       Shakespeare's Globe (February 2011), and led to a second event, a `Poet in       the City' public arts day at Kings Place on 7 March 2011, with Fernie and       Shapcott reading their work, and performances, readings and academic       debate taking place.
The project has thus contributed to cultural life       by inspiring new work from a range of artists, spurring public       performances of new and existing works of art.
The complex historico-religio-literary enquiry initiated by Fernie and       Palfrey, helped by Shapcott and Motion, reached a wide and diverse range       of cultural and critical constituencies.
In mediated forms the project has       come to the potential notice of the 350,000 regular Guardian       readers, 200,000 Independent readers, and circa 1.4 million for a       Radio 4 feature on the project on 14 May 2011.
It has an afterlife in the       repeated performances by the RSC and Tim Garland, and also in the liturgy       being taken up in a number of churches, including St George's in the East       and St George's Hanworth.
Dr Rowan Williams described it as making `with       immense imaginative energy and honesty... a unique contribution to what is       often a pretty sterile discussion of who we are in these islands.'
(Endorsement printed on Redcrosse).
It is having an influence on       the way the Anglican Church perceives its liturgical tradition (see       Shanks) and how it engages with academia and literature: a `Literature and       Liturgy' project at Regents Park College, Oxford, inspired by the project       as a whole, will be commissioning creative work with a liturgy based       around A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Its impact is ongoing and it is       providing a model for further experiments in such interdisciplinary forms       (around the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's birth, for       instance, in 2016 - see source 4.
