     Those who feel the impact of Motion's research include the audiences,       supporters and funders of contemporary poetry; writers themselves, policy       makers, educationalists, teachers at all levels, and, above all, school       children and young people.
This range reflects his multiple and varied       activities, in particular the co-foundation and Directorship of The           Poetry Archive, an ever-expanding web resource of recorded       poetry launched in 2003.
His ongoing guiding work for the Archive       springs from his creative investigations into both the sounds of poetry       and its life-enhancing roles in public discourse.
His concern with the       renewal of the tradition of English lyric poetry is reflected here in the       generation of a living tradition of spoken poetry.
As Chair of its       selection committee, Motion has gathered recordings of over 250 British       poets reading their work.
Under his direction, the project has become       international, now working with the Poetry Foundation of America, the       Commonwealth Foundation and other partners.
It now includes some 150 poets       from the USA, and 25 poets each from Australia and New Zealand.
Motion has       established other partnerships overseas to include recordings by poets       from Canada, India, South Africa and the Caribbean.
Usage of this vital resource is enormous, international and increasing:       for the year ending 31 March 2013, there were 2,206,404 unique visitors       (an increase of 13% on the previous year) who made 9,386,255 page views.
There is a rich range of testimony from assorted users of its impacts: it       is `a treasure trove' (The Guardian); `an extraordinary       achievement, based on a remarkable and generous vision.
I am utterly       bowled over' (George Szirtes, poet); `an oasis at the end of the day',       `fantastic &#8212; it's education, entertainment, joy, support, discovery,       challenge and comfort all at once' (public users).
Transformational for       the poetry sector in general, hailed as `a monumental achievement' by       Stephen Page, CEO of Faber, it `broadens spectacularly the access people       have [and] could change the ways in which [poetry] is taught, learned and       loved' (editorial, PN Review).
The Poetry Archive developed from Motion's long-standing programme       of taking his work into schools.
In so doing, he developed insights into       school-childrens' relations to poetry, and into the training of teachers.
The Arts Council, recognizing this, commissioned Motion for a report.
The       result was `The Motion Report: Young             People and Poetry' (2010).
Containing several       recommendations about teaching poetry, this led to a major investment in       2012 (&#163;500,000) from the Department of Education to develop poetry       provision for young people within and outside school.
At its heart was the       initiative, also directed by Motion: Poetry           by Heart.
This annual national competition for the recitation       of poetry, launched in December 2012, aims to inspire the teaching of       poetry in schools and motivate pupils and teachers to explore the rich       heritage of English poetry.
768 schools registered for the scheme in its       first year; regional competitions took place in over 50 cities and towns       across England, and the final championship took place in the National       Portrait Gallery in April 2013 at which forty-one finalists were       accompanied by their teachers.
It has received national media coverage.
One programme of Poetry Please on BBC Radio 4 comprised entirely of       recordings made at the finals.
In its first full year the impacts of this       project are still emerging and will be ongoing.
The reach across the       country is already extensive.
The DfE tender has been extended for the       next two years, meaning that its profound significance will be       long-lasting and sustainable.
Motion's high cultural status assists the effectiveness and the impacts       of his work while his advocacy for poetry contributes intellectually and       economically to the buoyancy of the poetry sector.
His appearances to       promote poetry at festivals and related events number an average of two       engagements per week throughout each year under review.
Publishers benefit       financially from the high sales, relative to the field of contemporary       poetry, of his books.
Responses in reviews or comment pages to his books       and, increasingly, to his public pronouncements (about the Booker Prize,       for example, or culture more generally as he addressed it in his Romanes       lecture, or about English Heritage), are widespread.
Recent examples of positions of responsibility include: Chair of the T.       S. Eliot Prize (2009); Chair of the Man Booker Prize (2010) and, since       2011, Trustee of the Man Booker Foundation; Chair for the Forward Poetry       Prize (2011) and the Montreal Poetry Prize (2011); Chair of the Museums,       Libraries and Archives Council (since 2008); member of the Council of the       Advertising Standards Authority (since 2008); President, Campaign to       Protect Rural England (since 2012).
He is also a committee member of UK       Literary Heritage, which he established in order to address the retention       of contemporary literary manuscripts in the UK.
Overseeing two large       conferences at the British Library &#8212; `Manuscripts Matter' (2009) and       `Manuscripts Still Matter' (2012) &#8212; Motion contributed to its goals.
