     The impacts of Roberts' research since 2008 can be felt (1) in the field       of cultural life, as attested by widespread, positive and dynamising       responses from critics and day-to-day readers, and also in his influence       on recent SF novels.
(2) A tireless promoter of the SF sector through his       diverse forms of output and communication, he contributes to the growth of       what is a significant element within the culture industries.
(3) His       impact is also evident in contributions to the economic prosperity of the       cultural sector, notably publishing, but also events.
(1).
Through critical interpretation and the creation of cultural       capital, Roberts, as reviews show, extends the perceptual range and       enriches the imagination of the many individuals and groups who form the       SF community.
Yellow Blue Tibia (2006), as the first example of       `Soviet Noir', has spawned a new genre, claimed to have been taken up by       Higgins' Wolfhound Century (2013) (see below, source 7).
Many       reviews indicate how he is raising the status of the genre in the context       of `literary' fiction: The Scotsman wrote of By Light Alone       (2008): "Two years ago, Kim Stanley Robinson declared that Adam Roberts       ought to have won that year's Man Booker Prize for Yellow Blue Tibia.
Roberts exists in that weird hinterland between literary and genre       fiction.
By Light Alone is both more interesting in terms of its       ideas and more memorable in terms of the actual, sentence-by-sentence       writing on the page than much of what passes as serious fiction.
... Maybe       it's time for a new prize: not for "literary fiction" or "good reads" but       for novels that actually challenge."
With New Model Army (2009)       his influence over the field was acknowledged as revitalising; The         Zone, an SF website, declared that it "is a book that has the       potential to reinvigorate science fiction as a literature central         to the cultural and political life of the 20th Century .... [it]       attempts to forge a new way of looking at human events.
A mode that seems       well suited to this particular time and this particular place and, as a       result, the novel has the potential to change things."
The same novel       produced the following in SFX Magazine: "when Gollancz calls       Roberts one of the most important writers of his generation, it's       something of an understatement: this man puts art at the heart of our       genre," demonstrating his agency in fashioning new conceptions of Science       Fiction for a widening readership.
Jack Glass (2013), was       described by the administrators of the British Science Fiction Award,       decided through the votes of readers, as "an amazing book, which       successfully blends crime and science fiction ... highly intelligent and       skillful storytelling... one of the finest writers we currently have       working in the English language.
Roberts... has acquired a reputation for       writing novels that specifically set out to `mess with' some aspect of       genre history".
The artist Heman Chong was inspired by Roberts' work to       produce two original artworks (2012).
(2).
This reputation makes him a prolific and sought-after communicator       about the values of SF.
He engages with a rich variety of audiences beyond       HEIs through books, newspapers, magazines, television and radio, blogs,       twitter, internet magazines, and other fora.
His frequent broadcast       appearances include BBC4, Channel 4, the History Channel, BBC2       (`Newsnight'), Radio 2, Radio 3 (`Night Waves'), Radio 4 (`Open Book',       `Today', `Front Row' and others), BBC World Service, BBC London and other       local stations.
As a public educator about SF, he has brought to light new       conceptions, forms and histories of the genre, provoking and inspiring       that community, while reaching beyond it and attracting new audiences.
On       goodreads.com his novels have attracted (since 2008) 882 readers' reviews       with c. 5,500 individual ratings.
He reaches large audiences through       reviewing SF books for the Guardian, on the blog The Valve       (http://bit.ly/kIUuPG, regular audience       of about 30-40,000) and Punkadiddle (viewed by 235,000 people),       provoking lively debate (see `references').
All of this creates       significant support for the SF industry.
His impact as a popular author       has fed back into research: in April 2013 there was a conference devoted       to his work at Lincoln University, attended by academics but also       non-academics.
(3).
With this extensive and growing readership, Roberts' books achieve       high sales.
Publishers and booksellers have invested in this work, and the       sales result in rich rewards for their industry.
Roberts' novels sell       c.10-25,000 copies in the UK with many more overseas.
They are also       translated into French, German, Italian, Spanish, Polish, Czech, Greek,       Swedish, Finnish, Russian, Korean and Chinese.
The total number of       Roberts' books sold by Gollancz stands at 496,000 copies.
The Soddit       alone, his parody of Tolkien's The Hobbit, sold 150,000 copies,       bringing considerable profits to Gollancz.
In addition there are foreign       rights and film advances and option revenue.
