     Three sets of impact has been established by this research:     1) Changes to DoH guidelines.
In June 1998, the UK government's Committee       on Toxicity of Chemicals in Food, Consumer Products and the Environment       (COT) published a report on recommending that ``pregnant women who are       atopic or for whom the father or any sibling of the unborn child has an       atopic disease, may wish to avoid eating peanuts and peanut products       during pregnancy and breast feeding.''
This advice was given in the       absence of any robust studies on the prevalence of peanut allergy and its       trend, and in the absence of any link between maternal peanut consumption       and peanut allergy in their offspring.
The House of Lords, Science and       Technology Committee report on Allergy (6th Report, Session       2006-7) reviewed the evidence in the area and recommended "that this       advice should be withdrawn immediately pending a comprehensive review by       the Food Standards Agency and the COT".
COT's Statement on the review of       the 1998 COT recommendation on peanut avoidance stated that "Since the COT       recommendations were made, there have also been several studies published       on the frequency of sensitisation and allergy to peanuts, which could       inform understanding of whether the prevalence of this allergy is       increasing.
It was therefore considered timely to re-assess the current       state of scientific knowledge in this area and, based on the evidence now       available, to re-consider whether the 1998 COT dietary recommendations       remain appropriate" (CS1: http://cot.food.gov.uk/pdfs/cotstatement200807peanut.pdf).
Nine out of the 14 UK studies examined, originated from the Isle of Wight       Team (http://cot.food.gov.uk/pdfs/cotstatement200807peanut.pdf       page 12) illustrating the major contribution the team has made to the       evidence base.
Following this review COT Committee concluded that "the       previous dietary recommendations are no longer appropriate because of a       shift in the evidence base (CS2)".
The roll out of their revised guideline       and advice has benefitted groups along the entire healthcare supply chain:       individual parents, GPs and allergy services.
The revised advice is also       being included within general advice given to mothers about pregnancy and       development of their baby, including the `Pregnancy' and `Birth to Five'       books (http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/pregnancy-and-baby/pages/foods-to-avoid-       pregnant.aspx#Peanuts)       (CS3).
2) Provision of evidence that food allergy levels have not increased.
The       birth cohort established by Professor Dean is the only birth cohort       worldwide set up specifically to investigate epidemiology of food allergy       using objective measures and her findings provided the first demonstration       that unlike other manifestations of allergic disorders (eg Asthma) the       rates of food allergy has not increased.
This key evidence has informed       policy (CS4,5) as well as the advice that allergic consumers receive from       healthcare professionals and supporting organisations.
As a result Prof       Dean and Dr Venter have delivered expert advice to bodies including the       European Food Safety Authority, the National Institute of Clinical       Excellence, the Royal College of Paediatrics and the European Academy of       Allergy and Clinical Immunology.
Their prevalence data has significant       reach and has been included in 2010 US Food Allergy Guidelines (CS6).
The       impact of this work has been confirmed by the chief executive of       Anaphylaxis Campaign (CS7): "Their research is in these areas is world       leading in part because they are in a unique position to perform       longitudinal cohort studies with very little attrition.
In the Allergy       world `Isle of Wight cohorts' are recognised by all".
3) Changes in public awareness with respect to the prevalence of food       allergy.
Since the publication of their findings Professor Dean and Dr       Venter have contributed to numerous public engagement exercises (e.g.
Focus on Health: Asthma and Allergy in your Family, http://www.port.ac.uk/uopnews/2012/11/29/expert-advice-for-asthma-and-allergy-sufferers/)       and training events for healthcare professionals (e.g.
Allergy Academy       flagship training event for all healthcare professionals http://allergyacademy.org/),       ensuring there is widespread awareness that prevalence of food allergy has       not increased.
As stated in a letter by the director of Allergy Academy       (CS8), which has led the delivery of education in Allergy to over 5000       healthcare professionals, "The information on prevalence of food allergies       as provided by Professor Taraneh Dean and her team has been used to inform       many of the educational sessions given at the Allergy Meeting.
4) The paper: Venter, C.; Pereira, B.; Voigt, K.; Grundy, J.; Clayton, C.       B.; Higgins, B.; Arshad, S. H.; Dean, T. Prevalence and Cumulative       Incidence of Food Hypersensitivity in the First 3 Years of Life.
Allergy       2008, 63, 354-359, was included in the 2008 version of the "If you only       read five papers this year..." session thus reflecting its value to the       clinical allergy community.
Our work on raising the awareness has also been subject of critical media       review (CS9).
