     Research on Security and Media, Policy and Publics informed a       series of engagements that contributed to reflections on and       reformulations of counter-terrorism policy and its media coverage by UK       and overseas governments and by the public.
It also created new spaces for       reflection.
Contributions to ongoing UK security policy thinking: (i) Home         Office, Countering Online Radicalisation Working Group, October 2008.
Private meeting to establish the `evidence base' the Home Office was         seeking; (ii) Presentation of interim findings of radicalisation project         at FCO, 17 September 2008; (iii) House of Commons, presentation on the         theme `The "War on Terror" By Any Other Name: Ethical Dimensions of         Foreign Policy', 25 February 2009; (iv) Centre for the Protection of         National Infrastructure, presentation of CPNI project findings to         security agencies, 22 April 2009 and 2 March 2010.
Dorset Police claimed         that O'Loughlin's work (presented at the `Responding to Extremisms:         media roles and responsibilities' conference at Bournemouth University,         15 July 2011) put the issues around extremisms and media portrayal into         a wider spotlight, ensuring that the Police Force's policy review         processes were based on as wide as spectrum as possible.
Contributions to ongoing overseas policy and media conceptualisations         of terrorism and radicalisation: European Security Research and         Innovation Forum (ESRIF), European Commission, `Mediatization and         Communication', Brussels, 4 September 2008; National Security         Coordination Secretariat (NSCS), Singapore, 1-4 November 2009;         Al-Jazeera, `Perspectives on Terrorism, Violence and Resistance', Doha,         26-27 September 2010.
Spaces of reflection for policymakers, journalists and NGOs: (i)         Media and Radicalisation Symposium, Royal Holloway, 15 September 2009         and end of project conference, Warwick University.
(ii) Presentation to         Finsbury Park/North London Mosque, 8 June 2010.
Semantic Polling Research created debate on an entirely new and       unexplored methodology being deployed in public opinion research.
O'Loughlin's analysis with Linguamatics was used in the BBC's 2010 General       Election coverage and mentioned in the New York Times (31 October       2010).
Linguamatics was able to move from data mining medical journal       texts to mining public social media data and thereby enter public opinion       research.
It won a patent on its text analysis software I2E.
On 14       September 2009 O'Loughlin convened a semantic polling event featuring       presentations by the FCO, the private company, Information Options, and       the activist/marketing group, We Are Social, and attended by Oxfam, DSTL,       YouGov, the BBC and the European Commission.
O'Loughlin's research both stimulated debate and changed the practice of       organisations.
His work with Linguamatics in 2008 and from 2009 with Nick       Anstead (a former PhD student in O'Loughlin's New Political Communication       Unit and now a Lecturer at LSE) engaged practitioners during the research       process and led to a Hansard launch event of Anstead/O'Loughlin's policy       brief on 5 July 2012, with attendees from the BBC, Department of Culture,       Media and Sport, pollsters Ipsos-Mori, Angus Reid, YouGov, ComRes,       Tweetminster and the British Polling Council, and semantic polling       companies Linguamatics and Semiocast.
O'Loughlin and Anstead later       presented on the implications of semantic polling for citizens' social       media use and its regulation at a 17 May 2013 OFCOM event, `Adult Media       Use and Literacy'.
The Council of Europe invited O'Loughlin to give       evidence on developments on the internet and politics in March 2013.
Based       on that presentation, the Council decided to instigate a debate about       semantic polling at the November 2013 World Forum for Democracy and it       will feature in the Council's December 2013 final report.
O'Loughlin's expertise in semantic polling led to an invitation from BBC       World Service (BBCWS) to conduct social media analysis of audience       responses to the 2012 London Olympics, in collaboration with Marie       Gillespie (Open University).
This work has impacted upon editorial policy       and the BBC's audience research practice.
The BBC had already conducted       sentiment analysis and basic network analysis, but the BBC Trust's remit       requires it to find ways to measure `buzz', `reach' and `the global       conversation'.
This required greater conceptual clarity and methodological       innovation, and O'Loughlin and Gillespie's research of English, Persian,       Russian and Arabic audiences contributed to this by delineating the role       of identity and community in generating various affective and cognitive       responses.
O'Loughlin and Gillespie were invited to present their report       for the BBCWS at the main international industry gathering, CIBAR       (Conference of International Audience Researchers), in November 2012 in       Salford.
Tweeting the Olympics helped BBCWS reshape its editorial and social media       strategies for future global events.
The BBCWS Head of Audiences said, `It       was useful to pinpoint what exactly was good and what was less so and work       on improvements for similar events in the future', and that the research       would `help inform further social media activity across the language       services'.
The impact of O'Loughlin's earlier research on how online conversation       moves during events was evident in a statement by the BBCWS Digital       Insight manager, who said, `For me the most important take out was about       how the conversation morphed throughout an event &#8212; from the emotional, to       the informational and finally to the contextual.
The fact that the former       types of conversation were the most dominant in the twittersphere was       really important to us &#8212; as it's not something we really engage with at       the moment (focussing more on the contextual) and raises the very       important question as to whether we need to engage with these types of       conversations more in order to take social users with us into the journey       towards more analytical content'.
The manager also confirmed that these       findings were fed into editorial policy: `This has been something we've       discussed with senior management and is now being used by us to help us in       our ongoing social listening activity and is acting as a loose framework       to help us better analyse social conversation'.
The impact of the semantic       polling methodology was evidenced by feedback from the BBC Global News       Online Journalism &amp; Innovation Editor, who said: `The research       methodology in combining scientific computational calculations with human       coding is unique and offered useful insights [into] qualitative and       quantitative analysis.
The research and the findings highlighted the need       to have proper social media staffing when covering big events.
It was also       useful in comparing two different approached to using twitter in covering       big events: Automated module VS. Live tweeting combined with live pages'.
He further confirmed that, `I have included the lessons learnt from this       research in my social media strategy for BBC Arabic'.
O'Loughlin's work on strategic narratives and public diplomacy       was recognised as early as 2008 when he was asked to contribute to an 18       May 2008 New York Times article on Russia's development of the       English-language news channel Russia Today to promote its image abroad.
However, the most direct impact of O'Loughlin's work is demonstrated in       his role as Specialist Advisor to the House of Lords Select Committee on       Soft Power and the UK's Influence from July 2013.
O'Loughlin advises on       the selection of witnesses from politics, business and culture who are       invited to give evidence, on the questions they are asked, and on how       written evidence is interpreted.
The Committee Clerk has written that       O'Loughlin's `knowledge of academic debates around strategic narratives       and changing global media environments has directly influenced the       drafting of possible questions for the assistance of Committee members in       evidence sessions with high-profile witnesses from organisations such as       the British Council, the Ministry of Defence, and UK Trade and Industry',       and has further testified to the influence of O'Loughlin's research on       measuring the `impact' of narratives, saying that O'Loughlin `successfully       assisted the Committee with understanding how some of the more nebulous       concepts that are used in the relevant literature &#8212; and by witnesses &#8212;       might best be pinned down, such as by recognising the distinction drawn       between outputs (for instance, the number of website "hits" that the       British Museum receives) and outcomes (for instance, the change in       attitudes about the UK that witnesses might have seen as a result of their       actions)'.
The Committee's final report is due in March 2014.
