     Building on his work as co-founder of the PSA Young People's Politics       Specialist Group and the       APSA Working Group on Young People's Politics, Sloam established a       substantial network of over       200 academics and user groups working in this area during the REF period.
Exploiting this network       helped him generate engagements and impacts for his research.
After       representatives from the       Intergenerational Foundation, Shout Out UK and Portsmouth City Council       attended his April 2011       HEFCE-funded conference, the Intergenerational Foundation appointed Sloam       as an advisor,       where he is assisting with the development of a European intergenerational       fairness index, Shout       Out UK appointed him to an ambassadorial role, through which he supports       their work on       citizenship education and youth engagement in schools, and Portsmouth City       Council invited him       to be a keynote speaker at its Local Democracy Week (14-18 October 2013).
Similarly, after his       March 2013 workshops on youth participation in British democracy, which       were attended by       representatives of StudentVoice, Sloam began work on a collaboration to       assess the effectiveness       of the organisation's leadership and outreach programmes, Sloam's research       achieved impact       during the period by: 1) influencing UK policy debate and decision-making       about young people and       political engagement; and 2) creating space to debate the social role of       higher education in the UK.
Evidence Sloam presented to the Youth Citizenship Commission in 2009 had       a direct influence on       key policy makers and the government.
The Commission, which met from 2008       to 2009 and       reported to the government in June 2009 (`Making the connection.
Building youth citizenship in the       UK: Final report of the Youth Citizenship Commission', Ministry of       Justice), was charged with       examining what citizenship means to young people; exploring how       citizenship and political       engagement among young people can be improved; and leading a consultation       on whether the       voting age should be lowered.
It reported directly to the Secretary of       State for Justice and to the       Prime Minister, and issued two final reports in 2009 to which the       government formally responded.
According to the Chair of the Commission `there is clear evidence that       government accepted the       overwhelming majority of the Commission's recommendations'.
Members of the Commission have confirmed that Sloam made very important       contributions to its       deliberations.
The Chair affirmed that Sloam provided `perhaps the most       important [contributions]       offered by any academic, beyond those who sat on the Commission' and that       given how `the       Commission's recommendations were overwhelming accepted and implemented,       Dr. Sloam's work       [was] of direct policy relevance.'
According to another member of the       Commission, Sloam's       Parliamentary Affairs article (viii) had considerable influence in       informing them on the nature of the       problems to be addressed and their possible solutions, and was widely read       by Commission       members.
It is cited in the Commission's published literature review.
The       Commission members       held that Sloam made a `convincing case' in asserting that the issue of       youth political       disengagement emanates from alienation and lack of political structures,       contrary to the commonly       held view that it was the result of political apathy.
The most crucial and       influential pieces of       evidence were in respect of Sloam's portrayal of how young people were       excluded from policy       deliberation structures within both local government and central       government departments.
In       addition, Sloam's research highlighted information deficits regarding       opportunities for young people       to become engaged in community or institutional activity.
It has been       confirmed that as a result of       these findings the Youth Citizenship Commission developed specific       proposals such as youth       representation on local council departmental decision-making bodies to       help address both the       democratic and information deficits.
Sloam's overriding argument       concerning the need to empower       young people through specific structural changes and adopting new       attitudes towards the inclusion       of youth within decision-making bodies became the Commission's dominant       approach to       addressing youth disengagement.
The full list of Commission       recommendations in the final report       greatly reflect Sloam's article.
Having utilised his academic research,       the Commission invited       Sloam to provide a direct submission to its evidence-gathering processes.
This was duly       undertaken and Sloam's contribution, based upon the above themes, is       acknowledged in the final       report.
For these reasons the Commission Chair affirmed that `Dr Sloam can       justifiably claim       significant policy impact in this sphere'.
The second strand of Sloam's underpinning research had an impact on       policy debate about the       social role of higher education.
On 5-6 November 2008 he presented on the       subject of citizenship       education at a Westminster conference, `Revitalising Politics', organised       by Colin Hay and Gerry       Stoker and attended by policymakers and Members of Parliament (http://tinyurl.com/lbn58ww),       and       he later participated in an 8-9 December 2010 Regional Seminar on `Youth       Participation and       Democracy' organised by the Inter Parliamentary Union at Portcullis House,       Westminster       (http://tinyurl.com/mvjffq4),       contributing an article to the IPU Review issue on the event where       he       discussed both citizenship education and broader strategies to engage       young people in politics.
In       2010 Sloam won funding from HEFCE to convene a conference, `A Pedagogy of       Civic       Engagement for Higher Education', at Royal Holloway on 15 April 2011.
Speakers included Prof.       Benjamin R. Barber and representatives of Demos/Civworld.
The event       brought together experts       and stakeholders, including the chief executives of Universities UK and       the Higher Education       Academy and the Research Director of HEFCE, to improve evidence-based       practice in civic       education in UK higher education.
It was a deliberative exercise that       provided the basis for a report       produced for HEFCE that was presented to the Department of Business,       Innovation and Skills.
The       Times Higher Education Supplement wrote an article about the       conference, linking its themes and       discussions to issues around funding cuts and the government's `Big       Society' aspirations.
Sloam was appointed as a Discipline Associate for Sociology, Anthropology       and Politics at the       Higher Education Academy in 2010/11, bringing his Deweyan approach to bear       on promoting the       role of evidence-based `experiential learning' in political science       education.
He was also invited by       the German Federal Agency for Political Education to help develop a       `Networking European       Citizenship Initiative', participating in development events for NECE in       June and October 2013 and       attending a meeting in the Hague on 14-16 November 2013.
Sloam's continued involvement in the strategy and activities of Shout Out       UK, the Intergenerational       Foundation, Portsmouth City Council, StudentVoice and the German Federal       Agency for Political       Education demonstrate the sustainability of the relationships and impact       activities he has built       within this REF period.
The Intergenerational Foundation's Co-founder       testifies to Sloam's       importance to their work, writing that, `Dr Sloam's expertise on the       political engagement of young       people has been crucial to the Intergenerational Foundation's work       promoting the rights of younger       and future generations in policy-making.
He serves on IF's Advisory Board       and acts as an expert       sounding board to ensure that research relevant to his area of expertise       is conducted robustly'.
His       comments also highlight the importance of Sloam's ability to contextualise       British politics within       European political trends: `Dr Sloam's knowledge of youth voting patterns       and youth engagement       with politics has been crucial to IF's latest work which involves       assessing the feasibility of       extending the UK Intergenerational Fairness Index to cover all 27 European       countries.
This       groundbreaking work attempts to compare intergenerational fairness across       borders and will, we       hope, provide both country specific and pan-European evidence of the       intergenerational imbalance       of policies'.
Sloam is currently moving forward with research to assess       StudentVoice's leadership       and outreach programmes, with a recent funding bid to the British Academy       (decision pending).
