     This research is delivering significant and far-reaching impacts in a       number of areas concerning road safety.
The main beneficiaries of this       work are (a) road users including drivers and pedestrians; (b) road safety       professionals, organisations, and charities; (c) local authorities; and       (d) commercial organisations seeking to reduce the involvement of their       drivers in road accidents.
Road Users, Road Safety Organisations and Charities, and Local         Authorities.
This research has had substantial impacts across the       UK, and increasingly, around the world, because it provides a clear       rationale based upon human perceptual abilities for wider use of 20 mph       traffic zones.
It has been featured in national and regional TV, radio,       and print news, and provided the lead story for BBC1's "Bang Goes the       Theory" which focused on children's road safety (March, 2013).
It was also       featured in National Road Safety Week in 2010 and 2012, and in a number of       major road safety meetings organised through the campaign body Brake.
Most importantly, this research has been central to a successful UK       campaign by 20sPlenty (a national body with nearly 200 regional       campaigns), to argue for a reduction in urban speed limits, especially in       areas in which children are present.
This campaign has resulted in the       adoption of default 20mph speed limits for residential streets in 40 local       authorities (including e.g.
Liverpool, Portsmouth, Bristol, York,       Brighton, Bath, Newcastle, Oxford, Cambridge, Hackney) comprising nearly       10 million residents.
Twelve further local authorities (including e.g.
Birmingham, Wirral, Ealing, Norwich) comprising nearly 2.5 million       residents have made a political commitment to implementing default 20mph       speed limits for residential streets.
Most recently, Wann was invited to       give evidence to a transport select committee convened by North       Lincolnshire Authority which resulted in a large number of urban speed       limits being revised downwards, including the greater use of 20mph zones.
Wann's research and advice is cited extensively in the final report (http://tinyurl.com/NLincsReport).
Based on epidemiological research (1986-2006; Grundy et al., 2009, British         Medical Journal, 339, b4469) suggesting that 20mph traffic zones can       reduce road casualties by 42%, and based on Department for Transport       pedestrian casualty figures for 2011 (5,907 killed or seriously injured,       hereafter KSI), we estimate that the speed limit reductions in these         local authorities alone have the potential to prevent 496 KSI       outcomes annually, including saving 38 pedestrian lives each year.
Royal Holloway research on children's road crossing [2] has also been       featured by other local campaigns to highlight the importance of school       crossing patrols, and it was described in a parliamentary question to the       Under Secretary of Transport concerning the impact of budget cuts on these       patrols in Dorset (Hansard 16/3/11).
This specific campaign was successful       in saving 84% of school crossing patrols in Dorset (51 out of 61 patrols).
Road Safety Professionals and Commercial Organisations.
Royal       Holloway research on human perceptual abilities in relation to critical       road traffic events has also had impact through grass-roots interaction       with road safety professionals and commercial organisations.
During the       period, Wann and his team have presented their research at a number of       road safety meetings in which road safety officers (RSOs) were attending       as part of their continuing professional development.
This interaction has       been consolidated by RSOs, Police, and Fire Service attendees downloading       the interactive computer-based demonstrations designed at Royal Holloway       through ESRC Knowledge Transfer funding for use in local driver education       programmes.
It has also led to active collaborations with the BAA Heathrow       safety team, who are responsible for over 11,000 vehicles and over 20,000       drivers operating in a 5sq mile area.
Software developed at Royal Holloway       that demonstrates what our research has uncovered about drivers'       perceptual errors is now being used in BAA Heathrow's safety awareness       programme (e.g.
Airside Safety Week, 2012).
Finally, as a result of his high-quality research on collision detection,       Wann was invited onto the scientific advisory committee for the QUADRA       project at Volvo Technology, which has a specific focus on modelling       driver interaction with Forward Collision Warning (FCW) and lane departure       systems.
This is an active committee comprising two leading scientists       from the USA, one from Sweden, and one from the UK (Wann) who provide       human factors advice on FCW developments.
The systems being piloted and       developed through advice from this committee have the potential to affect       hundreds of thousands of road users, not only those who have purchased a       Volvo vehicle, but also those who will benefit from (a) the intervention       of advanced control systems in a vehicle that might otherwise have caused       a collision and (b) similar vehicle designs by other manufacturers moving       towards the standard set by Volvo.
Through this link with Wann's research       group, Volvo Technology was in turn a collaborator in an EU Network       training early career scientists in the field (EU FP7 Marie Curie       2009-2012).
