     This research is delivering substantial and far-reaching impacts on       aspects of the criminal justice       system including the development of protocols for interviewing witnesses,       the development of       standardised procedures for staging video identification parades, and the       development of       processes for handling children and other vulnerable witnesses.
The       beneficiaries of this research       are: (a) victims and witnesses, who are questioned using evidence-based       techniques for       recovering reliable information about a crime; (b) police, who by using       standardised and evidence-       based processes are less likely to see their evidence challenged in court;       (c) judges and juries,       who are better able to reach the correct verdict as a result of reliable       evidence presented to them;       (d) suspects, who as a result of robust evidence-based investigative       processes are less likely to be       wrongly accused; and (e) the general public, who benefit from a fair and       effective criminal justice       system.
Interview Protocol.
Royal Holloway research on the Cognitive       Interview has had a significant       impact both nationally and internationally on the way in which police       gather information from       witnesses.
The Cognitive Interview is recommended in the Ministry of       Justice national guidance on       how to question witnesses and vulnerable witnesses ("Achieving Best       Evidence in Criminal       Proceedings" March, 2011, where Memon's work is cited), and is used by       every police force in       England and Wales.
The Cognitive Interview has also been used in Iceland,       Finland, France,       Spain, Belgium, Brazil, South Africa, Brunei, the Netherlands, Germany,       Israel, Cyprus, Canada,       USA, Portugal, Greece, Australia, Mauritius, Norway, New Zealand, and       Singapore.
This research has also achieved impact through training that Memon       delivers to professionals who       conduct investigative interviews.
For example, Memon recently delivered a       two-day workshop on       the Cognitive Interview which attracted over 40 professionals including       representatives from the       police and judiciary from Brazil, Canada, Finland, France, Sweden, Norway,       Spain, and the UK       (2011).
This training is directly informed by research conducted at Royal       Holloway.
For example,       one of the most important contributions of Memon's meta-analysis is that a       modified version of the       Cognitive Interview can be as effective as the full Cognitive Interview       [1].
Hence, in the delivery of       training, Memon presents this modified version as a viable alternative,       thus dealing with concerns       about the time and resource needed to conduct the full Cognitive       Interview.
Similarly, the meta-       analysis [1] revealed that using the Cognitive Interview as soon as       possible after a crime has been       committed can reduce forgetting of critical detail compared with the       standard interview.
Memon       communicates this finding through training that she offers, and the       Cognitive Interview has now       been introduced as a tool for frontline investigators, who are most likely       to be the first to arrive at       the scene of a crime.
Video Identification Parades.
Royal Holloway research on the       potential shortcomings of video       identification parades [3-5] led directly to the development of       standardised guidance on the       procedures that should be followed when conducting such parades.
This       guidance (developed by       Memon) has now been approved and endorsed by the Association of Chief       Police Officers and the       Crown Prosecution Service (2013).
It has already resulted in changes in       the practices of several       police forces (Surrey, Northumbria, Devon and Cornwall Police, Gwent, West       Yorkshire and the       Police Service in Northern Ireland), and will shortly be implemented       nationally.
Protocols for Treating Child Witnesses.
Royal Holloway research on       interviewing children and       other vulnerable witnesses (e.g.
[5]) has led indirectly to significant       developments in the treatment       of evidence from child witnesses.
Following an appeal in 2009 against       conviction in R v Barker       (the sister of Baby P), the Ministry of Justice invited Memon to review       research on the factors that       could impact upon the reliability of evidence from young children.
This       review has played an       instrumental role in informing the courts about the problems of lengthy       time delays between       investigation and trial in cases in which young children are involved.
This research on child       witnesses has also created impacts at grass-roots level through the       training that Memon delivers.
For example, Memon recently delivered a series of half-day modules on       assessing the reliability       and credibility of witnesses, as part of the training provided to new and       experienced Justices of the       Peace (JPs) in Scotland (2010-2011).
These events attracted approximately       70 experienced JPs       and 160 new JPs.
The deputy chair of the Judicial Studies Committee       Scotland praised these       training events, writing in a letter to Memon that "I have spoken to many       JPs who ...have told the       JSC that [Memon's training] has had a significant impact in changing the       way they go about the       task of examining the evidence presented to them in court....
I am       confident that this improvement       will have contributed to the delivery of just outcomes in our judicial       process in Scotland".
