     The research underpinning the development of Bradley's PROMs has yielded       substantial and far-reaching impacts.
The main beneficiaries of her       research are (a) patients with chronic medical conditions, who receive       treatments proven to enhance quality of life as well as quality of health;       (b) the NHS, which saves money as a result of treatment developments       associated with these PROMs; (c) pharmaceutical companies, which as a       result of these PROMs are able to assess the impact of newly developed       treatments on patient satisfaction, quality of life, and other patient       reported outcomes; and (d) the economy, which benefits from licence fee       income from spin-off company HPR Ltd as well as downstream revenue from       major pharmaceutical companies.
Patients.
Bradley's PROMs have been licensed repeatedly to 20       major pharmaceutical companies, including affiliates in circa 40       countries, and to over 140 charities, universities and hospitals.
They       have been linguistically validated in over 100 languages and dialects, and       have been used in more than 60 countries for clinical and research       purposes including multi-national clinical trials.
The substantial use and       global reach of these PROMs impacts directly on patients around the world,       because it enables new treatments being developed for chronic medical       conditions to improve patients' quality of life as well as their quality       of health.
Bradley's research on quality of life in diabetes in particular has been       fundamental to the DAFNE patient-education approach to treating Type I       diabetes.
It was through her research in developing the ADDQoL that the       major negative impact of dietary requirements on quality of life in       diabetes first became apparent [3], and she and her team were instrumental       in the original trials establishing that the DAFNE training has long-term       positive impacts on glycaemic control and quality of life in Type 1       diabetes [4,5].
DAFNE treatment is now part of the routine care provided       in 75 diabetes centres servicing 138 localities in the UK, and to 23       diabetes centres in Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, where it has       brought improvements to the quality of life, long-term health, and       longevity to nearly 30,000 people with Type 1 diabetes (www.dafne.uk.com).
NHS.
The York Health Economics Consortium demonstrated that DAFNE       is expected to save the NHS &#163;2,237 per patient over a 10 year period       compared to standard diabetes treatment.
These savings are largely the       result of the fact that DAFNE treatment is associated with fewer       complications &#8212; including blindness, kidney failure and foot ulcers       leading to amputation &#8212; than standard diabetes treatment (Shearer et al.,       2004, Diabetic Medicine, 21, 460-467).
The quality of life gains       associated with DAFNE demonstrated by Bradley's team [4,5] are a vital       part of the success of this treatment because they enable patients to       adhere to a complex treatment regimen in the long term, and thus allow       patients to reap the benefits of ensuing improvements to diabetes control.
Economy and Commerce.
Success in licensing Bradley's PROMs led to       the incorporation of spin-off company HPR Ltd in 2004.
During the period       under review (2008-2013), HPR Ltd has issued 2148 commercial and 588       non-commercial licenses for use of these PROMs, yielding a direct       contribution to the economy of over &#163;4m in licence fee income, 86% of       which constitutes foreign investment to the UK.
HPR Ltd has issued a       further 369 licence agreements free of charge for use by clinicians and       students around the world.
The downstream commercial impacts of these PROMs on the pharmaceutical       industry are very substantial because drugs become best-sellers partly as       a result of demonstrating benefits to patient satisfaction and other       patient-reported outcomes.
Most significantly, Bradley's PROMs were       instrumental from the earliest stages of the development of insulin       glargine (marketed as Lantus by Sanofi-Aventis).
In 2012, Lantus was the 6th       best-selling drug in the world (raising nearly &#8364;5 billion in sales), and       was prescribed to over 3.5 million patients in over 100 countries.
Bradley's PROMs also contributed to the development of the very first       analogue insulin, insulin lispro (marketed as Humalog by Eli Lilly), which       in 2012 raised over &#8364;1.8 billion in sales.
