     Berghahn's collaborative and individual research in the field of migrant       and diasporic cinema has benefited filmmakers and other media       professionals as well as the cinema-going public.
In order to build a       solid basis for knowledge exchange between academics and stakeholders in       the media industry,Berghahn invited the Co-founder and Director of       Studies, a filmmaker/scriptwriter/producer and MD of Scenario Films Ltd.       to join the Migrant and Diasporic Cinema Research Network.
He has       described his participation in the Research Network as `the single most       important impetus behind the conception and foundation of BABYLON' (see       testimonial under 5).
The Network's research findings demonstrated that,       despite various diversity initiatives within the European film industries,       ethnic minority filmmakers encounter particular problems and barriers when       trying to get their films into production.
the Co-founder and Director of       Studies (ibid) explains that `this significant research finding encouraged       me to found BABYLON, a cultural forum and development programme designed       to support the creative ambitions of migrant and diasporic filmmakers from       Europe's varied minorities.
BABYLON is committed to challenging existing       perceptions that have hardened into prejudice and to stimulating an       industrial environment in which producers, distributors and audiences are       attracted to culturally diverse films.
The first step in this direction       was to increase the visibility and profile of minority filmmakers across       the European film industry and to liberate new voices that had been       hitherto marginalised and excluded'.
BABYLON is an audiovisual development programme that helps filmmakers to       overcome these obstacles and to establish important contacts, thereby       enabling competitively selected workshop participants to develop their       screenplays and get them into production.
The case of Turkish German       filmmaker S&#252;lbiye G&#252;nar is particularly instructive: on account of her       name and earlier work, she was expected to make films about her own ethnic       constituency.
Television producers invited her to make a film about `her       compatriots at the hypermarket' and `a beautiful Turkish woman'.
To escape       from this kind of ethnic pigeonholing, she changed her name to Verena S.       Freytag while working on the project `Alpenhof', the working title of her       film Abgebrannt (2011).
With the support of BABYLON, she also       managed to get back the rights for her screenplay `Alpenhof' from Colonia       Media Film/Bavaria, which the production company initially contested.
`Without BABYLON, I would probably have given up fighting for [the rights]       of the screenplay.
Furthermore, at the BABYLON workshop in Rotterdam I met       Burkhard Althoff from the ZDF/KF [television].
He asked me about my       project, which I had originally sent to the ZDF in 2004 and he encouraged       me to re-submit it to one of his colleagues.
... BABYLON was a crucial       experience for my career as a scriptwriter and director and for my film',       which was eventually co-funded by the ZDF (see email correspondence       between Berghahn and Freytag referenced in section 5).
Between 2007 and 2013, BABYLON provided training and support to over one       hundred competitively selected filmmakers through targeted film       development workshops at film festivals in Berlin, Rotterdam, Locarno,       Cannes and elsewhere.
BABYLON has received funding and support from the       British Council, Skillset, Film Fonds Wien and the EU Media Mundus       Programme.
To date eight films by BABYLON alumni have been completed.
They       have also won a number of prestigious awards at international film       festivals including Sundance, the Berlin International Film Festival,       Raindance, Karlovy Vary, Toronto, Moscow and Mumbai.
So far eight films       have been released in cinemas and have received extensive press coverage       in leading newspapers such as The Guardian, Le Monde, Frankfurter         Allgemeine Zeitung, Die Zeit and the trade press (Variety,         Hollywood Reporter, Sight and Sound etc.).
In particular       films about (diasporic) families, including My Brother the Devil       (2012), Kuma (2012) and Son of Babylon (2009) have been       able to cross over into the mainstream, arguably because, as Berghahn has       demonstrated in Outputs (referenced 1 and 6), family narratives elicit a       sense of recognition and identification with the `other' and, therefore,       have possessed the capacity to build bridges across cultures.
Son of         Babylon was Iraq's nomination for the Academy Awards in 2010 and was       distributed in nine territories.
Kuma premiered at the       International Berlin Film Festival in 2012 and has since been released in       cinemas in eight countries including Austria, Germany, Spain, the UK and       France, where it was distributed with 60 prints under the title Une         seconde femme, attracting 36,710 viewers.
In addition to providing the initial stimulus for the foundation of       BABYLON, Berghahn has created numerous opportunities for knowledge       exchange, consultancy and collaboration with high-profile minority       filmmakers including John Akomfrah, Abdelkrim Bahloul, Feo Alada&#287;,       diversity consultant Parminder Vir, OBE, Eve Gabereau (Soda Pictures),       producers Leslee Udwin (East is East and West is West) and       Ralph Schwingel (Fatih Ak&#305;n's Head-On) and Thierry Lenouvel (Cin&#233;       Sud Promotion).
These have generated a more comprehensive understanding of       diversity and equality issues amongst stakeholders in the media industry.
Furthermore, at the International BFI London Film Festivals in 2011 and       2012, Jones convened industry panels entitled `BABYLON Burning &#8212; a public       debate on film diversity' and `BABYLON Breakthrough'.
A productive       dialogue between Nadine Marsh-Edwards (producer, board member Film       London), Nadia Denton (Black Film Magazine), Leslee Udwin, David Thomson       (former Head of BBC Films, now Origin Pictures) amongst others ensued at       these important forums.
Berghahn participated in the industry panel       `BABYLON Burning' in 2011, which received press coverage in BritFlicks       (see under 5).
Berghahn designed public-facing interactive websites with archives of       podcasts with filmmakers and other media professionals, blogs and       searchable databases and other features for her research projects.
Since       the website www.migrantcinema.net       went live in March 2007, it has had 41,127 unique visitors.
The total       number of page views (until 31 July 2013) was 134,992.
The website www.farflungfamilies.net       has attracted 11,433 unique visitors with a total number of 30,706 page       views between December 2010 and 31 July 2013.
The websites have raised the       public visibility of Berghahn's research and, as a result, she was invited       in October 2009 to contribute to an international symposium and a German       television programme entitled `Suddenly so much Heimat: Changing Identity       in Film, Culture and Society'.
The public symposium was organised by the       WDR (West German Broadcasting Corporation) and held at the Museum Ludwig       in Cologne.
Berghahn was also interviewed for a documentary on the topic,       broadcast by the WDR on 31 October 2009, watched by 90,000 viewers.
The       event, which was accompanied by a film season (Heimat Feelings)       broadcast by the WDR between October and November 2009, was initiated by       the WDR's Commissioner for Integration and Cultural Diversity and the Head       of Television Drama and Film.
It brought together filmmakers, journalists,       film critics, policy makers and international film scholars and promoted a       new concept of Heimat, identity and belonging, thereby supporting       the WDR's mission to promote cultural diversity and integration.
As       Berghahn's research demonstrates (esp.
Output 2), Heimat may be a       German word but in the age of transnational migration, it has gained new       meanings for the transnationally mobile citizens of plural worlds.
Berghahn created further impact through her research on the diasporic       family in film through public film screenings and Q&amp;A sessions with       filmmakers at the Cin&#233; Lumi&#232;re in London.
These screenings brought       contested socio-political issues such as the practice of honour killings (When         We Leave, 2010) and the integration of diasporic families into       majority culture (Almanya &#8212; Welcome to Germany, 2011) to public       attention.
Despite being critically acclaimed, these films have not had a       theatrical release in Britain.
When We Leave, which was Germany's       nomination for the Academy Awards in 2011, had only been shown once at the       Human Rights Film Festival in London before Berghahn made it accessible to       the general public at the Cin&#233; Lumi&#232;re on 21 May 2011.
In a lively Q&amp;A       session with writer-director Feo Alada&#287;, the audience had the opportunity       to discuss issues of cultural diversity and, in particular, the       controversial issue of honour killings in Turkish Muslim families.
Although Almanya &#8212; Welcome to Germany attracted over 1.4 million       viewers in Germany alone and has been released in cinemas in ten European       countries, it has not found a distributor in the UK.
Berghahn premiered       this feel-good integration comedy at the Cin&#233; Lumi&#232;re to a full house on       18 January 2012 (and subsequently at the Goethe Institute on 15 May 2013).
In a Q&amp;A session with the writer-director siblings Nesrin and Yasemin       Samdereli, members of the public, and school classes who attended the       screening, discussed how this film engages with and debunks ethnic       stereotypes and interacts with public debates about immigration,       integration and cultural diversity.
A podcast of the Q&amp;A session is       available on Berghahn's research project website (source 7).
