     Royal Holloway's team have been central to bringing about the first       successful co-operation between European TV archives to open up their       holdings to the general public, represented in the successful launch of       EUscreen in 2010.
The research has shaped the new co-operative culture         amongst European broadcaster archives, enabling substantial public       access and defining the terms of engagement with audio-visual content for       the European digital library, Europeana.
VideoActive paved the way and       made possible the far larger www.euscreen.eu       project which now encompasses 22 broadcaster archives.
Ellis and Turnock       continue to guide this project.
EUscreen provides universal public access       to already-digitised historic television material.
It enabled many       archives to develop an access policy for the first time; and some (like       RTBF in Belgium) to develop their first systematic digitisation.
The       project is unique in its comparative aspect, promoting searches across       output from different European broadcasters.
The EUscreen website is universally accessible and averaged       41,550 unique visitors per month in 2013 (up from 9000 per month in 2012)       with almost 120,000 page views per month.
EUscreen has been referred to in       108 print and online publications, as well as 1684 mentions on Twitter,       where EUscreen has 445 followers.
There have also been 101,000 web       references via Google, 1,080 on Bing and 7,290 through Yahoo.
It is       currently included as an integral part of courses at 36 educational       institutions across Europe, and has reached target stakeholders in 196       Higher and Further Education institutions.
The EUscreen collection will       contain more than 45,000 items by 2016.
The design of a straightforward       interface involved the Royal Holloway team who articulated the needs of       different potential users based on the underpinning research into       judgements of cultural value.
The software developers also substantially       altered their `advanced search' design to accommodate the requirements of       scholarly as well as generalist research at the urging of the Royal       Holloway team.
Europeana (the EC-funded digital library and museum) appointed EUscreen         as its sole aggregator for audiovisual content, despite the       existence of other sites such as the European Film Gateway.
EUscreen will       provide one million metadata items to Europeana by 2016.
VideoActive's       metadata model was adopted by EUscreen with only minor changes, and is now       the standard for participating broadcasters from most of the new accession       states of Eastern Europe.
EUscreen has become a unique forum for archives       across Europe, ranging from the INA in France, with its advanced access       programmes, to Romania, Poland and Denmark with no other sustained public       access programmes.
Royal Holloway's research reputation in this area led       to its selection, along with co-ordinators Utrecht University, as the sole       research institution partners in these projects.
The majority partners are       broadcaster archives (now almost 30 are involved) and two technology       providers.
EUscreen developed and expanded the VideoActive prototype by adding       research-informed commentary on its holdings through the creation of       `virtual collections'.
Royal Holloway took responsibility for the       development of a series of themed `virtual exhibitions' of EUscreen         material, applying in practice the findings of the underpinning       research to develop curated collections drawing on a wide range of       academic research and the work of archivists.
This co-operative working       has been further developed by the creation of VIEW: Journal of         European Television History and Culture, an online peer-reviewed       journal with both Johnson and Ellis on the editorial board       (http://journal.euscreen.eu/index.php/view).
In both cases, archivists are       central contributors, using and developing the overall perspectives on TV       history developed by the Royal Holloway group.
VideoActive and EUscreen       have therefore enabled a direct dialogue between Royal Holloway's research       in the field and the preservation and cataloguing practices of the       archives of public and commercial broadcasters across Europe.
As previously indicated, the underpinning research emphasised the       enduring cultural value of archival television, arguing for the preservation         of television flow rather than just isolated programmes.
As a       conference paper, Ellis (2006) (Output 2) led directly to a change in the       preservation practice of the UK National Film and TV Archive (NFTVA).
The       NFTVA now includes examples of interstitial material (trails, idents,       adverts and so on) as well as sampled nights to demonstrate the nature of       broadcast flow.
Ellis has also led the team developing a consolidated search         interface for the nine separate databases of more than 13 million       records of audio-visual content (particularly news content) held by BUFVC.
The search interface has many novel features (e.g.
indication of how easy       it is obtain the footage) and at launch in April 2012 showed a marked       increase on the first three months of the year: 81,635 page views compared       with the previous high of 5,035 in February; 82, 953 total searches       against 12,163 in March; and 17,891 unique visitors compared with 284 in       January 2012.
Extensive user testing demonstrated the utility of the       concepts developed in the underpinning research to the development of       search criteria.
In 2001 it was possible for one commentator to write: `It is doubtful...       that the publication of TV archives on the Internet will soon become a       general practice: copyright issues, not to speak of the technical costs,       will still be the major obstacle for on-line transmission of such       material... it is not difficult to bet that the access to archives will       remain for a long time the privilege of a small number of researchers.'
(Andr&#233; Lange, The Historian, Television and Television History,       2001, p. 43).
The impact of Royal Holloway's research has been to prove       this wrong.
