     Ansari is regarded as the leading academic expert on the history       of British Muslims.
His research has benefited policy-makers and community       organisations.
Between 2008 and 2013, he briefed senior officials at the       Home Office, the Cabinet Office and the Crown Prosecution Service, and       advised staff at Defence and Foreign Affairs academies in Britain and       Europe, and the UK Security Service.
His meetings with Home Office       officials to discuss the development of religious discrimination       legislation had a direct impact on their subsequent recommendations to       include religious belief as a specific `protected characteristic' in the       Equality Act 2010.
Ansari's policy-oriented publication `Muslims in Britain' (2002) for the       Minority Rights Group directly shaped the MRG Council Seminar (Autumn       2010) stance on the Danish "Muhammad cartoons" and the prohibition on       Muslim women wearing full face veil.
In addition, according to MRG       records, between 2009 and 2013, his report received c. 2,000 unique       user-views.
Organisers of the East London Mosque (ELM)'s centenary celebrations       (2011) drew upon Ansari's 2011 monograph for an exhibition spotlighting       its Minute Books.
Ansari was interviewed for the BBC Radio 4 `Sunday'       programme (5/12/2010) feature on the ELM centenary.
He made a BBC Radio 3       documentary (27/11/2011), `Three Centuries of the British Mosque',       exploring the history of mosque-making in Britain since the mid-1800s.
In       2012, his guidance directly helped the ELM secure an award of &#163;42,250 from       the `National Cataloguing Grants Programme for Archives' to catalogue its       archives.
From 2013, Ansari has sat on the steering committee driving this       project.
According to the Chair of the ELM Trustees, Ansari's work `has       helped young British Muslims place themselves within the British narrative       and take pride in their roots and contributions of earlier generations'.
Ansari's 2007 research article on Muslim burial (`Burying the Dead')       inspired mosque staff to retrieve records of the Indigent Muslim Burial       Fund during 2011-12.
The archives of this second institution, established       in 1927, have now been uncovered, and can be accessed by the public.
In 2008, the Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) commissioned Ansari to write       on `Proving Loyalty?
Muslims and Britain's Armed Forces' for the       MCB's pamphlet Remembering the Brave: the Muslim contribution to         Britain's Armed Forces, published in 2009 at a particularly       sensitive moment.
Members of the Royal Family, national politicians       including the Prime Minister, Opposition Leader, House of Commons Speaker       and Armed Forces Minister, and policy-makers in various institutions       commented that it `set the record straight' about the past and current       role of Muslims within the British military.
As well as generating       self-reflection in Muslim publications, on blog sites and in interfaith       organisations (South London Inter-Faith Group and Reconciliation Talk),       the MCB uses the pamphlet to counteract the arguments of protesters who       regularly disrupt commemorations on Armistice Day.
In July 2013, Ansari       was invited by the Minister of State for Faith and Communities to provide       advice on how to ensure that the contribution of Commonwealth nations       formerly in the British Empire is honoured during the centenary       commemoration of the First World War.
The search for improved inter-faith relations based on a better       understanding of history propelled Ansari's research for `Building on       History: Religion in London Project' in 2011-13.
This project included       public seminars on `Engaging the Past to Inform the Present'; community       exhibitions; and engagement with local schools.
Ansari was the focus of a       Q&amp;A session at Urswick School, in Hackney, where pupils from diverse       backgrounds explored the experiences of being Muslim in Britain, racism at       school, and why it is important for them to know about the history of       British Muslims.
Awan's collaborative 2008-10 research project on `Legitimising the       discourses of radicalisation' was commissioned and part-funded by the FCO       to assist the formulation of policy on security and counterterrorism.
The       FCO committed itself to accepting the research findings and developing any       recommendations for policy.
In November 2008, Awan contributed, by       invitation, to a closed high-level Home Office (Office of Security and       Counter-Terrorism) workshop on understanding and countering online       radicalisation.
Participants included the Home Office director, Research,       Information and Communication Unit representatives, deputy head of FCO,       and senior civil servants.
He has also had confidential meetings with       senior Home Office staff to advise on policy making.
Awan has also worked       with NGOs and think-tanks (RUSI, Chatham House, IISS, ICSR, Germany       Embassy and US Congressional Research Service), and was commissioned by The         Sentinel &#8212; produced by the West Point Combating Terrorism Center (http://www.ctc.usma.edu/) &#8212; to write       articles on combating terrorism/insurgency that were read by US military       personnel and policy makers.
In July 2013, Awan was lead academic expert       witness on violent extremism in Britain at the All-Party Parliamentary       Group for Global Uncertainties at the House of Commons.
