     Champion's research on historians' civic duty past and present has       generated impact (1) as an       individual agent through engagement with the Historical Association (HA),       the Prince's       Teaching Trust, and national broadcast media, and (2) in projects with       local/national partners       including Surrey County Council (SCC), community museums, and heritage       institutions.
Champion's research on the public role of historians was recognised       nationally when he was       invited onto the HA's inaugural Public History Committee (itself an       outcome of the attention that       his work had focused on this way of approaching the past) and subsequently       addressed its       2010 Annual Conference on `Is Public History for Everyone?
', further       raising the issue at this       national level.
The HA's Public History Committee has shaped the nature of       access of the       public to a range of resources and professional development.
Champion has       also affected       practitioner understanding among with teachers, educators and heritage       workers through his       input at the Is England's Past for Everyone.
Learning and Outreach in         the Historic Environment       (Armada House, Bristol, 2009) (a HLF-funded project run by the Victoria       County History,       attended by over 120 people).
In 2013, Champion was made an Honorary       Fellow of the       Historical Association for services to History; the citation included his       contribution to public       understanding and engagement.
Champion also contributed to the second phase of the HEA History         Virtual Academy, which in       2010-11 brought together school students and HE academics in online forums       designed to       engage schools in interaction and learning with specialists in their       fields.
Since 2010 he has       likewise collaborated with the Prince's Teaching Trust (PTT) and its       annual Teaching School       (March 2010; November 2011) to refine practical approaches towards the       ethical education of       children as `public historians'.
Bernice McCabe, Co-Director of The       Prince's Teaching Institute,       specifically noted Champion's impact, while one of the teachers afterwards       commented: `I will       go back reinvigorated to take on the challenge of fighting our corner in       our current curriculum       review'.
Champion's research regarding the historian's duty to intervene in       debates about public access       to significant historical resources has been evident in his involvement in       on-going preparations       for the commemoration of the 800th anniversary of the sealing       of Magna Carta to take place in       2015.
Since 2012, he has been a member of the British Library (BL) Magna       Carta Advisory       Group, which is informing the contents, ambitions and preparation of the       BL's international       exhibition and associated events.
He has particular responsibility for       representing Magna       Carta's legacy in the period between 1600 and 1800 (precisely the       centuries in which his       research has explored understandings of liberty and freedom).
In this role       he also participated       in debates in 2012-13 on the proposed commemorative activities in       Runnymede itself: his       involvement in successful local opposition during this period to the       building of a costly       interpretation centre by Runnymede Borough Council, in favour of a series       of community-based       public history activities, has been acknowledged by representatives of       Surrey County Council       as directly helping to save &#163;5 million of SCC resource for re-investment       in other Magna Carta-related       activities.
As a trustee of the Egham Museum, and in direct partnership       with SCC,       Champion has deployed his historical expertise to initiating commemorative       activity with local       and regional communities.
Champion has contributed to or presented 36 programmes on BBC Radio and       TV, Channel 4       and PBS (USA).
Five contributions to BBC Radio 4 In Our Times have       produced audiences of       c. 3.5 million each: BBC blogs associated with each programme provide       evidence of the impact       of his contribution while the entire archive remains accessible free to       the globe.
Champion       acted as advisor and contributor to Shakespeare Uncovered, a       six-part series (BBC4 2012 and       PBS 2013) that has received critical acclaim in the UK and USA: the PBS       `Teacher viewing       Guide' for use in schools describes Champion's contribution as one `not to       miss'.
In 2009 Champion established the MA Public History to realise his       conception of the role of the       public historian and contribute to public understanding of history.
By the       end of 2013 he has       helped to train 200+ individuals (attached to Surrey History Centre,       Heritage Lottery Fund,       National Trust, English Heritage, Historic Royal Palaces and the BBC) in       the professional       communication of the past, transforming practice in the sector.
The       benefit of this training is       evident in the funded internships and placements provided by two partners       &#8212; HRP and       Parliament's Education Service.
