     The main beneficiaries of the research have been NGOs engaged in       Holocaust remembrance and education, government bodies dealing with       Holocaust-era issues, museums, archives, the media, and the British Jewish       community.
The main impact has been to increase public knowledge of past       genocides and atrocity, and to raise awareness of the danger posed to       democracy, civil and human rights by racism and anti-semitism.
In 2008,       the Jewish Chronicle placed Cesarani 48 out of 100 in its       `countdown of those who exert the greatest influence within British       Jewry'.
From 2006 to 2012 Cesarani was a Trustee of the Holocaust Memorial Day       Trust with special responsibility for relating current scholarship to its       publications, its all-year educational activity, and the script of the       annual national memorial event on 27 January.
On HMD 2012, there were       1,400 memorial events across the country.
The Trust distributed 7,525       campaign packs to event organisers, local government agencies, schools,       and individuals.
3,100 were downloaded electronically.
It distributed       100,000 booklets on remembrance and the lessons of genocide.
Over 35,500       people signed the pledge `to speak up, speak out' against prejudice and       discrimination.
Cesarani was routinely consulted on the content of the       campaign packs and web-based material.
The Trust's website recorded       203,000 visits in 2012.
After completing the maximum term as a Trustee he       was asked to become the Trust's Historical Consultant and supervised       revision of the historical content of its on-line resources.
Cesarani is also historical consultant to the Holocaust Educational Trust       (HET).
His booklet The Holocaust.
A Guide for Students and Teachers,       commissioned by HET (2nd edn.
2008), is distributed to all participants in       the government funded `Lessons from Auschwitz' programme.
Up to 2012,       3,000 teachers and students have taken part in this programme.
Cesarani advised the Swedish government prior to the 2000 Stockholm       International Forum that gave birth to the Stockholm Declaration which has       been adopted by over 40 countries, leading to the institution of Holocaust       memorial days, a policy of unfettered research into the Nazi era and open       access to relevant archives, Holocaust education programmes,       teacher-training and curriculum development.
He participated in the UK       delegation to the Intergovernmental Taskforce for Holocaust Education,       Remembrance, and Research (now the International Holocaust Remembrance       Alliance), the UK vehicle for implementing the declaration, until March       2008, shaping policy through its academic working group.
As an member of       the academic working group he currently advises the UK Envoy for Post       Holocaust Issues.
In 2010 the Swedish government acknowledged his part in       bringing about the 2000 Stockholm Declaration.
As a member of the UK stakeholder group concerning the future of the Red       Cross International Tracing Service archive at Bad Arolsen he worked with       the FCO to secure the transfer of a digital copy of the archive to the       Weiner Library, London.
He currently sits on the ITS Oversight Committee.
Cesarani cooperates closely with the Imperial War Museum in a range of       educational activities building on the permanent Holocaust exhibition.
This relationship began when he served on the Advisory Board for the       development of the exhibition which now has approximately 250,000 visitors       per year.
Visitor comments testify to the impact the exhibition has on       shaping attitudes to the past and raising awareness of the threat from the       far right, anti-semitism, racism, and homophobia.
In partnership with the       head of research, since 2008 he has organised six associated workshops and       conferences at the Museum, each attended by 50-150 academics, students and       members of the public.
He is also on the steering committee for the triennial conference `Beyond       Camps and Forced Labour', held at the IWM (2009, 2012) in conjunction with       Wolverhampton University and Birkbeck.
Since their inception, over one       thousand researchers and practitioners have attended these events which       have resulted in four major publications that have informed research,       teaching, archive policy, museum and gallery practice.
In 2010 Cesarani secured a grant from the Pears Foundation that enabled       the HRC to become the sole UK partner to the USC Shoah Foundation Visual       History Archive, Los Angeles.
This partnership made Royal Holloway the       unique point of access in the UK to a digital video archive of 52,000       testimonies by Holocaust survivors and generated strong public interest as       well as expressions of gratitude by survivors and their children who can       now access the collection from a local portal.
Cesarani is the only European member of the Academic Advisory Board of       the Allocations Committee of the Conference for Jewish Material Claims       Against Germany Inc.
In this capacity he assess grant applications worth       millions of dollars by archives, museums, galleries, universities, and       doctoral fellowships.
Cesarani has transferred his knowledge of the Nazi era into numerous TV       documentaries.
Most recently he was historical consultant/associate       producer on `Death Camp Treblinka', Aeon Productions for BBC4, broadcast       15 August 2012 to an audience of 750,000.
