     The different kinds of impact outlined below flowed from the various       projects carried out by Vickery, Cavallo and Hamlett in association with       the AHRC Centre for the Study of the Domestic Interior (CSDI) during the       period under review.
A History of Private Life and At Home with           the Georgians       In 2009 Vickery won an AHRC Knowledge Transfer Fellowship to develop       research from Behind Closed Doors (2009) into a 30 part landmark       radio series `A history of Private Life' for BBC Radio 4, produced by with       Loftus Audio Ltd.
The series was a huge critical and popular success.
It       scored an 84 (out of 100) on the Radio Joint Audience Research (Rajar)       listener audit.
The Rajar average listening figure for BBC Radio 4 is       10.8m and Vickery's series came close to the maximum audience.
The series       received outstanding reviews that noted the importance of original,       underpinning research.
Vickery's series was one of the top 10 BBC radio       hits in 2009.
In 2010, Vickery made `At Home With the Georgians', a three-part landmark       history series for BBC2 also based on Behind Closed Doors.
In the       Independent (16/9/2010) Janice Hadlow, Controller of BBC2 commented       that Vickery had the exceptional level of authority that she sought in a       BBC2 presenter: `I do believe that people from the world of academia who       want to be on television and are right for television do find ways of       announcing themselves to the world.
You can tell from the way people write       that they're interested in communicating to a wider audience.
If she was       in the room now, she could charm you and compel you with a subject'.
The       series attracted viewing audiences of 3 million.
The testimonies of       reviewers across national newspapers also show that the programme had a       critical impact on how viewers understood eighteenth-century gender       relations.
For example: Sunday Telegraph (26/9/2010): `Amanda       Vickery breathes new life into eighteenth-century society.
It becomes       clear that men, just as much as women, fussed over soft furnishings and       craved the domesticity that married life could offer'; and Daily Mail       (27/11/2010): `Perhaps the biggest surprise is that Georgian house-hunting       was such an emotionally charged process, and driven less by women than by       men'.
Both radio and TV series were based on Vickery's original research and       drew on previously- overlooked diaries and letters to tell new and       compelling stories about eighteenth-century domestic life.
The CSDI Database       Vickery, Cavallo and Hamlett contributed to the design and production of       the CSDI database, containing over 3,000 representations of the domestic       interior from the Renaissance to the present, many of which are findings       from their research.
The database       (http://www.rca.ac.uk/CSDI/didb),       which went live in 2007 and has been monitored and maintained constantly       since then, represents a key resource for teaching and researching in this       field.
Between 31/8/2010 and 5/2/2013 15,351 IP addresses were logged at       the site, suggesting c.17 visitors per day.
`Choosing the Chintz'       Hamlett's research underpinned a major segment of the Geffrye Museum       exhibition 'Choosing the         Chintz: Men, Women and Furnishing the Home from 1850 to the Present'       (2008-9).
The exhibition explored male and female roles in home       decoration, using Hamlett's research findings - diaries and       autobiographies became listening posts, and rare photographs were       projected on the museum walls.
The beneficiaries were the museum's       visitors and school parties.
`Choosing the Chintz' received 18,379       visitors, and hosted half-term activities for 253 children and a workshop       for 102 children.
Emma Dunn, Education Officer, described it as       `compelling and understandable for younger pupils'., Head Curator, stated       that it was `one of our most successful exhibitions'.
`Living Away from Home'       In 2010-12, Hamlett collaborated with Surrey History Centre (SHC) on       `Living Away from Home', a small exhibition on Surrey institutions       (c.2,000 visitors), also available on the SHC website, and a talk on       asylum interiors.
The beneficiaries were users of SHC, which has a working       partnership with MIND.
According to the Team Leader, Heritage Services,       SHC, `It was clear that the large and very varied audience also found it       both fascinating and moving and that the topics you covered enhanced what       they had already learned about the institutions through their own research       into members of their families who had been treated there or who had       worked there'.
`Healthy Homes, Healthy Bodies'       This project's findings were presented at the Society of Dilettanti and       the Medical Society of London (2010), the Wallace Collection Art Fund       Lecture (2011) and The Wellcome Library Talks Series (2013).
The size of       audience ranged from 20 at the Wellcome Library to 90 at the Wallace       Collection.
The beneficiaries were art amateurs, medical professionals,       health policy makers and a general public interested in learning that       prevention and the adoption of healthy lifestyles are not a modern       invention, as usually assumed.
This awareness may contribute towards       greater legitimacy for the promotion and adoption of healthy lifestyles       today.
