     The first-phase of the research and the sea trials, and subsequent       modifications to the reconstruction, have had continuing impact, through       popular scientific publications, mass media, and museum exhibitions.
Impact is in Cultural Life, primarily through preserving, conserving and       presenting cultural heritage, developing stimuli to tourism and enhancing       the experience of tourists.
The Olympias is an important cultural       and national symbol for Greece (see below), sparking discussions about       Greek (maritime) heritage.
The trireme was funded by the Greek government       in relation to the Olympic legacy (whence its name), functioned as a       floating `ambassador' for Greek heritage, and remains identified with the       Olympics (see below).
It has also had economic impact in encouraging       tourism, especially to the important Hellenic Navy museum (and associated       commercial facilities) in the redevelopment of Neo Faliro.
The beneficiaries of research have not been limited to particular       communities.
Television and other media have commented upon or used the       trireme as a major element in presentation in UK, US, Greece.
Museums have       adopted the trireme or part thereof in UK.
A segment appears in The Henley       River and Rowing Museum where it was in place from 1998 and has continued       to be exhibited through the REF period to the present.
An exhibit       featuring elements of the Olympias figured in the The Millenium       Dome (2000) and was then transferred to Manchester Museum (currently       off-exhibition).
The Olympias herself has been in Greece (Piraeus)       from 2005 and has remained on exhibition (with intermittent       refurbishments) to the present.
The Olympias has considerable       recognition in Greece as a symbol of Greece's maritime heritage.
Dissemination of the research and public impact was achieved through the       Trireme Trust, which Professor Rankov chairs, and by means of publications       (see above) and three conferences organised by Professor Rankov.
Rankov's       research has informed the partial reconstruction of the trireme in the       River and Rowing Museum at Henley (one of the Daily Telegraph's       `top 50 museums in the world').
A permanent video display features       Professor Rankov and explains the sea-trials conducted on the ship and       their importance.
The ship itself is on display at the Hellenic Navy Museum in Neo Faliro,       Piraeus.
The Museum commemorates Greek maritime history and the importance       of Greek naval power in asserting national independence.
Together with the       Averof, the Olympias forms the centrepiece of the Museum,       and establishes continuity in Greek naval traditions from the Classical       period to the Modern Greek state.
The presence of the Museum has been at       the centre of the major regeneration of the landscape in recent years.
More than 40,000 visitors per year visit the museum, the majority of them       Greek schoolchildren (personal verbal communication from Captain Leonidas       Tsiantoulas HN, Museum Director).
A web search found 249 discussions or       uses of imagery of the trireme, mostly on Greek sites (below).
These       include videos, discussions and blogs related to Greek identity and the       Olympic Games and sites related to Greek naval tradition, both military       and merchant marine.
In the UK, a full-scale interactive model of a section of the ship has,       since its opening in 1998, been one of the highlight exhibits at the River       and Rowing Museum, Henley-on-Thames.
The relationship between the exhibit       and Professor Rankov's research on the sea trials (as discussed in the       publications above) is explored through a video presentations.
In this       video, Professor Rankov explains the origins of his joint research       project, how he and his team have used the ship as an archaeological       experiment through the sea-trials, how he recruited a crew of 170 rowers       was recruited to carry out the experiments he had designed with the team,       and what they learnt about the practical viability of the design, the       problems of command, control and communication, and the potential       performance of this type of vessel under oar and sail.
The trireme has crossed into popular culture in an episode of Inspector         Morse ("Greeks Bearing Gifts") first shown in 1991.
The ship has       been discussed in detail in videos and television programmes on the       ancient world (especially in the context of the development of Greek       democracy) made in the UK, the USA and other countries, mostly pre-2008,       but reshown regularly.
These films, exhibits and publications have enabled those who have seen       them to understand much more clearly some of the technological       achievements of Classical Greece and the conditions in which ordinary       seamen laboured in antiquity as a form of human engine.
The public profile of Olympias and her association with Classical       Greece led to the London Organising Committee for the Olympic Games       (LOCOG) approaching Professor Rankov to arrange for the ship to be rowed       on the Thames carrying the Olympic flame on the opening day of the Games       (27 July, 2012).
The subsequent withdrawal of the request caused a       diplomatic incident, involving the Greek Minister of Defence.
There was       extensive coverage in the UK press (for instance, Financial Times,       19 April, 2012).
The incident shows both the international regard       in which the trireme is held and its symbolic importance.
In recognition of Professor Rankov's contribution, he was awarded a       plaque in a civic reception by the City of Salamis in September, 2012.
