     The research has contributed a critical perspective to alcohol policy       debates in opposition to aspects of UK Government policy.
It has enriched       public debates with a better understanding of the sociology of 'binge'       drinking to help balance the industry and government viewpoints alongside       those of UK health bodies.
Publication 5 was directly critical of the tone       of the government alcohol policy document `Safe, Sensible, Social &#8212; the       next steps in the national alcohol strategy' (June 2007) because of its       repeated juxtaposition of the terms `young people' with `binge drinking'       and `crime and social disorder'.
We argued that this simplistic linkage       facilitated a stereotype of the young drinker as a feckless and       irresponsible individual worthy of moral condemnation, and played down the       wider cultural issues in framing excessive drinking, not least, licensing       liberalisation and the boom in alcohol marketing.
The rhetoric was       somewhat more moderate in an updated document called `Safe, Sensible,       Social &#8212; consultation on further action' (June 2008), and later public       government statements emphasised the `UK's drinking culture' rather than       the irresponsible young drinker.
The initial interest in the research findings arose from a 2007       COI/Diageo advertising campaign targeting a small group of drinkers, the       `irresponsible shamefuls', on the premise that seeing how drunkenness       looked to others would shame young people into staying sober.
We argued       that the campaign would have no effect on the majority of young drinkers       who were well aware of their behaviour and viewed being very drunk as a       source of fun.
Government policy was, hence, based on a mis-reading of       youth drinking.
Our position was covered widely in national UK media and       also by health and alcohol organisations such as the Institute of Alcohol       Studies (sources 1 and 3).
For example, BBC News (source 1i) quoted       Hackley as saying that:     "The study suggests a radical rethinking of national alcohol policy is         required which takes into account the social character of alcohol         consumption and the identity implications for young people."
Hackley made similar points in invited contributions to BBC TV and radio       (e.g., source 2), and there was another wave of coverage the following       year (source 3 ii, iii).
In spite of being critical of government policy positions, the study's       findings have been noted in policy fora.
In 2011, a paper presented to the       Parliamentary Science and Technology Committee on Alcohol Guidelines by Dr       William Haydock in September 2011 (source 4) cited publication 6 as       follows:     "Many young people drink to get drunk, which according to recent         Government definitions would classify them as "binge" drinkers (see, for         example, Szmigin et al.
2008)"     Publication 6 has been widely cited supporting the argument that       determined drunkenness by groups of young people is far from `mindless'       and does, in fact, entail a carefully calculated risk.
After further engagement in policy meetings at Westminster, Hackley's       contributions to policy debates have continued to be requested.
In January       2012 he was interviewed live on Channel 4 News with the CEO of Alcohol       Concern on the latest government drinking guidelines (source 5).
He       contributed to a Whitehall Department of Health seminar at the invitation       of the Chief Medical Officer on July 3rd, 2012 (source 8).
Subsequent to       that meeting Hackley worked with the Cabinet Behavioural Insights Team's       Policy Advisor to produce an internal paper about the role of brand       positioning in alcohol consumption patterns (sources 9, 10).
On December       26th 2012 Hackley spoke about the sociology of intoxication on       BBC Radio 4's sociology review `Thinking Allowed' as lead author of the       latest paper from the study, a Bakhtinian analysis of youth drinking       (source 7).
The impact and reach of the research on government, policy and scrutiny       bodies is reflected in citations, for example, to one of Hackley's papers       from the study (reference 5) in a 2010 memorandum from the UK Research       Councils to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee on the       need to consider group identities in behaviour change policies (source       11i) and to one of Szmigin's (reference 6) in the UK Parliamentary Science       and Technology Committee Report on Alcohol Guidelines (source 4).
In       addition, the study has been cited in many other comments and reports both       in the UK and overseas by, for example, the Institute for Alcohol Studies       (source 3i), Alcohol Research UK (source 6), Alcohol Concern (source       11ii), the National Drug Research Institute of Australia (source 11iii)       and the Alcohol Advisory Council of New Zealand (Source 11iv).
