     The impact has been two-fold.
Firstly, the research constitutes a unique       academic contribution to       the public understanding of product placement in the context of policy       debate informing the change       in UK media (Ofcom) regulations in 2011 allowing, for the first time, UK       television companies to       profit from product placement.
(Product placement in UK TV has been       estimated to have the       potential to be worth &#163;30 million per annum to UK TV revenues.)
Through       contributions to national       broadcast media discussions and references in international print media,       the research has       informed an evidence-based public debate about product placement.
Secondly, there has been a       direct contribution to the policy debate through published contributions       to Westminster `E-Forum'       briefings and to the Ofcom consultations, alongside other policy comment       that was picked up by       trade and national media.
The initial research first came to public notice in 2006 when source 1       below was picked up by the       ITV company (the UK's biggest commercial TV channel).
It was the only UK       academic study that       was cited in ITV's 2006 response to the first UK Government consultation       on product placement       policy.
The prevailing view in government at that time was to leave the ban on       paid-for product placement       in place, and the issue was consequently stalled for some time.
The       argument against allowing       paid for product placement in UK TV, repeated by several ministers and       supported by some       audience lobby groups, was that TV companies profiting from product       placement would result in a       decline in the creative quality of UK TV programming.
Branded placements       would intrude into the       programming in inappropriate and artificial ways, detracting from the       creative quality of the       entertainment.
During 2008, Hackley argued in a policy meeting in       Westminster that ministers'       resistance to paid-for product placement was based on a profound       misunderstanding of what it       entailed.
Some ministers thought TV drama would become nothing more than a       promotional       vehicle; Hackley argued that this fear was misconceived.
The research findings were then picked up by the national media,       including the BBC Radio 4       consumer affairs programme You and Yours in November 2008 (source 2).
BBC       Radio 4's You       and Yours is the leading national radio consumer affairs programme and       regularly attracts an       audience reach of 3 million per programme.
Subsequently, the debate continued with new consultations, against a       backdrop of stubborn       resistance from government ministers.
Hackley was again invited to speak       on the topic on You and       Yours in early 2009, when the outcome of the consultation was imminent.
In       early 2009 the then       Minister for Culture, Ben Bradshaw MP, announced that the ban would       remain.
In March 2009       Hackley wrote a direct critique of Bradshaw's position published in full       on a popular marketing and       media industry website called UTalk Marketing (source 3).
Subsequently, in September 2009,       Bradshaw's replacement as Media and Culture Secretary announced a U-turn.
The Government       would, in fact, rescind the ban, subject to the details being worked out       through a further public       consultation.
The announcement took the industry by surprise, and there       was no indication from       government of what tipped the balance of policy opinion.
It was clear that       ITV had lobbied       government, but Hackley's contributions appeared to be the only       independent voice expressing       positive views about the change.
The impact, in summary, achieved reach and significance beyond       dissemination and/or       engagement in the sense that the research was spontaneously adopted by       users (media agencies       such as New Media Group and consumer affairs journalists at the BBC and       elsewhere) and taken       on by media owners (ITV) to inform public understanding and policy debate       on a topic of great       topical importance to the UK TV industry, UK TV viewers, and UK government       policy makers.
The       contribution was critical of publicly announced UK government policy - a       policy which was later       reversed, making the contribution notable for its critical impact.
The continuing influence of the research is reflected in invitations to       comment on the topic in trade       and general media.
Examples include invited comment in the national press       of Australia and the       UK (sources 4, 6 and 10) and a story by a rights organisation detailing       Hackley's part in the       unfolding policy debate (source 5).
Hackley has highlighted serious       problems with the way the new       market is functioning and the leading product placement agencies in the UK       and Hollywood have       cited his comments and research (sources 7 and 8) as have popular websites       (source 9).
