     Early Music Online     Rose's research on early music-printing has created significant cultural       benefit to amateur and professional musicians.
His digitisation project       has supplied them with access to digitised versions of over 10,000       compositions that previously were available only to researchers visiting       the British Library.
Underpinning this impact is Rose's research on the       types and formats of early printed music.
Using his expertise, Rose       determined the categories of metadata entry (to ensure that users could       discover all relevant items) and selected the items to be digitised.
He       chose repertories that would have high impact, including vocal polyphony       suited to amateur choirs (a growth area of musical participation), and       lute tablatures for plucked-string enthusiasts and guitarists.
Early Music Online has enriched and expanded the lives of thousands of       amateur musicians worldwide.
In its 24 months of operation, over 320,000       items have been viewed or downloaded.
Each month an average of 3,500 PDFs       of complete music-books are downloaded by users to print or save to their       computers.
The Secretary of The Lute Society comments: `Early Music Online       is a fantastically useful project, making the sources of early music       available to music lovers anywhere in the world.
The inclusion of lute       tablatures is especially welcome, because lute players are more likely       than singers to perform from the original notation.
There is increasing       interest in the lute in middle-income countries such as Romania, Brazil       and China, where musicians cannot afford to buy printed facsimiles, and       Early Music Online makes music accessible to them.'
As further evidence of how Early Music Online has enriched cultural life,       many public libraries worldwide have created links to the site.
(See       section 5 below.)
The Library of Congress and the Hochschule f&#252;r Musik,       Leipzig, have incorporated Early Music Online's bibliographical data into       their own library discovery systems.
Rose's research is thus shaping how       Western cultural heritage is preserved and presented by these libraries.
Rose's digitisation project has also created wealth in the creative       sector, enabling professional musicians to devise concerts based on this       newly available material.
On 7 September 2012 The Brabant Ensemble gave a       concert `Le Fleur des Chansons: An Evening of Renaissance Music from the       British Library' at King's Place, London.
The concert was marketed as a       `showcase programme featuring some of the most popular works of the 16th       century as represented in the 300 books so far digitised in Early Music       Online'.
The Director of The Brabant Ensemble explains:`Early Music Online has had a significant positive effect on the       availability of sources for my performance projects.
The quality of the       performing editions I have been able to prepare has increased       substantially as a result of this wider availability of sources via EMO.'
Early Music Online is a collaborative project.
Rose at Royal Holloway       supplied the academic leadership and research expertise.
Sandra Tuppen at       the British Library supplied the day-to-day supervision of the research       assistants.
Royal Holloway's institutional support includes: hosting the       digital repository for the digitised content; hosting the RISM UK database       for the metadata (at a benefits-in-kind estimate of &#163;2000 per year); and       the ongoing support of the digital repository team to deal with technical       and user enquiries.
Collaboration with The Academy of Ancient Music     Rose's research into the contexts of German music has benefited the       orchestra The Academy of Ancient Music and its audiences.
His research,       communicated via programme notes, pre-concert talks and as a musicological       consultant to the orchestra, has allowed the AAM to create wealth in the       cultural sector by developing new concert repertories and attracting new       audiences.
The AAM is a leading period-instrument orchestra dedicated to exploring       historical performance styles, and to presenting the public with       interpretations rooted in recent research.
Since 2003 Rose has written       introductory essays and programme notes for the AAM's UK and international       concerts (over 70 different programmes, representing several hundred       performances to a total of over 85,000 audience members).
Each of these       programme notes is printed in at least 1000 copies and given free of       charge to all concert-goers.
Since 2008 the relationship has intensified, and the AAM has used Rose's       research to discover new repertory for concerts, and to present familiar       repertory (such as Bach) in a fresh light.
Insights from Rose's research       allow the AAM to create a distinctive cultural offering that draws in new       audiences.
For example, several AAM concerts have incorporated research       from Rose's monograph The Musician in Literature in the Age of Bach.
In October 2011 its Halloween programme `Witches and Devils', held in       London and Cambridge to a combined audience of about 1000, derived from       Rose's research into the links between Baroque violinists, the demonic and       magic.
The programme included a Telemann concerto, Tartini's `Devil's       Trill' Sonata and arias from Handel's Alcina.
Rose's research       provided a narrative giving coherence to the programme.
Extracts from       Chapter 4 of The Musician in Literature were used in Rose's essay       introducing the concert; the AAM also used these extracts to market the       concert via its website and Facebook.
In March 2013, the AAM's performances of Bach's Passions (held in London       and Cambridge to a combined audience of about 4000) used Rose's research       on the social contexts of Bach to help modern audiences hear these       familiar works afresh.
Through pre-concert talks, programme notes and       contributions to the AAM's blog, Rose enabled concert-goers to realise how       and why 18th-century listeners reacted so violently against the Passions.
As well as enriching the imaginations and sensibilities of concert-goers,       Rose's research here created economic prosperity for the AAM, making its       presentation of Bach's Passions stand out from those offered by competitor       ensembles.
Reviewers and bloggers commented on the power of Rose's       introductions to help them hear the music afresh: `While such large-scale       religious music may strike contemporary ears as conservative, Stephen       Rose's incisive programme note remarks that Bach's congregation would       never before have heard anything quite like it'; `The AAM clearly put a       lot of thought into their programme notes, namely Stephen Rose's       background into the St John Passion, and to the 1724 version of the St       John Passion'.
(Sources of these comments are listed in section 5 below.)
As an indication of this continuing collaboration, since December 2012       the AAM has used Rose's expertise in the social history of music to plan a       concert programme that will explore crossovers between 17th-century       courtly music and the music of North African visitors to central Europe.
Rose has excerpted primary sources that offer a possible narrative for the       concert, and has offered expertise in the previously unknown musical       repertory that documents these cultural encounters.
This impact is at an       early stage, with the concerts to be held in 2015 at the Barbican and in       Cambridge.
