     Brennand-Wood champions the re-interpretation and re-conceptualisation of       ornament in expanded textile and interdisciplinary practice.
Through his       influence, the idea and symbolism of ornament has been repositioned and       revalidated as a serious vehicle for symbolic social and political       expression and reflection, as evidenced by his worldwide contributions.
Further, through his influence, cross-disciplinary approaches have become       an internationally recognised part of expanded textile practice.
His       exemplary influence is documented through his creative output and national       and international public engagement activities: (1) The wide impact of his       work on expanded textile practice and the reconceptualisation of ornament       is evidenced by the purchase and display of his work by over 50 premier       museums and collectors worldwide, including Gallery of Western Australia;       National Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto; 21st Century Museum of       Contemporary Art, Kanazawa; Cummins International, Memphis, USA; Victoria       and Albert Museum, London; Crafts Council, London; Automobile Association;       BUPA; Hewlett Packard; OFSTED; Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Norway.
(2)       The exceptional impact of Brennand-Wood's work with regard to       interdisciplinary practices on a diverse set of audiences through public       engagement activities is evidenced through the large number of public and       private commissions (17 since 1993) for which the Coleston Hall project is       exemplary through its cross-over with music.
It is further evidenced       through regular reference to his work in GCSE and Advanced Level study       exam questions; through his works being purchased by 20 national and       international education establishments, including OFSTED; and through his       expansive outreach work with school children; with hobbyists through       organisations such as `Knit and Stich' where he has championed the role of       amateurs and enthusiasts where other practitioners have distanced       themselves (e.g.
New Space); and with specialist audiences, especially       blind and partially-sighted users, e.g.
through TACTILE: The Whitworth Art       Gallery's contemporary textile handling resource, where his work being the       most often requested (Jane Harris 2013) &#8212; totalling over 150 workshops to       about 8000 children, young people and adults between 2008-2013.
Over the last 40 years, Prof Cummings has brought about a major advance       in the techniques of glass casting and kiln forming, which has made them       accessible and acceptable as major techniques in studio glass practice,       equal to traditionally recognised techniques such as glass blowing.
Through his influence, kiln casting and glass forming in the kiln have       become a com-mon part of the syllabus of glass practice and glass       education world-wide.
Since 1993 as Prof. of Glass Studies at the       University of Wolverhampton, his influence has been unrivalled as       documented through reference to his creative output and books, which are a       point of reference for glassmakers worldwide: (1) His work has impacted       the glass movement internationally, as evidenced by the purchase and       display of his work by premier museums, galleries and collectors       worldwide, e.g.
: Shanghai Museum of Glass; Corning Museum, New York;       Museum of Decorative Arts, Paris; Museum of Decorative Art, Lausanne;       Victoria and Albert Museum, London; Crafts Council, London; Museum of       Scotland, Edinburgh; Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery, Birmingham;       Broadfield House Glass Museum, Kingswinford; Shipley Art Gallery,       Gateshead; Princess Anne Collection.
(2) Cummings' books are seminal       reference works for practitioners, academics and students alike, evidenced       by their sales numbers and reviewers comments.
In spite of being a       specialist area, more than 30,000 copies of his three books have been       sold.
In its 5th edition, `Kiln-Forming Glass' has been translated into 3       languages.
His other books are being translated into Chinese and Turkish.
His influence is manifest in numerous statements of reverence by students,       glass professionals, collectors and others.
Similarly, Heeney has brought about a major advance in the development       and accessibility of brick art: (1) Heeney has advanced techniques of       cutting and glazing brick, which is being adopted by both brick artists       (e.g.
Archie Bray) and the brick industry and small-scale manufacture       (e.g.
Ibstock, UK; the sole Brick Factory, Costa Rica, Petersens, DK)       alike.
(2) Her book and her engagement with professional practice, public       art, and community work have enabled knowledge transfer, which has made       brick an accessible and acceptable medium within public art.
For example,       she has inspired the award-winning architects Sjolander Da Cruz,       Birmingham, to use brick for creating the Youth Shelter at Penn       roundabout, Wolverhampton.
The 'Youth Shelters' project was a national,       government initiative promoting community work with artists.
Heeney was       also commissioned to produce the head of Josiah Wedgwood in carved brick       for the new Wedgwood Museum at Barlaston, Stoke on Trent, winner of the       Art Fund prize for Museums and Galleries 2010.
The Museum likens her       relationship with Wedgwood to that of Eduardo Paolozzi.
