     Brown's research on the sounds of early film exhibition has impacted upon       cultural life and public discourse by bringing new levels of understanding       to practitioners, enthusiasts and institutions in the cultural sector,       such as the Barbican Cinema and the British Silent Film Festival.
With its       public events, its involvement of a ballet conductor to synchronize music       with silent film for the first time, and its openness to practitioners in       cognate areas such as that of magic lantern, this body of research has       also encouraged and effected new cross-overs of expertise and experience       between related forms of art and entertainment.
Ballet likewise       synchronizes silent action with music and the magic lantern was the       forerunner of the film projector.
Beneficiaries &#8212; Group 1 &#8212; Silent Film Festivals, Cinemas, Film Clubs         and the Public:       Brown's research network activity and her own research on silent film       scores have served to deepen and bring alive event programmes of various       film venues and festivals for silent-film enthusiasts in ways they would       not have been able to achieve alone due to the time and expertise required       to undertake the underpinning research.
The opening event of the AHRC       Network `The Sounds of Early Cinema in Britain' (2009) involved the       Barbican Cinema.
As a venue with a regular Sunday afternoon `Silent Film       with Live Music' series, the venue curators recognized the interest of       this event for its broader cinema audience, and saw the potential for       collaboration to present new historical recreations.
The Network's first       conference involved two such reconstructions: one was followed by an       on-stage interview and discussion session, which was open to audience       questions.
A further collaboration and historical recreation followed in       April 2011.
The network's sound effects workshop (Edinburgh, 13 October       2009) also culminated in a public evening mixed bill film event at       Edinburgh's Cameo Cinema involving early film live sound.
The British       Silent Film Festival takes the musical presentation of its films       seriously, so also recognized the value of collaboration, while the       Network welcomed the opportunity to encourage the general constituency of       silent film enthusiasts to experience and engage with the latest research.
Several of those enthusiasts became network members.
In conjunction with the British Silent Film Festival at the Barbican       Cinema Brown's historical recreation of Frederick Laurence's score to the       film Morozko was brought to public performance (see underpinning       research (item 2): also grant `Film fitting' in Britain).
After a       10-minute introductory lecture on this little-known film, the music and       its composer, Brown led a post-screening Q&amp;A involving conductor and       double bass player.
A lively question and answer session followed, which       enabled members of the public to engage with Brown and the performers.
The       event, held in the 284-seat Cinema One, was nearly sold out (257 seats       were sold), which indicates the level of public engagement achieved.
By       the end of the final conference at which this performance took place, a       British Film Institute silent film curator, opined that `The work of this       project adds real value to the understanding, enjoyability and performance       of the films in our collection.'
Media reporting of Brown's silent film score discoveries adds to the       public impact of her work.
Brown has also contributed in similar ways to       other non-specialist audiences: she has spoken to Friends of the Cambridge       University Library (February 2012) about a silent film score held in the       university manuscripts collection, and to a geography film society,       Passengerfilms (25 February 2013), which meets at various locations in       London.
Beneficiaries &#8212; Group 2 &#8212; Performers:       Brown's research has brought new levels of understanding to various       categories of practitioner.
None of the roughly twenty professional       musicians involved had previously accompanied silent film, yet all found       it a revelatory experience&#8212;a real insight into what their counterparts in       the 1920s would have experienced.
Among them was Mervyn Heard, President       of the British Magic Lantern Association, who participated in the       Edinburgh workshop (13 October 2009) and served as `film lecturer' for the       evening performance.
Though a known "reconstructor" of the art of lantern       slide lecturing, this was Heard's first attempt at film lecturing and       revealed to him the continuities between the practices.
The Silent Film       and Live Performance workshop at Royal Holloway in October 2010 culminated       in a public evening screening of Cecil Hepworth's Comin' Thro' the Rye       (1923), which had been approached during the day from various musical       points of view, and whose original `live prologue' had also been explored       in practice.
This latter was a direct outcome of Brown's research on the       rediscovered score to Comin' Thro' the Rye and also on live film       prologues (see underpinning research (items 1 &amp; 2); also grant `Film       fitting' in Britain).
The conductor of Morozko had over 20 years of experience with the       Birmingham Royal Ballet and was used to fine-grained synchronization of       music and movement.
Nevertheless he said later that the discipline of       working with the running film put into new perspective the relative       freedom of his role.
It made him appreciate the difficulty dancers faced       in planning large stage-movements ahead of time, especially when dancing       in groups, and the fact that they might sometimes regard the orchestra (as       he did the film), as tyrannical, dictating too precisely time they had to       execute complex movements, and making them panic when they realised they       were running late.
For the composer's grandson, who played double bass,       the event had impact of an entirely different order.
It first made him       appreciate his family history in a completely new way.
However, as a       highly regarded professional double-bass player himself, someone who       frequently performs in orchestral recordings of contemporary Hollywood       film scores, he was able to understand the gulf between early and current       film music practices: above all, he was able to appreciate the luxury that       musicians enjoy today in having time to perfect the synchronization.
