     Johnson's research provides cultural benefit by enhancing public       education in respect of music which often bewilders the general listener.
Across every available dissemination medium, publicly accessible versions       of his research have framed live and recorded performance of this       repertoire, and have shaped audience understanding of key musical       documents of cultural modernity.
By revealing connections between this       music and more familiar repertoire, and between music and other forms of       aesthetic and social modernity, Johnson has made a substantial and       far-reaching contribution to the public understanding of music's cultural       significance.
He has done so through media that all involve world-class       public venues and institutions (BBC Radio 3; BBC 2 and BBC4 Television;       BBC Proms; Philharmonia Orchestra; Glyndebourne Festival Opera; South Bank       Centre; Aspen Music Festival).
Philharmonia Orchestra Series Consultancy, 2009, 2011     The public reach of this work is epitomized in Johnson's role as Series       Consultant to the Philharmonia Orchestra for two major concert series,       given throughout the UK and Europe: Vienna: City of Dreams, 1900-1935       (in 2009) and Maazel: Mahler Cycle 2011 (in 2011).
In addition to       advising David Whelton (Managing Director) on specific programme choices,       Johnson provided the intellectual framework in which these concert series       were presented.
Through series programme books, educational films       available on the orchestra's website, BBC Radio 3 interviews, study days       and pre-performance talks, he shaped the public understanding of a wide       international audience.
The Programme book for the Philharmonia's series City of Dreams       sold 3,300 copies in the UK alone.
Around 48,000 people in 20 European       cities attended the concerts.
As author-editor, Johnson wrote the       introductory essay and all programme notes, commissioned three further       essays, chose images and provided a timeline and further reading, thus       shaping the public understanding of audiences internationally.
The series       was shortlisted for a 2010 South Bank Show Award.
Hugh Canning (Times,       8 March 2009) referred to Johnson's `brilliant introductory essay to a       book of outstanding programme notes'.
The Programme book for the       Philharmonia series Maazel: Mahler Cycle 2011 sold around 6,000       copies.
Johnson contributed an introductory essay, notes to 10 separate       concerts, further reading and a timeline (25,000 words total).
Around       56,000 people in 16 European cities attended these concerts:       http://www.philharmonia.co.uk/mahler/       and http://www.philharmonia.co.uk/mahler/artists     Johnson's 21 short films and podcasts on Mahler and Viennese modernism       are on the Philharmonia website (http://www.philharmonia.co.uk/thesoundexchange);       many are also on YouTube.
User comments include: "Thank you so much for       this video!
It was very helpful to me as I am doing research for a novel       set in Vienna in the early 1900s!"
(see:       http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEywJ3qyNdk).
The Philharmonia's `City of Dreams' website received 8,500 visitors in the       six months of the series in 2009.
In the course of these two series, Johnson gave 13 pre-performance talks       and led 4 study days, each attended by an audience of around 200 members       of the public.
Audience feedback forms (held by the Philharmonia) provide       compelling evidence not only of event quality but also of educational       benefit.
Selected comments include: "Hard to imagine what could be       improved &#8212; the study days have all been hugely enriching and intriguingly       different &#8212; thank you!".
"Julian [was] particularly good at chairing the       discussion session and linking introductions to the songs in the Lieder       session."
Broadcasting on Mahler, Bruckner, and Viennese Modernism     Since 2009 Johnson has contributed regularly to BBC TV coverage of the       Proms, giving live pre-concert and interval interviews as a direct result       of his research expertise.
Viewing figures range from c.500,000 (mid-week)       to over 2 million (Saturday evenings).
Since 2010 he has given 10 live       interviews on BBC Radio 3's Performance on Three (average UK       audience c.700,000); and has made four guest appearances on Building a       Library (c.90 mins, average UK audience c.400,000; independent figures       from Radio Joint Audience Research).
In November 2011 he presented a Radio       3 Building a Library (45 mins), reviewing currently available recordings       of Mahler's 8th Symphony and in January 2013 similarly for       Mahler's 6th Symphony.
This programme, presented by respected       authorities on the repertoire in question, directly shapes audience       listening through sales of recommended CDs.
All these broadcasts, in       enriching audience's understanding and experience of this musical       repertoire, have a direct impact on quality of life.
Other Impacts     Johnson's ability to communicate new ideas to a wide international       audience was underlined in May 2013 when he was asked by the South Bank       Centre to present a series of concerts, talks and lectures at the Shanghai       Concert Hall as part of a mini-festival `Listen to the 20th       Century'.
In addition, his research has recently impacted on international       audiences through: (i) essays in concert series programme books (including       for both the 2010 and 2011 Aspen Music Festival (print run 35,000),       covering the entire 7-week season of this prestigious US concert series),       and the Edinburgh International Festival (2011, 2013); (ii) chairing of       Study Days, most recently interviewing Vladimir Jurowski and David McVicar       for Glyndebourne Opera; (iii) educational podcasts (Glyndebourne opera);       (iv) CD liner notes for Deutsche Grammophon (Gustavo Dudamel/Mahler 9) and       Signum Records (Salonen/Gurrelieder and Maazel/Mahler cycle.
