     The major long-term impact of the Yeats/de Valois work had been through generating         new ways of thinking that influence creative practice and creating,         inspiring and supporting new forms of artistic, expression.
In the first instance, the restaging of The King allowed an       audience of 250 at the Margot Fonteyn Studio at the Royal Ballet School       (RBS) to see the danced components of a play which had been lost since the       1930s.
This performance was filmed and then screened at a Friends of       Covent Garden Study Evening devoted to de Valois' legacy (Royal Opera       House November, 2011, audience 150) and at the `Come Dance with Me'       conference presented by the Irish Ballet Forum at the Abbey Theatre,       Dublin (14 October 2012, audience 300).
The book which arose from the       symposium, Ninette de Valois: Adventurous Traditionalist, edited       by Cave and Royal Holloway Senior Lecturer Dr Libby Worth (Dance Books       2012) has an accompanying DVD which includes the performance.
The project's most significant impact, however, is in its developing         a new methodology for dance theatre that the RBS have now revisited.
The creative but carefully researched re-imagining of The King       convinced the RBS to apply the research, recreation and revival process to       other works from the first decades of the Company's history and Cave,       Schafer and Worth have all been invited to contribute to the research       process as the RBS now seek to recover, re-stage and document the dance       works of de Valois' prot&#233;g&#233;e, Robert Helpmann (1909-1986), a dancer,       choreographer and actor, notable for the theatricality of his dance.
The first stage of the RBS revisiting and adapting Cave's methodology       occurred when David Drew (former Principal dancer at the RB, currently a       teacher at the RBS) organised a study day (19 November 2011) on Helpmann's       ballet Miracle in the Gorbals (1944).
The aim for this day was the       reconstruction of a ten-minute scene, where the body of `The Suicide' is       discovered in the Clyde river, and she is revived by `The Stranger'.
Drawing on the memories of several dancers from the original performances,       the work was directed by Gillian Lynne, who performed as `The Young Lover'       in Miracle in the 1950s.
David Bintley, Artistic Director of the       Birmingham Royal Ballet (BRB), was so impressed by the performance of this       scene that he commissioned Gillian Lynne to develop a reconstructed       choreography of Miracle with the BRB for staging in 2014.
All of       this work on Miracle was directly the result of Drew being       inspired by the performance of The King and the creative       approaches taken to dance reconstruction in the production of Yeats's       dance play.
This is noted by White Lodge Museum Curator, Anna Meadmore,       who writes in April 2013 Dancing Times (p. 37) `the idea to       attempt a revival of the ballet was inspired by Richard Allen Cave's       reconstruction of the W.B.
Yeats/Ninette de Valois collaboration, The         King of the Clock Tower'.
The impact of the de Valois symposium has also meant the Royal Ballet       School is keen to organise another event around restaging Helpmann.
Cave       is chair of the steering committee for this project; the first study day       was on 18 February 2013, focusing on Adam Zero (1946).
The next       stage in the process is a symposium, `The Many Faces of Robert Helpmann',       to be held on 21 October 2013.
The impact of the research will continue to grow as a book based on the       RBS April 2011 conference (Ninette de Valois: Adventurous         Traditionalist, outlined above) reaches wide distribution.
This       volume is remarkably wide-ranging and includes contributions from dancers,       academics, choreographers, dance notators, museum archivists, curators,       journalists, reviewers, historians, film makers, and luminaries from the       world of dance.
It includes a DVD of The King, allowing those       interested in Yeats, de Valois, ballet, and modernist dance an opportunity       to see The King in performance.
A similar volume, edited by Anna       Meadmore and Richard Cave, is planned to follow the Helpmann symposium.
The project has also had an impact on the educational work of the       Royal Ballet School.
The DVD of The King is used in the GCSE       Expressive Arts course at the School to teach mask work.
The teacher has       replaced former material with that from The King.
However, the       most significant impact remains the project's influence on the RBS's       programming and events and the change in the school's approach to       re-imaging historic choreography.
