     This research reaches two priority areas named in the Department's Impact       Strategy:       professional artists and the health and charitable sectors.
By undertaking       research with       (rather than on) these sectors, the impact of the research builds       incrementally as it is       applied, tested and analysed.
Brodzinski's research into creativity in health and care has benefitted arts         organisations,         health and care professionals and medical education.
As PI       for a funded network on       Creativity in Health and Care (2007-8), she worked in partnership with       fourteen professionals       from a range of health, care and creative sectors, including Arts Council       England.
This       research has impacted on a range of settings.
Within the NHS it shaped       training sessions       within the Strategic Health Authority and Regional Public Health Group for       Yorkshire and       Humber region.
The director of We do (formally Open Art)       acknowledges observes that the       research project provided a framework within which to explain her arts       practice in health       settings.
It provided the intellectual basis for `Culture Club' an       initiative that provides a health       messaging project for over 55s in Kirklees, attracting 350 members in the       first year.
She also       acknowledges that the enquiry undertaken as part of the research project       has fed directly       into her strategic work as a regional representative on the National       Alliance for Arts Health       and Wellbeing &#8212; a national voice for Arts in Health supported by Arts       Council England.
The collaborators on the creativity in health and care project       contributed to a special edition       of Health Care Analysis.
The editor writes:     "Dr Emma Brodzinski's special issue of Health Care Analysis, the       journal I edit, was       extremely well regarded.
I received very positive feedback during       conferences on the       philosophy of health care that I attended, particularly from people       interested in the       medical humanities and in the role that artistic and other creative       activity can play in       the provision of health care and therapy.
This feedback came not just from       academics       but also from general practitioners of a number of European countries.
I       am myself       drawing on this special issue in preliminary discussions that I am having       with the       National Library of Wales on the place of library provision and literature       in the support       of the 'expert patient'."
Brodzinski's research also impacts on medical education It has       been used on the       `Performing Medicine' course with medical students from St.Bartholomew's       and King's       College, where she was visiting lecturer 2006-8.
The Chair of North East       &amp; Cumbria       Learning Disability Clinical Network and Executive Director of Operating       Theatre, a       theatre company specialising in medical education and health care,       acknowledges that       Brodzinski's analysis of role play in Theatre in Health and Care       has impacted on their       training with medical students and health care professionals.
Nicholson's research into the arts in dementia care has impacted       on professional artists       and health professionals.
Working with South London and Maudsley NHS       Foundation Trust       (SLaM), Guys and St Thomas's Charity, Age Exchange Theatre Trust and       artists working in       geriatric care, it has brought benefit in three distinct ways:     1) analyzing dementia as a cultural practice (as distinct from       social or medical       models of dementia) is influencing dementia care in London.
The research       has       provided evidence of the benefits of creative involvement of professional       carers,       ancillary staff and family members as well as artists and activity       co-ordinators in       residents' care and care plans.
This approach to care is reaching older       adult services       across South London (working with over 60 care staff, 100 residents and 25       artists).
2) It has brought a paradigm shift in the artistic practice of         cultural organizations         working in dementia care, particularly Age Exchange Theatre Trust,       from person-centred       reminiscence, which relies on the memory and cognition of people with       dementia, to creating multi-sensory environments that encourage embodied       memory       and responses.
This has benefitted over 100 people living with advanced       dementia,       and particularly those who are post-verbal.
3) The impact of this research is sustainable because improves       the culture of dementia       care; previous studies have measured the effects of the arts on       individuals.
Research       findings underpinned Age Exchange's successful application to Guys and St       Thomas's Charity (2012, &#163;600,000), building capacity for the arts in       dementia care.
Training in the arts and dementia care has been offered at: The         King's Fund, April 2012       (120 artists and health professionals working with people experiencing       dementia); SLaM         and Age Exchange, December 2012 (30 managers of residential care       settings); Trinity         Laban, Age Gap Symposium (Paul Hamlyn funded) April 2013 (70       artists); Training       workshops in Hiroshima, Japan in 2008, for 40 health professionals       in geriatric care.
