     A.
Use of research data and approach in policy initiatives.
The unique baseline data on the Rupununi SES established in phase 1 of       the underpinning       research has been widely drawn upon.
Examples include: i) Guyana       Environmental Protection       Agency's (EPA) National Water Quality Monitoring Plan; ii) WWF-Guianas's       application for the       North Rupununi Wetlands to be recognised as a RAMSAR (Wetland of       International Importance)       (see Section 5, Source 1, p.i); iii) Conservation International's (with       Guyana's Protected Areas       Commission) gap analysis identifying critical conservation areas for the       country (see Section 5,       Contact 1); and iv) significant Environmental Impact Assessments and       management plans (e.g.
Ground Structures Engineering Consultants Inc [2008] Ground Star Petroleum       Exploration       Program in the North Rupununi, Environmental and Social Management Plan).
More generally, the       collaborative nature of the research has embedded its findings with key       organisations, within       Guyana in particular, informing their ongoing activities.
Notably, the       EPA's Fourth National Report       to the Convention on Biological Diversity (2010) not only recognises the       underpinning research as       `major projects and studies' (p.46) but, in setting out key areas of       progress made on Guyana's       National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, presents six case studies,       five of which concern the       NRDDB and / or IIC.
Other organisations have taken up aspects of approach       and methods too.
Indicative is the Guiana Shield Facility (GSF), a US$2 million       transnational initiative which has       drawn on Project COBRA to shape its community engagement practice (Contact       2).
The project       team has published a number of briefings for environmental organisations       on best practice for       participatory work with indigenous peoples (Source 2).
B.
The facilitation of `community-owned' solutions to the         socio-ecological challenges faced         by indigenous communities.
This has been achieved by the provision of decision-making tools,       participatory processes and       `best practices'.
The North Rupununi Adaptive Management Process (NRAMP)       is indicative here.
Its direct importance to local indigenous communities within the North       Rupununi region can be       confirmed by the NRDDB (Contact 3).
Indirectly, it also became a model       used in other community       centred projects, including the International Union for Conservation of       Nature's (IUCN) community       based natural resource management initiatives in Guyana (Contact 4) and       the United Nations       Development Programme (UNDP) GSI project on ecosystem services education       (Source 3).
With       reference to Project COBRA, indicative community feedback (from February       2013) on the impacts       of the participatory research process can be accessed at http://projectcobra.org/community-feedback-on-project-cobra/       (Source 2).
It is notable that the respondents consistently frame the       process in terms of personal interest, cultural affirmation, involvement       and material / practical       value.
This combination speaks to the community ownership of the research       process.
By the end       of the assessment period, findings from Project COBRA have delivered       specific, community owned       `best practices' for wider championing.
Those developed in Brazil fall       outside the REF2014       assessment period, but by the end of July 2013 the 6 key best practices       and their champions in the       North Rupununi, Guyana had been identified and communicated within the       region (external       communication took place in August 2013) (Source 2; Contact 3 can speak       further to their       significance).
These range from fishing practices to community radio.
They       are now being       communicated by their champions across the Guiana Shield region.
C. Intensive `capacity building' via training of local people.
The promotion of local `champions' for successful best practices within       Project COBRA builds on a       longer track record of capacity building.
Capacity building courses       developed by the Darwin       Initiative projects were launched in 2008.
To date over 120 community       leaders and others have       undertaken the eleven day intensive North Rupununi Adaptive Management       Process Community       Course.
Those trained in turn disseminate good practice to a population of       around 8000 people in       one of the most diverse and significant ecosystems in South America.
The       NRAMP Community       Course has five elements that address: animal / human conflict for       resources; overharvesting; food       and water security; land rights; and livelihood enterprise development.
These included training on       collaborative natural resource management, participatory processes and       techniques, biophysical       monitoring, data analysis, GIS and project management (Source 4).
This has       significantly       contributed to the development of a `community of natural resource       managers' with clear career       and skills trajectories, that can be mapped as people progressed to work       in local initiatives, as       private consultants, in the university sector, in international research       projects and in civil society       organisations (Contact 4).
In addition, the capacity building has helped       local community groups to       develop their own research projects and get further funding, through, for       example, WWF-Guianas       for further caiman monitoring and Cleveland Zoo, USA for river turtle       management.
The innovative       resources and approaches used in the training have also been embedded in       the local community       governance structures, as part of natural resource management planning       under the coordination of       the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs.
They are also being used within the       Ranger and Environmental       Officer training courses run by the IIC and the University of Guyana.
D. Enhancing public understanding of conservation in the region,         particularly through         primary education initiatives.
Teacher lesson plans and student materials developed in research grants 2       &amp; 4 were incorporated       into the Guyana national curriculum for primary schools, grades 5 and 6       (Source 5).
Since their       introduction in 2008-9 these lessons have been taught to around 40,000       primary school children.
Funding by the British High Commission in Guyana allowed these school       packs to be printed and       distributed through the Ministry of Education to over 100 primary schools       in the interior of Guyana       (Contact 5).
Public understanding has also been enhanced by the production       of community       focused ecotourism resources launched in 2008 at the end of the DEFRA       project.
An ecotourism       guide book, together with tourist maps, provides key information on       social-ecological interactions       and is a small revenue earning resource for the local communities / NRDDB.
Via Project COBRA,       local communities trained in participatory video have initiated the       production of films to disseminate       their stories and raise awareness.
This includes short films on       human-crocodilian conflicts, turtle       conservation, local folklore myths and the importance of forests.
The       films have been used to       increase awareness at local, national and international level.
In March       2013, the forest film was       presented to the United Nations by the people of the North Rupununi on the       occasion of the 2013       International Day of Forests (Source 2).
