     a) Economic impacts: context       The primary impact of this research is wealth creation and the stimulation       of economic activity in Central and Eastern England.
Mapping of Bytham       River deposits through examination of sand and gravel exposures and       borehole data, combined with geochronological advances, provided not only       a primary archive for Quaternary and Archaeological research but a major       source of information for the aggregates industry seeking new mineral       resources to extract for national priority developments in housing,       business and infrastructure.
The Bytham Sands and Gravels produce both       un-washed (as raised) and washed products of commercial value, including:       i) building sand; ii) sharp sand for screeds, rendering, and other such       coatings; iii) asphalt sand; iv) mixed ballast for concrete; and v) `20 mm       down' and `40 mm down' gravel mainly used for drainage.
The ability to       derive building sand and asphalt sand from an unwashed product makes the       deposit of especially high value.
The typical Bytham river aggregate is       either a distinctive red sand or a very durable quartzite-rich sand and       gravel; both are high-quality `clean' products with minimal clay.
The       durable composition and good condition of the sands and gravels deposits       is a reflection of the course of the river, eroding through the West       Midlands.
The purity of the aggregate is due to burial beneath glacial       deposits and protection from soil-forming processes that cause the       production of clay.
As well as being valuable for their quality, the       Bytham Sands and Gravels are also notable for their quantity.
The Bytham       River was very large, with an extensive catchment reaching from the West       Midlands and southern Pennines through East Anglia to the North Sea.
It       thus provides an unparalleled potential aggregates resource in the UK.
Importantly, it is located close to major urban and development areas       across the Midlands and East Anglia, thus reducing transportation costs.
b) Economic impacts: new quarries (Red Barn and Brooksby)       The initial work on the identification of the Bytham River course led       directly to an extension of Bullimores' quarry at Witham on the Hill, the       opening of a new quarry to the north of the original site in the       mid-1990s, and then a totally new quarry on the Bytham deposits at Red       Barn, Castle Bytham, South Lincolnshire.
Rose has served as a       non-executive director for Bullimores since 1995, providing the Company       with scientific advice on the location and viability of deposits.
In       relation to the REF2014 impact period (January 2008 to July 2013), Red       Barn quarry has remained in full production through the period and has       subsequently been extended.
For all quarry companies, detailed information       about the productivity and profitability of individual quarries is       commercially sensitive information, but broad estimates of the value of       the deposits during the REF assessment period are possible.
Bullimores       were limited by planning control to the extraction of 90,000 tonnes a       year; this figure was achieved in all years except 2012 when the workings       were severely affected by both the recession in the building industry and       extreme weather which increased the level of the water-table and hence       running costs.
Factoring this in, production over the REF2014 period (5.58       years) can be conservatively estimated at 450,000 tonnes.
Prices for       asphalt sand, building sand and sand and gravel in 2013 are in the order       of &#163;30 per tonne.
A conservative average price of &#163;25 per tonne 2008-13,       suggests a commercial value of c. &#163;11.25m for the Bytham Sands and Gravels       production at Red Barn over the REF2014 assessment period.
In 2000, Lafarge Aggregates drew directly upon established knowledge of       Bytham Sands and Gravels made available to the landowners to apply for       planning permission for a major new quarry at Brooksby, Leicestershire.
Their analysis drew upon earlier research in association with Rose, funded       by Bullimores.
Brooksby came into production in 2006 with sales starting       the following year.
Annual production in the REF2014 assessment period has       been around 300,000 tonnes per annum, with remaining reserves of around 4m       tonnes.
If again we factor in a reduction in production in 2012, and use a       cautious estimate of average production at 250,000 tonnes per annum, then       at &#163;25 per tonne for 5.58 years a conservative estimate of the gross value       of material extracted from Brooksby in the period is c. &#163;35m.
From these       two quarries, then, where Rose has provided direct scientific advice on       aggregate locations, an estimate of the value of production is in excess       of &#163;45m for the REF2014 assessment period.
c) Economic impacts: quarries sustained and extended on Bytham         deposits       Along the course of the `river', knowledge of its existence has       facilitated the development of the aggregates industry.
The Bytham river       research crucially altered the British Geological Survey maps, indicating       the potential existence of extensive, high quality aggregates.
BGS maps       were altered as follows to show the Bytham Sands and Gravels: i) 1:50,000       Series &#8212; Map 142 Melton Mowbray, 2002; Map 155 Coalville, 2010; Map 156,       Leicester, 2007; Map 174, Thetford, 2010; Map 176; Lowestoft 1996; ii)       1:200,000 series &#8212; East Anglia, Sheet 52N 00, Quaternary (n.b.
on East       Anglian sheets the formation related to the Bytham river is sometimes       shown as the Ingham Sands and Gravels).
There has also been further direct       contact by Rose with aggregates companies on these deposits.
Significant       clusters of quarries already existed on Bytham deposits but, even where       the deposits were already known and being exploited, the Bytham work       indicated the likely viability of extensions to quarries.
In these cases,       the Bytham research and the BGS maps have been one factor in development       decisions.
For example, at Leet Hill / Kirby Cane Rose was directly       consulted, and the extensions made delivered production at c. 50,000       tonnes p.a.
for the REF period (@ &#163;25 per tonne = c. &#163;7m over the period).
More generally, production figures for key East Anglian quarries on Bytham       deposits such as Timworth (c. 500,000 tonnes per annum in the REF2014       period), Norton Subcourse (c. 100,000 tonnes per annum) and Flixton (c.       180,000 tonnes per annum) give a sense of the scale of the economic       turnover that the Bytham river mapping supports (@ &#163;25 per tonne = c.       &#163;108m in the REF period).
d) Impacts on heritage preservation       The research has had a further impact in developing the relationship       between Quaternary Science, archaeology and the aggregates industry, with       changes to industry practice and protocols, and to public awareness of the       significance of quarries as heritage sites.
The relationship between       science and the aggregates industry is double-sided.
The very process of       mechanised aggregates extraction can destroy both sites and material       unseen, but many significant sites are only uncovered through the work of       the industry.
In the absence of statutory protection, it is clear that the       challenge of monitoring these quarries for significant finds must be       achieved through partnership, between geologists, palaeontologists and       archaeologists, between professionals and amateurs, but most of all       partnership with the aggregates industry.
This is of crucial importance       within UK archaeological heritage policy, given the limited opportunities       for Pleistocene archaeological mitigation in comparison to the traditional       `surface' archaeology of the Holocene.
Royal Holloway geographers have sought to effect such partnerships in a       number of ways.
As noted above, staff have worked directly with quarrying       companies, as with Rose's non-executive directorship at Bullimores which       has fostered good practice with regard to Palaeolithic and Pleistocene       materials in their quarries.
Another important strand has been the work of       Rose, Schreve and Candy in the high-profile Ancient Human Occupation         of Britain (AHOB) project, funded by the Leverhulme Trust (&#163;3.3m)       from 2001-2013, and led by Professor Christopher Stringer (Natural History       Museum and Visiting Professor in the Department of Geography at Royal       Holloway).
Science in quarry sites has been central to the work of AHOB,       which has provided high profile evidence of the earliest known sites of       human occupation in Britain.
Thirdly, Schreve was Primary Contact, and       Royal Holloway one of four hubs, for the National Ice Age Network       (NIAN), funded from the Aggregates Levy Sustainability Fund (2005-7) and       supported by English Heritage.
The other HE partners were the University       of Leicester and the University of Birmingham.
The fundamental aim of the       NIAN project was to raise awareness of the importance of Ice Age materials       uncovered during commercial aggregate extraction and to get a `better       deal', long term, for these remains.
Royal Holloway's work within NIAN has       had lasting impacts into the REF period through: i) site visits to every       significant quarry in SE England and the Home Counties, to assess for       scientific interest and raise industry awareness of good practice; ii)       widespread public engagement activities to encourage local enthusiast       groups to visit and to work with the aggregates industry (lectures, site       visits, travelling displays, 140,000 leaflets distributed to the public on       the scientific significance of quarries); iv) work with the industry body,       the Quarry Products Association (now Mineral Products Association) to       attempt to establish protocols for the industry in relation to       Palaeolithic and Pleistocene materials.
Building on this work, Royal       Holloway geographers made central contributions to the development of       English Heritage's national Research and Conservation Framework for the       British Palaeolithic (2008), as Chair (Gamble, then at Royal Holloway) and       as representatives of NIAN and AHOB (Schreve) and of the Geologists'       Association (Rose).
This input was particularly significant in shaping the       Framework's collaborative approach to `dealing with development' and the       aggregates industry (p.16 of source 6).
The Framework explicitly       recognises the role played by NIAN saying it had `done much to raise the       profile of Pleistocene remains discovered during quarrying' and initiated       an `effective and systematic approach towards the recognition, reporting,       recovery and recording of such materials' (pp.4-5 of source 6).
English       Heritage confirm that the `industry has now formally acknowledged the need       for the archaeological treatment of Palaeolithic archaeological remains       within the sediment body by its adoption of practice guidance on mineral       extraction and archaeology which explicitly refers to the need for       appropriate monitoring and mitigation of Pleistocene remains in such       contexts' (source 4, 2013).
The impact on the relationship between the industry and heritage also       works through individual quarries and officials.
At Brooksby, for example,       the Leicestershire County Archaeologist's awareness of research on the       Bytham (e.g.
Rose, 1994) led directly to a requirement for there to be       Palaeolithic and Pleistocene archaeological mitigation as part of the       formal planning consent for extraction in 2000 (source 5).
This has been       enacted in the assessment period and, since 2009, CQR staff have been       collaborating with the University of Leicester Archaeological Services       unit for the Pleistocene mitigation at Brooksby.
