     The project was conceived and delivered with the intention to reach and       to influence the wider       public.
The beneficiaries of the research include members of the general       public who attended the       exhibition, internet users visiting the permanent project website, and       students and schoolchildren       viewing the documentary films produced by the project.
The underpinning       scholarly research is       fully embedded in the impact-related activities listed below.
EDUCATIONAL and CULTURAL Impacts:     Exhibition:     Pieri was co-curator of the public art exhibition Against Mussolini       at the Estorick Collection.
The       exhibition, which received very positive reviews and media attention both       in the UK and Italy,       brought together a range of paintings, drawings, sculptures, cartoons,       postcards and photographs       produced, mainly in Italy, between the early 1940s and 1945.
Collaboration       with the Estorick was       crucial.
The director Roberta Cremoncini and staff member Christopher       Adams co-curated the       exhibition with Pieri, Gundle and Storchi of the project team.
The       Estorick itself also contributed       &#163;34,000 to the &#163;45,000 cost of the exhibition, which brought numerous       works by major artists       (Guttuso, Mafai, Maccari etc) to London, together with lesser known works       discovered by the       project team (from, among others, the Tono Zancanaro archive in Padua, The       Enrico Sturani       Collection in Rome, and the Wolfson Collection in Genoa).
The exhibition was widely reviewed, especially in the Italian press.
It       featured in The Sunday Times       culture supplement's top 10 art events in London for 3 weeks running.
The       exhibition talks, with the       investigators using the material in the show to highlight their research       into the cult of Mussolini.
The film material is available via the project website (www.mussolinicult.com).
Four videos from       Pieri's gallery talks are featured here: Mafai: Fantasie, Part 1&#8212;The       Depiction of the Body;       Fantasie, Part 2&#8212;The Troops Enjoy themselves; Mino Maccari's `Dux' series;       Zancanaro: the       Ubiquity of Mussolini's image.
These talks offer clear and informative       analysis for a non-specialist       audience.
They focus on art works brought to London for the exhibition       which were produced       during the Fascist era, and emphasise the decline of the cult in the years       immediately following       Mussolini's fall from power in 1943, when there was widespread destruction       of Fascist symbols       and images of Mussolini.
Pieri's research on the official iconography of       the regime and the       multifaceted representations of Mussolini underpinned the analysis and put       into context the       ridiculing of Mussolini in the works and their condemnation of the       violence and brutality of the       regime.
Documentary films:     The research has led to the creation of teaching resources (3 documentary       films) which have       improved the quality of the learning experience in HE and FE-level       education around the world for       students learning about European History and Fascism.
The three       documentaries the project       delivered received public screenings (University College London, 11       February 2011) and in       Mussolini's home town of Predappio (25 February 2011; but note that the       films are designed for       use as DVDs in schools as educational resources).
There was extensive       newspaper coverage of       the Predappio event, reflecting one of its intended functions as a means       of engaging with and       challenging Italian audiences and making a contribution to the process of       memorialisation and       reconciliation.
The documentaries have generated a considerable amount of       interest from non-academic       users.
235 copies have been distributed to numerous university departments       and       schools in the UK and 15 other countries (at the request of lecturers and       teachers who are using       them as teaching resources).
It is expected that more copies will be       distributed in future.
REACH     The reach of the project's impact is evidenced by:     - the exhibition audience size (4,850 visitors, including 20 school       parties).
700 copies of the       catalogue were produced and to date nearly 600 copies have been sold.
- the documentary films' estimated audience size: approx.16,700.
3       documentary DVDs of       broadcast-quality (using archival footage and original material) were       produced in both       English (200 copies) and Italian (100 copies) for use mainly in higher       education.
They have       been distributed to 167 academics who requested them in the UK, USA,       Canada, Australia,       New Zealand, France, Italy and other European countries.
A smaller number       was       distributed to FE lecturers and school teachers in the UK.
The audience       size is calculated       by multiplying each academic destination by 100.
Assuming use of the       material over a       minimum 5 year period, this estimate of audience size is cautious.
Feedback suggests wide       and continuing use of the material.
