     Professor Longerich is co-chair (together with Dr. Juliane Wetzel, TU       Berlin) of the Unabh&#228;ngiger       Expertenkreis Antisemitismus (Independent Expert Committee on       Anti-Semitism), commisioned by       the German Parliament in 2008 to coincide with the 70th anniversary of Kristallnacht.
The       Committee was commissioned to produce an unprecedented, detailed account       of the extent,       nature and effects of anti-Semitism in German society today, and to advise       on possible strategies       for combating it and for further promoting Jewish life in Germany.
This       report (more than 200       pages in length) was completed in October 2011 and discussed at a cabinet       meeting of the       German government on 2 November 2011.
It was presented and recommended to       the German       Parliament (Bundestag) on 23 January 2012.
Its findings include the claim       that `latently' anti-       Semitic attitudes, discernible in different ways in as much as 20% of the       German population,       remain deeply ingrained in mainstream German society.
The report argues       that previous strategies       have failed in part because they lacked co-ordination and a clear       understanding of what constitutes       `anti-Semitism' and recommends that a co-ordinated strategy for dealing       with anti-Semitism be       introduced and put into practice across a spectrum of social strata,       including the justice system, the       police, the education system, politics, and sport.
It was the subject of a       full parliamentary debate on       17 October 2012.
The report includes at its conclusion a detailed account       of suggested measures       to prevent anti-Semitism, a number of which, in areas such as education       and sport, are now being       acted upon.
In this way Longerich's body of research, which demonstrates       the ways in which an       ideological position such as anti-Semitism, if left unchallenged, can come       to exercise a malign       influence, often indirectly, throughout a society, has led to a very       concrete impact on a crucial area       of policy making and on civil society in one of Europe's major nations.
Longerich has acted as an external advisor (member of the       Wissenschaftlicher Beirat) to the City       of Munich in the planning of a `Document Centre on Nazism in Munich'.
Longerich's work on       National Socialism is underpinned by his particular expertise in the       administrative documents that       the Nazis were often meticulous about.
A particular achievement of his       authoritative studies of the       subject, evident in their bibliographies, has been their use of relevant       primary sources that are       often scattered widely across Europe and the USA, and held in many       different public and private       collections.
He has thus been very well placed to advise on the design       concept of a major, publicly       funded, specialised archival resource in Germany.
The Centre is currently       being built by the City, to       the recommendations made by Longerich and his fellow advisors, in       conjunction with the State of       Bavaria und the Federal Republic of Germany, and is scheduled to open in       2014.
The finalized       plan to which Longerich and the advisory team have contributed is binding       for the work of the       Centre, which will include a permanent exhibition, learning facilities and       a pedagogical service.
This is an example of Longerich's body of research leading to an impact       on the commissioning,       design and realisation of a major educational project designed to improve       the wider public's       understanding of historical and political issues.
Longerich's major publications have been translated into several       languages and have been very       widely reviewed in popular (non-academic) media around the world.
In the       German-speaking       world, his publications have prompted major features in high-circulation       publication such as Die         Zeit and Der Spiegel.
This degree of public awareness of his       research forms the basis for his       frequent invitations to comment on matters relating to history and       society, to deliver public lectures,       to appear on radio and television programmes, to act in advisory roles for       television       documentaries, and to give interviews in newspapers and other public       contributions.
These       activities amount to a significant form of cultural impact.
An example of       this type of activity saw       Longerich as an invited keynote speaker, alongside the European Commissar       for Science and       Israel's Minister for Education, at the launch of the EHRI project       (European Holocaust Research       Institutes Network), November 2010.
The event was attended and reported on       by representatives       of the European news media.
