     The research is a collaborative project which from the outset has       involved the British Library.
In so doing it makes a contribution to the       areas in which the Library is a leading institution: CULTURAL LIFE,       EDUCATION, CIVIL SOCIETY.
The aim of the British Library Themed       Collections series is to open up underused parts of the collections to       readers by enhancing the information available.
In this case, this was       achieved through the creation of a special subset or database relating to       that material (a first version went live in 2007 and has been in       development since that date).
The Italian Academies database is easily       accessible from the main, Integrated Catalogue.
The database is located on       the BL server and is thus accessible to all users both within the BL and       externally, and can also be accessed online by those who are not       registered readers of the BL.
The interface has been configured for ease       of use by all readers/users, including the visually impaired.
The software model designed by the project team in conjunction with the       BL IT department (eIS) has subsequently, in a very welcome impact that was       unforeseen in the planning stages of the project, influenced the revisions       of other catalogues.
BL staff involved in the replacement of the on- line       catalogue of western manuscripts chose the Themed Collections architecture       for the new catalogue system.
The Head of Manuscripts (BL) comments: `One       particularly successful example [of Themed Collections] was the Italian       Academies Project.
We noted how it was possible to customise fields to       hold the required data elements [...], to create links and structure the       data to make provision for simple and advanced searches.
Through their       experience of working on the system in partnership and gaining external       validation, our in-house experts were well able to support our       requirements and deliver value for money.'
The Italian Academies project       has therefore made a clear contribution to informing expert systems for       enhanced library on-line cataloguing and to improving the methods used       within a profession.
Beneficiaries therefore not only include scholars in a wide range of       disciplines working on early modern European history and culture but also       include British Library staff in collections and in systems, as well as       readers and members of the general public with similar interests, in the       UK, Italy, the USA and more widely.
The database reveals the extensive       intellectual networks of the period and plays a role in the development of       an understanding of European cultural heritage.
The impact on public       discourse has been on-going since the publication of the first stages of       the database in 2007.
Through presentations in the UK and Italy to members       of the general public there has been a significant effect on the awareness       and understanding not only of the Italian Academies and their achievements       but of the idea of intellectual and social networks more generally, a       theme that is of continued interest and relevance to audiences in today's       digital age.
The parallels the team has drawn with Facebook and other       forms of social networks have caught the public's attention, evident in       responses to presentations and in press articles in several countries,       including Italy and Brazil.
A series of public events has helped to engage with users and with the       wider public since the project launch as an event (attended by ca.
80       people) at the British Library in January 2009.
A number of BL staff and       readers attended the major project conference held at the BL in September       2012.
Subsequently the lectures and papers delivered have been made       available via podcast on the project webpages (www.italianacademies.org).
In December 2012 the database was presented to a BL `Bite Size' seminar       attended by BL staff, designed to brief them on the interlinks between       fields in the database, the incorporation of digitised images, and the       structure and navigation of the database.
On feedback forms for the event       those attending emphasised that the presentation would enhance their use       of the database.
One commented: `I think it is a fabulous database and       excellent worthwhile work'.
In Spring 2012 Professor Everson presented the project in Latina       (southern Italy) to an audience which included some 60+ school children       and their teachers, and in January 2013 Dr Testa presented to 50 secondary       school pupils in Bologna; feedback collected reflects clear enthusiasm for       and interest in the visual and networking dimensions of the database.
The       reactions of the Italian school students again highlight the attraction to       the general public of the parallels with modern social media.
