     The work of the Bramley and Fraser group and their crtl protocol       provided an enabling technology and pivotal step in the development of Golden         Rice, which was then used by Beyer and Potrykus in further       development [7].
Beneficiaries of this research are those with       Vitamin A deficient diets (globally approx.
200 million people), rice       research institutes, notably the International Rice Research Institute       (IRRI) and their end users, and the companies Syngenta, Viridis Biopharma       and Anabio.
Per year in excess of 20,000 `A' level students are taught       about Golden Rice as part of their studies, and it has informed       the general public in the debate about genetically modified organisms.
Impact on health and welfare: Golden Rice is a rice       variety with enhanced provitamin A content that can improve the quality of       life of hundreds of million people with a VAD, preventing hundreds of       thousands of deaths per year.
It is estimated that 190 million pre-school       children and 19 million pregnant women are Vitamin A deficient.
Field       trials, in 2004 and 2005, yielded rice with 603bcg 03b2-carotene/g, which       provides the normal daily amount needed in 70g of rice, while the typical       intake is 100-200g/day [8].
Since 2008 bioavailability and bioconversion       to retinol (Vitamin A) has been trialled.
These trials demonstrated that       03b2-carotene can be taken up from Golden Rice in a highly       efficient manner [9,10].
Impact on production and international development: In 2008, the       Rockefeller Foundation provided funding to a value of $4M to the IRRI for       Golden Rice to be submitted to regulatory authorities in       Bangladesh, Indonesia and the Philippines.
Field testing has taken place       in the Philippines and Bangladesh.
In the Philippines the field trials       have taken place to assess the performance and biosafety of Golden Rice.
This assessment is part of the process to obtain regulatory approval for       Golden Rice [11].
It is expected to be grown commercially in the       Philippines in 2014 or 2015 and then introduced into the diet.
The Bill       and Melinda Gates Foundation have provided funding ($10.5M) for the IRRI       and its partners (Philippine Rice Research Institute, Bangladesh Rice       Research Institute) to further develop and evaluate Golden Rice       varieties [12].
Impact on commerce.
The on-going collaboration throughput the       reporting period with Syngenta (formerly Zeneca) since the mid 1990s, with       contract income and funded posts (amounting to an direct investment in       excess of &#163;300K), was instrumental in developing a strategy focusing on       output rather than input characteristics, for example, nutritional       characteristics of food crops.
The expertise and technical skills on       carotenoids provided by Bramley and Fraser, were essential for this aspect       of Zeneca's plant biotechnology business.
The expertise and skills were       discussed and transferred in closed meetings of the EU consortia listed       above, in which Syngenta was the industrial partner.
The discovery of and expertise on the biosynthetic pathways for the       formation of bacterial apocarotenoids in vegetative and bacterial spores       of Bacillus spp.
has been commercialized through SporeGen, a       commercial service governed by Royal Holloway Enterprise Ltd. SporeGen has       a collection of carotenoid-producing Bacilli and most of these       have been typed for safety and virulence markers.
These can be developed       as food and feed additives, as dietary supplements, or as food colorants       [13].
Since 2011 two international companies, Viridis Biopharma (India)       [14] and Anabio (Vietnam)[15], have acquired licences for the production       of the carotenoid producing bacillus strains HU36 and HU58 as food       supplements.
These producers have commercialized these products, and they       have invested in and developed production facilities and have started to       market these.
No sales figures have been provided as yet; the licence       income to date is &#163;30k.
Impact on education.
GM crops and GM technology, including tomato       and Golden Rice are included in the compulsory learning for       students studying for both GCSE and A level OCR examinations meaning, for       example, at A Level approximately 33% of UK A level students (June 2012       OCR figures indicate that this was approximately 20,500 students, [16])       learn about Golden Rice as a good example of basic science linked       to recombinant DNA technologies to produce worthwhile, high value crops.
Impact on society.
The development of Golden Rice has been       an important component of the on-going global public debate around       genetically modified crops [17], as regularly summarised by frequent       articles in the press and news outlets from the 1990s to date.
Golden         Rice was heralded to be the first genetically modified crop with       clear beneficial effects for farmers as well as consumers.
Although the       development of Golden Rice was covered by intellectual property       rights, the developed varieties are largely covered by Humanitarian Use       Licences, which allows distribution for free to those in need who cannot       afford it, such as subsistence farmers in Asia or Africa.
This has       generated much publicity for Golden Rice, but also informed the       debate for the use of GMO in general.
Although the use of GMOs is far from       being widely accepted, and has sparked off intense debate, the overall       response to Golden Rice has been positive.
This has had further       impact on the use of GMO technology in the agricultural industry, in that       it provided an example of a successful and acceptable application of a GMO       crop (e.g.
[18]).
