     The fundamental discoveries made by Dickson and his team have an impact       on health through the development of novel drugs for DMD.
The impact has       been realised through clinical trials delivered by other teams,       conglomerates of teams and companies.
Beneficiaries: the impact       has benefitted those affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy, parents of       children affected by DMD, and carriers of the defective gene.
The research       has had impact on pharmaceutical companies who have invested in research       and development through clinical trials, and licensing agreements.
Impact on health, area 1: Development and subsequent trials of         antisense oligonucleotide drugs (AOs): AO drugs target the       dystrophin mRNA and have been developed for exon skipping therapy of DMD.
We will describe nine clinical trials, held since 2009, that have either       been completed or are ongoing, testing the oligomer drugs in DMD patients.
Two phase I/II trials were held in the UK and two phase II studies in the       US, all on AVI-4658 (Eteplirsen), sponsored by Sarepta Therapeutics [8].
The Sarepta trials have met their primary endpoints successfully showing       safety and improved clinical outcomes in DMD patients, biochemical       efficacy.
The trials showed that Eteplirsen was well tolerated and there       were no clinically significant treatment-related adverse events, serious       adverse events, hospitalizations or discontinuations [9,10].
The phase II       trials show an increase in novel dystrophin, absence of adverse events and       continued benefits lasting for 84 weeks [11].
The safety and biochemical       efficacy indicate the suitability of Eteplirsen to become a       disease-modifying drug for Duchenne muscular dystrophy [10].
The trials       indicate that 70-80% of sufferers can benefit from this treatment,       indicating it could be applied to ~0.5M individuals who suffer from this       disease across the world (~4000 in the UK)[12].
Five trials are sponsored by Prosensa and GlaxoSmithKline on products       PRO044 (phase I/II completed), PRO045(phase I/II ongoing), PRO051 (phase       I/II, III completed) and PRO053 (phase I/II ongoing) [13].
In the trials       the compound PRO051 (Drisapersen) has been shown to restore dystrophin       expression, was well tolerated and has a beneficial therapeutic effect on       DMD patients after 12 [14] and 48 weeks of treatment [12].
The phase III       trial has been completed in June 2013 and has shown a definite outcome in       that it did not meet its primary endpoint [15].
Impact on health, area 2: Development and subsequent trials of         functional recombinant genes encoding dystrophin for gene addition         therapy of DMD: Recombinant dystrophin and micro-dystrophin genes       engineered in the Dickson laboratory have been distributed around the       global research community, and have led to significant pre-clinical       testing and pending clinical trials in DMD patients.
Two phase I clinical       trials of DMD gene therapy, in 2002 [5] and 2009 [16], have been conducted       on dystrophin gene therapy for DMD.
The 2002 trial showed low levels of       dystrophin, and no side effects or any cellular or humoral anti-dystrophin       responses.
The 2009 trial also provided evidence of gene expression.
Dystrophin-specific T cells were detected in two patients before vector       treatment [16].
This field continues to move forward, and Dickson has now       developed highly-optimised microdystrophin gene vectors, showing 30-fold       improvement in expression, which will go into new clinical trials.
This       therapy would be applicable to all DMD patents (~0.7M worldwide/ ~6000 in       the UK).
Impact on health, area 3.
Identification and clinical trials of         utrophin, an embryonic paralogue of dystrophin, with therapeutic         potential in DMD: The utrophin gene and protein is currently a major       pharmaceutical target for the identification of drugs to treat DMD       therapy.
Proof of principle has been delivered [17] and a phase I clinical       trial has been conducted in human volunteers for the safety and       pharmacodynamic/kinetics of utrophin activator drugs.This has confirmed       the safety of the drug and shown that sufficiently high concentrations can       be achieved [18].
Currently phase 2 trials are planned.
This type of       therapy would be applicable to all DMD patents (~0.7M worldwide/ ~6000 in       the UK.
Impact on commerce, investment in research.
Over the period of       assessment this research has been funded in excess of &#163;3M from       governmental agencies and medical charities.
Following the trials for exon       skipping therapy, Dickson and co-workers are evaluating a range of       chemical modifications, conjugates and derivatives of AOs in order to       design refined medicinal products with improved bio-activity, bio-safety       and pharmacokinetic profiles.
Royal Holloway holds four patents granted on       the basis of this research, and intellectual property licensing option       agreements exist with major biotechnology companies resulting in first       stage commercial income to a value of &#163;380k [19].
