     Beneficiaries: the work has benefited populations of insects       depending on decaying wood, in       particular stag beetle populations.
It has benefited the JNCC and the UK       government by the radical       revision of a Biodiversity Action Plan.
The charity PTES benefited in       their efforts to preserve stag       beetle populations and their habitats [6].
It has benefited the general       public, schools and other       organisations, through their involvement in campaigns and in the       installation of stag beetle       breeding sites in gardens and school grounds.
Furthermore, school teachers       and pupils benefited,       by enhanced delivery of the National Curriculum at KS 2 and 3.
Impact area 1 (Environment: Resource management): Gange and Harvey       wrote the leaflet Stag         beetle friendly gardening [7], funded by the PTES.
Examples of the       artificial beetle breeding sites it       described (`loggeries') can now be seen in the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew       and the Wetland &amp;       Wildfowl Trust in Arundel.
Thus, during the assessment period, the       research has led to impact on       the environment though an increase in understanding of the importance of       dead wood as a natural       resource, which will benefit many other saproxylic insects.
Most       importantly, the research has       resulted in an increase in the number of potential and actual breeding       sites.
Through the `Bury       Buckets 4 Beetles' (BB4B) initiative, described below in impact area 3,       over 1,000 potential       breeding sites have been created, of which 246 have produced larvae.
As       the total number of       breeding sites has been estimated to be 4,756 [1], this represents a 21%       increase in the availability       of habitat and a 5% increase in actual breeding sites.
The increase in       breeding sites is likely to       increase the stag beetle population; the effect on population size can       only be quantified in about       10 years, due to the long life cycle of this insect.
Impact area 2 (Public Policy: Decisions &amp; guidelines): The       research of Harvey and Gange [2-4]       was used as the basis for a revised Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) by JNCC       in 2010 [8].
As the       JNCC advises the UK Government on nature conservation, this research had a       direct impact on       policy for management of dead wood habitats.
The BAP listed the       development of monitoring       methods and population estimates as priorities by 2010, which we achieved       [3, 4].
This research       was also used by JNCC to submit the `species fact sheet' (S1083) for the       UK to the European       Union, under EC Directive 92/43/EEC in 2008 [9].
Impact area 3 (Society: Public understanding): Harvey and Gange's       research [3,4] showed that       removal of tree stumps in gardens is mainly responsible for population       decline, so to mitigate this       and engage with the public, we developed the `Bury buckets 4 beetles'       (BB4B) project, with       sponsorship from B &amp; Q.
This had its national launch in 2005 [10] and       it has continued throughout       the assessment period.
Holes are drilled in the side of a 20 litre bucket,       which is then filled with       sawdust and buried, providing a habitat for larvae [11].
This scheme has       informed and engaged       the general public, and mobilised over 1,000 individuals to actively take       part in creating habitat for       the stag beetle.
This capitalised and expanded on Harvey and Gange's work,       which had previously       engaged 250 volunteers in monitoring beetles [3].
To date, just over 1,000       buckets have been       placed in a variety of locations, particularly gardens (409) and school       grounds (534).
Of these 246       buckets have produced larvae, which amounts to a 21% increase in the       availability of habitat and a       5% increase in actual breeding sites.
To engage with and inform the volunteer network and the general public,       Harvey set up a web site       in 2002 [12], which provides information for the public (2,920 queries       answered since 2008) and an       on-line records form for survey work (3,119 received since 2008).
The site       provides instant advice       for those who find stag beetles on their land, such as how to relocate       larvae when the habitat is       excavated accidentally.
The BB4B scheme had nationwide impact through exposure on national media;       it was covered by       the BBC when Gange contributed to an edition of Wild About Your Garden       (November 2009) when       a bucket was incorporated into a design for a wildlife-friendly garden.
Gange also appeared on       BBC's The One Show (2009) to explain stag beetle-friendly       gardening, while Harvey presented       stag beetle articles on Radio 4's Costing the Earth (2006), BBC       South Local News Bulletin (2005),       As It Happens on CBC radio, and has been scientific advisor for       Springwatch (2009), Chris       Packham's Animals Guide to Britain (2010), and Hudson's         Monarch, a film on stag beetles that       won the Wildscreen award in 2010.
Numerous newspaper and magazine articles       include The         Independent's Gardening Column (2005), Good Lives, The         Guardian (2005 and 2011), BBC         Wildlife magazine and the Daily Telegraph (2010) and The         Times (2010).
The finding that stag beetles respond to ginger volatiles resulted in       over 44,000 hits to the story in       a Google search.
This research was covered by virtually all the national       papers, the BBC science       web site and was promoted heavily by the British Ecological Society (BES).
Indeed, Harvey was       nominated by the BES and awarded the accolade of presenting the       prestigious Charles Lyell       Award Lecture at the British Science Festival in October 2011 [13].
Impact area 4 (Practitioners: Educational practices): The research       sponsored through the       Royal-Society partnership grants was highlighted by Planet Science       as a "big success" in       contributing to public understanding and has been used to help teachers       deliver the National       Curriculum using field-based projects [14].
The research team have presented 66 beetle `roadshows' to school       children.
They have written       educational materials to accompany the buckets, which have been       distributed to teachers and       used to help deliver the National Curriculum.
Harvey has produced a range       of stag beetle       education materials, aimed at KS2-3 [15], including an information booklet       and 40 worksheets of       curriculum based activities.
The school stag beetle work with the PTES has       formed the basis of the       Royal Horticultural Society's `Meet the stag beetle' in their campaign for       school gardening [15].
