     Who benefits?
Just about everything that we do on the Internet,       including e-commerce, website       logins and e-mail relies for its security on TLS, so a vulnerability in       TLS has a blanket impact,       affecting users, service providers, merchants, governments, utilities and       the military.
More       succinctly, identifying and fixing a security problem in a protocol that       is core to Internet security       benefits the 2.4 billion (2012) Internet users, which includes the 2.2       billion email users and the 600       million+ website owners, as well as the companies that provide service       hosting solutions and the       service providers that run them.
The global scale of TLS deployment is       confirmed in paragraph 2 of       the letter of support from the Director, Security and Cryptography at       Microsoft Research.
He states       "As TLS is used so widely, research results concerning the security of the       TLS protocol (both       positive and negative) are particularly valuable to the security       community."
How do they benefit?
The global annual value of e-commerce alone       has been estimated at       several trillions of USD.
To suggest a percentage of this that could be       affected by the research       would be speculation, and of course by detecting and preventing a problem       we lose the chance to       measure its effects.
However, it is clear that the total value of       e-commerce makes it an enormous       target that justifies attacker efforts to implement very sophisticated       attack strategies, and so the       research to identify and fix serious vulnerabilities in TLS, the main       protocol used to secure e-commerce,       and thereby to contain losses, is absolutely vital.
As noted further in       the supporting       letter from Microsoft Research, "Given the significance of the Lucky 13       vulnerability, responsible       disclosure of the vulnerability to the major implementations of TLS was       critical to keeping users       worldwide safe from exploits of the vulnerability."
The longer-term       beneficiary is the emerging       electronic society at large, which will benefit from having more secure,       and therefore more       confidence-inspiring, systems.
What is the link between the research and the benefit?
The       research itself identifies       vulnerabilities in TLS, which if exploited would seriously undermine the       security of Internet       services, leading to fraud and data theft.
In a letter of support from the       Security Area Director of the       Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), writes that the research "not only       extended the state of the       art in cryptographic research, but also represented a real threat to the       security of TLS."
This direct       link is confirmed in the letter from Microsoft Research where it is stated       that the work       "demonstrated a real, credible and actionable timing channel attack on       TLS".
The research team developed practical exploits, so that the problems       could be better       communicated to influential parties in industry and government.
The       research also identified       mitigation strategies to limit the exploitability of the vulnerabilities.
Paterson and his collaborator       worked directly with large companies and organisations that maintain       open-source       implementations of TLS to help them develop and test patches ahead of the       public announcement       of the research.
The IETF Security Area Director writes "Professor       Paterson's approach to       informing the IETF about his work and helping to repair the protocol was       commendable.
It set a       new benchmark for how academics can work with the IETF to responsibly       disclose vulnerabilities".
As a result of this approach, the majority of affected vendors were able       to issue patches on the       same day as, or within a few days of, the research being made public on       February 4th 2013.
The       breadth of the impact is confirmed in the letter from Microsoft Research:       "updates to OpenSSL,       GnuTLS, and other major TLS implementations were required, and these       patches triggered a wave       of patches to software and operating systems from Apple, Debian, HP,       Redhat, SUSE, Oracle,       IBM, and others".
As specific examples, the following organisations deployed patches:            OpenSSL (as used in Apache, the world's leading web server by use:         over 50 million         websites use Apache as of March 1st 2013, including youtube,         Wikipedia and linkedin),       Mozilla NSS (as used in Google's Chrome and Mozilla's Firefox web         browsers, between         them, accounted for 79% of all web browsing in January 2013).
Oracle, who issued a special critical patch to their Java software to         address the attacks.
Google: their Senior Staff Software Engineer and a prominent TLS         expert who maintains         Google's TLS implementation writes in his letter of support "By         minimising the window of         exploitation, the benefits of the research to users of TLS were         maximised" and "Their         approach to working with Google to resolve the security issue in SSL/TLS         was exemplary".
In short, the research has led to security improvements in protocols and       systems used by the       majority of the world's Internet users.
The research will have impact in       the longer-term &#8212; as noted       by the co-chair of the TLS Working Group at the IETF, in his letter of       support: "Dr. Paterson's       research has lead directly to a re-evaluation of the algorithms in use by       TLS implementations and       is likely to lead to specification changes to further harden TLS".
