     CFOM has substantially assisted the efforts led by UNESCO (Communications       &amp; Information Sector), the UN agency mandated to promote freedom of       expression, to give effect to the UN Action Plan on the Safety of       Journalists and the Issue of Impunity (endorsed on 22-23 November 2012),       as an international framework for a safe and enabling environment for the       exercise of the right of free expression.
Sheffield research has generated       specific impact in three areas:     A) Engaging professionals and policy-makers to stimulate debate     CFOM's problem-solving conferences/symposia have brought together IGOs,       NGOs, UNESCO, academics, large media houses, lawyers, academics and       representatives from national and international politics to highlight the       need for greater protection of journalists around the world and the need       for a UN Action Plan.
CFOM hosted its official launch event, Twenty Years after the         Fall of the Berlin Wall: What Became of Press and Political Freedoms?
in February 2009 at Chatham House, London.
Drawing on the findings of the       underpinning research, the conference raised awareness of a widespread       retreat of press and political freedom that has taken place in recent       years across many parts of post-Cold War Europe and Russia.
The keynote       speaker was Jens Reich, former leader of New Forum pro-democracy movement       in East German.
High profile speakers included the Editor of the Financial       Times, the OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media, the Editor of Pro       and Contra, the UK Bureau Chief of RIA-Novosti, a Human Rights Lawyer       expert in Council of Europe cases, and representatives of Glasnost Defence       Foundation and the Carnegie Moscow Center.
A one-day conference `Freedom of Expression and the Media',       funded by the Clemens Nathan Research Centre, was held in April 2009 (with       Essex University) specifically focusing on threats to media freedom and       the necessity for media standards, law and regulation being appropriate       and proportionate.
It was attended by professionals including NGO       representatives, journalists and academics.
A Working Conference on the Safety and Protection of         Journalists: A Responsibility for the World was organised in London       in June 2011 by The Initiative on Impunity and the Rule of Law, a joint       initiative between CFOM and City University's Centre for Law Justice and       Journalism (CLJJ), with input from an Advisory Board drawn from a range of       key stakeholders [S1 and S2].
Fifty international participants       including representatives from UNESCO, Council of Europe, OSCE, Inter-       American Commission on Human Rights, UK Foreign Office, Swedish and       Norwegian National Commissions for UNESCO, leading NGOs, the International       Federation of Journalists and academics were brought together to discuss       and assess the effectiveness of existing legal, political and       institutional safeguards against violence directed at journalists because       of their professional work; and to present the case for more effective       international mechanisms to counter such crimes of violence and to end       impunity.
UNESCO designated the Working Conference an official preparatory       meeting anticipating the 1st United Nations Inter-Agency Meeting on the       Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity (and in Paris September       2011, CFOM presented further analysis and proposals for action).
Attended       by UNESCO representatives, the event achieved an enhanced commitment by       state and non-state actors to legal and political mechanisms for improved       protection and ending impunity through actions subsequently taken forward       and included in the UN Action Plan.
CFOM and the CLJJ produced and       presented two extensive research reports, a Political Aspects study (CFOM)       and a Legal Aspects Study (CLJJ via the School of Law).
CFOM then       worked with IGOs and NGOs to influence the policies/actions of national       governments in the lead up to the UN Action Plan     In 2010, when expert groups and stakeholders were asked to support the UN       Action Plan as a global priority, CFOM was already uniquely equipped to       respond by combining its academic research findings with first-hand       knowledge and practical advocacy skills.
CFOM has provided materials and       advice for a range of beneficiaries such as standard-setting texts and       advice that has fed into programmes to combat violence against the news       media.
CFOM, with other media freedom advocacy groups, successfully       proposed that the UK would table a proposal at the UNESCO International       Programme for Development of Communication Council (IPDC) for `an       action-oriented UN Inter-Agency meeting'.
The impact of this was the       formulation of the 2012 UN Action Plan.
In March 2012 CFOM provided advice       based on their research to the UK Foreign Office contributing to the UK's       readiness to resist moves by hostile states to curtail the UN Plan in       discussions in the UNESCO IPDC Council.
Consequently the IPDC approved       UNESCO's strategy.
In order to influence media houses' engagement with the Action Plan, CFOM       and the BBC College of Journalism and Peter Horrocks, Head of Global News       [S3] co-hosted a Symposium on Media Responses to Matters of       Life and Death, at New Broadcasting House, London on 18 October 2012.
The       meeting was specifically designed to bring together 60 leading news media       editors, frontline journalists, journalist associations and media freedom       NGOs from 15 countries.
Funded by an Open Society award to CFOM, the       Symposium led to new commitment from news media houses to the UN Action       Plan process, including monitoring of the success of UNESCO's       Implementation Strategy.
UNESCO's Director of Freedom of Expression and       Media Development, who attended and supported the Symposium, said that `with         the cooperation from the UN, the national authorities, civil society and         media professionals like you, including BBC and groups like CFOM, we can         make significant impact on improving the safety of journalists and         reversing the trend of impunity' [S4].
Harrison spoke about       the importance of the role of journalism education as a significant factor       in the protection of journalism and for the maintenance of standards in       journalism worldwide.
A milestone was achieved when media houses endorsed       the 8-point London Statement, drawn up by CFOM, on journalists'       safety.
The London Statement was signed by 46 editors and journalists       representing national and international media houses and focussed on the       need for media scrutiny of the behaviour of governments and judiciaries to       end impunity.
The London Statement was presented to Janis Karklins, UNESCO       Assistant Director-General for Communication and Information at the UN 2nd       Inter-Agency Meeting in Vienna, 22-23 November 2012 [S5] and then       placed by UNESCO on its website [S6].
CFOM then had direct input in a number of ways into the drafting of       international legal and political texts on journalists' safety which       resulted in the inclusion of new policy actions in policy documents:     i. UNESCO Draft Plan of Action on Safety of Journalists.
In 2011 and       2012, CFOM identified recommendations which were included in the final       text.
ii.
UNESCO Implementation Strategy for the UN Plan of Action.
In 2012 and       2013, CFOM utilised research to contribute substantially to multiple       drafts of the UNESCO Implementation Strategy Document with       recommendations, influencing decisions on Action Lines, priorities and       elements of the agreed text.
iii.
CFOM was invited to present its recommendations for the       implementation of the Action Plan at the 2nd UN Inter-Agency Meeting on       Safety of Journalists (Vienna, November 2012).
Its input was two-fold: a)       Monitoring of the UN Action Plan; b) Facilitating engagement with its       implementation by media houses and journalists' associations.
The       involvement of media houses is a very significant development and has had       impact in developing the multi-stakeholder involvement in UN Action Plan       implementation.
iv.
Following the 2nd UN Inter-Agency Meeting on Safety of       Journalists, Harrison and Horsley were invited to publish Censorship by       Bullet in British Journalism Review, which specifically drew       attention to the UN Action Plan and has had impact through the wide       dissemination among journalists, educators and the media industry (BJR       Vol.
24, No.1, March 2013).
v. In September 2012, CFOM provided advice on many occasions concerning       strategy and textual drafting of the UN Human Rights Council Resolution on       the Safety of Journalists, tabled by Austria and successfully adopted by       the Council.
vi.
In January to March 2013, CFOM secured the inclusion of elements       including wording on `positive obligations' of States emphasising the       threats that can arise from misuse of law and regulatory intervention in       the Council of Europe Draft Resolution on the Safety of Journalists.
In addition, the CFOM website www.cfom.org.uk       is a significant information source and archive of legal texts and expert       analysis.
It is specifically designed for use by IGOs, governments,       experts and media currently involved in the Action Plan, gets 600 unique       and returning visitors per month and was accessed in 20012/13 by 967       unique visitors and 1,260 visitors in total.
B) Providing expert advice internationally to influence practice     Since November 2012 CFOM has been included as a provider of support for       the delivery of specific Lines of Action in the Implementation Strategy       for the UN Action Plan [S7] as well as several general actions       with other stakeholders.
CFOM is specifically mandated to: 1) provide assistance to fully       implement existing international norms and principles [2.1.1]; 2) to       identify and map the work of international organisations relevant to       journalistic safety and freedom of expression [3.1.1]; 3) cooperate with       the Regional Special Rapporteurs with their strategies and reports       [3.1.3]; 4) to incorporate a module on the safety of journalists and       impunity within the teaching curricula at postgraduate level [3.2.10]; 5)       to provide assistance to fully implement existing international norms and       principles, particularly within the framework of the international human       rights law, humanitarian law and criminal law [2.1.1]; 6) to liaise on       international events at which the issue of the safety of journalists could       be included [3.2.14]; 7) to develop partnerships with journalism schools       and other research centres to monitor and analyse relevant issues, and to       provide training where appropriate [3.3.7].
C) Incorporating issues of safety and impunity into journalism         training     CFOM has used its research into journalism education to assist UNESCO on       the development of a journalism education module presented at the World       Journalism Education Congress Brussels [S8].
CFOM is also       developing safety education in the curriculum for journalism students at       the University of Sheffield and is sharing findings and good practice with       other journalism educators.
It is also mapping the worldwide provision of       safety in journalism curricula by journalism educators, something that is       currently unknown, but which needs to be established in order to evaluate       the role that education plays and should play in the implementation of the       UN Action Plan objectives.
CFOM's research and action in the area of       safety in the curriculum, along with presentations at international events       and its continuing policy advice and advocacy activities meets its UN       Action Plan implementation obligations in B above.
