     The impact of Tombs' work is the product of its long-term, sustained       quality, its policy-relevance,       and his commitment to disseminate this work beyond academia.
The impacts       that follow       from this are changes in the attitudes, awareness and understandings on       the part of organisations       of the actual scale of the problem and its effects and the poverty of       state responses to occupational       death and injury.
Most fundamentally, impact is being claimed for how this       body of work, as       opposed to any specific piece of output, represents a long-term challenge       to conventional wisdom       (5 a-i).
The key pathway to impact during this period has been Tombs'       association with the CCA.
The CCA was established as a charity in 1999, by Tombs and colleagues, to       promote worker and       public safety.
Tombs was Chair of the Board of Directors of CCA from its       inception and remained       as Chair until it closed, due to financial constraints, in September 2009,       when it employed four staff       members (2.5 FTEs).
The CCA generated approximately &#163;1.6million across its       ten year existence.
Tombs' role in forming the CCA itself attests to his widely recognised       research expertise in the       areas which are the subject of this impact statement.
Moreover, as a small       organisation, Tombs       was intimately involved in all aspects of its work.
The CCA's earliest activities were policy-related research, which formed       the basis for various       campaigning activities.
Tombs was involved in producing a series of key       research reports for the       CCA &#8212; on safety law enforcement, directors' duties, and levers for law       compliance, mostly funded       by trades unions, some by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE).
The CCA       quickly established its       reputation as a key source of research and expertise on matters of       occupational safety regulation,       and was routinely engaged in formal and informal interventions into law       and policy, which included       an ongoing engagement with senior civil servants and ministers (5a,b,c,g).
The CCA was certainly       central in interventions leading to the passage of the Corporate       Manslaughter and Corporate       Homicide Act, which came into force in April 2008, and, subsequently       provided training (recognised       by the Law Society) to the law firms involved in prosecuting corporate       manslaughter cases derived       from their briefing paper on this Act.
The CCA successfully campaigned for       numerous changes in       HSE policy and practice.
For example, the CCA argued that prosecutions       should not be delayed by       iinquests, and acceptance of this is reflected in the HSE's 2011       publication `Work-related deaths: A       protocol for liaison' [para 103] (5 a, b, c).
Likewise the CCA argued that       the maintenance and       publication of work related deaths was one basis for accountability, and       from 2008 the HSE has       published the names and details relating to reported work related deaths       (5 a, b, d) (see       http://www.hse.gov.uk/foi/fatalities/in-year-names.htm).
Finally with regard to the CCA, Tombs'       work on the problems of state responses to occupational deaths was of       significance in establishing       the CCA's Work-Related Death Advisory Service (WRDAS) which provided free       legal advice to       families bereaved from work-related deaths to facilitate the investigation       and prosecution       processes arising from these deaths.
The CCA's annual case load of 40-60       cases indicates       significant social impact which earned the charity the Law Society Quality       Mark (5 b).
The significance of Tombs' work is reflected in the recognition by       Hazards, CCJS, IER, FACK,       TUC and various unions that his reconstructions of official occupational       fatality data are the `real'       figure, a fact obliquely noted by HSE itself (5 c, d, f, g, h, i).
Further, his research work is the       standard academic reference point used in campaigning NGO material to       highlight how trends       towards the `light touch' regulation of business have in effect       `decriminalised' death and injury at       work, while senior regulators consistently recognise the need to defend       such trends in the light of       Tombs' data and analysis.
For example, the HSE discussed specific research       outputs at Board       level (HSE/10/60 on 28/07/10).
Tombs' research has also reached formal       policy-making levels.
For       example, Crisis of Enforcement was launched at a House of Commons       meeting attended by 55       people, chaired by Katy Clarke MP (18/06/08), following which an Early Day       Motion no.
1855 was       tabled by MPs on its content (EDM 1855) on 23/06/08 and Tombs has provided       written and oral       evidence to relevant Parliamentary Committees, most recently in regard to       the 2013 Lofstedt       Review of Health and Safety.
More generally, Tombs has a long term working relationship with the       Institute of Employment       Rights (IER), a think tank for the labour movement, which commissioned and       published Regulatory         Surrender in July 2010, with a launch event involving a debate with       HSE's Head of Enforcement       and also the Head of PROSPECT (5 f, g, h, i).
IER also published "Health       and Safety Gone Mad?"
in July 2010, a briefing paper for trades unions to use in their health       and safety campaigns and in       their preparation for, and response to, the Young (2010) and then Lofstedt       (2013) reviews of health       and safety regulation (5 f, g, h, i).
Tombs and Whyte were also       commissioned to write a response       (published 25/11/10) to the Law Commission's Consultation Paper Criminal         Liability in Regulatory         Context, drawing upon the data and argument within Regulatory         Surrender, and Tombs has       participated in many debates, symposia and conferences organised by the       IER (for example,       24/06/08, 13/07/10).
This recognition has generated invitations to write trades       union-sponsored publications; to       speak at conferences, campaign meetings and members' workshops (the       latter, especially, with       trades union appointed safety reps), and having his work summarised in       trades union press       releases, campaign materials and policy statements (5 a-i).
For example,       Tombs has shared       platforms with many senior Labour Movement figures and at key fora,       including: the Labour Party       Conference with Ken Livingstone and John MacLean (General Secretary, GMB)       to speak on       Regulatory Surrender, 28/09/10, and previously on various aspects       of his work with Brendan       Barber (TUC); Ian Tasker (STUC); Hope Daley (UNISON); Susan Murray and Rob       Miguel (Unite);       Neil Hope-Collins, Steve Kay and Mike MacDonald (PROSPECT's HSE branch),       and Labour Peer       Baroness Donaghy.
The Trades Union Co-ordinating Group's briefing paper       for its nine constituent       unions, Big Society, Savage Cuts uses A Crisis of Enforcement       as its source for its `Workplace       Health and Safety' section, while Alan Ritchie, general secretary of       construction union UCATT,       claimed in 2008 that it was a "grim wake up call for the HSE...".
The       GMB's response to the       Coalition Government's Review of Health and Safety Legislation (`The Young       Review') also draws       on Regulatory Surrender.
