     On national guidelines     The clearest impact has been on national guidelines published by the       British Hypertension Society, then NICE and the onward influence of these       upon trends in use of antihypertensive drugs.
BHS 2004 and BHS/NICE 2006     In 2004, the BHS published the fourth update of national guidelines,       which adopted AB/CD.
In the same year NICE published its own guidance9-12.
Because it became rapidly clear that primary care doctors found BHS-4 much       easier to enact than NICE's guidance, NICE decided within a year to revise       its own guidance, in conjunction with the relevant specialist society.
The       resulting NICE/BHS guidance of 2006 was the first time NICE partnered a       specialist society.
The NICE-BHS guidance of 2006 adopted A(B)/CD, with       &#946;-blockade relegated to second-line because of several trials which by       then had reported worse outcome on &#946;-blockade than comparator &#8212; and       explanation for this provided by Brown's crossover studies above (refs.
3&amp;5).
With regards to the impact period; both of these were valid from       2008-2011 (when NICE updated the guidance as described below).
NICE 2011     The principle underlying the AB/CD rule that there are but two broad       types of hypertension, and two ways in which blood pressure can be       lowered, led NICE to retain the rule in its 2011 guidance, simplified to       an A/C rule, with B remaining as second-line therapy.
(Ref 10, section 5).
This simplification was controversial, and NICE took some criticism for       the contradiction of relegating D(iuretic) from a 1st to 3rd       choice, while at the same time making D the cornerstone of managing       patients with resistant hypertension.
Here the advice to use       spironolactone &#8212; the only specific drug mentioned by NICE (rather than an       overall class of drugs) &#8212; was dependent on Brown's formal 2007 comparison       of spironolactone with other diuretics (ref 6 above).
Spironolactone is a       type of diuretic, different from the class (`thiazides') commonly used in       Hypertension.
The discovery by Brown of a common group of patients whose       blood pressure was not controlled by thiazide diuretics, but was       controlled by spironolactone, followed from his 1999 work, of       investigations into the causes of salt-dependent (low-renin) hypertension.
Other countries     The NICE version of the AB/CD algorithm has been adopted by other       countries; for example in Hong Kong in 200812 and in New       Zealand in 2010.13     Blood Pressure Control Rates     A secondary impact of Brown's research is on blood pressure control rates       in England, which used to be among the lowest in Europe, and are now among       the highest.14 Between first publication of AB/CD and the       introduction of the GPs' `Quality Outcomes Framework' in 2004, few other       external influences are likely to have impacted on the improvement.
Thereafter, payment incentives to GPs clearly contributed, but they still       required &#8212; and widely acknowledged &#8212; a simple and effective guideline for       achieving the prescribed targets.
Complications of hypertension (stroke, myocardial infarction)     The most important potential impact, but most difficult to document cause       and effect, is a reduction in the complications of hypertension as a       consequence of improvements in blood pressure control.
The goal for the       treatment of hypertension is prevention of stroke and heart disease.
Clearly any change in incidence of these multifactorial diseases is       multifactorial.
It is interesting, according to figures on www.heartstats.org       that annual rates for stroke in the UK &#8212; the complication of hypertension       with the steepest dependence on blood pressure &#8212; were static from 2000-3,       and then fell progressively from 130 to 100 per 10,000 over just 3 years.
This was before the introduction of `QOF' &#8212; payments to GPs for screening       and treatment of hypertension &#8212; which are likely to have contributed to       further improvements, in concert with the more tailored treatment regimen.
Mainstream Teaching and Clinical Training     AB/CD, and subsequent NICE derivatives, are part of mainstream teaching       in Medicine, appearing in textbooks (e.g the Oxford Textbook of Medicine15       ) and Wikipedia.
Public understanding and patient awareness     Patients rarely comment on not suffering a stroke, but are hugely       grateful for a cure that may save them 50 years of taking tablets!
So the       impact of the research on recognition of curable causes of hypertension       may be smaller on a population scale, but for individuals affected the       impact is more perceptible.
The BHF uses a video, which cites Brown's       work, in order to illustrate patient satisfaction with the successful use       of BHF research funds.16     Lay media     The BBC story in 2011, about the development of PET CT for Conn's       Syndrome, generally appears on the first page of a Google search on this       condition.17 The population significance of Brown's 2013 Nature       Genetics paper, describing mutations in a common sub-type of adrenal       tumours, was recognised by the Times and BBC; both reported that many       patients with hypertension will now be found to have a distinct,       anatomical cause which can be cured by surgery.18,19
