     A new approach to understanding and evidencing the value of museum           experiences The GLOs provided the museums sector with a robust       and rigorously tested means of evaluating and reporting on the impact of       museum experiences on visitors' learning, a methodology that has meant       `continued high levels of both awareness and use across the sector' (10)       amongst museum professionals, policy makers and funders across the UK.
The       focus on outcomes is significant for the museums sector: prior to the       GLOs, museums demonstrated their value primarily through outputs (e.g.
visitor numbers, number of exhibitions), an approach that failed to       capture their social, educational and cultural impact.
The GLOs provided a       much more sophisticated and nuanced way for museum practitioners to       understand (and ultimately to enhance) the learning experiences they       provided for visitors as well as a rigorous way to collect and present       credible and compelling evidence of the outcomes of their activities to       funders and governing bodies.
By 2008, as Sue Wilkinson (then Director of Policy and Sustainability at       the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council) confirmed, the GLOs shaped       the approach to museum education evaluation in 77% of museums in England (19).
A report by the Culture and Learning Consortium in 2009 - Get It: The         Power of Cultural Learning &#8212; (9) asserted that the GLOs were       `now used widely in the sector to plan and evaluate learning'.
Since then,       the GLOs have become increasingly embedded in the thinking and practice of       museums across the UK.
All museums in England in receipt of government       funding (through Renaissance in the Regions and subsequent       schemes, now administered by Arts Council England) were aware of the GLOs       and the vast majority reported that awareness extended beyond their       learning teams and had been used more widely in partnership programmes       with other (non-Renaissance funded) organisations (10).
Most       reported using the GLOs to help shape their thinking about learning.
`Three quarters of Heads of Learning from Renaissance-funded museums       consider that the GLOs have helped the sector to take on board a wider       definition of learning, with almost as many feeling that the GLOs have       given the sector a shared language to talk about museum learning' (10).
CyMAL, part of the Welsh Assembly government, endorses the GLOs framework       as part of its grant programme and museums are encouraged to use it in       developing evaluation for their projects (11).
The Northern       Ireland Museums Council (2009) (12) recommended that the GLOs be       adopted as a standard quality and assurance mechanism across its museums.
Museums and Galleries Scotland promotes the GLOs for evaluation by its       members (13) and the Royal Commission on the Ancient and       Historical Monuments of Scotland used the GLOs in their 2009 project, Treasured         Places (14).
A growing number of UK Science and Discovery       Centres have adopted the GLOs to measure the impact of their programmes (15),       including Techniquest in Wales.
A tool to enhance visitor experiences       Although intended primarily for use by learning professionals in the       museum sector to evaluate the impact of learning programmes with a range       of visitors, the GLOs have gone on to impact the sector in unanticipated       ways, most notably through their use to underpin the planning of major new       capital developments in museums.
For example, the GLOs underpinned the       &#163;47million redevelopment of the National Museum of Scotland in 2008-2011 (10).
Indeed, many national museums have adopted the GLOs to inform their       approach to a wide range of initiatives.
The Imperial War Museum, for       example, has embedded the GLOs into working practices across the museum.
Since 2008 the Museum's use of the GLOs has become increasingly extensive       and sophisticated across the organisation.
The museum's staff use the       framework to evaluate all their programmes, and to inform the ongoing       development of their learning provision.
The GLOs underpin the       interpretive approach to all major gallery and exhibition developments,       including the new First World War gallery which will open in 2014 (10).
Influencing cultural policy       Although developed specifically for use by museums, the GLO framework &#8212; by       offering a flexible, rigorous and credible means of capturing the impact       of cultural engagement on the individual &#8212; has significantly impacted the       work of policy makers, funders and related agencies in the cultural       sector.
For example, the Heritage Lottery Fund, the largest dedicated       funder of the UK's heritage with around &#163;375 million per annum to invest       in new projects, continues to encourage use by all funding recipients of       the GLOs for evaluating the impact of their work (16).
HLF's       recently published 2013-18 Strategic Framework now includes a single aim       and set of outcomes for people that have been informed by the GLOs.
GLOs       will also form part of the evaluation framework for the new Museums and       Schools Programme, a &#163;3.6 million targeted investment by the Department       for Education in response to the Henley Review (10).
The influence of the GLOs has spread across the cultural sector beyond       museums to organisations as diverse as the BBC, National Trust and the UK       Association for Science and Discovery Centres.
The latter looked to the       GLOs as a methodology `used extensively by most government-funded museums       in England,' to develop a set of indicators to measure the collective       impact of science and discovery centres (15).
The GLOs beyond the UK       The interest in the GLOs is not confined to the UK.
Internationally, an       increasing number of museums are looking at adopting and adapting the GLOs       framework for their own contexts.
For example, in Sweden, Malmo Museums       used the GLOs to evaluate the experiences of children and teachers during       a pilot project in 2008.
Several other Swedish museums have followed,       supported by training sessions on the use of the framework.
The Swedish       Exhibition Agency, Riksutst&#228;llningar, is using the GLOs in 2013 as a       creative development tool for the museum/art/science/heritage sector, with       seminars and training courses.
In 2011 a study carried out at the       University of Lund explored the relevance of the GLOs for the Swedish       cultural sector concluding that they `can help balance the economics-based       discourse and put more focus on the qualitative aspects and values of       museums and culture.'
(17, 20) In Austria, the Exhibition       Evaluation Manager of KIMUS Kindermuseum in Graz has used the Generic       Learning Outcomes to evaluate their programmes since 2010 (18).
In       the US, the GLOs have been used to determine educational programme impact       at the St Louis Zoo since 2012 (21).
