     A.
Clinical studies and Guidelines       Jayne has co-ordinated the European vasculitis network since 2001 and       founded the European Vasculitis Society (EUVAS) in 2011.
EUVAS has taken a       strategic and collaborative approach to the development of an evidence       base to drive therapeutic advances in vasculitis Studies via the EUVAS       collaboration led by Jayne have informed changes in the classification of       disease, the 2012 Chapel Hill consensus statement, on clinical (1),       epidemiological (2), histological (3) and genetic (4) grounds, allowing       recommendations to be made to enhance clinical trial design and have       provided a framework for personalised medicine in vasculitis (1).
Such trials have improved patient outcomes by optimising the balance of       current therapies between efficacy and toxicity.
They have also stratified       treatment according to severity and resulted in the publication of 5       consensus treatment recommendations, between 2006 and 2012, sponsored by       the European League against Rheumatism (EULAR) and the British Society of       Rheumatology, now used widely through Europe (5-8).
Uptake of EUVAS       methodology and guidance has extended beyond the EU, with collaborative       studies in USA, Canada, Japan and Australia.
NICE is conducting its first       Health Technology Appraisal (HTA) in vasculitis this year based, in part,       on work from this group.
The RITUXVAS trial (NCT 00748644, Jayne was PI) and other studies       contributed to the licensing of Rituximab for ANCA associated vasculitis       by the FDA in 2011 and EMA in 2013, and used in consultation in a NICE HTA       `Further Appraisal Consultation Document' (released September 2013) (9,       10).
On-going studies by Jayne's group are defining pharmacogenomic       markers to guide dosing and patient stratification, which it is hoped will       provide long-term control of disease with a reduction in morbidity and       mortality and improve the cost-effectiveness and safety of this therapy.
Establishing an evidence base for conventional therapy of AAV       David Jayne has extended the EUVAS group to include vasculitis networks in       Japan, North America, Australia and New Zealand permitting large scale       clinical trials and parallel biomarker and epidemiologic studies.
The       Cambridge team has lead an international consortium since 2001, that       firstly developed and validated clinical assessment tools and a       methodology for performing large scale interventional clinical trials,       then co-ordinated eleven randomised controlled trials that now define the       standard of care in ANCA vasculitis (6,7).
The team are leading on a study       examining the applicability of plasma exchange (funded by government       agencies in the UK, USA, Canada, Australia and Japan; PEXIVAS NCT00987389,       Jayne is PI, commenced 2010).
They have also shown the efficacy of       maintenance therapy in preventing relapse in AAV, and are leading an       international trial RITAZAREM (NCT01697267, Jayne is PI, commenced April       2013), contributing to a stratification approach for individual patient       care.
B.
Novel Therapeutics; B cell depletion with Rituximab in vasculitis       The outcome of the initial use of rituximab in vasculitis in Cambridge has       been the completion of two phase 3 studies of its use as induction       therapy, one was Jayne-led, which were published together in the New       England Journal of Medicine.
The introduction of rituximab since 2005 for       ANCA associated vasculitis has been hailed by patient groups and the       medical press alike (9, 10), and resulting in immediate widespread changes       to clinical practice.
C. Personalised Medicine in vasculitis       Prognostic biomarker discovery by the Cambridge group has led to great       interest in the clinical and scientific community, successful patent       protection (11), and the development of on-going clinical studies prior to       commercialisation.
These biomarkers are now undergoing clinical validation       for their utility in patient stratification and personalised medicine       (12).
Validation of this biomarker in a prospective study in AAV (ARC       grant funded) and Crohn's Disease (Wellcome Trust Translational Award       funded) is about to commence led by the Smith team.
