     The research has impacted policy and practice in museums and heritage       bodies internationally and       produced projects in UK museums that have been visited by more than half a       million visitors.
Impact can be categorised in four main areas:     (1) Stimulating experimentation and shaping UK and international           museum practice       The research projects emerged out of recognition that, despite a       pronounced international trend in       museum practice towards more inclusive approaches to representation       (evidenced in numerous       museum projects that explicitly sought to redress the underrepresentation       of women, minority       ethnic and indigenous communities, faith groups and sexual minorities),       the lives and histories of       disabled people had been almost entirely overlooked.
The research directly       addressed this issue,       revealing the hitherto unrecognised richness of collections that could be       deployed to explore       disability histories and generating an approach to the inclusion of       disability-themed narratives that       has been taken up by a wide range of museums.
Christine Reich &#8212; Head of       Research and       Evaluation at the Museum of Science in Boston, USA       comments that the research, `challenges       us as museum professionals to consider the role we play in how people with       disabilities are viewed       and considered in contemporary society.
[It] offers a new interpretative       approach for presenting the       lived experiences of people with disabilities in museums, one that       portrays people with disabilities       as individuals with agency rather than sources of pity, and that actively       involves people with       disabilities in the process' (6).
Specific examples of projects       that have been inspired and/or       informed by the research include:     - The Royal College of Physicians Museum, London, drew directly on       our research to develop a       new exhibition of rare 18th and 19th century portraits of disabled people       from the museum's       collections that had never been publicly displayed before (7).
The       Museum used methodologies       from our research to overcome the ethical challenges posed by the public       display of the material       that had previously been seen as too controversial or sensitive.
Bridget       Telfer (Audience       Development Coordinator) stated: `All the thinking embedded in the       Leicester research was applied       to our exhibition, enabling us to break new ground and tackle a topic that       was entirely new for the       RCP'.
The exhibition was shown at the museum in 2011 and then toured to       venues in London,       Leicester, Dublin and Leeds throughout 2012-13.
The exhibition won an       Ability Media International       (AMI) award in 2011.
The AMI awards, created by Leonard Cheshire       Disability in 2009, identify       outstanding creative projects that encourage a more inclusive world for       disabled people.
Heralded       by the international panel of judges as `inspired' and `challenging',       Re-framing Disability won the       `Visual Arts Award 2011'.
- Sandell was appointed as an advisor to the Smithsonian Institution's       Museums For Us project       in 2011.
Sandell shared insights from the research to support this       ground-breaking initiative that       saw the Smithsonian working collaboratively with District of Columbia       adults with intellectual       disabilities and families with children with intellectual disabilities to       co-research the experience of       visiting a Smithsonian site and to co-develop practice-orientated       guidelines with a focus on       exhibitions and events programming (8).
- English Heritage &#8212; in 2012 English Heritage launched `Disability       in Time and Place'; its first       major project that sought to tell the story of how people with       disabilities have shaped (and been       shaped by) English landscapes and buildings.
Rachel Hasted comments; 'I       had not known where       to start and I considered myself a progressive museum professional who had       been working on       inclusive representation for some time.
Rethinking Disability       Representation was ground breaking,       showing this was a subject that can be researched to a high level of       scholarship as a serious       historical topic.
It opened up a whole world, it represented a new model,       empowering and giving       voice to disabled people' (9).
- Participation in the research by the Imperial War Museum has       impacted the organisation's       ongoing practice.
Sam Heywood, Director of Public Programmes states:       `Disability representation       is now a cross departmental responsibility with curators, historians, a       learning officer and designer       discussing the issues.
One of the new WWI galleries that will open in 2014       will look at medicine       and disability, the impact on people's lives after they left the forces.
Without the RDR project, we       would not have been so aware or well prepared to tackle this topic' (10).
- Following widespread dissemination of the findings, specifically       targeting practitioner       constituencies, RCMG has received numerous approaches by curators and       exhibition makers       inspired to present their collections in new ways; from the Wordsworth         Museum in Cumbria (who       wanted to change the way they presented and discussed Wordsworth's poem       `Idiot Boy') to Cardiff       Castle's Museum of the Welsh Soldier that was keen to use the       research to develop a project       that could explore impairments that are acquired during times of conflict;       to Tunbridge Wells         Museum that sought advice on the redisplay of historical figures       with restricted growth.
Liz       Douglas, Documentation Assistant comments; `I was interested in developing       a display around this       theme &#8212; nothing like that has been done here.
The research made a new       approach possible for the       museum'.
(2) Challenging prejudice and changing public attitudes       The nine museum projects developed as part of the action research project,       Rethinking Disability         Representation, were visited by more than 562,268 visitors during       2008-9 and some of these       displays remain open to the public today.
A mixed methods evaluation of       visitors' responses to       these nine projects (capturing and analysing more than 1,700 individual       visitors' responses)       revealed that the project had had a significant positive impact on       visitors' attitudes to disability,       challenging stereotypes and prompting more empathetic ways of thinking and       talking about       disability (3, 5).
(3) Informing cultural policy       The research has generated considerable interest amongst practitioners and       policy makers       internationally.
Rachel Hasted, former Head of Social Inclusion and       Diversity at English Heritage       (2013) states that the research, `has impacted on the development of       policy, consultation, archive       and record management and online interpretation at English Heritage' (9)       and informed the       approach taken in their major project launched in 2012, Disability in         Time and Place, that reveals       how disabled peoples' lives are integral to the heritage all around us.
Heather Smith, Equality       Specialist at the National Trust (2013), comments; `The research       has informed us of how we can       tell stories of disabled people in an appropriate manner.
We are now       developing strategy and       practice in this area' (11).
Since 2008, we have accepted invitations to share the research findings       with non-HEI groups       (museum professionals, arts agencies, government bodies concerned with       culture and education)       in Taiwan, Korea, the US, Sweden, Holland, Canada, Australia and Japan.
The         Canada Council         for the Arts, developed a Disability and Deaf arts strategy and       experimented with new approaches       to curation through projects bringing together artists, historians,       scholars and art enthusiasts who       are Deaf or disabled within the City of Ottawa.
RCMG's research was       highlighted as instrumental       in shaping these initiatives.
Museums Australia, the strategic       body responsible for museum       support and development across Victoria directs practitioners and museum       managers to research       by Dodd and Sandell for guidance and direction to support their long-term       strategic objective of       `ensuring equal access' to all museums.
(4) Supporting the work of disability advocates and disability           rights advocates       The research has raised awareness amongst disability advocates and rights       groups of the       important role that museums and other cultural institutions play in       framing public understandings of       disability.
The Director of Disability Awareness in Action, Dame Rachel       Hurst, stated at the launch       of Rethinking Disability Representation in 2008, following the       presentation of 9 high profile       museum projects across the UK, that the project had had a significant       impact not only on museums       but also on disability communities in raising their awareness of the       potential of museums to present       positive representations of disability (3).
Tony Heaton, Chief       Executive of SHAPE &#8212; the leading       organisation for disability arts in the UK &#8212; comments: `I use the research       to showcase examples of       best practice and models of engagement to support new developments with       client organisations       across the arts, heritage and museum sectors' (12).
Art Beyond       Sight, a US based organisation       that campaigns for greater disability equality in the arts and cultural       sectors appointed Sandell to its       Project Advisory Board in 2012 and is using the research findings to       inform an initiative, funded by       the National Endowment for the Arts, to develop a curriculum and training       resources on disability       and inclusion for young museum professionals (13).
