     By drawing on the experiences, outputs and evaluations of the first-phase       Free to Write project and       engaging with academic and practitioner debates on prison-writing, staff       created two forms of       impact.
In Free to Write: Prison Voices Past and Present, they       built on a network of professionals       (writers, educationalists, prison-service staff, and organisations in the       prison system) to create a       volume of practical use to its two-fold readership of prisoners and       prison-educators/writers/professionals.
Creer's experiences as a prison educator and coordinator of a       network of probationers, practitioners, public services and police were       translated into well-received       novels interrogating notions of justice and provoking public debate.
In its initial phase (up to 2009) the project produced a Creative Writing       Workbook in Life Writing       (validated by Open College Network) and increased public awareness through       magazines and       creative projects.
Over 2000 copies of eight publications were distributed       to Merseyside hostels,       needle exchanges, Liverpool City libraries, and doctors' surgeries.
Presentations were given at       Liverpool's Writing on the Wall Festival.
Partners included Merseyside       Bail Hostels: Southwood,       Canning House, Adelaide House and Arch Initiatives.
The initial project       was scrutinised by Vivian       Griffiths and Gillian Squirrel, evaluators for Paul Hamlyn's nationwide,       multi-million pound Free with       Words agenda.
Working with key public-sector partners including Merseyside       Probation Services,       HMP Liverpool and Liverpool City Libraries, and engaging directly with       inmates and ex-offenders,       FTW established a platform for the publication, dissemination and       evaluation of a prison writing       anthology.
Copies of the anthology were distributed to over 100 UK prisons,       probation hostels and agencies in       England, Scotland and Wales, as a resource for prisoners and       practitioners.
Sent directly to       institutional library contacts, they can be used by individual prisoners       and as group activity       teaching aids.
The anthology was distributed with workbooks refined since       phase one of the       research.
Beneficiaries include: Michael Crowley, writer-in-residence at       HMP Lancaster Farms       Young Offenders Institution and author of Behind the Lines: Creative         Writing with Offenders and         People at Risk (Waterside Press, 2012); Harry Palmer,       writer-in-residence at HMP Frankland and       organiser of a creative writing project at the Dangerous and Severe       Personality Disorder Westgate       Unit; Kim Haygarth, librarian at HMP Forest Bank.
An evaluation workshop       was held at Bleakhouse       Library, Oldbury (May 2013).
Practitioners and professionals in the field       committed to       disseminating the project include: the Writers in Prisons Network, the       Prisoners Education Trust       (via their e-newsletter Learning Matters), the Prison Reading Groups       (Roehampton University),       and the Koestler Trust.
Noting the value of the anthology, Rod Clark,       Chief Executive of Prisoners       Education Trust, commented: `Taken collectively, the power and strength of       the individual voices       combine to testify to the book's central message about the importance of       letting those voices       emerge.'
The book was sent to 25 British universities where criminology       and creative writing       departments cover prison writing/issues.
Creer's novels and public appearances stimulate analysis of the       complicated dynamics of reform       and recidivism.
He references his experience in residencies and as project       leader of FTW in the       themes of his fiction: the role of the CPOS in Suffer The Children;       prison conditions in Willing Flesh       and Kill and Tell.
Creer has appeared at crime fiction's most       important worldwide conference, the       Harrogate Crime Festival (2011: 30,000 attendance) on a panel with senior       police officer and       prison reformer Jackie Malton (the real-life DCI Jane Tennison in Prime         Suspect), alongside Erwin       James, Duncan Campbell and Jonathan Aitken.
In addition to regular       appearances at Harrogate,       Creer has spoken at Crimefest, Bristol (2013), and literary and crime       writing festivals, promoted by       Faber and Faber.
Europe's foremost literary crime critic, Barry Forshaw (The         Independent,       1/6/2009) notes: `Suffer The Children is as good a snapshot of the       state of the modern British       crime novel as you are likely to encounter.
A million miles away from the       comforting milieux of       more sedate British crime novels, Creed's writing gods are self-evidently       the tough Americans ...       and his bleak view of British society is minatory and unsettling.
Pungent,       edgy and visceral,       London's answer to The Wire.'
Suffer the Children, Willing         Flesh (2010) and Kill and Tell (2013)       address the plights of inmates.
The result of this is a `distinctive       presence in crime fiction, his       unusual subject matter rendered in lyrical prose and studded with incisive       character portraits'       (Unsworth, Guardian 16/4/2011).
From these activities we have developed a platform for future impact.
We       continue to collate       evaluations of the Free to Write anthology.
Underpinning research       on the anthology and the writing       projects reaches a wide audience through our use of social media,       including       http://adamcreed.co.uk/#Prison;       @Victorian Crime Twitter account (Alker).
We now have a highly       productive relationship with St George's Hall Liverpool, participating in       their National Museums       Merseyside Heritage Lottery Funding bid for a Justice Museum, working with       them (through Alker)       on the provision of learning resources, and discussing future       possibilities for knowledge exchange.
