     Society and infrastructure are vulnerable to weather-related hazards       including floods, droughts and wind storms.
To protect against such       hazards, engineers and policymakers must assess the effectiveness of       potential hazard mitigation and management strategies.
To do this, it is       becoming increasingly common to build computer simulators of the systems       of interest, and to generate synthetic weather sequences to drive these       simulators and determine the system response.
The research described above       has underpinned UCL's development of a software package, GLIMCLIM, for       generating such synthetic weather sequences.
The main mechanism by which impact has been achieved is via the       increasing use of GLIMCLIM to generate synthetic weather sequences for use       in engineering and water resource management applications.
Some examples       are as follows:     Improved calculations of rainfall and flood mapping: The       engineering consultancy Halcrow (now part of CH2M HILL) has used the       software as part of three projects (one since 2008) relating to flood       mapping and flood defence construction [A].
In each case the software was       used alongside other methods, most of which are more standard in the       application area, to provide rainfall scenarios that can be used to       estimate flood extent and river flows.
The rationale for using GLIMCLIM       alongside these other methods is that it is more conceptually defensible       but less familiar within the industry; it was therefore seen to provide an       "independent verification" of the more standard calculations.
Taking into       account the use of other methods alongside GLIMCLIM in these projects,       Halcrow's Senior Hydrologist estimates that since 2008 the software has       provided a value of around &#163;5,000 to the company [A].
Informing Environment Agency recommendations: The software is       becoming recognised as a state-of-the-art tool for advanced use in       applications that require it.
For example, the Environment Agency proposed       that Anglian Water make use of GLIMCLIM to model rainfall in a realistic       way, for use in the design of their flood defences.
This demonstrates that       the research has not only informed the Agency's awareness and       understanding of available modelling techniques, but has also improved       their ability to make informed suggestions about the design of storm       overflows at Anglian Water.
The Environment Agency, in a letter to Anglian       Water dated 10 October 2012 [B], explain that they expect improvements to       storm overflows to be designed following the principles set out in the       Urban Pollution Management (UPM) manual.
These principles are that "simple       models and assumed data may be used where they lead to protective       (conservative) solutions" but that "more refined techniques [of which       GLIMCLIM is an example] are appropriate where they lead to a reduction in       the combined cost of the modelling and the solution" [B].
The Environment       Agency letter goes on to say that Anglian Water's "designs have generally       assumed rain falls uniformly across the catchment varying only in time.
This simplified approach conforms to the above UPM principle but clearly       leaves scope for improved realism.
We therefore support the principle of       modelling rainfall in a more true to life way as proposed by James Lau and       Christian Onof" [B].
The proposal of these researchers (at Imperial       College London) was to use GLIMCLIM to generate realistic rainfall       sequences [C].
Development of climate change projections: In Australia, GLIMCLIM       is one of the primary tools being used in the development of an agreed set       of climate change projections for the state of South Australia, in a       project involving collaboration between universities, CSIRO and state       government agencies [D].
This work is on-going and will result in the       production of hydrological models that will be critical in the planning       required to adapt the state's water resource management strategies to       future climate conditions.
These examples are included to indicate that the software is being used,       and that it is recognised as a state-of-the-art tool.
Unfortunately,       however, it is not easy to track the use of such tools outside the       academic community, so the full extent of its uptake cannot be       established.
Informing water resource management strategies: Although GLIMCLIM       has been the main vehicle for dissemination of the research, it is not the       only one; the results from the precipitation trend analysis for southwest       Western Australia (see section 2) are being used to inform water resource       management strategies in that state.
The results of the trend analysis were summarised in an animation of       statewide rainfall changes from 1940 to 2010, demonstrating clearly a       substantial decline in rainfall over the last 30 years except in the most       southwesterly corner of the state.
The Water Supply Planning Branch of       Western Australia's Department of Water (DoW) used this animation at a       meeting of the Water Supply Planning senior officers group on 21 July       2011, to "create a sense of urgency that the drying climate and increasing       number of dry seasons are impacting on Perth's existing water supplies"       and to support the argument that Perth urgently needed a new water source       [E].
A Supervising Engineer at Surface Water Assessment, DoW, reported:       "The decision at the end of the meeting was that DoW prepares an urgent       cabinet submission to government on the need for a new water source for       the IWSS [integrated water supply scheme].
The outcome is that cabinet       approved the expansion of the Binningup Desalination Plant in July 2011."
[E]     The Southern (Binningup) Seawater Desalination Plant was first opened in       September 2011, providing 50 billion litres of water to Perth and the       surrounding area per year.
Seawater desalination is a more expensive means       of providing potable water than traditional groundwater or surface water       sources, but because it does not depend on rainfall it has become an       important water supply source in the increasingly dry climate of Western       Australia.
The animation of rainfall changes in the state, produced from       UCL research, was instrumental in securing state approval for the       expansion of the plant [E] to provide 100 billion litres of water per       year, twice the original capacity [F, G].
This expansion, which cost       AUS$450 million [F] and was completed in January 2013, enables the plant       to now produce almost one third of Perth's water supply [G], benefiting       around 600,000 people in the city.
The animation was also used within the REF impact period for informing       community groups and the general public about the need to expand the plant       and to justify the high costs involved.
For example, it was used in a       presentation given by the Water Allocation Planning Branch of the DoW to       the Jandakot Community Consultative Committee [E], and it was shown on       state television as a means of communicating to the public the need to       spend such a large amount of money.
