 Matanle's research achieved local, national, and global impact through actively repositioning the discourse of 21st century East Asian development by focusing on Japan as a low-growth economy and ageing and shrinking society.
Nurturing robust collaborations at differing levels of engagement &#8212; with policy practitioners, media and corporate representatives, third sector organisations, and school and citizen groups &#8212; the principal impacts of his external activities are summarised here.
1.
Media Matanle's contribution to repositioning the public discourse on Japan's development began with him helping journalists to revise assumptions about the stability and resilience of Japan's distinctive socio-economic institutions, and the importance of their socio-cultural underpinnings.
This included commenting on work and suicide for niche online publications such as The Fresh Outlook (2010), on education and employment in the Financial Times (2011), and features on lifetime employment for the New York Times (2011), achieving global syndication through the USA (International Herald Tribune, Gainesville Sun, etc.
), Japan (IHT Asahi), Brazil (Terra), and India (Indian Express).
Matanle is also engaging international broadcasters in shaping documentary production (BBC, 2013) and influencing media discourse in live television debates (NHK, 2010).
Recently, Matanle developed this impact by speaking to the Economist Group's Tokyo Bureau (2013), using advanced knowledge to strengthen corporate executives' knowledge of Japan's regions and the recovery underway in Tohoku since the 3.11 disaster.
The Director of the Economist Corporate Network, said that `Dr. Matanle drew on his research ... and in doing so communicated his deep knowledge and appreciation of the reality of regional and rural economies in Japan.
... attending members ... appreciated the opportunity to hear from an expert about the reality of socio-economic conditions [and] left with a much clearer and balanced understanding of the issues at hand.'
(S1).
2.
Government Matanle collaborated with UK and Japanese government institutions at regional and national levels in developing analyses and responses to emerging 21st century phenomena.
For example, he deepened UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office and Department for Work and Pensions officials' understanding of the dynamics of Japan's regional development by framing this within a more robust empirical context, helping to revise expectations of the dynamics of East Asian development in the 21st century.
Matanle's talk on Japan and China to this high-level government group was `informative, thought provoking, and enjoyable.... [I]t brought together colleagues from the FCO and other parts of government to discuss issues of common interest.... [S]uch cross-government working will become even more important for the UK, partly as our economic interests look set to become increasingly interconnected.'
(S2) Matanle has also been instrumental in developing the activities and agendas of Japan's Council of Local Authorities for International Relations (CLAIR), both directly and through its London office (Japan Local Government Centre &#8212; JLGC), nurturing mutually beneficial engagements through co-production of research and policy implementation.
These include being invited to speak at the joint JLGC/Derbyshire County Council Japan Day in 2008 and staging a joint symposium in Sheffield with the JLGC on `Shrinking Regions' (2008) which the former Director of JLGC said helped `in developing the JLGC's research and training activities in an area of policy that is of vital importance to Japan's future' (S3), and participating with the JLGC on a co-produced research project on `Intersecting Disasters in 21st Century East Asia (2013- ), which resulted in Matanle being invited to write for Prospect magazine and which is feeding its results through to national and regional level policy-makers and other practitioners in Japan via the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC) and CLAIR/JLGC.
Matanle was also invited to present his research to the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications on the Minister's visit to London in 2012.
The Director of International Affairs of the Local Administration Bureau wrote to thank Matanle for his `valuable comments and ... kind cooperation [in a] very important exchange between the Japanese and UK sides'.
In addition to the MIC and JLGC, other research participant-informants are the British Chamber of Commerce and Industry Japan, the Tokyo Planning Forum, the UK advocacy group Population Matters (S4), and Japanese prefectural and municipal authorities.
3.
School and Citizen Groups After the tsunami on 11 March 2011, Matanle's research took on extra significance &#8212; Tohoku being a `Shrinking Region' &#8212; with his article for Local Environment (R6) leading to his participation at a series of public events and him feeding into UK concerns about extreme environmental disturbances &#8212; such as flooding &#8212; in vulnerable communities.
Beginning with an invitation to present the Japan Society of the UK's Special Lecture to the Geographical Association, Matanle has spoken to audiences of up to 1,000 delegates in London, Manchester, Harrogate, Lincoln, Wimbledon, York, and Sheffield on post-disaster recovery in ageing and depopulating communities.
Collaborating with the JSUK has also led to planning joint delivery of a Continuing Professional Development event in Sheffield (2014), for the first time outside of London.
Matanle's research has helped attendees to connect with the experiences of people in Tohoku and enhanced teachers' and pupils' explanations of disaster hazards (S5).
The Head of Humanities/Geography at Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Horncastle, Lincolnshire: "The talk you gave ... will form the basis of my teaching for the Japanese tsunami impacts this year.
Thank you once again ... the students who were not present were told by those that were that they had missed out on the 'best talk yet at the GA', to quote a student."
In sum, Matanle delivers significant impact at varying levels of engagement across differing user groups.
Indeed, his external engagement is developing and expanding into the future as research is completed and its outcomes feed into policy implementation and practitioner engagement.
