     Huddersfield's practice-led research into the consort of viols and its       relationship to the voice has impacted on a variety of specialist and       non-specialist audiences around the world.
1.
Concert promoters and live audiences     Bryan's work has featured in 52 live public performances, many of them       during the past few years.
These include appearances before non-specialist       audiences in Boston and New York (February 2010; audience of 250),       Florence's Uffizi Palace (October 2011; 200) and the BBC Proms (July 2012;       450, plus Radio 3 listeners).
Concert programmes related to the research       have been performed at venues throughout the UK, including London's       Cadogan Hall, Aberdeen (November 2009 and March 2011), Belfast (November       2009), Sheffield (October 2013), Bristol (January 2013) and Cheltenham       (May 2012); across Europe, including Magguzano (October 2009) and Cuenca,       Spain (March 2013); and in several other countries, including the USA       (Boulder, October 2009 and Boston and New York (February 2010).
In particular, continuing involvement with York Early Music Festival and,       until 2011, the Dartington International Summer School has provided a       valuable platform from which to develop audiences' understanding of the       new approaches to performance revealed by the research.
Bryan's       association with the National Centre for Early Music, which he helped to       start and for which he still serves as artistic adviser, has engaged       audiences through programme planning (e.g.
the sell-out series of concerts       curated by Bryan in 2011 to reflect the early music content of the 1951       Festival of Britain), programme-book articles and notes, lectures,       concerts and workshops.
2.
Wider listening public     Bryan has been involved in the release of more than 20 albums since the       research began.
Several of these have emerged during the impact period       and, like their predecessors, have been distributed internationally.
As       well as introducing the wider listening public to the insights derived       from Bryan's work, they have earned critical acclaim for their novel       presentation of familiar repertory.
Early and Baroque music magazine Goldberg       commended 2008's Four Gentlemen of the Chapel Royal for reflecting       "the diversity of performance methods possible for English music of this       period", while International Record Review observed: "Four         Gentlemen of the Chapel Royal explores the flexible way in which       various musical genres intersected."
Concerts have been broadcast by national radio networks in the UK (BBC       Radio 3), Germany (WDR), and the USA, with additional contributions to BBC       Radio 3's The Early Music Show (July 2009), Spirit of the Age       and In Tune (September 2009).
In November 2011 Bryan was       interviewed about viol construction on BBC Radio 4's The World Tonight       (audience of 1.7m).
Invited lectures have been given at the Pan-Pacific       Viola da Gamba Gathering (Hawaii, 2008), Beverley and East Riding Festival       (May 2008), York Early Music Festival (July 2009) and the Viola da Gamba       Societies of America (Boulder and Tucson, October 2009; Boston, February       2010) and Great Britain (Chichester, June 2011), as well as at performance       courses in the UK, the USA and Italy.
3.
Other performers     Bryan's research has influenced the performance approach of the many       ensembles and singers he has worked with, including the Rose Consort of       Viols, Musica Antiqua of London, the Consort of Musicke, I Fagiolini, Red       Byrd, Stile Antico, Dame Emma Kirkby, Catherine King and Clare Wilkinson.
In turn, these artists have drawn on their experience of newly researched       performance in their own collaborations.
In particular, this has led to increased interest in using different       types of viols in vocal repertories &#8212; as evidenced, for example, by Alessandro         Striggio: Missa Ecco si beato giorno (I Fagiolini, Decca 478 2734),       for which Bryan acted as an adviser.
In 2011 this CD won the Gramophone         Early Music Award and the Diapason d'or de l'ann&#233;e. France's       Tutti Magazine described the album as "an essential recording and       an all-too-rare example of risk-taking".
The research has also influenced       amateur players and singers through Bryan's coaching at summer schools and       workshops, including Dartington and the Viola da Gamba Societies of Great       Britain and America.
4.
Instrument makers and music publishers     Increased interest in the `renaissance' viol has created business for       instrument makers.
The likes of Richard Jones have been able to establish       careers dedicated solely to the building of `Venetian' instruments, as       opposed to the later and more familiar `Jacobean' pattern, to satisfy       demand from amateur players in the UK, the US and Europe.
The development       of `Costa' viols was based on collaboration with students on the early       instrument-building course at West Dean College, Sussex, led by Roger       Rose, while the AHRC-funded project The Making of the Tudor Viol       has facilitated Bryan's collaborative research with Dr Michael Fleming       (Research Fellow), a maker of English viols.
Specialist publishing companies have increasingly turned to producing       performance editions of music suitable for voices and viols or `vocal'       material aimed at viol players.
Both the Viola da Gamba Society of Great       Britain and Particular Music have published material initially performed       on CDs resulting from the research or introduced to prospective performers       at related workshops and lecture-recitals.
