     The HISSTools Impulse Response Toolbox has helped make high-level       technology available to       mid-level practitioners and has become an integral component of the work       of major international       companies, organisations and independent research centres involved in the       creation and       reproduction of state-of-the-art sound.
The flexibility and module design       of the Toolbox has been       demonstrated by its uptake in a range of commercial and artistic contexts.
These range from music       production for new musical compositions at SudWestDeutscherRundfunk to the       architectural       consultants ARUP.
In 2012 Berlin-based software company Ableton, a world leader in its       field, approached Harker to       develop a new convolution reverb device for the Max for Live environment       to run within the firm's       flagship Live 9 software, which has an international user base of       approximately 1.7m.
This       collaboration was initiated on the basis of an early version of the       HISSTools Impulse Response       Toolbox that was presented at both the Cycling '74 Expo 2011 (a       non-academic conference run by       Cycling '74, the San Francisco company behind MaxMSP) and an event staged       by NK (an artist-run,       independent, non-profit organisation) in Berlin in early 2012.
The resultant commercial devices &#8212; two reverb devices and an impulse       measurement device &#8212;       were made available as part of the downloadable Max For Live Essentials       pack, which can be       used by any owner of Max for Live (now part of the `Suite' version of Live       9).
The devices are       dependent on the HISSTools Impulse Response Toolbox for core functionality       and, due to the co-development       of these projects, some features beneficial to both the reverb devices and       the       extended applications of the software.
The devices offer an unprecedented level of accessibility for the end       user to modify and adapt       them to their needs.
Rather than presenting the user with a closed-source       and fixed software       package they are open-source and fully customisable devices.
The reverb       devices also offer       specific novel features that depend on the flexibility and comprehensive       feature set of the       HISSTools Impulse Response Toolbox.
These include the ability to use       different sampled spaces       for the early and late parts of the reverb, offering an enhanced level of       flexibility in the design of       virtual spaces, and real-time control over virtual positioning within the       space.
The partitioning of       impulse responses into early and late parts within the reverb devices is       also based on analysis,       rather than determined by fixed time periods as is currently implemented       by many commercially       available plug-ins.
This more accurately represents the duration and hence       sound of each part.
In March 2013, shortly after Live 9 Suite's release, Ableton produced a       video promoting the       convolution reverb facility, highlighting the ability to "use the sound of       real spaces and tweak them       as you like".
This was been viewed over 50,000 times on YouTube.
Another       video on the       company's YouTube channel shows producer and DJ Robert Lippok discussing       Live 9's new       features and praising the convolution reverb, observing that users had       been waiting for just such a       facility.
In addition, a number of third-party online tutorial videos have       received a total of more than       7,500 views, while Sound on Sound magazine described the convolution       reverb as "the most       impressive new Max for Live device".
In March 2013 a collaborative project was started with boutique guitar       amp manufacturer       MATAMP, of Meltham, near Huddersfield.
This project focused on developing       custom measuring       software based on the HISSTools Impulse Response Toolbox.
This allows a       faster and more       accurate method of evaluating amplifier and equalisation circuit design       than was possible using the       company's previous toolset.
Earlier techniques relied on taking a set of       measurements at fixed       frequencies for a given system, requiring a lengthy set of manual       observations to gain only a partial       impression of the frequency response of a circuit.
Using HISSTools allowed       an almost immediate       measurement that could monitor a system in close to real-time, making it       possible to store and       catalogue accurate sets of measurements for design and product       specification purposes.
The SudWestDeutscherRundfunk studio is using the HISSTools IR Toolbox for       a number of       productions including major commissions by Dai Fujikura and Daniel Peter       Biro.
The SWR is       renowned for its work with innovative tools, having developed unique       resources for composers       such as Luigi Nono stretching back over forty years.
The Artistic Director       of the studio Detlef       Heusinger explains that Harker and Tremblay's "work on convolution and       especially the non       commercial availability of the flexible "HISSTools" opened up a new step       in the musical application       of convolution...The modular construction with the inherent flexibility       and the multichannel options       are features making the "HISSTooIs" superior to any other commercially       available convolution       software."
[10]     ARUP (New York), a global firm of consulting engineers, designers and       planning managers, have       been using the HISSTools toolbox in the context of their architectural       acoustics lab.
The real time       convolution objects have been used for a real-time auralization system       that they have been       developing for simulating live room responses for musicians and speakers       so that clients can hear       what a concert hall (or other such space) will sound like prior to       construction.
More recently they       have been looking into using these objects in the context of room       equalization.
For Senior       Consultant Terence Caulkins and colleagues at ARUP the HIRT "has now       become an integral part       of our workflow for acoustic auralization.
Recent developments of this       toolbox have started to make       their way into how we conduct the calibration and fine tuning of our       SoundLab installations."
[9]     The Norwegian Centre for Technology in Music and the Arts (NoTAM)       recently chose the       HISSTools Impulse Response Toolbox for a major project to capture the       impulse responses of 60       venues in Oslo to create a "sonic map" of the city and an archive of       high-quality impulse responses       for use in musical and post-production contexts.
NoTAM evaluated a number       of potential       approaches before selecting HISSTools on the strength of its modularity       and its suitability for easily       capturing and post-processing multi-channel impulse resposnses.
NoTAM's       work is recognised as       of the highest quality, as illustrated, for example, by the award of a       Spellemann Prize &#8212; Norway's       Grammy equivalent &#8212; to H&#229;kon Thelin's album Light, which was       recorded, mixed and mastered by       NoTAM sound engineer Cato Langnes.
The artistic director of NoTAM Notto       Theile writes: "Not       only does the tool kit offer the possibility of capturing a large amount       of channels; it can be done       quickly and the results could be checked while in the venue.
This is       extremely important in order to       attain an efficient workflow when embarking on capturing lRs from the       large amount of spaces we       are planning to.
On top of that, the quality of the convolution reverb       achieved with HISSToois       exceeds that of Altiverb."
[8]
