     The impact of Lim's research falls into three areas: (1) significant       take-up of her compositional work in the classical music industry; (2)       shifts in cultural policy in the German centre of Cologne, leading to       greater opportunities for participation in the arts by youth and artists       from disadvantaged ethnic groups; and (3) enrichment of Australian music       education provision through understanding of ethical frameworks in       Indigenous intercultural exchange.
Cultural impact and international reach     A number of high-calibre organisations have commissioned, produced,       performed and documented Lim's compositional work since 2008.
These       include the Bavarian Radio Orchestra, rated among the top 10 orchestras in       the world; the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, renowned for its work in       contemporary music; and pre-eminent soloist ensembles the ELISION Ensemble       and musikFabrik.
Lim's compositional outputs have also engaged the general       public through performances at prestigious festivals, including the 2011       Holland Festival, Amsterdam; the 2009 Festival d'Automne &#224; Paris; the 2009       Chekhov International Theatre Festival, Moscow; the 2008 Maerzmusik       Berlinerfestspiele; and the 2008 Melbourne and Brisbane Festivals.
All of       these have helped bring awareness of work informed by transcultural       practice to a wide international audience [1].
During the past five years       Lim's operatic work &#8212; nominated for a Robert Helpmann Award in 2009 and       Winner of the 2012 Music Theatre Now Award &#8212; has been performed live for a       total audience of around 6,500, her orchestral work for around 8,000 and       her ensemble work for around 3,500.
Lim's work has also been the subject of a number of radio and TV       broadcasts [2].
Since 2008 it has featured sixteen times on ABC Radio       (Australia), three times on BBC Radio 3 and DeutschlandRadio and once each       on SWR, Radio Bremen, WDR (Germany) ORF (Austria) and France Musique &#8212; a       combined listenership of around 15m.
Two documentaries about Lim's work,       made in 2009 by Pandore TV/Festival d'Automne &#224; Paris and Bayern-Alpha TV,       were screened by the Mezzo channel (five broadcasts) and BR-Alpha (two) in       2011 and 2012, reaching an estimated total audience of around six million       viewers.
The Navigator has also been made available via the       Institute of Musical Research's New Music Insights web resource.
International think-tank policy impact on youth and disadvantaged         ethnic groups     As a result of her research, Lim was invited to be one of 13 founding       members of the Akademie der K&#252;nste der Welt, an international think-tank       focused on intercultural dialogue based in Cologne and officially launched       in October 2012.
General Secretary of the institution says: `Liza Lim has       brought a broad range of perspectives from her Asian and Australian       heritage and intercultural research which have contributed to the policy       directions of the institution resulting in positive impact in the       establishment of the international fellowship programme, the Youth academy       (involving 11 young Cologne artists from diverse cultural communities) and       the `open-call' project by which new opportunities have been established       for communities of artists who have not traditionally had access to such       funding.
The Akademie receives ca.
&#8364;1million euros annual funding of which       more than half is devoted directly to project activities and support of       artists'.
[3] Extensive media coverage of the official opening included       praise in Deutsche Welle for Lim's curatorial work: "The       Australian-born composer was concerned... to find music that emphasises       unity &#8212; music that says this cultural aspect is not only the foreign, the       other, but also something that belongs to us.
Musically at any rate, the       Akademie has succeeded in bridging the gap."
[4] Lim's specific       contribution to the Akademie's framework policy discussion on       transcultural exchange and Indigenous culture has led to wider       participation from cultural/demographic groups that have typically not       accessed funding from grant bodies in Cologne and Germany's North-Rhine-Westphalia 	  region (population: 18m).
Her curatorial work has       directly brokered new partnerships between international and local artists       and arts organisations in Cologne.
Benefit to Australian cultural practice and secondary education     Lim's work has contributed to shifting attitudes to Indigenous culture in       Australia.
Writing in 2012, Dr Timothy McKenry, a music researcher at       Australian Catholic University, described her as "one of the first music       practitioners to set out what can be described as an ethical framework to       govern the interaction between Indigenous and non-Indigenous music and       musicians".
[5] Contemporary music writer Tim Rutherford Johnson, writing       in Tempo in 2011, commented: "In enacting an understanding,       expression and critique of global multi-cultural reality, this music       reveals something of value to us all."
[6]     This framework, which posits the need for collaboration as the basis for       intercultural exchange, is at the heart of a resource kit, The Music of       Liza Lim (Australian Music Centre, 2012), created for use within the music       curriculum in Australia (upper secondary to A-levels).
[7] The kit focuses       on the work related to Australian Aboriginal culture, comprising       background cultural information, score excerpts, audio and video       materials, analyses and related composition exercises.
The resource was       used in the teaching of the Higher School Certificate/Victorian       Certificate of Education curriculum in New South Wales and Victoria in       2012 and 2013, reaching 47% of A-level music students in New South Wales       and 27% in Victoria (20% of the AMC's national school network overall).
Kim Waldock, co-author of the Australian national curriculum implemented       in 2013, said: "It is important to be able to provide students with an       understanding of the music of their time.
Liza Lim's music reflects not       only her cultural and Australian roots but an understanding of how one's       environment and life experiences will feed richly into the composition       process, no matter who you are and what you do."
[7]
