     Radon is the single biggest source of public radiation exposure in the UK       and is responsible for an estimated 1,100 lung cancer deaths a year [A].
Prior to the case-control studies of domestic radon described in section       2, it was generally thought that radon-related lung cancer occurred mainly       in individuals exposed to the gas at very high concentrations.
This belief       arose because most of the previous evidence of a link between radon       exposure and lung cancer came from studies of miners who had been exposed       to high doses occupationally.
Consequently, guidelines issued by official       public health bodies &#8212; both nationally and internationally &#8212; focused       almost entirely on the avoidance of high exposures above certain levels.
The finding of the domestic studies that there is a clearly detectable       risk of lung cancer at radon concentrations below the minimum levels for       intervention suggests, however, that the majority of radon-related lung       cancers occur in people exposed to only moderate concentrations; the risk       is low, but in the absence of preventive measures many more people are       exposed to the gas at these levels.
This research finding therefore has       substantial implications for the most appropriate way to reduce the       average public exposure to radon, with a shift in emphasis from       measurement and remediation in existing homes to the installation of       preventive measures &#8212; such as thicker and better sealed damp-proof       membranes in floors &#8212; in large numbers of new homes.
This change in       emphasis has been highlighted in national and international reports       evaluating the public health aspects of radon.
In the UK, the Health Protection Agency (HPA) has, since 2008, provided       government with updated advice about the risk of radon, which replaced the       previous advice published in 1990 by the National Radiological Protection       Board.
This updated advice was influenced by the research findings of the       European pooling study (references [2] and [3] in section 3) and consisted       of recommendations about building regulations made in 2008 [B], followed       by further advice in 2010 on limiting public exposure to radon [C].
Recognition that there is a risk of lung cancer from radon concentrations       below the UK intervention level (together with other factors) led the HPA       to recommend to the Department of Health in the 2008 document that       "building regulations and supporting documents should be amended to ensure       that all new buildings, extensions, conversions and refurbished buildings       in the UK include basic radon protective measures" [B].
This advice was followed in 2009 by a substantial review by the HPA's       independent Advisory Group on Ionising Radiation (AGIR) of the effects of       radon on the health of the population [A], which further concluded that       changes by government to building regulations have the potential to reduce       the total number of deaths due to radon in a cost-effective way.
The       European pooling study is extensively cited in this document and provided       important evidence that helped shape the AGIR's advice to the HPA; the       report states: "The association between the long-term average residential       radon concentration and the risk of lung cancer found in a pooled analysis       of individual data from 13 European studies is the best current basis for       risk estimation" [A].
It goes on to repeat the finding from the European       pooling study that there is an estimated 16% increase in lung cancer risk       per 100 Bq m-3 increase in concentration of radon gas.
This       estimate was used by the AGIR in a cost-benefit analysis, to evaluate the       cost-effectiveness of current and possible future radon control policies       for the UK.
Amongst other things, this analysis concluded that (1) not       only was the current government policy to install radon preventive methods       in all new homes in areas with average concentrations above 52 Bq m-3       cost-effective; but that (2) extending this requirement to all new homes       nationwide would also be cost-effective and would avert considerably more       lung cancers (242 in the first 10 years of the policy compared with 28)       [A].
In response to the AGIR review, the HPA published its current advice       to government in 2010 [C], which reiterates the recommendations of the       AGIR and additionally recommends that a new Target Level of 100 Bq m-3       should be introduced alongside the current Action Level of 200 Bq m-3.
Preventive measures are already required in new homes if the probability       of exceeding the Action Level is 1-3%; the Target Level is the       concentration above which the HPA recommends householders seriously       consider taking remedial action.
Having two levels also "avoids the false       impression that there is a clear boundary between safe and unsafe radon       concentrations" [C].
This 2010 advisory document also states that the       European pooling study provides the "best information on the risks from       radon exposure in homes" currently available and repeats the findings of       that work [C].
Internationally, in 2009 the World Health Organization (WHO) published a       handbook on indoor radon [D], designed to aid the development of national       radon programmes and to inform stakeholders involved in radon control,       such as the construction industry.
This handbook also cites the European       pooling study extensively, noting that it is the only one of the three       existing pooling exercises (this one and two smaller ones involving US and       Chinese data respectively) to correct for measurement error; indeed, the       authors of the WHO report applied approximate corrections to the risk       estimates from the other two studies to bring them into line with the       European one [D].
Two conclusions of the WHO that are heavily dependent on       the European pooling study are: "The majority of radon-induced lung       cancers are caused by low and moderate radon concentrations rather than by       high radon concentrations, because in general less people are exposed to       high indoor radon concentrations", and "Radon is much more likely to cause       lung cancer in people who smoke..." [D].
The handbook goes on to outline       the implications for policy, such as the need to provide protection       against low exposures.
It also summarises the cost-benefit analysis in the       AGIR report and highlights it as a good example of how to use the risk       estimates as a scientific basis for policy making [D].
The increase in       absolute risk from radon exposure for smokers was also highlighted in the       2010 WHO guidelines on indoor air quality [E], where the different levels       of risk according to smoking status were provided and the European pooling       study was cited as one of the primary sources of evidence.
These       guidelines are targeted at public health professionals involved in       preventing health risks of environmental exposures, and aim to provide a       scientific basis for legally enforceable standards.
The process of moving from reports by committees to changes in       legislation is a slow one, but in several countries there is a move       towards revising national policy on the control of risks from domestic       radon exposure, with a shift from searching for homes with high radon       concentrations and remediating them, to the introduction of radon       preventive measures in large numbers of homes.
For example, Finland,       influenced by the south-west England study (reference [1] in section 3) as       well as by its own national study, changed its building code in 2004 to       require more effective radon preventive measures in new buildings; a       survey conducted in 2009 revealed that these improved measures had       resulted in a 33% lower average indoor radon concentration in new homes       [F].
In Germany there is current discussion, motivated in part by the risk       estimates from the European pooling study, on a move in this direction       [G], and the UK is also considering changes in light of the cost-benefit       study in the AGIR report.
