     University of Huddersfield research into the design challenges of       modern-day healthcare trends, particularly the transfer of services from       hospital to home, has resulted in a product that has attracted regional,       national and international attention as providers seek new innovations and       interventions to improve service quality, optimise productivity and       enhance patient safety.
Swann's 21st-century Nursing Bag has earned widespread industry acclaim.
The design, due for commercialisation in 2013, has been a finalist in a       number of prestigious competitions, including the Design Research category       of the 2010 Industrial Designers Society of America International Design       Excellence Awards; the Medical Device category of the 2010 Medipex       Yorkshire and Humber Innovation Showcase Awards; the Body category of the       2011 INDEX: Design to Improve Life Awards; the 2012 James Dyson Awards;       the Infection Prevention and Control category of the 2012 Nursing         Times Awards; and the Product Design category of the 2012       Institution for Engineering and Technology Innovation Awards.
It won the       2011 Helen Hamlyn Award for Creativity and in the same year, in       recognition of its ability to reduce MSSA/E-coli in health care       communities by 30%, was the only product to receive an NHS Innovation       Challenge Prize award, with the judging panel describing the design as       "highly innovative" [a].
The bag has significantly raised awareness of user-centred healthcare       design.
The then Scientific and Technical Programme Manager for the       Department of Health's Healthcare Associated Infections Technology       Innovation Programme, which aims to accelerate the development and       adoption of novel technologies and medical devices that can reduce HCAI,       observed in 2011: "Currently the majority of medical devices we use are       primarily designed for their function, with little consideration to       cleaning or decontamination...with your bag it's the inverse."
[b] The       former Service Design Lead at the NHS Institute for Innovation and       Improvement, Julia Schaeper, has remarked: "The design process and in       particular the prototyping session with NHS staff was truly an       inspirational example of how co-design and anthropological observation       techniques can help tackle service as well as product challenges."
[c]       Lord Darzi, a leading surgeon and former Parliamentary Under-Secretrary of       State at the Department of Health, requested images of the bag for       inclusion in his presentations on hospital-acquired infections.
Media coverage has also raised general awareness of the importance of       ensuring healthcare and hygiene are transferred to non-hospital settings       simultaneously.
In August 2011 the design featured on The Health Show,       a 26-part series screened by BBC World, which has the highest average       weekday viewership of any international news channel [d], while Swann has       also written related comment pieces for policymaker-facing publications       such as Public Servant and Govtoday [e] (both August       2012).
With healthcare providers around the world facing rising demand and       escalating costs, Swann's research techniques have also generated interest       both nationally and internationally.
In 2010 the use of Lego Serious         Play with healthcare professionals and the iterative process of UV       analysis contributed to the securing of funding from the NHS London       Regional Innovation Fund for the Helen Hamlyn Centre for Design, based at       the Royal College of Art, to build on an existing programme to redesign       the extant Accident &amp; Emergency ambulance.
In October 2011, at       Sheffield Hallam University, Swann discussed the use of Lego Serious         Play in a healthcare context with members of User-Centred Healthcare       Design, a research team that works within the NHS and with NHS partners to       identify innovative design methods, and in November 2012 he was an invited       speaker at Norrbotten County Council, Sweden, the country's largest region       for financing and providing healthcare, on the subject of innovations       supporting the delivery of nursing care in the community.
Positive       feedback from these and other events includes advocacy from `on the       ground' practitioners such as the members of the Bridlington NHS       Neighbourhood Care Team, who took part in a Lego Serious Play       workshop.
North Yorkshire &amp; Humber CSU states, `Dr Swann's       ethnographic research has highlighted to our clinical executive board the       real challenges of delivery [of] a high quality patient experience in the       patient's home.
These findings, together with the microbiology data       related to nursing bag cleanliness has prompted our healthcare       commissioners, service improvement teams and community nurses to evaluate       current behaviours in relation to infection control standard/bag practice,       and the quality of the service experience provided by our flagship       neighbourhood care team service.'
[f].
Swann's work in the field of user-centred healthcare design has also been       presented to users themselves via Mobilsing Healthcare, one of a       number of exhibitions at Huddersfield Art Gallery in the School of Art,       Design and Architecture's ROTO&#1071; series of research-led exhibitions and       events.
The exhibition began on July 20 2013 and prompted visitor feedback       such as "[It made me] proud to be a nurse" and "Such a simple idea but       very practical... Let's save NHS money and improve what is a wonderful       service".
[g]     The research has also led to Swann applying similar principles to further       products that focus on both function and infection, chief among them the       ABC Syringe.
Impregnated with red ink that is sensitive to carbon dioxide,       the syringe turns red after its special seal is broken, alerting doctors       and patients to the fact that it has been used and could therefore be       contaminated.
The design, already nominated for several awards, was       conceived for use in developing nations such as India, where the re-use of       contaminated syringes (particularly by illiterate users) is widespread.
A       joint venture to bring the syringe to market has been agreed between the       University and Hindustan Syringe and Medical Devices, the largest       manufacturer of syringes in Asia [h].
