     The research on wind resource estimation (project (a), above) has       improved the understanding of       wind power production estimates at the Norwegian power company Agder       Energi, whose wind       mast data were used in the research.
The finding that missing wind speed       data caused by frozen       wind masts can introduce bias into wind power production estimates and       profitability assessments,       and the new method for imputing the missing data that was developed,       raised awareness in the       Wind &amp; Site division at Agder Energi in 2008 about the extent of the       problem with missing data       from wind measurements and the need to employ more suitable statistical       methods for dealing with       this problem than those that are currently used within the company [A].
Specifically, the research made a two-fold direct contribution: (i)       highlighted how Agder Energi's       matrix approach is not as stable as their sectoral regression one in       dealing with missing data; and       (ii) developed a methodology to assess the economic impact of missing data       both in terms of       expected revenues and the distribution of revenues.
Although these       knowledge transfers cannot       yet be quantified, they have provided valuable insights about the       suitability of alternative       approaches for correcting for missing data.
DER-CAM (project (b), above) is enabling energy consumers to       manage their energy resources       better and minimise energy costs.
It is also having an environmental       impact since the use of       energy resources is being managed more efficiently.
DER-CAM has been       deployed at sites       including the Segundo Dining Commons building at the University of       California at Davis (in 2011),       the Santa Rita Jail in Alameda County, California (in 2012), and the       Mechanical Engineering       building at UNM (in 2012) [B].
DER-CAM was installed at UNM to manage the operation of chilled water       storage tanks and an       absorption chiller powered by hot water from a solar array.
The building       required an automated       procedure for forecasting cooling demand, scheduling optimal dispatch of       the absorption chiller,       and charging-discharging storage units optimally, operations which could       not be handled by relying       on simple rules of thumb or heuristics.
The university reports that       "DER-CAM proved to be the       most effective solution" for managing their systems optimally and that the       use of DER-CAM has       resulted in tangible cost savings that are "especially significant over       the shoulder season" [C].
Thus, they are realising significant reductions in their energy bill by       using solar power for cooling       via storage in an automated way.
UNM also benefits from the ease of use of       DER-CAM; they       informed us that "one of the principal advantages of using DER-CAM is       that, once set up, it does       not require user intervention to set system parameters" [C].
UCL research has also improved knowledge and understanding of the power       sector and options       pricing among industry professionals and policymakers through the       following knowledge transfer       events:     (1) Two ELDEV workshops, underpinned by the UCL research in project (a),       above, in addition to       other UCL research conducted as part of the ELDEV project, were held in       Trondheim, Norway,       during 2009 and 2010, and were attended by numerous power companies.
For       example, Agder       Energi, Statkraft, and Tr&#248;nder Energi represented the Norwegian power       sector, which faces issues       about valuing renewables and transmission investment.
Participants gained       an improved       understanding of the factors involved in making decisions under       uncertainty, e.g., modelling energy       prices, hedging risk exposure via financial and physical positions, and       investment appraisal.
In       addition, their increased awareness of the issues raised by the ELDEV       project stimulated industrial       companies in Norway to co-fund subsequent research projects.
For example,       ELCARBONRISK       (2010-2014, NOK 13.5 million with participation of power companies Eidsiva       Energi and Tafjord       Karft) and PURELEC (2011-2014, NOK 8.5 million with involvement of power       companies NTE and       SAE Vind) are both focusing more on modelling energy prices and analysing       investment in       renewables, two issues that were highlighted in ELDEV.
(2) Two workshops sponsored by the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC) in       2008 and 2009 on       financial methods, underpinned by the UCL research in references [4] and       [5] in project (c), have       transferred knowledge from UCL academics to industry and policymakers.
The       2008 workshop had       around 35 attendees, including representatives from power companies       (including EDF Energy),       consulting firms and ministries (including the Ministry of Energy, Mexico)       [D].
The 2009 UKERC       workshop was hosted by the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC)       with about fifty       participants.
This exchange allowed UK policymakers to gain a better       understanding of the benefits       and limitations of using financial methods.
Furthermore, the 2009 workshop       counted as part of       DECC's economics training for the year.
(3) The findings of the optionality research conducted in project (c),       above, during the "An Options       Approach to UK Energy Futures" project were disseminated to the public and       private sector via two       events held at the LBS: "Decision Analysis and Real Options for Energy"       (24 April 2012) and       "Climate Policy, Risk and Energy Investment" (2-3 May 2012).
The knowledge       transfer facilitated       by these events, which had around 20 and 80 attendees respectively, has       enabled companies       active in the power sector to advise managers and clients better about       financial fundamentals and       the propagation of risk.
An attendee (of both events), from the PR firm       Ketchum, reported that "The       workshop really helped us to understand the energy market dynamics and       investment options       much better, including the risks and inherent optionality involved in       capex-related corporate       decision-making process" and that "For us as communication consultants,       this knowledge and       increased understanding of the underlining financial and business       fundamentals of the energy       infrastructure investment has enabled us to advise our clients much better       in terms of both the       corporate positioning and strategic communications &#8212; especially given the       challenging and rather       uncertain operating environment" [E].
