     The fashion and textiles industry is worth &#163;350 million per annum to the       Scottish economy, and the       industry is firmly linked to tourism: 30% of craft makers in Scotland       believe that their business       relies on tourism compared to just 18% in England.
Hand-knitting produces       high-quality       workmanship based on a traditional artisan skill and is used by small       craft-makers and international       textiles companies to create globally recognised brands.
However, its       history as `women's work'       and increased employment options for islanders have led to fewer people       learning hand-knitting,       creating a potential skills gap.
Between 2008 and 2013, Abrams worked with a series of collaborators to       reposition hand-knitting       in its economic and historic context.
The researchers held a series of       events aimed at the general       public and particularly at creative industry professionals, most notably       the Scottish textiles industry.
The research has influenced Shetland Museum to enhance the permanent       textiles exhibition.
Furthermore, it has attracted significant public and media interest and       benefits the museum's       ~88,000 annual visitors.
It has also been used as inspiration by       contemporary knitwear designers       who have been stimulated by the history of Shetland hand-knitted textiles       and have woven stories       from the past into their own, new designs.
Contribution to the enhancement of a significant textiles collection         at Shetland Museum and         Archives &#8212; In 2010 Abrams was awarded an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral       Award with Shetland       Amenity Trust (Shetland Museum and Archives) for a joint project on the       history of Shetland lace       knitting to be co-supervised with the Curator and Community Museums       Officer.
The Museum       moved to brand new purpose-built premises in 2007 which enabled it to       display more artefacts and       present those artefacts within a more sophisticated interpretive context.
The textile exhibit,       informed by this research, presents a model of modern curatorial       techniques, permitting visitors to       view a large collection of fragile hand-knitted items including Shetland       lace alongside interpretive       and hands-on visitor engagement tools.
The collection of knitted lace       garments at the Shetland       Museum is the most comprehensive and unique in the UK, comprising more       than 100 large (2m2)       shawls, stoles, stockings, and christening garments.
Many items in the       Shetland collection date to       the first decades of the craft, but the ability to set these important       items in their interpretive context       has been limited owing to the current lack of serious academic research.
The project was undertaken by Roslyn Chapman (PhD Student, University of       Glasgow, 2010-present)       and has uncovered previously unknown archival material and knitted       artefacts in Shetland       and across the UK.
It has significantly enhanced the textile exhibit at       Shetland Museum by       improving the information made available to visitors.
It has attracted       widespread public interest in       Shetland and was featured on BBC Radio Shetland on       18 June 2013.
Picture 2.
Shetland lace shawl         (Image courtesy of Roslyn Chapman) 	       Public engagement activities and raising the profile         of hand-knitting &#8212; In 2008 a Pasold Foundation       funded workshop on `The History, Production and       Representation of Handknitted Textiles in Scotland' was held at the       National Galleries of Scotland,       Edinburgh.
It was organised by Abrams in collaboration with the Head of       Education for the       National Galleries of Scotland and attracted around 50 knitters, curators       and historians from across       the UK.
In 2012 Abrams and Dr Marina Moskowitz (Reader in History, University of       Glasgow) were       awarded a Royal Society of Edinburgh workshop grant to fund a series of       three workshops and a       public study day exploring the economy and culture of hand-knitted       textiles in Scotland.
These       events brought together knitters, designers, wool brokers, business and       the creative industries to       investigate: how hand-knitting has been successfully re-branded for the       modern consumer in the       context of the present day knitting revival; and, how it contributes to       Scotland's local and       international heritage, as traditional design motifs (such as Fair Isle       patterns or Shetland lace) are       adopted, adapted, and disseminated through contemporary craft networks and       by modern       designers and makers.
The events also looked at how international brands       such as Johnstons of       Elgin and Pringle build upon the history of knitted textiles.
External       collaborators included       representatives from Shetland Museum and Archives; Moray Firth       Partnership, Gansey Project;       Jamieson &amp; Smith, Shetland wool brokers; Rowan Yarns; Shetland Mirrie       Dancers Project; and       independent knitwear designers, producers and artists.
Many of the talks       were recorded and are       available on iTunesU, with 1,597 users accessing the content between       December 2012 and July       2013.
The public study day was held at the Lighthouse in Glasgow on 18 October       2012 to coincide with       UK Wool Week (run by the Campaign for Wool) and attracting over 100       members of the public.
The event was featured on STV (Scottish Television) evening news on 18       October 2012 and on       BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland and Newsdrive       programmes.
It was also covered       by Vogue Knitting (winter 2012) and in Yarnwise.
Feedback received from participants welcomed the event and the       opportunity for amateur and       leisure knitters to learn more about the history of knit.
When asked what       they got out of attending,       participants replied: `new ideas and information, encouragement &#8212; knitting       has a future as well as a       past'; `a chance to hear from people schooled in preserving and conserving       our knitted heritage';       and, `the knowledge that there is a lot more to learn'.
One of the       outcomes of this project was a       commissioned case study of a local knitting tradition in the Scottish       Borders town of Sanquhar.
The       University of Glasgow asked MakeWorks, a design-led small enterprise that       connects design with       local craft industries, to document the history and current state of the       Sanquhar knit tradition and to       create a digital archive of patterns, artefacts and related information.
Informing the work of contemporary knitwear designers &#8212; The       history of the hand-knitting       sector has recently been identified as a key marketing feature by the       major yarn producers and       pattern designers who understand that the value of their product is       enhanced by the singularity of       local design and production.
In Shetland, Jamieson and Smith wool brokers       (based in Shetland       since the 1830s) have recently produced a brand of heritage yarn, designs,       pattern books and       publications, extolling the value of Shetland's wool production and       hand-knitting heritage as a       means of highlighting the importance of provenance, heritage and       specialness, all of which are key       selling points in the modern textiles market.
Contemporary knitwear designers have also been inspired by the history of       Shetland hand-knitted       textiles and have woven stories from the past into their designs.
Kate       Davies Designs, of       Edinburgh, has explicitly drawn upon the story of Shetland knitter Betty       Mouat, whose story       features in Abrams, Myth and Materiality, to inspire her designs       for the `Betty Mouat Sweater' and       the `Betty Mouat Cowl'.
