     The new approach to active ageing developed by Walker has resonated       strongly among a wide       range of policy makers, especially those seeking alternatives to the       deficit model of ageing.
It has       had a powerful impact on policy responses to demographic change       internationally, nationally and       locally resulting in significant policy change.
It has also led to policy       changes by national NGOs.
In       some cases it has prompted a step-change in organisational approaches.
International Policy     From 1999 to 2002, Walker assisted the WHO in developing its Active       Ageing Policy Framework       and, according to the then Director of the WHO's Programme on Ageing, was       `one of the most       influential and informed sources'.
From 2000 to 2001, Walker was a member       of the technical       committee preparing the UN's second plan on ageing, the 2002 Madrid       International Plan of Action       on Ageing (MIPAA).
He was also engaged by the UN to draft the final       document prior to       submission to the General Assembly.
The concept of active ageing is core       to this document [S1].
In 2008, a collaboration began between the University of Sherbrook in       Quebec and seven       municipalities.
Funded by the provincial government, the action research       project Age-friendly Cities       in Quebec (AFC-QC) now involves well over 500 localities, covering more       than 70 per cent of the       Quebec population.
According to the Directors of AFC-QC the new concept of       active ageing       developed by Walker is the theoretical basis and model for this       collaboration.
Community and       government stakeholders use this model to frame their policy and practice       responses to ageing.
It       is used explicitly and promoted on the Age-friendly Cities project website       (www.madaquebec.ca/)       which itself is the gateway to the 500 plus municipalities implementing       this approach.
Then, in       spring 2012 the Quebec Government launched its first strategy on ageing,       which also relies on       Walker's model [S2].
National Policy     In 2004 Walker presented an early version of his model of active ageing       and the research on which       it is based to the Prime Minister, other ministers and advisors titled `An       Opportunity Society for All       Ages'.
A text based on his presentation formed the basis for the Labour       Party's `Mini-manifesto' on       older people in the 2005 General Election and also fed into the national       strategy on ageing       Opportunity Age (DWP, 2005).
A version was published in a report       for the Department for       Communities and Local Government [S3].
National charities/NGOs have adopted Walker's model, for example Age UK       and the Third Age       Employment Network (TAEN).
The creation of Age UK in 2008, following the       merger of Age       Concern and Help the Aged, led to a long period of policy development and       root and branch       reappraisal of the existing strategies of the two previously separate       organisations.
The Age UK       Research Director was invited to join the NDA Commissioning Panel as a       user representative, and       a strategic partnership was created between the NGO and the Programme in       which the two would       collaborate on knowledge transfer activities.
In March 2012 Walker gave       the opening keynote to       the Age UK `Agenda for Later Life' Conference and in October, he addressed       the Trustees' away       day.
As a result of these inputs and considerable prior engagement the       charity has re-assessed its       approach on various levels and adopted Walker's model.
In the words of the       Charity Director       General of Age UK: `Professor Alan Walker's work and that of the NDA         Programme has provided         much of the conceptual framework that Age UK has adopted in its         corporate strategy, research,         policy development and service development.
We have taken Professor         Walker's concept of active         ageing and applied it to all that we do.
It has a huge impact and         application at the Country's largest         older people's charity' [S4].
TAEN is a national NGO campaigning against age discrimination in       employment.
It has drawn       extensively on Walker's model of active ageing.
This impact includes       campaigns, particularly       around age management, professional guidance and lobbying.
For example,       according to TAEN       Chief Executive: `our introductory guide to age management for HR         professionals, the many         seminars and presentations as well as innumerable blogs, magazine         articles and presentations at         workshops in this country and abroad have drawn energy and inspiration         from your work' [S5].
Specific examples of research that has been particularly helpful to this       NGO include the paradox       between trends in retirement and life expectancy (Walker, 2002) and the       case studies of age       management strategies (Naegele and Walker, 2006).
Again, in the words of       TAEN Chief       Executive: `Our survey of the European chemical industry this year is         a case in point, as is my own         work on the Employment Experts Group of the Age Platform, our work in         the ESF Age Network,         other international collaborations, the information we have on our         website resources section for         employers and a recent paper for ACAS.
All these and others are examples         where the solid ground         work you did continues to be relevant'.
[S5].
The devolved government of Northern Ireland has adopted Walker's approach       to active ageing.
In       June 2012 Walker was approached by the Commissioner for Older People for       Northern Ireland to       provide advice on the development of a positive ageing strategy.
He met       with the advisory group       on the development of the strategy (drawn from a wide range of interest       groups in the ageing field)       and with officials from the Office of the First and Deputy First Minister       (who were charged with       writing the strategy).
He proposed a new approach based on active ageing       and the protection of       vulnerable older people.
This was subsequently accepted and formed the       core of the draft strategy.
[S6].
After a period of public consultation the strategy was published in April       2013.
According to the       Commissioner, Walker's input `led to a step change in the draft         strategy content'.
He was also       thanked by the First Minister and Deputy First Minister, Peter Robinson       and Martin McGuiness, in       a written answer in the Northern Ireland Assembly: `We have also         benefited greatly from the advice         of Alan Walker...and we would like to thank Professor Walker for his         input to the development of         the strategy, particularly on the importance of the Active Ageing         agenda' (AQO 2649/11-15, 23       October 2012).
Local Policy     Walker's research has had a direct impact upon local policy in South       Yorkshire through his input       into the new policy framework on ageing `A City for ALL Ages &#8212; Making       Sheffield a Great Place to       Grow Old' [S7] which was officially adopted in September 2012.
Walker's       approach to active       ageing is embedded throughout the policy document.
The framework derives       from a city-wide       debate `Rethinking Age in Sheffield' attended by all of the major       stakeholders.
Walker gave the       opening plenary lecture `Rethinking Ageing &#8212; Towards a City for ALL Ages'       and then embarked on       an intense process of policy development with the lead Council Officer.
He       was invited to chair the       Implementation Board for the new framework.
According to the Executive       Director for       Communities, SCC, `Alan Walker's ageing research and, in particular,         his work on active ageing,         have provided the basis for Sheffield's ageing strategy...and, therefore         will benefit thousands of         older people in the city, focusing not only on health and well-being but         also economic, transport,         housing and wider issues' [S7].
The Council Leader has also been       highly complementary about the       content of the framework and the planned approach.
In achieving impact at       various policy levels       and in the practices of NGOs this research is also likely to have improved       the lives and well-being       of countless older people.
