     In the wake of the global financial crisis of 2007 Schenk's research       expertise was instrumental in       informing debates and discussions about the nature of the international       response.
The crisis gave       rise to significant questions about the need for international monetary       reform in order to achieve       global financial stability.
International economic institutions and groups       began to debate the future       of the US dollar as a major reserve asset and reconsidered appropriate       exchange rate regimes;       similar organisations also turned to consider the potential role that gold       could play in the       international monetary system in the wake of the financial crisis.
Schenk       was invited to provide       expert advice by the International Monetary Fund and the G20; she was also       invited to provide       expert input to discussions about the potential role for gold as a       strategic response to the financial       crisis conducted by Chatham House (Royal Institute for International       Affairs).
International Monetary Fund (IMF)     The IMF promotes international collaboration on international monetary       issues.
Schenk was invited       as a Visiting Researcher to the IMF in April-May 2009 in order to engage       with and advise the IMF       on its policy on exchange rate regime choice.
Whilst there, Schenk       presented two research papers,       Proposals to Replace Reserve Currencies during the Bretton Woods Era'       and The Retirement of         Sterling as a Reserve Currency after 1945: Lessons for the US Dollar?
to c.40 IMF staff and had a       consultation with the IMF Chief Economist regarding the future of the       dollar [1].
In December 2009, Schenk was co-organiser with the IMF of the Conference         on the International         Monetary System: Looking to the Future, Lessons from the Past.
As       part of the Conference,       Schenk presented a paper at a special closed workshop to discuss options       for international       monetary reform, titled, `What does the historical record suggest about       the current proposals to       reform the international monetary system?
', Participants included (from       the IMF) the Executive       Director of the IMF for China, First Deputy Managing Director, Economic       Counsellor and Director       of the Research Department, and the Deputy Director of the Research       Department.
The research       which Schenk presented at this workshop was subsequently cited in a paper       prepared by the IMF's       Strategy, Policy, and Review Department, in collaboration with its       Finance, Legal, Monetary and       Capital Markets Departments, and in consultation with the Research and       Area Departments.
[2].
Schenk's research influenced the IMF's position regarding its policy on       reform of exchange rate       regimes and the international monetary system.
In particular, Schenk's       finding that, in the past, the       transition between international currencies (e.g.
sterling to dollar) was       more prolonged than had       otherwise been presumed and that the dollar system may be more robust than       previously thought,       provided an historical perspective on international monetary reform as a       strategic response to the       economic crisis.
Three of Schenk's research outputs are cited in the IMF's       final paper on these       matters [3].
The Chief of Systemic Issues for the IMF Research       Department commented in his       letter of 17 June 2013 that `Prof. Schenk's work - with which we were very       pleased &#8212; was directly       relevant to, and had an appreciable impact on thinking about, issues       related to the stability of the       international monetary system...indeed, it would be hard to imagine a       piece of purely historical       research being of greater relevance to our work' [1].
The impact of Schenk's research on the international monetary system       extended beyond her       advice to the IMF and in October, 2010 Schenk was invited to visit the       Bank for International       Settlements (BIS), in Basel, Switzerland.
During this visit, Schenk       consulted with a range of BIS       staff including the Director of Research and Statistics and the Senior       Advisor of the Monetary and       Economic Department.
Schenk presented her findings to c.20 BIS staff and       participated in one-to-one       consultation sessions with a number of senior BIS representatives [4].
Further evidence of the impact of Schenk's research on the international       monetary system is found       in her contribution to the Chatham House Taskforce on international       monetary reform.
In 2010,       amid growing concerns around the global economic imbalances heightened by       the international       financial crisis, Chatham House one of the world's leading think tanks       with links to governments,       policy-makers, politicians and business, brought together a Taskforce of       experts to examine the       potential for international monetary reform.
Schenk's research insights on       the historical transition       from sterling to the dollar as the international reserve currency informed       the Taskforce's       discussions about the limited viability of short-term options for       international monetary reform.
Schenk's work is cited throughout the Taskforce's Final Report, The         Future of the Dollar:       Rethinking the International Monetary System, and is relied upon in       the Taskforce's       Recommendations [5].
G20 (Group of 20)     G20 is the forum for international cooperation on global economic and       financial issues.
The leaders       of the G20 countries hold summits at least annually and, at times, more       frequently.
When France       took over as chair of the G20 in 2011, France's then-President Nicholas       Sarkozy put reform of the       international monetary system at the top of his agenda.
Schenk was invited       to provide expert       advice by the International Monetary Fund and for preparations for the G20       French Presidency.
She also presented her research at two preparatory summit meetings in       Beijing 6-7 September       and Paris 10-11 December 2010 where her paper addressed two key questions:       How Have         Multiple Reserve Currencies Functioned in the Past?
and Why were         the Rules-Based Adjustment         Indicator and the Substitution Account abandoned in the past?
Participants included the Deputy       Assistant Secretary of the US Treasury; the then Economic Minister of       France, later managing       Director of the IMF; the Governor of the Central Bank of Turkey; the Vice       Minister, Ministry of       Finance, Japan; the Deputy Governor, Banque de France; the Governor,       Banque de France [6].
Schenk's paper was subsequently posted on the IMF's dedicated website on       international       monetary reform [see: http://imsreform.org/reserve/pdf/schenk.pdf].
In her submissions to the preparatory summits, Schenk drew on her       research on international       reserve currencies, outlined above (at Section 2), to advise why the       proposals under consideration       relating to a Substitution Account and Multiple Reserve Currencies had       been examined in the       1970s and 1980s and rejected.
Schenk's position was that this reduced the       prospects for the       successful implementation of such proposals as a response to the current       international financial       crisis.
France did not pursue international monetary reform during its       Presidency (this decision was       due, in part, to the onset of the Eurozone crisis).
Chatham House Gold Taskforce     In 2011 Chatham House, set up a Global Taskforce to assess what role, if       any, gold could play in       the international monetary system in the wake of the economic crisis.
The       Taskforce, of which       Schenk was an invited member, comprised 11 experts from the UK and abroad       representing a       range of opinions and backgrounds.
This group, met in both London       (28/10/2011) and Shanghai       (10/11/2011); it carried out the first in-depth examination of all the       different suggested roles for gold       in nearly 30 years.
Despite gold's positive attributes, the evidence which emerged from the       Taskforce's deliberations       led to the conclusion that, in today's world, there is little scope for       gold to play a more formal role in       the international monetary system.
The findings of the Taskforce       culminated in a Chatham House       Report, within which Schenk's research is widely cited, and Schenk was one       of three panellists at       the public launch of the report at Chatham House.
The report was published       in hard copy in       February 2012 and on the Chatham House website [7].
