     By providing an "engineering solution" to bridge the gap in geosciences       between geodetic monitoring and geology, UoN has played a significant role       in influencing public policy in relation to flood risk management.
The       insights derived from its work are helping to protect more than a million       residents and billions of pounds' worth of property in the UK, as well as       increasingly being applied in major projects spanning Europe.
The national study that saw CGPS stations established at 10 tide gauges       around the British coast provided direct input to the UK Government's       Climate Impacts Programme report (UKCP09) [4.1], published in June 2009 as       validation of the UK's adopted map of vertical land movement (VLM).
The       report set out to "provide... a set of scenarios that may be used to       assess how vulnerable particular sites or sectors are to future climate       change" [4.1], noting: "Good estimates of what could happen in the future       marine environment and how this might impact issues as diverse as       flooding, habitat conservation and food safety are becoming of increasing       importance for adaptation and risk planning" [4.1].
Citing all of UoN's       underpinning research, the document acknowledged the value of new       techniques "to produce a comprehensive study of spatial patterns of       vertical velocity measurements" [4.1] and included a detailed explanation       of the use of CGPS in an annex devoted to the various measurement methods       employed [4.2, 4.3].
This national study fed into its regional counterpart, which made an       important contribution to the Environment Agency's Thames Estuary 2100       (TE2100) project.
The first major flood risk management scheme in the UK       to put climate-change adaptation at its core, TE2100 sets out how 1.25M       people and &#163;200Bn worth of property will continue to be protected from       increasing tidal flood risk through to the end of the century.
The significant revision in projections of the net effect of changes in       sea and land levels by the year 2100 is highlighted in the Environment       Agency's TE2100 Plan Consultation Document [4.4], which was published in       April 2009.
Chapter 4 (page 20) notes: "Land levels in the south-east of       England are slowly sinking as an after-effect of the last Ice Age, when       the northern part of the country was covered in a mass of ice.
The result       of this, quantified through our studies, is that the land level is going       down relative to sea levels by around 1.5mm per year."
This increased       accuracy has given the Environment Agency much greater confidence in terms       of planned expenditure &#8212; allowing it to appreciate, for example, that       measures that were previously thought potentially necessary in the first       half of the century may be safely deferred until the second half.
Acknowledging UoN's contribution, Owen Tarrant, an Environment Agency       Principal Scientist, has remarked: "Predicting and then monitoring the       rate of net sea-level rise [SLR] over the coming century is the       cornerstone of our approach to adaptive flood risk management in the       Thames Estuary, as both the magnitude and rate of SLR dictate what type of       innovation we may have to make and, perhaps more importantly, when.
Planners and investors can now be reassured that there is an effective       plan to manage flood risk today and for future generations."
[4.5].
A major European Space Agency (ESA) Global Monitoring for Environment and       Security (GMES) project, Terrafirma [4.6], has also drawn on the UoN-led       Thames Estuary study.
Terrafirma uses satellite radar data acquired from       800km above the Earth's surface, in conjunction with expert interpretation       by national geoscience organisations, to support risk assessment and       mitigation in all 27 EU member states.
The project considered 40 test       sites around Europe, with London one of only three that were advanced to       the stage of developing a geologically modelled product to explain the       changes in land level.
In June 2009, ESA subsequently produced the       Terrafirma Atlas [4.7], a compendium of the results obtained during the       project, in which Dr Don Aldiss, the British Geological Survey's Principal       Mapping Geologist, said of the London findings: "The geological       interpretation of the GPS-aligned PSI data... was more successful than we       could have hoped.
It yielded some entirely unforeseen results, which we       could not have obtained using any other technique."
[4.7].
The Thames Estuary study has subsequently also been used to inform EU       FP7-funded GMES downstream projects such as SubCoast (2009-2011), which       aims to map the potential for ground deformation along the entire EU       coastline, and PanGeo (2011-2014), which focuses on the interpretation of       geohazards.
With these projects increasingly providing freely available       information online, the wider European public are benefiting from the       insights that first emerged from the original Thames Estuary research.
Professor Stuart Marsh, ex Head of Spatial Geoscience at the British       Geological Survey (Professor of Geospatial Engineering, University of       Nottingham since October 2013), has said: "The `London result' has proved       to be a landmark.
It continues to be a demonstration of the potential for       similar measurements and modelling in other low-lying, coastal       cities/areas around the world."
[4.8]
