     The University of Nottingham's research into human factors has       transformed industry approaches to reliability, cost and capacity       considerations in rail operations both in the UK and internationally.
Engagement with industry has been central not only to the furthering of       the research but also to the widespread adoption of its outcomes.
This is       particularly true of the collaborative relationship between the research       team and Network Rail, which has facilitated and enhanced ongoing       knowledge transfer and exchange.
A key distinguishing feature of the work       has been the close integration of the researchers with company employees       (in the Ergonomics Team and other company groups/functions), most of the       researchers being embedded within the company as adjunct employees.
This       ensures that the research deliverables are fit for purpose and meet the       company's current and future needs, supporting real operational benefits       and innovation needs.
Since 2008, eight Nottingham researchers have gone       on to become company employees, (the benefits include the direct       application of their specialist knowledge of design and evaluation       methods, and specific Human Factors concepts such as workload and       vigilance within Network Rail), and Wilson was 50% employed by Network       Rail [4.1].
Theresa Clarke, formerly Head of Ergonomics, Network Rail commented, "The       value of the programme [has] been enormous... regarded as a model of its       kind, within the company and within the rail industry ..." [4.2].
Prior to the development of tools by Nottingham, there were no tools       available suitable for use within the Rail industry.
Specific impacts are       highlighted below for the multi-project programmes identified in Section       2.     a) Work analysis, workload and automation for signallers and         controllers.
The programme of research developed and applied various forms of work       analysis tools to support workload and task loading assessment and       human-centred automation has found application and thus impact in Network       Rail and elsewhere in the rail industry.
The workload tools, specifically       the Operational Demand Evaluation Checklist (ODEC) and the Integrated       Workload Scale (IWS) have been used to make safety and performance related       assessments, with consequent benefits of the reliable performance of       signalling staff.
Emma Lowe, Principal Occupational Psychologist, Network       Rail commented "... [the] workload tools were developed, piloted, and       validated in real practice in 45 (ODEC) and 30 (IWS) signal boxes/centres"       [4.3].
These tools are now routinely used to support replacement,       upgrading, and redesign of signal boxes, and Mike Carey, Head of       Ergonomics at Network Rail further added "The use of these tools since       their development has consistently increased and from 2007 to date, all       Network Rail resignalling and re-control projects (approximately 180) have       involved use of the workload tools developed by the University of       Nottingham" [4.4].
Emma Lowe also points to further importance of ODEC for       Network Rail: "The principles of the ODEC tool have been used to develop       more specific analytical and assessment tools for assessing the workload       associated specifically with engineering work.
As a result the Line       Blockage Quota Tool has now being rolled out in approximately 100       locations.
This has assisted operations and maintenance reach agreements       about an appropriate level of access for engineering works that does not       introduce a workload risk for signallers to manage.
ODEC was also adapted       in 2010 to support decisions about requirements for supervision in our       operating locations and forms the basis of an objective decision making       process about when a supervisor is required to oversee the work of       signallers."
[4.3]     The work analysis tools, representation techniques, and insights into       appropriate automation, were used subsequently to support the       determination of roles (for staff and technical/automated systems) in the       National Operating Strategy programme for a number of major regional       control centres (of which there are 12 nationally); the guidance to       human-centred automation was also used to support the on-going National       Operating Strategy [4.5].
The work analysis approaches       developed and the guidance on automation have been used to reduce design       risk for enhanced new control centre designs, to optimise the level of       reliable performance in signalling and control, and to support crew sizing       decisions with the aim of reducing operating costs by giving a larger area       to one operator.
An example of a new technology that has been supported by       Nottingham's methods is the Train Graph (a predictive tool modelling       future rail traffic to help with an operators situational awareness),       which was evaluated in post-implementation studies, and is now being       incorporated within Network Rail's Traffic Management System [4.5].
Development of the methods for signalling and network control enabled       subsequent research with rail electrical control and intelligent       infrastructure, the first such work worldwide.
To meet cost reduction and       work effectiveness goals, the ODEC tool has been used as a basis to help       operational managers balance the work associated with facilitating access       to the track and with routing trains to timetable [4.4], and efforts at       benchmarking for crew sizes and efficiency of performance against other       European railways, drew from the ODEC tool and automation guidance.
b) Human factors issues and risk analysis for rail work on track     The starting point for this programme was membership of university       staff/researchers on a special working group set up by Andrew McNaughton,       formerly Chief Engineer, Network Rail [4.1].
The role of the Nottingham       team was to use workshops, archive and incident report analysis and many       hours of observation on track and in briefing and control rooms to       identify the functions undertaken in possession management and track work       delivery, the communications which support those functions, and human       factors risks potentially affecting safety and efficient performance (2006       - 2010).
This led to particular developments of visual scenario analysis       and function description techniques to help participant groups to       understand the issues impacting on possessions, and to identify key times       and functions where risk resides.
Subsequently, in 2011, the tools were       used within the company's ORBIS (Offering Rail Better Information       Services) programme to provide enhanced asset information industry-wide       [4.6].
The function analysis and human factors risk approach was widened,       since being used as the basis for support of function and risk analysis       and new system implementation for electrical isolation work.
International significance     The programme of rail human factors research has led to significantly       increased prominence of rail human factors research, evidenced through       Nottingham's joint organization with RSSB and Network Rail of the only       four international rail human factors conferences (including 2009 and       2013) and editing of the only four major texts on rail human factors (two       were in 2012 and 2013).
Intergo bv, a Dutch consultancy in human factors and ergonomics, has used       the UK tools in the Dutch rail industry.
Richard van der Weide, Managing       Director, Intergo bv [4.7] confirmed that Intergo had developed a set of       tools to assess workload of Dutch train dispatchers.
He went on to       indicate that the solid experimental development of [Nottingham's] IWS in       British rail was very useful in justification ... it was used in almost       every signal box / centre in the Netherlands ... and as part of a       generalised workload toolbox.
During his time as Professor of Risk and Human Factors at UNSW, Australia       (Post jointly funded by UNSW and Nottingham), Wilson managed the transfer       of methods and tools from the UK programme into research funded by the       Australian Research Council and rail industry &#8212; including the development       of specific tools such as error identification taxonomies [4.8].
The European Railway Agency defined Wilson et al (2009) [2.5] as       the only journal paper required for reference by tenderers for a new       Support Study for Human Factors Integration: Human Functions in European       Railways [4.9].
