     The technology developed as a result of the University of Nottingham's       research into the use of natural lighting and ventilation has been       employed in the design of low-carbon, low-energy buildings both in the UK       and overseas, delivering economic, environmental and societal benefits.
The technology developed by the University of Nottingham was licensed to       Monodraught Ltd and 745 units of Sola-Vent were installed between 2008 and       2012 in domestic and commercial buildings in the UK [4.1].
For example, the Newcastle-Under-Lyme College (NUL) installed 21       Sola-Vent units as part of its &#163;60M investment in a new Construction       Skills and Technology Centre for its 3,000 A-Level students in 2008.
This       contributed to the college's "excellent" BREEAM rating.
Michael Giblin, a       spokesman for NUL's facilities management team said, "the Monodraught       natural ventilation strategy has been performing to expectations for three       years with no problems and no evidence of solar gains in any areas of the       college" and added that the "natural low maintenance, low cost, low energy       ventilation solution ticks all the boxes, ensuring that schools meet BB101       requirements for ventilation rates and CO2 levels" [4.2].
To indicate the energy saving credentials of the product, an energy       performance evaluation was carried out by UoN on a supermarket and an       annual lighting energy consumption saving of 22% was identified [4.1, 4.3,       4.4].
Riffat and his team have continued to work with Monodraught throughout       the impact period, producing a number of reports into the feasibility and       effectiveness of Sola-Vent and related products, so informing the firm's       marketing efforts.
In 2012 collaboration on a KTP project to transfer the University of       Nottingham's research expertise in building energy simulation to the       company resulted in Monodraught's adoption of dynamic thermal modelling       packages and daylighting simulation software in its quotation procedure       for specific high-value contracts.
As a result, Monodraught now has       in-house dynamic thermal modelling capabilities and its own ventilation       testing system to determine the performance of existing and new products       [4.5, 4.6].
The software, named Performance Components was developed with Integrated       Environmental Solutions Ltd, and delivers optimised energy savings in       design.
A team of 10 design engineers employed by Monodraught use this in       house to perform energy saving calculations.
The software has made their       job easier and halved modelling time on complicated projects.
[4.1]     This ongoing collaboration with the University of Nottingham has been       crucial to the company's growing success in the market.
Sola-Vent products       have been installed in supermarkets, stores, schools and other buildings       and have earned Monodraught an increased share in the sector throughout       the impact period.
Figure 2: Sola-Vent demonstration unit
