     The Creative Energy Homes project is unique among UK HEIs.
Impacts from       the research have       been widespread and can be seen across three key areas: industry,       influence on policy and public       engagement.
Industry     The project has been geared towards addressing the needs of industry from       the start.
CEH is one       of the first projects in the UK to test the national standard for       zero-carbon housing delivery, the UK       Code for Sustainable Homes.
The businesses sponsoring the project had       never designed or built       these types of homes before.
By working in close collaboration with UoN in       a controlled and       monitored environment, construction companies have been able to develop       the techniques, skills       and expertise necessary to meet the latest industry challenges.
As a direct consequence of its involvement in the project, in 2008,       Lovell Homes (a contractor for       Tarmac Homes' two CEH properties), was able to establish itself as a       low-energy housing       developer/contractor and secured other external contracts "It was a         fantastic research and learning         experience that has enabled Lovell to gain a competitive edge in how to         deliver these types of         houses en mass and we are now constructing circa [text removed for       publication] Code for         Sustainable Homes level 4 homes per year informed by this experience."
The company has also       designed and built around [text removed for publication] Code level 6       homes and [text removed for       publication] Passive Houses within the Eastern region informed by their       work on CEH [4.1].
The Midlands-based Roger Bullivant Group is one of the largest foundation       engineering companies       in the UK.
As a result of the research into using concrete foundations as       ground source heat       exchangers, the company updated its trademarked SystemFirst&#8482;       foundation system to enhance       thermal performance and reduce thermal bridges.
This has been on sale       since October 2009 and       over 30 installations have been carried out [4.2].
Regeneration property developer Igloo Blueprint used the research team's       studies of occupant       behaviour in the CEH house to inform the design of an innovative &#163;7M       housing development just       outside Nottingham city centre.
Nick Ebbs, the       company's CEO, has remarked: "The insight         we gained on the practical delivery of Code         Level 4 housing, through our discussions         regarding the research results on use of low         carbon technologies and post occupancy         evaluation from the Creative Energy Homes         project, has helped inform our own thinking in         relation to the design and specification of our         `Nottingham Green Street' (Figure 2)       development of 38 Code Level 4 homes... the         learning journey we have been on with the         University is also shaping our larger         developments including Trent Basin and         elsewhere in group our housing schemes in         Newcastle and Cardiff" [4.3].
Phase one of the       scheme was completed in spring 2012, with all       38 homes quickly sold.
Phase two is already under construction and will       deliver 100 more homes       by the end of December 2013 [4.3].
Figure 2: Picture of the Nottingham Green Street homes      Influence on policy     CEH research findings were used to inform the setting up of the       Government's Zero Carbon Hub       (ZCH), the national body with lead responsibility for delivering homes to       zero-carbon standards by       2016.
The ZCH informs policymakers and industry and is a leading source of       knowledge on       sustainable housing.
CEH homes form two of the 28 UK case studies the ZCH       uses as exemplars       for scale-up [4.4].
In July 2009 Gillott was invited by the Zero Carbon       Hub to join the Post-Occupancy       Evaluation Protocols Group, a team of experts assembled to formulate a       national       standard for the performance evaluation of buildings formulated by the       group.
The Government's Green Deal scheme, launched in January 2013, is designed       to encourage       business and home owners to employ more green technologies in their       properties.
Prior to its       launch there was a lengthy consultation period, including calls for       evidence on the applicability of       retrofit technologies.
Gillott's research findings on in-situ testing of       retrofit technologies used in the       E.ON research house was included in a memorandum to the House of Commons       that fed into the       Government's consultation of the Energy Bill submitted by the       Consumer-Appealing Low-Energy       technologies for Building Retrofitting (CALEBRE) research team in June       2011 [4.5].
In October       2012 Gillott was also invited to present his research findings from the       CALEBRE project at DECC       by the team formulating the Green Deal policy [4.5].
Locally, the CEH has informed the Nottingham Community Climate Change       Strategy 2012-2020.
The project is cited in the strategy document, as the homes are used as       local examples of       sustainable building design.
"The Creative Energy Homes project is         building a number of real         homes to conduct research into energy efficiency and low / zero carbon         housing."
[4.6]     In January 2012 Gillott was invited to give the keynote presentation to       approximately 150       politicians, industry, the general public and media at the strategy's       launch event.
Public engagement     Public engagement with CEH is substantial and has maximised reach through       international media       coverage, including BBC Breakfast News (December 2009), Voice of America       (November 2009)       and on BBC Radio 4 Costing the Earth: the `House that Heats Itself' aired       on 13th March 2013.
Further engagement has included the BBC programme Blue Peter (March 2011),       which alone       reached an audience of 370,000 people.
The CEH development opened to the       general public 13       years ago and between 2008 and 2012 sustained an average of 150 to 250       visitors per month, 96       per cent of whom reported that their knowledge of sustainable housing       technologies had been       enhanced.
CEH also featured in the video `Britain Through My Eyes', which       was released by the       UK Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office in the build-up to the 2012 Olympic       Games.
In addition, CEH       was an award winner at the 2010 Solar Decathlon Europe competition.
An       independent       assessment, provided by public relations firm Tonic PR, has estimated the       potential audience for       the research as a result of these various forms of engagement to be in       excess of five million [4.7].
