     The numerous studies carried out by the CMRI, including COMICE, have       contributed to the world       literature on the routine clinical use of breast MRI from a patient burden       aspect and on the       appropriate utilisation of health service resources.
Data has been       presented nationally and       internationally including at International Society for MR in Medicine, the       European Society for MR       in Medicine and Biology, the British Association of Surgical Oncology,       Royal College of       Radiologists Breast Group and International Congress on MR Mammography.
It       has lead to an       international collaboration with Australia, USA and Canada concerning an       IPD analysis of pre-       operative MRI from the most influential international groups (Houssami et       al., submitted).
Data from the CMRI at the University of Hull has contributed considerably       to the evidence used to       draft a number of important guidelines, e.g.
The NICE Clinical Guideline       No.
80 developed by the       National Collaborating Centre for Cancer on "Early and locally advanced       breast cancer: Diagnosis       and treatment" (February 2009) recommends the pre-operative MR assessment       of patients with       biopsy-proven invasive ductal breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ       (DCIS) when there is a       discrepancy in the extent of disease determined by clinical examination,       mammography and       ultrasound.
Similarly if breast density precludes accurate mammographic       assessment; or if breast       conserving surgery is being considered for invasive lobular cancer again       MR assessment is       recommended, however in the majority of uncomplicated patients breast MRI       is not required       (Source 1).
Similarly, the American National Comprehensive Cancer Network       (2009) included the       COMICE trial results and did not recommend breast MRI for all breast       cancer patients, but did       recommend pre-operative MRI for a similar cohort of patients to the NICE       guidelines (Source 2).
Guidelines from the European Society of Breast Imaging (2008) extensively       quoted publications       from the CMRI (Kneeshaw, 2003, Pickles, 2006 and others) and recommended       pre-operative       breast MRI in the case of dense breasts and in patients with histological       evidence of invasive       lobular carcinoma (Source 3).
The European Society of Medical Oncology       (ESMO) in their Clinical       Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of breast       cancer (2011) stipulated that       breast MRI is not needed as a routine procedure, but may be considered in       problematic cases and       more specifically where multiple tumour foci are suspected, in particular       with invasive lobular       breast cancer (Source 4).
In the UK the Association of Breast Surgery at       the British Association of       Surgical Oncology (BASO) emphasise that accurate pre-operative assessment       of the size and       extent of the tumour is essential for deciding whether breast conservation       surgery is an alternative       option to mastectomy.
They also advocate the selective use of breast MRI       in planning surgical       treatment including if the diagnostic core biopsy suggests an invasive       lobular cancer (Source 5).
It is crucial that patients are also aware of best clinical practice.
Macmillan Cancer Support       includes the indications for breast MRI as does Cancer Research UK's       CancerHelp and Medline       Plus (NIHR) both of these sites specifically cite the results of COMICE       and the use of MRI in       patients with invasive lobular cancer to inform patients and their       relatives (Source 6).
In the UK around 55,000 women per annum are diagnosed with breast cancer,       of whom about       10% have the lobular sub-type.
Early indications (Cain, et al.
2010, Source 7) are that the UK       guidelines for preoperative MRI scanning in lobular cancer alter the       surgical management in       approximately 20% of this subgroup and that an additional 20% of patients       will undergo further       imaging and biopsies that do not alter management.
The health economic       results from the       COMICE trial are important for the clinical management of all types of       breast cancer.
Prior to the       changes in the guidelines above, the addition of MRI to conventional       triple assessment resulted in       extra resource being used during the initial treatment phase with few or       no benefits in terms of       health outcomes.
At a tariff value of &#163;250 per MR examination and assuming       a 60% WLE rate, if       all patients suitable for WLE (excluding those with invasive lobular       cancer) were offered MRI this       would cost &#163;7.4M / year for the entire NHS, assuming no follow-up       investigations were required.
Consequently the omission of MRI from this diagnostic pathway not only       improves the patient       experience but also allow more appropriate utilisation of health service       resources (Turnbull, 2010).
