     Aircraft icing consultancy company AeroTex was founded in 2002, as an SME       offshoot from QinetiQ.
Since 2008, it has used UCL's research to underpin       its specialist icing work, ranging from ice accretion physics to the       design and certification of ice protection systems [A].
In 2010, the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proposed       new aircraft icing regulations.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA)       followed suit in 2011, proposing a similar update to their certification       specifications for large aeroplanes.
Since then, aircraft manufacturers       have been working to ensure their designs meet these specifications, as       the proposals will come into force imminently.
These proposals followed a number of accidents, including the October       1994 crash of American Eagle Flight 4184, which rolled out of level flight       and crashed into a field in Indiana, killing all 68 people on board.
Investigations found that the accident was caused by a build-up of ice on       the wings during icing conditions that included freezing rain, or       supercooled large droplets (SLD).
At the time, the FAA required aircraft       to be tested and certified for flight in icing conditions, but the rules       were aimed at much smaller cloud-droplet diameters.
The importance of       SLDs, and their significant splash effects, was unknown, and was not even       considered when certifying aircraft.
Accidents including Flight 4184 and       many since then highlighted the inadequacy of the icing certification       standards and led to lengthy, complex discussions between authorities,       manufacturers and designers about introducing updated regulations, and how       these would be prepared for.
This then resulted in the FAA introducing its       proposals for new regulations that include SLD and ice crystals.
In 2002, the UCL group was asked by industry to conduct research into       SLD.
UCL's research described in section 2 helps AeroTex to design new ice       protection systems that meet these regulatory requirements [A].
It also       impacts upon AeroTex's customers by enabling them to operate aircraft more       safely in icing conditions and to comply with improved safety legislation.
The research came to influence AeroTex through research collaborations,       including Research Associate placements, and meetings of the UK Icing       Group, of which UCL and AeroTex are both members.
The owner of AeroTex       said: "We have been able to use the knowledge generated within our       analysis phase so that there has certainly been a benefit to us.
We flow       the knowledge generated by UCL into designs for ice protection systems for       commercial customers" [B].
AeroTex makes use of UCL research when advising customers on whether ice       protection is needed and when designing new ice protection systems that       comply with future and current regulations.
The UCL research findings are       an important part of a portfolio of methods and evidence used to make       decisions, and have directly influenced the course of development of       AeroTex's AID (Aircraft Icing Design) analysis tool, used in aircraft ice       protection system design.
UCL research also helps AeroTex to stay ahead of       their competitive rivals; the company has become experienced at providing       consultancy for manufacturers who need to conform to the new certification       rules [A].
UCL's research has not only led to these important impacts on aircraft       safety, but also has commercial benefits for AeroTex.
[text removed for       publication]     AeroTex's customers are confidential, but include several aircraft       manufacturers and Tier 1 (the top approved) equipment suppliers.
New       sub-system designs have already been or are to be incorporated into       manufactured aircraft, and are estimated to be included on thousands of       aircraft over many years.
UCL research has helped both AeroTex and their       customers to understand the effects of ice on planes, and the safety       implications associated with icing.
It has helped AeroTex provide system       designs that comply with proposed new rules, and enabled them to compete       effectively against their rivals, supporting improved aircraft safety for       the future.
The financial figures as far as the customers are concerned       are confidential but extend into the hundreds of thousands of pounds       sterling.
