     Fern&#225;ndez's solo-authored Misa de Corpus Christi achieved its       greatest impact via the       collaborative venture with the Instituto Laredo in Bolivia.
As the focal       point of a major music-       educational project developing instrumental, vocal, choral and orchestral       practice, the composition       has had a direct influence on the personal and professional development of       220 students and       teachers from the school.
Performances of the piece to several capacity       audiences in large       (1000+) venues were received with enthusiasm and acclaim.
Impact in the rehearsal process     The new Misa occupied two large choirs and a large orchestra for       the best part of four months in       2010.
This was the predominant experience throughout the Instituto Laredo       during this time, as the       reach of the project extended deeply (and with growing intensity) into the       daily practice of students       and teachers there.
The performers involved were challenged; some of the       young players had to       acquire skills they had not possessed before.
Before rehearsals began, the       orchestral parts of       Misa were used as texts for instrumental lessons.
Weekly choir       sessions also focused on Misa       during this period, and the sessions grew in frequency to three times a       week in the last month, and       daily in the last week.
Melodies from Misa could be heard being       practised, hummed and whistled       across the school during this period (IMP1, IMP2, IMP6) &#8212; which       was symptomatic of the impact       the work had on the personal and professional development of the young       musicians.
The director       of the children's choir recalls: `When they succeeded in understanding it,       the attachment, the love,       the devotion they felt would lead the children to sing it in the school       corridors; they wouldn't sing       their songs from the top ten or from Facebook; they would sing       their sections from Misa.
Wherever       they were, they would lie down, or sit down; it was one continuous Misa       (IMP1).
As a direct result of the rehearsal process, singers experienced       improvements in their vocal       technique, young string players who had not played in higher positions       before learned them; brass       players extended their range; and percussionists learned new instruments (IMP6).
A benefit to personal and professional development was also experienced       by both students and       teachers as a direct result of engaging with this research output.
As one       student states: `I learned a       lot about working on detail in a score ... to listen to the orchestra and       choir for better link-up ...
I       learned ... discipline, responsibility, technical work, demanding more of       myself' (student, Y5       secondary) (IMP6).
The choral director of the youth choir also       outlines how "Prof. Fern&#225;ndez and       his music inspired an entire generation of teachers, students and other       professionals in the music       field.
For me it was an experience that changed the course of my       professional life in many ways.
To begin with, it enticed me to enthusiastically seek a Master's degree...       One of my projects is a       presentation of a paper about Agust&#237;n Fern&#225;ndez's "Misa de Corpus       Christi."
It symbolizes the       progress my city and country has made in the last decade" (IMP3).
There were also benefits on the wider school community.
The Rector of       Instituto Laredo attests:       `[The Misa project] gave rise to a series of very special       phenomena.
These phenomena       accelerated the internal dynamic in the institution and among the people,       and were of great       usefulness for the development of team relations, as well as academic and       technical; trust, love of       collective and mutual work, development of personal confidence.
Although       students pass through       and the student body constantly renews itself, there remains in the memory       of the teachers and in       the collective memory of the community and of the institution ... a symbol       of what we can do when       we pursue things for their own goodness.'
(IMP2).
The community       that supports Laredo -       logistically, morally and as concert audiences &#8212; gained in cohesion (IMP2).
Even non-participating       students were inspired; as one such student reports, `that year was the       best ....
Still now I       remember the words, the melody, the entry of the voices, the entries of       some instruments, and       even though I wasn't in the orchestra or the choir I knew everyone's       parts.
My favourite was Agnus       Dei; pity I wasn't singing, but all the same I repeated everything and it       was exciting each time it       started again.
Three years have gone by and I still love this whole thing'       (student, now 5th Year       secondary) (IMP6).
And another student states: `At playtime you       could hear people singing bits of       Misa .... [Three years on] when we at school start remembering       various moments, it always gets in       that we sang in Misa de Corpus Christi.
I don't think this       experience will be forgotten for a long       time, since even on the streets you hear people talk about Misa'       (student, now 5th year secondary)       (IMP6).
Impact of the performance     Total audiences of c. 3,400 people attended six performances of Misa       in 2010 and 2011.
The       premi&#232;re, conducted by Fern&#225;ndez, was held at El Campo [conference hall].
People queued for       hours to gain admission, and the normal seating of 800 had to be increased       to 1000.
Further       performances were conducted by Augusto Guzm&#225;n. For the second performance,       on a Sunday       morning in the historic village of Tarata, traffic came to a standstill       beforehand and afterwards, the       local restaurants ran out of food, and the church had large numbers of       people standing in the       corridors (IMP2).
For the third performance at Cochabamba       Cathedral, the presence of people       standing in the wings and central corridor suggest an attendance of c.       1,700.
Footage of the       performances shows a high level of audience engagement, with queues       forming to greet the       performers, as shown in a documentary specially made about the event by a       local production       company, Terranova Audiovisual (IMP7).
As one student remembers,       `People who were total       strangers to us all rose to their feet to applaud us and idolised us' (IMP6).
Building on the success       of these earlier performances, Misa went on tour in 2011 leading       to performances at three       additional venues in La Paz and Cochabamba, promoted by Cochabamba's       Philharmonic Society.
Instituto Laredo as a whole benefited from a sea-change in the quality of       interpersonal relations.
As one students recalls, `[it] created ties between us all ... we became       more than friends ... you       could say we considered ourselves as each other's brother or sister' (IMP6).
See also Rector's       statement quoted above (IMP2).
The benefit to collegiality is       perceived by many to be matched by       a noticeable contribution to the development of musicianship and music       appreciation: `Now, my       thinking about music is that no matter how complicated or "senseless" a       work might seem to us,       once you let yourself be enveloped by it it's the most beautiful thing,       and it is accepted by others       when you show this' (student, now 5th year secondary) (IMP6).
Misa also affected a wider network of around 2,000 parents,       friends, supporters and alumni       (IMP9), and it had a recognised impact on the community: `[Misa]       led people to rethink the       participation we allow art music [to have] in our lives ....
Suddenly,       this art music no longer is the       exclusive heirloom of the Bolivian elites; we cast off the idea that it is       boring or incomprehensible       or inaccessible; it becomes democratised in the act of putting itself       within reach of everyone ...
I       have not the slightest doubt that Misa de Corpus Christi       contributed to the formation of the       aesthetic sensibility of our society and to social harmony' (Paula Mu&#241;oz,       then Culture Editor of       national broadsheet Los Tiempos) (IMP4).
Press coverage was unusually generous before and after the event.
The       national broadsheet Los         Tiempos put up an audio-visual clip of the premi&#232;re in its online       edition; while the print edition       contained a large photograph of the performers (front page) and a review       article, `Fern&#225;ndez       Surprises and Conducts his Own Mass'.
The review stated: `A journey, the       journey, life in three       beats, dreams, solitudes, nostalgias and hopes, every feeling, sigh, moist       eyes and explosion of       applause.
Such is the summary of the experience of an audience on its       feet, smiling and euphoric,       which last night shook the hall of Conventions Centre El Campo at the       performance of the       composition Misa de Corpus Christi by Bolivian composer Agust&#237;n Fern&#225;ndez.
With this work       Instituto Laredo celebrated 50 years of music, voice and spirit alongside       a humanistic education'       (IMP8).
An article in Los Tiempos's supplement states:       `Agust&#237;n Fern&#225;ndez, one of Cochabamba's       prodigal sons, has been able to construct a space of his own outside the       trends of classical or       contemporary music.
In his works he integrates diverse instruments and       sounds, many of them       Bolivian, from a universal perspective.
His music is of a great       versatility.
For the uninitiated, we       could say that "he transcends beauty".
More than universal, he is a       composer who is planetary and       without borders' (IMP8).
Coda: continuing impact     Misa de Corpus Christi looks set to sustain and extend the reach       of its impact.
Augusto Guzm&#225;n,       Director of Instituto Laredo's Youth Orchestra, has stated his intention       to institute a tradition of       annual performances of Misa in Cochabamba and beyond (IMP5).
