     In light of the research findings from Gatenby's work detailed above, she       and other staff members within Sport, Health &amp; Nutrition established       the Leeds Trinity Cooking Communities Project.
This was a four year       project (October, 2007 - November, 2011) funded by the All Saints       Education Trust (&#163;125,000) and the Big Lottery Fund/Local Food (&#163;10,000).
The Cooking Communities Project established a series of school-based       community cooking clubs (17 in total) in disadvantaged areas of West       Yorkshire, and aimed to develop young people's (11-18 years) food       preparation and cooking skills while also enhancing their understanding of       different generational and ethnic cultures.
These clubs delivered 10 week       cooking courses (to approximately 250 children), which were led by food       technology teachers and `cooking champions'.
These cooking champions were       older adults (between 50 and 85 years) from the local community who       volunteered to take part in the project (25 took part in total).
The impact of the Cooking Communities Project can be summarised in the       following areas:     Nutritional Awareness: The project was successful in increasing       the practical cooking skills and nutritional knowledge of both the       children and cooking champions, helping to promote an awareness of healthy       eating.
The after-school cooking clubs succeeded in increasing pupils'       enthusiasm and skills in food preparation and cooking.
Interest in       cultural foods and cooking increased among those who participated in the       project, in addition to an increase in the frequency of cooking at home as       well.
Importantly, the older adults who volunteered as cooking champions       also increased their food knowledge.
For example, there was an increase in       the number of Champions making spicy and Asian foods at home after the       pilots.
One of the cooking champions commented: "I have thoroughly enjoyed       being part of this pilot project; it has been a learning curve for me.
I       can now make a hot curry sauce and use spices I have not tried before and       which I will continue to use."
Community cohesion: By bringing together children and older adults       from the community, social barriers were broken down and the level of       respect between generations increased.
Furthermore, involving community       elders in this manner increased their sense of self-worth and contribution       to their community.
The project team established links with local       charities/organisations within the community, such as Caring         Together in Little London and Woodhouse, Meanwood Elderly, STEP (Supporting         the Elderly People) and the Extended         Services Inner North West Hub to recruit these cooking champions.
Before the cooking clubs, the cooking champions reported young people to       be `loud and bad mannered' and `intimidating when in groups on the       street', whereas after being involved in the projected they reported that       young people are `fun, energetic and enthusiastic.'
One Cooking Champion       commented: "Best bit was spending time with a group of young people, they       were keen to learn and it was great to help and be part of this project."
Local economic activity: The cooking clubs also helped to support       local businesses and stimulate local economic activity.
All ingredients       used in the cooking clubs were provided freely to the schools.
Importantly, all ingredients were sourced from local suppliers such as Doorstep Organics and Sykes House Farm, and from       community based projects such as Fresh         `n' Fruity (a lottery funded initiative that provides affordable       fruit and vegetables by establishing market stalls in deprived       communities).
During the course of the project over &#163;6,000 was spent at       these outlets, providing significant financial support to local businesses       and helping to educate children and their families about the benefits of       local food.
Educational training &amp; course development: Alongside the       afterschool cooking clubs, a range of educational training resources were       developed and freely distributed to schools across Yorkshire and       Humberside.
These resources included information regarding nutritional       guidelines, hygiene training and recipe packs, and were designed to allow       schools to establish their own cooking clubs.
To date, over 150 resource       packs have been dispatched to schools across Yorkshire and Humberside.
Furthermore, the course materials developed as part of the Cooking       Communities Project have been used in the development and delivery (by       Gatenby) of a Food Specialism Training Course for Higher Level Teaching       Assistants (HLTA) run by Leeds Trinity University.
