     Perry is a founding member of the International Centre for Mental       Toughness Development, which is run by AQR Ltd, an international test       publisher and business consultancy.
As a group, there are currently       several key current projects demonstrating an educational impact.
The validation of the MTQ48 has proved important for a number of       educational bodies who use it as routine.
For example the Institute of       Leadership &amp; Management (ILM) is the UK's largest management body,       combining industry-leading qualifications and specialist member services.
In 2011, 90,000 people gained an ILM qualification.
The MTQ48 is available       free of charge to its members and is incorporated into a number of their       courses.
Also, in 2011, Dubai Women's College established the Middle       East's first mental toughness centre for education.
This will act as a hub       for the International Centre for Mental Toughness Development in the       U.A.E.
There are presently several ongoing funded projects to demonstrate the       educational impact.
These include:     Right Track Project- Department for Education funding was awarded       to `Reach for the Right Track' project (http://www.reachfor.org.uk/right-track-project)       to address the Improving Outcomes Theme 6 priority: Early intervention to       increase participation by, and improve the achievements of, disadvantaged       young people.
Right Track is an initiative delivering bespoke packages of       support to 4,500 young people (school years 6, 9, 10 and 11) from across       the United Kingdom, including Mental Toughness assessments (validated by       Perry) and a ten-week coaching programme (developed by Dr. Clough at       University of Hull) in order to improve attainment, attendance, behaviour       and ultimately progression of the target cohort.
Initial evaluation has       shown that 49% of the sample increased their mental toughness over this       time period.
Of this group, the average increase in mental toughness was       19%.
The impact of this was that those indicating a desire to study       full-time after year 11 rose from 17% to 28%, pupils indicating that they       liked being at school rise from 53% to 60%, and pupils believing that       "teachers are always getting at me" dropped from 40% to 29%.
Teacher       feedback was similarly positive, suggesting that 45% of pupils improved       their behaviour, 33% improved their attendance, and 46% improved their       work in class.
Indeed, attendance data highlights that of those pupils       with attendance below 85% at the beginning of the project, 73% improved       their attendance (on average, by 6.2%).
The main input from Perry in this project is two-fold.
Firstly, he       conducted the statistical analysis from the first phase of the project.
Secondly, he has been central to the development and validation of a       career management tool, "Carrus", which assesses ability and       behaviour-based personality traits, creating reports to help career       management for young people, which is to be provided alongside the MTQ48.
Greater Merseyside Connexions (GMC) have started a 3-year project working       with 3,900 vulnerable young people mostly aged 14-16.
The purpose is to       identify ways of preventing these becoming labelled as NEETs (Not in       Education, Employment or Training).
It includes people in public care,       people with a learning difficulty and young offenders.
GMC are keen to       work with Leeds Trinity to improve the behaviour and attendance of the       young people, and to help them acquire qualifications and employment, by       testing and improving mental toughness.
HULT International Business School run the biggest international MBA       programme in the world across 6 campuses; London, Boston, San Francisco,       Shanghai, Dubai and Sao Paulo.
They are about to open a seventh in New       York.
For the last year they have been using the MTQ48 on all students at       the beginning and end of their MBA and are then tracking their employment       post- graduation.
Mental toughness is not just beneficial to students, but to teachers       also.
Teaching Leaders (TL) is an organisation aiming to develop what they       refer to as "middle leaders" to enable them to take up more senior       positions in education.
There are currently around 200 middle leaders on       the TL Fellows programme.
They are regularly assessed by themselves and       peers against a competency framework to track their development.
They are       also participating in a project with Perry and Clough to assess their       mental toughness throughout the period and they have received training to       enhance this mindset.
Halfway through the project, one year in,       performance against the competencies has significantly improved in all       areas.
Analysis conducted and presented by Perry show that this is       partially attributable to mental toughness.
From his work on mental toughness and the impact on education, Perry was       invited to give a day's training to the Oman Ministry of Higher Education       at London South Bank University in November 2013.
Further, he has been       asked to conduct additional research regarding higher education in       partnership with City and Guilds in 2014 across several nations in the       middle east.
