     Monitoring of short-term outcomes using VLADs is now conducted within       many adult cardiac       surgery centres in the UK and other countries, including India (Sri       Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology,       Bangalore; since 2010), Singapore (National University Heart Centre; since       2009), Greece       (Onassis Cardiac Surgery Center, Athens; since 2011) and Sweden (&#214;rebro       and Linkoping       University Hospitals; since 2010).
The technique has impacted on surgical       units as it allows them       to analyse and compare the performance of individual surgeons and ensures       that any appropriate       action relating to an unexpected increase in mortality can rapidly be       taken.
One UK-based surgeon       informed us that VLADs are "invaluable for quality assurance" within his       cardiac unit and give him       "great confidence in the overall performance of surgeons and the unit"       [A].
In 2011, the Society for       Cardiothoracic Surgery in Great Britain &amp; Ireland (SCTS) reported a       "50% reduction in risk-adjusted       mortality in the United Kingdom in recent years" as a result of the       collection, analysis,       benchmarking and feeding back of robust data on clinical outcomes for the       purposes of quality       improvement [B], which is facilitated in part by the use of VLADs.
The       SCTS also believes that       these improved processes are the cause of the reduction in recent years of       damaging cardiac       surgeon suspensions and restrictions of practice, as they lead to       "detection of potential problems at       an early stage, allowing implementation of strategies to improve outcomes       before any restriction of       practice or suspension may be needed."
[B]     In paediatric cardiac surgery, software developed by CORU (which uses       VLADs with the PRAiS       risk model) was sold under licence in 2013 to all 12 UK (NHS and private)       centres performing this       type of surgery, and is being used by them for routine monitoring of       outcomes.
This use of VLADs       has been incorporated by NHS England into the quality assurance checklist       they developed for       commissioners of paediatric surgery services [C].
The relevant national       audit body, NICOR, has       also purchased the software and used it in their comparative analysis of       outcomes in the 10       English centres [D], which followed the suspension of paediatric cardiac       surgery at Leeds General       Infirmary in April 2013.
Their analysis indicated that there were no       `safety' problems in any of the       centres [D].
Outside of cardiac surgery, VLADs have found use in the       monitoring of surgical wound       infection rates at University College Hospital in London, and the       monitoring of mortality rates within       the general adult Intensive Care Unit at Waikato Hospital in New Zealand.
NHS Blood and Transplant uses VLADs (together with CUSUM charts) on a       national level to       monitor early outcomes of all transplants undertaken in the UK's 23       kidney, 8 pancreas, 7       cardiothoracic and 7 liver transplantation units [E].
Each significant       change in the rate of mortality       or graft failure generates a signal that leads to an investigation.
For       example, in 2011 monitoring       indicated that Royal Brompton &amp; Harefield NHS Foundation Trust had       experienced more deaths       than expected following heart transplants.
This prompted an external       review conducted by two       senior clinicians, and the eight recommendations of this review have now       been implemented by the       trust [F].
These included developing "a consensus approach to the       management of primary graft       dysfunction and failure", and making sure that "cardiothoracic retrieval       surgeons at the donor       operation are made aware of any need for delay so as to ensure minimised       ischaemic times".
In       the 2011 UK Liver Transplant Audit, VLAD charts revealed that no       significant deviation from       expected mortality had occurred in paediatric centres since 2008, but that       a significant change had       occurred in January 2011 in the Newcastle adult centre, which led to that       centre conducting an       internal review of its service [G].
Since March 2009, VLADs have been used by the Veterans Health       Administration (VHA), a       component of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the       USA's largest integrated       health care system, serving over 8.3 million veterans each year.
VLAD       charts are incorporated into       the VHA's national quality improvement project to monitor mortality on       acute medical and surgical       units at 127 VHA centres.
Charts are updated on a quarterly basis and made       available to       managers or analysts at centres as part of a quarterly report package.
To       help these users       interpret the information, the VHA prepared educational materials in       November 2010 and has held       several training sessions since June 2009.
The VLAD chart is "well       perceived by managers for its       ease of use and its ability to alert users to investigate care process       during a specific period."
The       VHA has informed UCL that it is not possible to isolate the contribution       of VLAD in improving       mortality since it is part of a national quality improvement program that       involves other tools and       improvement strategies, but that they have seen an "improvement in       mortality over time and       consider VLAD an important tool that signals periods needing       investigation" [H].
Since 2007, VLADs have been a component of the UK Care Quality       Commission's (CQC)       nationwide surveillance programme, in which they are used as a       presentational tool to guide       interpretation.
Within this programme the CQC monitors a selection of       outcomes (including       maternity and emergency re-admissions indicators) across all 163 acute NHS       hospitals in England,       in addition to adverse events in other care sectors such as adult social       care and mental health.
The       CQC has handled over 650 alerts under this programme; in recent years       60-70% of these alerts       have led to improvement plans being implemented in NHS trusts [I].
Improvement plans included       those for "better management of patient fluid balance, the complete       redesign of patient pathways,       improved identification of early warning signs and more efficient links       with primary and community       care" [I].
In one case, an alert identified high mortality among patients       admitted with a hip fracture.
The trust reviewed their care for these patients and identified remediable       problems at specific       points in patients' care; to address these they developed and shared an       improvement plan [I].
The enhanced approach to VLAD charting devised by Sherlaw-Johnson       (reference [3] above) was       adopted in 2007 by Queensland Government's Department of Health as part of       their clinical       governance framework; VLADs were introduced into the state's largest       public and private hospitals       as a major part of the Queensland Health Patient Safety and Quality       Improvement Service.
This       was followed by a partnership between Queensland Health (QH) and the       software company Opus       5K to develop the VLAD Clinical Monitoring (VLAD CM) IT system, which       enabled QH to deploy       VLAD charting in over 64 Queensland hospitals in October 2009, where it is       currently used to       monitor 34 clinical indicators [J].
On-going rigorous reviews of       indicators are conducted by VLAD       Indicator Review Working Groups [J, K].
The Queensland Government's VLAD Policy (2012) [J] governs the use of       VLADs within QH and       details the following procedure: VLAD CM disseminates monthly VLAD charts       to hospitals,       indicating where predetermined levels of variation in patient outcomes are       exceeded and flagging       issues for further review.
Hospitals are required to investigate why flags       have occurred and submit       a response within 30 days.
In 2010-11, around 1,000 VLAD charts were       disseminated each month,       the Queensland Health Peak Safety and Quality Committee VLAD Subcommittee       reviewed 382       hospital investigation reports written in response to flags, and 300       clinical reviews by hospital staff       occurred as a result of VLADs [L].
The use of VLADs has resulted in the       implementation of       numerous quality initiatives within Queensland hospitals, leading to       improvements in areas such as       discharge processes, clinician documentation and resource allocation [K].
