     The University of Huddersfield's research into Lady Anne Clifford and her       Great Books of Record has helped inform the broader popular debate       about the period in which she lived, particularly with regard to       challenging cultural and gender stereotypes, and has generated both       regional and national interest in her life, her achievements and her       enduring significance.
This is evidenced by widespread successful       engagement with the public, the media and other stakeholders and by shifts       in Lady Anne's portrayal by the tourism, heritage and culture industries.
The work has generated renewed public interest in Lady Anne in what she       always termed "the lands of my inheritance" &#8212; the vast areas of Craven,       Yorkshire, and Westmorland, Cumbria, in which she continues to be revered       in folk memory.
For example, it served as the catalyst for the Great         Books and the Great Picture, a triptych commissioned by Lady       Anne in 1646 to mark her final succession to her inheritance, being       exhibited together in public for the first time.
Entitled Anne         Clifford's Great Picture and her Great Books of Record, the event,       held at Abbot Hall Art Gallery in Kendal, Cumbria, ran from May till       September 2012.
It attracted more than 7,600 visitors and was accompanied       by two public lectures &#8212; the first by Malay and the second by Professor       Patricia Phillippy, of Kingston University, before a combined audience of       more than 150 &#8212; as well as the production of 1,500 copies of a       complementary publication, Anne Clifford: A Life in Portrait and Print,       written by Malay and published by the University of Huddersfield, Abbot       Hall Art Gallery, Cumbria County Council and the Leverhulme Trust [a, b].
Attracting a total audience of almost 250, public lectures have also been       delivered at (among others) Austwick Field and Local History Society,       Austwick, North Yorkshire (April 2011); the University of Huddersfield       Centre in Barnsley, South Yorkshire (April 2011); the University of       Huddersfield Centre in Oldham, Lancashire (May 2011); and Kent History and       Library Centre, Maidstone, Kent (April 2013).
The tourism, heritage and culture industries have directly benefited from       the increased public interest generated by these outreach efforts, as well       as from the research itself.
The administrator at Skipton Castle, North       Yorkshire, where Lady Anne was born, has described Malay's work as "of       great importance in unearthing and illuminating [Lady Anne's] life",       adding: "[It] has changed the way that she is viewed and portrayed by the       heritage industry."
[c].
The president of the Friends of Cumbria Archives       has praised Malay's work as "a fascinating and original insight into one       of Cumbria's most important archives, its contemporary and current       significance and the culture and genealogical influences which lay behind       its compilation" [d].
Malay gave public lectures at Skipton Castle in May       2011 and to the Friends of Cumbria Archives in December 2011.
Wider public awareness of Lady Anne has been achieved through significant       media outreach.
This has included high-profile appearances by Malay on BBC       Radio 4's Woman's Hour, broadcast in August 2012 to an estimated       audience of around three million listeners and still available via BBC       iPlayer [e], and ITV's Great Houses, presented by Downton         Abbey creator Julian Fellowes and attracting an audience of more       than two million [f].
Acknowledging the research's challenging of       historical stereotypes, Radio 4 previewed its feature on Lady Anne by       noting: "Virginia Woolf once claimed that no woman could have become a       successful writer in the time of Shakespeare, yet Dr Jessica Malay has       spent the last three years transcribing the work of a very interesting       Renaissance female author."
Stories generated throughout the course of the research have appeared       both locally and nationally, including in Ancestors Magazine       (March 2010), the Craven Herald (March 2011) and The Observer       (March 2013).
The comments section of the latter's online version is       illustrative of the kind of debate prompted by the work, with contributors       discussing Lady Anne's cultural relevance, her continuing influence and       her importance (or otherwise) to the cause of feminism &#8212; as well as       requesting further information about the research and related lectures       [g].
Circulated in August 2012, a press release entitled `Great Books       reveal how Renaissance women fought men and won' was published by a range       of websites and blogs, including Science Daily [h], Women of History [i]       and Feimineach, reflecting the broad appeal of the research and its       insights.
A YouTube video in which Malay discusses the research was viewed       more than 200 times between uploading in May 2012 and the end of the       impact period [j].
