     The main impact of Cort&#233;s research arises from the development of policy       and law that enhances       the out-of-court redress options available to consumers, particularly for       those who participate in the       digital market from where a huge number of disputes arise.
Cort&#233;s main       contribution comes from a       tender that he won from the European Commission, the goal of which was to       assist the       Commission in the drafting of two legislative proposals: (i) the Directive       2013/11/EU on Consumer       Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) and, (ii) the Regulation 524/2013 on       Consumer Online       Dispute Resolution (ODR).
The deliverables of this consultation service       were the writing of a report       advising on the European Commission on legal provisions that should be       included in the proposed       legislation as well as on the viability of its implementation.
Following       on from this, Cort&#233;s not only       assisted in the drafting of the Regulation, but also provided feedback,       commentary and suggested       wording for the Directive, informed by the research he had conducted in       preparing his monograph       (3.1).
He provided overall direction for the team (Prof Fernando       Esteban de la Rosa, Universidad       de Granada, and Prof Julia Hornle, Queen Mary, London) with whom he       co-authored the report       that was submitted to the European Commission in three stages.
Cort&#233;s also       commented directly       on the working legislative drafts and participated in many email       exchanges, telephone       conferences, and various face to face meetings in Brussels with the       members of the European       Commission in charge of drafting the above legislative texts.
The final       report has 167 pages and       was distributed by the European Commission to the European Parliament and       the European       Council (5.7).
Cort&#233;s was also invited in 2012 to speak in the European Parliament (EP)       as one of four experts at       a public hearing in front of the MEPs of the IMCO Committee (Internal       Market and Consumer       Protection), which considered the EP amendments to the proposals published       by the Commission.
His presentation and slides are available online on the EP website (5.2).
He was also interviewed       by the MEP Rapporteur for the ODR Regulation, R&#243;&#380;a Gr&#228;fin, who was in       charge of introducing the       amendments in the EP.
Many of the amendments proposed by Cort&#233;s (5.2)       were later introduced       by the EP and the European Council as well as in the recommendations made       in an independent       report commissioned by the EP (5.2).
Cort&#233;s is now in the UK       Government Department of       Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) list of stakeholders, whose role is       to advise the UK       government in the implementation of the Directive on Consumer ADR into       domestic law.
When the European Commission issued its Impact Assessment Working Paper,       which justified its       decision to legislate in this particular area, it specifically referenced       Cort&#233;s' monograph (3.1); this       was the only academic output cited in the Working Paper (5.1).
The       Irish Law Commission also       referenced his monograph in its report on Alternative Dispute Resolution (5.5).
The Head of Unit B4 Financial Services and Redress stated "Mr Pablo         Cortes was contracted         during 2011 and 2012 by the European Commission to provide consultation         services regarding the         development of common criteria on Online Dispute Resolution.
His work         has been considered,         amongst other inputs, during the preparatory phase of the legislative         proposal on Online Dispute         Resolution."
(5.3) Many of the recommendations made by Cort&#233;s       can be traced from his       monograph, to the report, and to the legislative texts.
In general, the       conclusions of his monograph       (calling for the drafting of a European Regulation on ODR to ensure       quality standards for ADR and       ODR providers) have been clearly reflected in the EU legislation -see       preambles and both articles       1 of the ADR Directive and the ODR Regulation (5.6).
Further examples of Cort&#233;s' recommendations being adopted vis-&#224;-vis       increasing awareness,       regulating best practices, and encouraging the growth of ODR systems       within the EU include:            The need to increase awareness of ODR (Arts.
1 of the ADR Directive         and ODR         Regulation).
Accreditation of ADR/ODR providers (Art.
19 of the ADR Directive).
Consumers should access ODR for free or at a low-cost (Art.
8 of the         Directive; and Art.
5(2) of the Regulation).
Requirements for third neutral parties (Arts.
6-9 of the Directive).
The involvement of the European Consumer Centres (ECC-Net) and the         European         Commission in managing the ODR Platform and ensuring compliance of ODR         providers         (Art.
14 of the Directive and Art.
7 of the Regulation).
Privacy and user information (Recital 29 and art.
17(4) of the         Directive).
Submission of reports to the ECC-Net (Art.
19 of the Directive).
The impact of Cort&#233;s' research has also been reflected through his       invitation to collaborate with       UNCITRAL Working Group III which, similarly to the EU, is contributing to       the development of the       legal framework for the promotion of ODR mechanisms.
Here again, his       monograph prompted an       invitation from UNCITRAL to become a member of an expert-group.
He       assisted UNCITRAL during       the first drafting process of procedural rules suitable for resolving       low-value cross-border disputes       arising from e-commerce.
The expert group meeting took place at the UN in       Vienna from the 28       February to 1 March 2011.
Cort&#233;s also attended a plenary meeting in New       York in May 2011 with       all the delegations of UNCITRAL and participated as an expert, in the       category of observer and       member of the NGO The Internet Bar Organisation.
He additionally       participated in many group-telephone       conferences with various delegations (i.e.
country-representatives) of       UNCITRAL (5.4).
His main contribution has been assisting in the drafting of UN ODR rules       that are compatible with       the EU approach to consumer protection, thereby strengthening the       extrajudicial redress options of       European consumers, making it easier for those making online purchases       from any website (not       just from eBay) to enforce their legal rights.
