     The Language in Conflict team has applied its research to a number of       initiatives aimed at bringing linguistic knowledge and understanding to       practitioners in the field.
The first main activity undertaken was the       development and management of a Language in Conflict website intended both       as a linguistic resource for mediators and as a meeting point for       linguists and practitioners.
The other was the development and       implementation of a series of linguistic workshops for community mediators       around the country.
The Language in Conflict website [a] and Twitter feed [b] have attracted       users and followers from the UK and other countries, including Spain and       the US.
Launched on January 28 2013, the website features a set of       learning materials (the linguistic toolbox) and articles written by       members of the Language in Conflict team, conflict professionals and       students of conflict studies [a].
Twelve articles were uploaded to the       site by the end of July 2013, and more continue to be published.
The       articles published have begun to generate discussion in the comments       sections and have been publicised through social networks.
To further       encourage future contributions to the website and other cross-disciplinary       projects, as well as bringing about new interest in training workshops,       the research team has tweeted about issues relating to language and       conflict on a regular basis and used Twitter as a means of finding       contacts and discussing issues with followers from both fields.
By the end       of July 2013 the website had over a hundred registered users, with the       homepage generating over 500 hits and more than 2,000 page views,       including views of the linguistic toolbox pages.
The Language in Conflict       Twitter feed had over 160 followers by the same date and has continued to       grow significantly as the team converses with others and receives       re-tweets of links to Language in Conflict articles.
The project has been       recognised at high levels, including the All-Party Parliamentary Group on       Conflict Issues, whose advisor has acknowledged the "exciting implications       for both the theory of conflict and the delivery of new skills for       practitioners and policymakers" [c].
Training workshops have so far been held in Belfast, Cambridge, London       and Huddersfield and have involved more than a hundred participants from       organisations such as Brighton and Hove Independent Mediation Service,       Cambridge and District Community Mediation, the College of Mediators,       Common Ground East London Mediation, Kirklees Council, Leeds City Council,       Manchester Mediation Services, Mediation Northern Ireland and Yorkshire       Mediation Services.
Continuing (unsolicited) bookings in South London,       Bournemouth, Oxford, Dumfries and Edinburgh attest to the spread from one       region to another of community mediators' enthusiasm for the project.
Feedback from participants is collected at each workshop, and the       following graph demonstrates responses to three questions asked of       participants during the impact period.
Feedback from 91 workshop attendees at Belfast, Huddersfield,         Cambridge, London and Brighton workshops.
(5 = agree strongly, 1 =         disagree strongly)          Individual feedback has been extremely positive and illustrates how       workshop participants have gone on to apply Language in Conflict's methods       in their own work.
For example, a representative of Mediation Northern       Ireland has remarked: "Since the workshop I have been more alert to the       use of phrases such as `protestant unionist loyalist', a commonly used       phrase here in Northern Ireland that we have accepted into common       parlance, which labels a group of people in a way that makes assumptions       and closes down inquiry."
[d] A mediator with Common Ground, a community       mediation and conflict resolution organisation in East London, has noted:       "I have actively incorporated the notion of `opposition', as introduced to       Common Ground by Language in Conflict, into aspects of my work.
The       idea... has lent to heightened awareness of choice of words and choice of       focus during work with disputes."
[e] All of Common Ground's mediator       documents now use Language in Conflict's concept of "opposition" to assist       in outlining means of conflict resolution.
Other organisations have       acknowledged Language in Conflict's role in facilitating "all stages of       mediation and planning" (Cambridge and District Community Mediation) and       as "training material/reading to add to core mediation training" (Brighton       and Hove Independent Mediation Service).
One independent mediator       commented: "I really enjoyed the workshops and the material...
It would       really help me develop practice to be able to engage with you and gain       more understanding in linguistics."
A representative of Yorkshire       Mediation Services said: "[The workshop] introduced concepts helpful to me       as a mediator."
Language in Conflict and the research that underpins it have also been       successfully promoted to other audiences.
Jeffries wrote an article on the       subject for Babel, the recently-launched language magazine she       co-edits with Huddersfield colleague Dan McIntyre, which has a growing       readership around the world [f].
She also wrote a piece on the importance       of linguistics in understanding political decision-making, including an       analysis of the "skivers versus strivers" opposition, for the April 2013       edition of Political Insight magazine, whose readership is made up       of academics and non-academics with an interest in research with political       implications [g].
In July 2013 Jeffries twice appeared on BBC Radio 4's Word         of Mouth programme, which has an audience of 1.5 million, to discuss       ideas related to the project [h, i,].
A Word of Mouth producer       acknowledged the research's assistance in conveying seemingly complex       concepts to a wider audience, remarking: "Some of the analysis is quite       sophisticated and harder to explain... [but Jeffries'] explanation was a       really useful addition to a programme on political soundbites."
[j]
