     The Language Unlocked service that developed out of the University of       Huddersfield's research into corpus stylistics has applied the team's       findings and insights to assist public, private, third-sector and       non-governmental organisations.
As a result, the research has been used to       inform strategic decision-making, communicate organisational strategies       and help realise long-term aims.
The research has enhanced unions' understanding of their negative       representation in the media and how they might reverse this trend.
In 2012       Unions21, a think tank whose work is centred on the future of the union       movement, asked the research team to examine the portrayal of unions and       the TUC in British newspapers.
The goal was to provide advice to press       officers and key officials on how to encourage more objective       representation.
Two specially constructed corpora of news reports       containing references to unions and/or the TUC were analysed using       computer software combined with critical stylistic techniques.
In February 2013 a draft report of the analysis was presented to Unions21       and distributed to members of its steering committee [a].
The Language       Unlocked team was subsequently invited to present its key findings at       Unions21's 20th-anniversary conference, which was held in March       2013 and attended by almost a hundred delegates.
Unions21's Director has       remarked: "We know that unions use the information Unions21 provides to       reflect on the way they work and to `change to be fit for the 21st       century'...
The remit of the Unions21 annual conference is to examine the       most pressing issues for unions.
Putting the research at the heart of our       conference gave prominence to the issue of union image and the importance       of media language use to this."
The conference presentation led in turn to       a request to write an article for the Union News website [b].
Further       findings from the research were presented to the 17 members of the       Unions21 steering committee in April 2013, with members agreeing that the       work had enhanced awareness of the continued negative representation of       unions in the British press.
Plans to continue the research partnership       are under discussion [c].
Language Unlocked has also helped refine the Green Party's campaign       messages.
In the run-up to the May 2013 local elections the party asked       the research team to analyse the use of `Green Party', `green',       `environmental' and `sustainable' in news reporting in the British press.
Three corpora of reports containing reference to green issues were       constructed and analysed, resulting in a draft report whose findings were       delivered to the party in December 2012.
Copies went to the party's Policy       and Research Officer, Public Relations Officer, National Office Press       Officer and External Communications Coordinators.
The research was used to       support the research team's advice about particular wording in a new       vision statement for the party.
In February 2013 the findings were presented to delegates at the party's       spring conference, held at the East Midlands Conference Centre, Nottingham       [d].
Among the audience were representatives from an advertising agency       working with the party during the run-up to the elections.
The agency used       the report as evidence to support some of its marketing strategies and       later remarked in an email to the research team that it was "really useful       [and] highly relevant to the work we are doing in preparation for the       local party election broadcast... [The research] rightly identifies that,       given the media's blackout of coverage of any Green Party policy       programmes aside from environmental issues, it is vital that we use       election broadcast opportunities to put across our wider agenda, which is       relevant to the immediate concerns of local voters" [e].
The findings       subsequently informed scripting decisions for the party's county election       broadcast and have been incorporated into its overall communications       strategy around policies and the media.
The party's Policy and Research       Officer has acknowledged the research's role in "developing awareness in       the party of the crucial importance of language to effective       communication", adding: "The insights... have helped to bring a more       scientific approach to using language to communicate the values and vision       that the Green Party represents."
[f] The party's then CEO has confirmed:       "We found [the research] to be applicable immediately in understanding the       representation of our organisation in the media, and this has influenced       our approach to self-representation in press releases and public       documents."
[g]     The research has also been successfully applied in the private sector.
In       2012 Intensichem Ltd, based in Sandwich, Kent, asked the Language Unlocked       team to provide copy for a press advert that would emphasise the company's       focus on delivering scalable chemical flow processes.
The team proposed an       approach based around a strapline for the company rather than a full-text       advert and employed the British National Corpus, a database of 100,000,000       words of written and spoken British English, to test the denotational and       connotational meanings of lexical items in that strapline.
The aim was to       avoid the possibility of negative semantic prosody (i.e.
negative       connotations) and maximise the possibility of positive semantic prosody       (i.e.
positive connotations).
In late 2012 the advert was published in Chemistry World, which       is the official publication of the Royal Society of Chemistry and has a       circulation of around 80,000 [h], and Speciality Chemicals       magazine, which has a circulation of around 50,000.
Intensichem confirmed       that they "received verbal feedback from clients that they had seen the       advertisement i.e.
it had been noticed and not dismissed due to its size,       but despite the limited word count, it had still resonated with clients,       current or potential" [i].
