     UoN's novel method of using supercritical carbon dioxide as a medium for       the synthesis and       modification of polymeric materials has resulted in the development of new       drug-delivery devices       and millions of pounds' worth of investment and research collaborations       for the spin-out company,       Critical Pharmaceuticals Ltd (CP).
The method developed from the initial patent [3.i], marketed by CP as       CriticalMix TM, has been used       to produce a human growth hormone (hGH), product CP016.
In October 2008       this sustained       release formulation of the synthetic hGH somatropin successfully completed       preclinical studies in       non-human primates, confirming that CriticalMix TM enables       sustained release of active species &#8212; as       predicted &#8212; and that the therapeutic plasma levels are maintained for       days, weeks or even       months following a single injection [5.1- 5.3].
Given the inherent shortcomings of the conventional hGH treatment       regimen, these results are       highly significant.
hGH is used therapeutically to treat a variety of       diseases &#8212; from growth hormone       deficiency in children and adults to Turners Syndrome and HARS, a syndrome       associated with HIV       infection &#8212; but, due to various physical and biological barriers, it needs       to be injected       subcutaneously every day.
The regimen is strongly disliked by patients and       carers, with studies       showing up to 66% of the former do not adhere to the prescribed routine,       leading to reduced       efficacy and increased healthcare costs.
CP016 needs to be injected only       once every two weeks,       improving clinical outcomes through enhanced efficacy, greater patient       compliance and reduced       side-effects.
A Non-Executive director of CP noted "despite the marked       improvements in needle       and injector pen technology, there remains a sizeable number of patients       who have "needle       phobia" and fail to adhere to the prescribed regimen" and that the       technology "would be an       important addition to the clinician's armamentarium" [5.4].
CP is also engaged in several new projects to increase the utility of       CriticalMix TM including       collaboration with UK biotechnology company PolyTherics Ltd.
This       partnership, launched in 2011       and backed by &#163;350k of Technology Strategy Board funding [5.4], was       initiated to produce a       clinically superior sustained release product that could be administered       less frequently than       currently marketed products, resulting in reduced side-effects and       improved overall efficacy.
The       Chief Executive Officer of PolyTherics has described the collaboration as       "an opportunity to       develop a unique technology... to produce a better product for patients"       [5.5].
In addition in a       collaboration with Ferring Pharmaceuticals which began in 2011, from       pre-clinical results,       CriticalMixTM technology has been shown to "overcome issues of       release of Ferring's molecule       which could not be overcome using standard drug delivery" [5.6].
Both of       these examples       demonstrate the significant impact CriticalMix TM has for       patients.
Working with the UoN research team, CP has developed a second proprietary       technology,       CriticalSorb TM, which allows hGH and other drugs to be       administered using a nasal spray.
CriticalSorb TM is a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient       approved by the Food and Drug       Administration as GRAS ("generally regarded as safe").
It has a Drug       Master File and is used in       currently marketed products as a solubility enhancer for intravenous and       oral administration.
It was       found to be non-toxic in preclinical toxicology studies and was well       tolerated by the nasal mucosa       in acute, 14-day and six-month repeated dose chronic toxicity studies.
It       is not mutagenic to       bacteria, mammalian cells and mammals, and no developmental toxicity or       teratogenicity has been       found.
hGH could previously not be absorbed through the nasal mucosa, but       CriticalSorb TM has       been shown to allow it to be administered intra-nasally &#8212; thereby       completely removing the need for       daily injections.
CriticalSorb TM nderpinned the development of the hGH       treatment CP024, which in July 2012       successfully completed Phase I clinical trials in which it exhibited       similar performance and safety to       marketed products [5.7].
The trials also showed CP024 to be the first       intra-nasal growth hormone       to induce the insulin-like growth factor IGF-1.
This represents a       significant advance in efforts to       treat the disorders related to hGH deficiency outlined above while       obviating the need for injections.
The growth hormone market is currently worth $3.1bn, with more than 10       major manufacturers of       branded and generic daily injectable products.
CP024 is the only       non-invasive growth hormone       product in development, and feedback from leading endocrinologists and       franchise holders       indicates it is an attractive product for patients and physicians.
CriticalSorb TM has also been used in two revenue-generating       research collaborations with       biotechnology companies and in a major collaborative project with       Nottingham's Queen's Medical       Centre, the largest hospital in the UK and Europe's largest teaching       hospital, to evaluate a new       nasal delivery formulation for Teriparatide, a treatment for osteoporosis       [5.8].
This new formulation       is expected to improve the efficacy of the drug and make it more easily       administered as it       eliminates the current need for daily subcutaneous injection.
To date the       collaboration has       demonstrated excellent outcomes in preclinical studies and will start       Phase I clinical trials in       October 2013.
The Head of The Clinical Gerontology Research Unit at       Nottingham University     Hospitals NHS Trust [5.9] expects the nasal teriparatide product to       `significantly benefit patients,       their families, carers and clinicians with improved clinical outcomes and       greatly enhanced ease of       use' and `enable patients to live independently for longer so reducing the       cost of treatment'.
The progress made in exploiting these technologies is in line with the       drug discovery and       development timeline expected when bringing a new drug/therapy to market &#8212;       specifically, up to 15       years from inception.
UoN's research has enabled CP to safeguard nine jobs and has also allowed       expansion, with a       further six staff recruited since 2008.
In the period 2008-2013, CP has       attracted &#163;2.7m in private       investment and venture capital and another &#163;1.9m in R&amp;D funding,       including &#163;1.5m from the       Wellcome Trust (October 2009) [5.10] to develop CriticalSorb TM.
Investors have described CP as       "an exciting opportunity" and "an ideal showcase for the region's       excellence in pharmaceutical       services" [5.11].
A number of revenue-generating research collaborations       have been secured using       the CriticalMixTM technology, including with a leading       European pharmaceutical company, seven       biopharmaceutical companies and two drug-delivery companies.
