     The University of Nottingham (UoN) has led the way in addressing the key       challenge of       establishing Green Chemistry in the developing world.
The joint paper with       Ethiopian researchers       on the cleaner extraction of essential oils from Artemisia Afra       stimulated considerable interest       among the chemistry community in Ethiopia, with subsequent discussions       highlighting not only the       benefits Green Chemistry could bring to the country but also the need to       raise awareness of the       topic among the public, government and industry.
Poliakoff and Licence       have participated in a       range of activities that have changed the curriculum in universities,       informed government policy       and influenced training and services offered by professional bodies and       learned societies.
Increasingly, the benefits of these efforts have been felt across Africa.
Four Green Chemistry Workshops have been organised by UoN, AAU and the       Chemical Society of       Ethiopia during the 2008-2013 period [5.1].
Held in Ethiopia, each has       attracted up to 100 high       school/university students, chemists, chemical engineers from Ethiopian       industry and members of       the general public.
Researchers from Poliakoff and Licence's team have       given talks on their work &#8212; including       research into ionic liquids, reaction optimisation and hydrogenation using       supercritical       fluids &#8212; and have held discussions with students to share experiences.
According to AAU's Dr       Nigist Asfaw, these events have been fundamental in raising Green       Chemistry's wider profile, even       featuring on Ethiopian national television and in the national print       media.
Asfaw has remarked: "It       has been great to see Green Chemistry, which was once an unknown topic in       our country, being       discussed and employed across my country."
[5.2]     Building on the success of the initial research collaboration and the       subsequent workshops, a       British Council DelPHE-funded partnership between AAU's Science Faculty       and UoN's School of       Chemistry was secured.
Showcased as a DelPHE case study in 2010 [5.3], the       arrangement has       continued to deliver benefits throughout the impact period.
Knowledge       transfer between the two       universities, coupled with Licence's appointment as an Adjunct Professor       at AAU, has resulted in a       new course, Introduction to Green Chemistry, for the undergraduate       curriculum.
In addition, PhD       students trained by Poliakoff and Licence have taken up positions at other       Ethiopian universities,       including Jimma, Haramaya, Hawassa and Bahir Dar, where they are now       promoting and initiating       Green Chemistry research.
Licence has also hosted four visiting       researchers in Nottingham as part of       their PhD studies in Ethiopia.
In 2013 the British Council's Director of       Science observed: "A little       over a decade ago the field of Green Chemistry was virtually unknown in       Ethiopia.
Now, as a direct       result of the University of Nottingham's pioneering efforts, it is taught       across the country.
We       consider this to be one of our most successful recent DelPHE projects.
Your work... has given       Ethiopian chemists a sense of empowerment and confidence."
[5.4]     In 2012 the Ethiopian Ministry of Education and UoN reached an agreement       for jointly funded       scholarships for outstanding young Ethiopian academics to undertake       one-year research       programmes at UoN in areas likely to advance the country's development.
Green Chemistry is one       of these areas.
In an August 2013 letter to Poliakoff &#8212; who twice met with       Ethiopia's Deputy Prime       Minister, His Excellency Derek Mekonnen, in 2011 &#8212; the Ethiopian       Ambassador to the UK said:       "His Excellency was most impressed to hear how the ideas of Green       Chemistry are being       incorporated into the curriculum at AAU and other universities... [He] and       I would like to thank you       and your colleagues for your great efforts over nearly 10 years in       increasing the understanding of       science and science education in my country."
[5.5]     The influence of UoN's work has also been felt beyond Ethiopia.
As a       result of his connections with       Nottingham, Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) President Simon Campbell       attended the inaugural       Federation of African Societies of Chemistry (FASC) congress in 2006,       where he announced RSC       would be the first learned and professional organisation to provide       developing countries with free       access to science journal archives.
The current RSC Chief Executive has       described UoN's input as       "critical" to this move, noting: "Your work has transformed how the       concept of Green Chemistry is       perceived and pursued in Africa."
[5.6] Between 2008 and 2013 more than       49,000 journal articles       have been downloaded and 25,000 textbooks and RSC journals distributed to       universities in 12       different African countries &#8212; including 800 to aid the reconstruction of       Liberia University &#8212; under the       Journals for Africa initiative.
The success of the collaboration between FASC and RSC led to the       formation of the Pan-African       Chemistry Network (PACN), including the establishment in 2008 of two hubs       &#8212; one in Addis Ababa.
PACN aims to enhance cooperation between governments, universities,       industry and communities       to help build a sustainable science base across the continent.
The RSC's       CEO has acknowledged       UoN's "significant input" into PACN [5.6], including its contribution to       Wealth Not Waste: Green       Science and Engineering for Sustainable Growth in Africa [5.7], a report       whose cover featured       Poliakoff's Thirteen Principles for Green Chemistry for Africa.
According       to RSC, Wealth Not Waste       has reached an estimated 20,000 scientists and 2,500 global policymakers       since its launch at       launch at the United Nations UNECA CODIST-2 meeting.
Further UoN support       for PACN has       included Licence's participation on the PACN Advisory Board since 2009.
He       has also lectured at       the PACN Sustainable Water Conference, University of Nairobi (August       2009), been a member of       the organising committee for the 1st PACN Green Chemistry Congress       (November 2010) held in       Addis Ababa and sat on the organising group of PACN, Nigeria &#8212; Health       Water and Waste, Lagos       (July 2012).
These interactions have seen Green Chemistry research feature       at the heart of PACN       activities further raising awareness of the topic across Africa.
