     Dr Lloyd's research has made an impact on clinical practice through the       provision of an improved local psychology service so that more than 6,000       diabetes patients now have access to psychological care.
The research has also raised awareness of the importance of psychosocial       factors in diabetes care both in the UK and internationally through       conference presentations and the publication of books and reports (e.g.
http://www.diabetes.org.uk/upload/Reports/South_Asian_report.pdf),       with clinical researchers and practitioner translating the findings of her       research into their own methodologies and clinical studies.
Clinical Research impact     Lloyd's research into the development of questionnaires to measure       knowledge of diabetes has led to her questionnaires being used in research       studies in Bangladesh, Pakistan, University of Taiwan, University of       Kansas, East Carolina University and by clinical psychology PhD students       at Trinity College Dublin.
As psychologist Professor Fitzgerald       (University of Michigan) states, there has been extensive use of Lloyd's       diabetes knowledge questionnaires.
Lloyd's research expertise in recruiting and researching the views of       south Asians is currently (2012 onwards) playing a significant role in the       design and execution of the final two qualitative phases of the national       IMPROVE study of GP satisfaction at Cambridge University Primary Care Unit       at the Institute of Public Health.
A strong feature of Lloyd's research has been to increase awareness for       the need for culturally appropriate survey tools.
She has presented her       research findings at national and international professional and       scientific meetings, and her methods were replicated in a study of       diabetes and mental health in Bangladesh and are currently being tested in       Pakistan.
Her work has informed the design of a new international study on       diabetes and depression, the INTERPRET-DD study, supported by the Dialogue       on Diabetes and Depression (DDD) (http://www.diabetesanddepression.org/structure_participants.html).
Lloyd has conducted workshops where approximately 45 service users and       health care professionals have come together, not only to hear about       research in this area but also to test audio methods of gaining consenting       to take part in research studies and in completing questionnaires.
Service       users have also contributed to the presentations given at the workshops       and supported the subsequent report writing (e.g.
Lloyd, 2010).
Research impact is further demonstrated through three edited books, two       written specifically for practitioners [3.1, 3.2]; the publication of new       recommendations for research and practice, launched at the House of Lords       and Lloyd's contribution to a section of Diapedia, a new online       textbook of diabetes supported by the European Association for the Study       of Diabetes.
Impact is also evidenced by Lloyd's membership of the Editorial Advisory       Board for a new diabetes self-management tool.
Clinical Practice impact &#8212; psychology service     Lloyd's research has informed clinical practice.
Her research into how       stressful experiences leads to poorer diabetic control and poorer mental       health led to the establishment in 1997 of a new psychology service within       the Diabetes Centre, Birmingham Heartlands Hospital, which cares for more       than 6,000 patients with diabetes.
Lloyd designed a new screening tool to       identify patients with diabetes who were having difficulties with their       diabetes control and who were also in need of psychological support.
She       trained the health care professionals within the diabetes clinic to assess       patients for depression and anxiety and, if necessary, to refer them to       the psychology service.
Lloyd's research directly led to her success in       obtaining the initial funding for this service from Novo Nordisk (~&#163;15K),       prior to direct long-term funding from the Heart of England Hospital Trust       at a cost of ~&#163;12k per annum.
Lloyd also contributed to a handbook of       diabetes care for use by health care practitioners.
The international impact     The international impact of Lloyd's research is evidenced firstly through       her involvement in the Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications       (EDC) Study, an ongoing study into the physical and psychosocial       complications of Type 1 diabetes.
Lloyd's involvement spans more than 22       years and includes data collection, writing research papers and       supervising a PhD student.
International impact is further evidenced by her current research with       Dialogue in Diabetes and Depression (DDD), where she chairs the       Epidemiology Working Group.
Through this initiative Lloyd now leads a new       international study bringing together leading psychiatrists and       diabetologists as well as academics in 17 countries: Argentina, Brazil,       Canada, China, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Italy, Kenya, Kuwait, Mexico,       Pakistan, Poland, Russia, Serbia, Thailand, Ukraine.
Public engagement     Lloyd has led workshops and focus groups for service users with diabetes,       for example consultations with women with gestational diabetes, both Type       1 or Type 2 diabetes when designing a new project on diabetes and       pregnancy in white Caucasians and south Asians.
The findings of her       research on knowledge and self-management of diabetes in south Asians were       disseminated through a meeting of service users who had participated in       the research.
