     The impact of our research into development of neural tissue models       involves the adoption of the technologies established by OU researchers       (in international and/or national consortia) by pharmaceutical and       biotechnology companies.
Both technologies addressed specific needs within       the industrial sector, targeted at improving CNS in vitro models.
Adoption of these technologies has benefited industrial partners by       leading to changes in their practice including the use of the technology       for testing CNS drug candidates and the novel application of commercial       products already developed by the company.
The technologies developed at       the OU have thus helped make industrial practices more efficient and       cost-effective and opened up new applications for product placement.
The impact of our research has been global.
Both technologies have been       adopted by many UK-based and international pharmaceutical and       biotechnology companies in Europe, the USA and Japan (see list below).
As       a result of our established international patents, we hold licensing       agreements with companies who can use the models in the drug development       process (i.e.
drug toxicity, drug delivery, etc.)
and can apply the       technology within their products.
This commercialisation has established       sustained streams of royalty income for The Open University.
It has also       led to joint research activities and publications with industry and a       grant of &#163;70K from MedImmune to sponsor an industry-academia co-supervised       studentship at the OU.
An `in vitro human blood-brain barrier model' patent, managed by       INSERM, and for which the OU has an active revenue share agreement in       place (33% of the received licences fees), has generated &gt;&#163;150,000 of       royalty income since 2008 through licences and/or agreements with the       following companies: Abbott GmBh, Amgen, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, GSK,       Hoffman La Roche, MedImmune, Novartis, Pfizer Japan and Sanofi-Aventis.
After recovering investment for the patent prosecution, the licence income       received by the OU from this patent has been &#163;53,628 to date.
In the context of the nervous tissue engineering model, a member of       Phillips's team received a prestigious 1st prize for part of their work,       at the Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine International Society       (TERMIS) World Congress 2012, an academic conference where clinicians and       scientists from academia and industry interact.
The group is now working       with leading regenerative medicine companies (e.g.
TAP Biosystems) to       develop a therapeutic product.
Following a keynote talk by Phillips, `Tissue engineering: a new       dimension to animal replacement', at the NC3Rs/BBSRC Symposium (April       2009) for researchers in academia and industry, the group was approached       by The Automation Partnership (now TAP Biosystems) with a view to       developing a commercially engineered CNS culture model for the research       and development community.
This led to a collaborative project between the       OU and TAP to explore options for exploiting the Phillips group's       technology as a way to adapt TAP's commercially available 3D system,       termed RAFT, for CNS use.
As a result of this collaboration, in 2011 TAP invested in a three-year       project based at the OU to generate and manufacture advanced 3D CNS tissue       models.
This provides a clear example of impact &#8212; the technology was       originally developed in the academic group and has been adopted by TAP,       who are a leading supplier of cell culture technology with global reach.
The economic impact of this technology on industry is manifested by the       recent addition in 2011 of the alignment technology to TAP's RAFT system,       which is a significant new product option for the company.
A more       immediate impact as a result of the OU/TAP collaboration has already been       made by applying the current RAFT system to CNS research, as evidenced by       press releases, application notes, a joint TAP/OU webinar (November 2012)       and a number of joint conference presentations.
Combining both technologies to create CNS/endothelial cell constructs has       attracted a great deal of interest from international companies.
For       example, an application note used to launch TAP's new RAFT insert product,       which combines endothelial barrier systems with 3D CNS models, has already       been released.
In addition, the supporting data for a patent application       in February 2013 on their nanoparticle-based delivery system for       CNS-active drugs by Midatech Ltd, is based on studies carried out at the       OU combining both technologies.
