     Worldwide, cervical cancer is the second most common cancer of women5.3,       resulting in an estimated 225,000 deaths in 20105.4.
Since the       introduction of widespread screening with the Papanicolaou cervical smear       (Pap) test, the mortality rate in the USA has declined by an estimated 74%5.3.
Like many other biomedical staining processes, the pap test is not a       patented process and dye manufacture is a cottage industry of small       producers of variable quality.
The market for biomedical stains is       relatively small compared to uses of dyes in textiles and cosmetics, often       leading to sharp fluctuations in cost and availability of key compounds5.5.
In the 1990s, CellPath Ltd, a small family business focussing on       laboratory supplies, such as plasticware, decided to seek assistance from       Bangor University chemistry researchers to advise on the development of       processes for the manufacture of high-quality laboratory stains, in       particular for the Pap test.
During a 3-year collaboration, funded by an EPSRC Teaching Company Scheme       Grant (later KTP)5.6, researchers from Bangor University under       the supervision of Professor Mark Baird developed a new approach to       compounds for the Pap test and other biomedical special stains.
A new       process was also developed for the synthesis of the Light Green SF       Yellowish stain, which had become virtually unobtainable commercially3.3.
These Ortho Stains were more effective, economical and readily available       than existing formulations.
In the course of the collaborations, we also       advised on the setting up of appropriate laboratory facilities for the       manufacture of the stains, and assisted the company in optimising their       processes, including enhanced quality control and safety and reduced       production costs.
For example, it was found that the reaction temperature       for haematoxylin production could be lowered, saving 2.5% of total       production costs, while reduction in Alum concentration produced       additional efficiencies.
A stabilized form of Haematoxylin was developed       for commercial scale production, as Haematoxylin Z, which remains on the       market.
The company invested &#163;170k in production facilities and hired two       production workers5.7.
The MSc student Oram was later hired to       carry our further research and development within the company.
Results were immediate, with an increase in turnover from &#163;1.1M to &#163;1.5M       in the first year following completion of the project (1996)5.7.
The project was a Finalist at the Teaching Company Scheme Awards in 19975.1.
The company, previously mainly known for manufacture and sales of       laboratory plastics etc, rapidly become the UK market leader in cytology       stains, with over 50% of the domestic market, and exports to Finland,       France, Italy, Japan, Norway and Sweden5.7.
Ortho stains remain a mainstay of the company's business.
Since       collaborating with Bangor Chemistry researchers, the turnover of the       company has grown by 400% and the workforce increased from 5 to 65       employees5.2.
From 2008-2012, the value of the company has doubled5.8.
From       2012, the company began trading in the USA5.9, indicating its       continuing dynamism.
