     Exposure to health risks linked to hypokinetic conditions is exacerbated       in north-west England where health inequalities are present.
Thus,       prevention of physical inactivity and obesity are vital to local health.
Our research in Liverpool and Wigan has directly led to the development of       evidenced-based programmes and teacher professional development, which       have significantly impacted on children's physical activity and health       outcomes.
As part of a strategic and end-user engagement dissemination programme       the SportsLinx research findings were presented annually from 1997 to 2012       to Liverpool City Council and Primary Care Trust.
The significance of this       research evidence is that increases in obesity prevalence (Sec.3,         Ref.1) and low aerobic fitness (Sec.3, Ref.2) are associated       with increased odds of children being at risk of cardio-metabolic       pathologies.
RISES research has made a significant contribution to the       Healthy Weight Strategic Network Group responsible for recommending       services and policies to address child weight-related health issues.
As a       consequence of SportsLinx data, key actions to achieve recommended child       physical activity targets, deliver active play programmes, and better       identify children with highest obesity risk, were identified in the       2008-11 action plan (Sec.5, Source.A).
SportsLinx clearly       demonstrated the need for physical activity interventions in young       children, which resulted in the Active Play pre-school intervention in       2009 throughout the Liverpool Sure Start network.
This was the first       children's centre-based physical activity behaviour change intervention in       the UK (Sec.3, Ref.3).
The impact of research outcomes from       SportsLinx, and the resulting change in health programmes available for       children, are documented in the Liverpool Active City Strategy 2012-2017 (Sec.5,         Source.B).
The significance and reach of the SportsLinx Project's       contribution to obesity prevention was recognised by the presentation of       the Louis Bonduelle Foundation Award from the European Childhood Obesity       Group in 2011.
Furthermore, the local impact of SportsLinx-related       programmes, such as Active Play, is demonstrated by the fact that in       2009-10 alone there were 99,111 identified SportsLinx activity contacts       with children, through initiatives such as the Fitness Fun Day,       After-School Clubs, and Referral Schemes (Sec.5, Source.D).
Moreover, the Active Play resources developed by RISES in conjunction with       Liverpool City Council were commercialised and 300 were sold by Liverpool       City Council to local authorities elsewhere in the UK.
To date sales have       totalled &#163;42,000 (Sec.5, Source.E), demonstrating both the       national relevance of the programme and economic benefit back to Liverpool       City Council.
RISES research provided physical activity and health data that directly       led to impact on childrens physical activity and health by the development       and implementation of new programmes and initiatives in Wigan Borough.
The       PEPASS findings (Sec.3, Ref.4) were adopted as the evidence base       from which to develop borough-wide school and community initiatives that       addressed concerns about children's physical health.
The relationships       between these research findings and proposed programmes were articulated       in the 2010 PEPASS Annual Report (Sec.5, Source.F), and the 2011       Wigan Joint Strategic Needs Assessment (Sec.5, Source.G).
In the       former, direct reference was made to the research that the Council claimed       enabled it to be at the "cutting edge of research and impact       identification" which ensured that its actions and programmes were "based       on robust evidence".
For the first time in Wigan, research evidence       identified important areas for intervention and this led directly to the       CHANGE!
trial.
The findings from CHANGE!
demonstrated clinically       meaningful, positive changes in body size and physical activity in one       hundred 9-10 year old children (Sec.3, Ref.5).
In the context of       Wigan Borough, a reduction in BMI z-scores is associated with reduced       cardio-metabolic risk at a local population level that will have an       immediate positive health impact that could extend into significant future       health benefits.
These findings were disseminated to local Council       officials, and all Wigan primary school Head Teachers at a practitioner       conference and through a project report.
Furthermore, an article in the       Wigan Evening Post (Sec.5, Source.H), which is distributed across       the 118 square mile area of Wigan borough, increased the reach of this       research-based impact by accessing the wider community and by raising       awareness of the health issues linking physical activity to obesity.
Since       the end of the CHANGE!
Wigan Council has decided to invest in a       Borough-wide teacher training program and roll-out of the project's       curriculum resource to all primary schools at the end of 2013 (Sec.5,         Source.I).
Whilst the initial CHANGE!
research involved over 300       children from 12 schools, the impact of a full borough program roll-out       would mean CHANGE!
healthy lifestyle messages would reach, and impact       upon, the physical activity patterns and health status in approximately       3,300 children across 110 schools.
