     With the aim of linking research to impact, members of the CHS group have       engaged in strategic and high profile dissemination activity.
Notably this       has involved organising (GW), chairing (GW) and presenting (DO/KG/GW/TC)       at the annual Cardiac Risk in the Young International conference in Sports       Cardiology (2006-present) where the latest evidence-based practice related       to PPS is presented to clinicians and discussed.
Other dissemination       events have occurred at the British Cardiovascular Society, Institute of       Sport and Exercise Medicine, the British Society of Echocardiography as       well as to sports governing bodies (UK Sport High Performance conference,       English FA, Irish Institute of Sport).
Internationally, symposia, debates       and round table discussions have been conducted at the European College of       Sports Sciences, American College of Sports Medicine, Canadian Exercise       Physiology, International Conference on Science and Education and Medicine       in Sports, the IOC Sports Medicine Conference and the ASPETAR Conference       on the Cardiac Screening of Athletes.
The latter event led to the       translation of CHS research via the development of a PPS programme in       Qatar.
Research work by CHS staff (Sec.3, Ref.1) was instrumental,       alongside the charity Cardiac Risk in the Young, in the establishment in       2010 of the UK's first national registry of sudden cardiac deaths at the       National Centre of Excellence for Cardiac Pathology at St George's       Hospital (Sec.5, Source.A).
This now provides UK-specific data       related to the incidence and aetiology of sudden cardiac death in the       young in the UK which provides support for on-going developments in PPS,       diagnosis and treatment.
This has also enhanced the quality of care for       families affected by a young sudden cardiac death by providing a       fast-track to specialist diagnostics.
A major impact of CHS research is that it has resulted in significant       changes to the decision making criteria/algorithm[s] employed in PPS in       the UK, Europe and across the world through the production of consensus       statement documents (Sec.5, Source.B/C).
Consensus statements are a       standard method of changing practice and clinical decision marking and       have global reach.
Advancements in practice include updated diagnostic       algorithms (i.e.
ECG criteria) for cardiologists and clinical       scientists and include CHS work on long QT syndrome (Sec.3, Ref.2).
These data were adopted in the European Cardiology Society consensus       statement for ECG interpretation in athletes (Sec.5, Source.B) as       well as the consequent inclusion in the recent Seattle Criteria (Sec.5,         Source.C) for PPS.
These consensus guidelines, including the work       produced by the CHS, have become the cornerstone of PPS globally and have       been adopted by influential sports governing bodies (e.g.
IOC, FIFA, Union       International du Cycling).
Research from the CHS have helped to characterise the structural and       functional phenotype of the athlete's heart (Sec.3, Ref.3-5) and       these represent the current `gold standard' in relation to upper normal       physiologic limits of cardiac adaptation, across gender and ethnicity for       all sporting populations.
These data, and other CHS publications, have       directly contributed to bespoke educational material and practice       guidelines for PPS in the UK.
Specifically, two "Guideline" documents have       been produced by the British Society of Echocardiography and endorsed by       the charity CRY (Sec.5, Source.D/E) and have now changed the PPS of       athletes in the UK.
To date these guidelines have been disseminated to       over 4000 UK and international members of the British Society of       Echocardiography and systematically enhanced service delivery in all       clinical echocardiography departments in the UK (Sec.5, Source.F).
CHS staff, in association with CRY, launched a "CRY Cardiovascular       Screening Centre" at LJMU opened by the then Secretary of State Rt.
Hon       Andrew Burnham in 2009.
This centre has provided a direct access service       for young people and athletes in the local community and since its       establishment has provided cardiac sports screening to over 200 young       people (Sec.5, Source.A).
The CHS group, in collaboration with       clinical colleagues, have extended this service to elite athlete groups.
Specifically, this has led to a comprehensive PPS programme for Liverpool       FC (2010-present).
To date we have completed PPS in over 500 young       athletes, with approximately 10% being referred on for further       investigation and monitoring and one professional athlete has been removed       from competitive sport due to the detection of cardiovascular pathology       and increased risk for sudden cardiac death (Sec.5, Source.G).
The       translation of CHS research and development of a large scale PPS program       has also occurred within the National Sports Medicine and Orthopaedic       Hospital (ASPETAR), Doha, Qatar (Qatar National Pre-participation       Screening Programme launched in 2009).
This programme has now screened       6730 athletes with 12 cases of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy detected (11       athletes disqualified from competition) as well as 22 other pathological       conditions resulting in disqualification or on-going monitoring.
This       process has also provided new normative data for ECG and echocardiographic       parameters in Arabic/Asian athletes to further feedback into diagnostic       criteria and treatment planning (Sec.5, Corr.H).
The provision of improved evidence-based guidelines for PPS has changed       policy and PPS implementation in the UK and globally.
The Chair of the IOC       Medical Commission has stated (2013) "The CHS group's on-going         research, leading to the continual enhancement of screening guidelines,         has improved sensitivity and specificity of diagnosis and resulted in an         improved quality of care for athletes across the globe" (Sec.5,         Source.I).
