     Vaccination of healthcare workers     Hayward's DH Policy Research Programme research on vaccination of       healthcare workers against influenza in nursing homes and acute care       settings has led to national recommendations to immunise staff in nursing       homes and other social care settings [a] and is one of the main       streams of evidence supporting vaccination of healthcare workers against       influenza.
Annual campaigns to increase uptake of the vaccination amongst       NHS staff have cited the publication for many years.
(See, for example,       the current year's letter from the Chief Medical Officer [b].)
The       evidence on low uptake contributed to DH decisions to set up mandatory       routine monitoring of influenza vaccine uptake in England and informs the       content of the DH "Flu Fighters" campaign (launched in 2010/11) aimed at       increasing uptake amongst front line healthcare staff including protection       of patients, safety and effectiveness as key messages.
This has led to a       range of local NHS trust campaigns [c].
Since the publication of       our research, healthcare worker vaccination in acute trusts in England has       increased from a steady low of around 15% to around 45% in the 2010/11       season [d].
Internationally, the trial is cited in annual US guidance on healthcare       worker vaccination [e] and has also contributed to 27 States in       the US making healthcare worker influenza vaccination mandatory [f].
Our work was presented as key evidence in a 2013 test-case trial in Canada       on mandatory vaccination [g].
Informing US recommendations of prevention of stroke     Our systematic review and meta-analysis of the influence of influenza as       a trigger for acute vascular events was the first of its kind.
It is now       cited in American Heart Association/American Stroke Association guidance       for prevention of stroke, recommending influenza vaccine for all those at       raised risk of stroke [h].
Routine vaccination of children     Our work has also impacted on the recent recommendation by the Joint       Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) of routine vaccination of       all children against influenza every year and the decision not to       recommend extension of vaccination to all adults aged over 50 years.
This       decision was largely based on the findings of a dynamic transmission       model, commissioned by the DH and conducted by LSHTM and HPA, to assess       the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of the national influenza       vaccination campaign and consider options for extending this to other       groups.
The model predicted that 30% coverage in children would result in       net savings of around &#163;65m and prevent loss of around 17,000 Quality       Adjusted Life Years annually.
The model also suggested that extending       vaccination to all those aged greater than 50 years would not be cost       effective [i].
In order to increase confidence in the findings of the economic model the       committee requested that the age specific baseline levels of infection and       disease inferred by the model be validated against Flu Watch data       (provided prior to publication) to check that the model provided an       accurate representation of the true community burden.
The fact that model       output and the empirical measures from Flu Watch matched gave confidence       in the validity of the model and thus supported the recommendation to       extend routine influenza vaccination to children but not to all adults       aged over 50.
In deliberating on the type of vaccine to be used the Flu       Watch finding that cellular immune responses provide protection against       both seasonal and pandemic disease was discussed and contributed to the       decision to use Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine (which stimulates both       cellular and humoral immunity) rather than Trivalent Inactivated Vaccine       (which only stimulates humoral immunity) [j].
The childhood       vaccination campaign is being launched in test regions in 2013.
