     London is now the `TB capital' of Europe and has more cases annually than       the Netherlands,       Belgium, Greece and Norway combined.
TB is curable in virtually all cases       and can be effectively       controlled provided cases are found early and patients can complete       treatment.
The research       described above has resulted in new services to improve control of       tuberculosis in hard-to-reach       groups.
The Find&amp;Treat Project     The original TB profile study provided justification for London Region to       invest in a large       demonstration project of mobile X-ray screening in homeless people, drug       users and prisoners.
Our initial evaluation of the demonstration project led the Department of       Health (DH) to invest in       continued funding of mobile X-ray screening in homeless shelters and drug       services and the       expansion of the service to include workers to support patients through       diagnosis and treatment.
This has now become the Find&amp;Treat service &#8212; a specialist outreach       team that works alongside       over 200 NHS and third sector front-line services to tackle TB among       homeless people, drug or       alcohol users, vulnerable migrants and people who have been in prison.
The       multidisciplinary       Find&amp;Treat team takes TB control into the community, finds cases of       active TB early and supports       patients to take a full course of treatment and get cured.
The service       spans the TB pathway from       detection, to diagnosis and onward care.
To `Find' TB cases early the team       raises awareness       among service users and frontline professionals and screen almost 10,000       high risk people every       year using a mobile digital X-ray unit (MXU) as recommended by the       National Institute of Health       and Clinical Excellence (NICE).
The screening service covers every London       Borough and supports       Public Health England (PHE) to manage outbreaks of TB nationally.
Our       subsequent evaluation of       the expanded service contributed to decisions for NHS to take over the       funding of the service       which is now hosted by UCLH on behalf of London [a].
Analysis of service data shows that between January 2008 and June 2013,       Find&amp;Treat undertook       45,385 X-rays leading to 385 referrals, 84 of which resulted in treatment       being commenced for       pulmonary tuberculosis (detection rate 247 per 100,000 individuals       screened).
84% successfully       completed treatment within 12 months (higher than the proportion of cases       who complete TB       treatment nationally).
Since 2008 Find&amp;Treat have worked with 1,379       suspected and active TB       cases including 780 cases with active TB (696 referred from TB and allied       services in London and       Birmingham and 84 found on the MXU).
Of the culture confirmed cases 33%       were drug resistant       including 59 multidrug-resistant (MDR) and 4 extensively drug-resistant       (XDR) cases.
371 of the       referrals to Find&amp;Treat were because of loss to follow up and deemed       un-contactable by local       services.
The outreach team recontacted 74% (275) of whom 73% have       completed treatment (154)       or are well established and expected to complete treatment (46).
The team       also support Directly       Observed Therapy (where a responsible adult watches every dose of       treatment being swallowed to       improve adherence) and have pioneered the use of Video Observed Therapy       (VOT) using laptops       and smartphones.
VOT is now being evaluated as part of a randomised trial       funded within the       UCL-led TB Reach NIHR Programme grant [b].
Public Health England is now developing a project to expand the service       nationally, creating a       National Infection &amp; Inequality System (NIIS) to provide integrated       testing, treatment, health and       social care for vulnerable populations disproportionately affected by       serious public health       infections, in particular TB, Hepatitis C and HIV.
This service will be       directly modelled on the       successful model of Find&amp;Treat [c].
Introduction of static screening in prisons     Our research demonstrated that turnover of prisoners was too high for a       mobile unit to provide       sufficient coverage to pick up cases and recommended the installation of       static digital X-ray units       (DXR) in key prisons.
In March 2008, the Chief Medical Officer announced       the intention of DH to       fund the installation of static DXR machines in five London prisons at a       cost of &#163;10m.
This decision       was explicitly linked by the CMO to our MXU evaluation project (ref 5       above) [d].
The X-ray units       were all installed and in operation by March 2012.
PHE's Director of       Health and Justice reports that       "I have no doubt that the MXU project has had a direct and positive         influence on policy and         programmes relating to active case finding for pulmonary TB among people         in prisons and other         places of detention."
A new national partnership agreement just       signed between PHE, NHS       England and the National Offender Management Service (NOMS) has made       further commitments       to ensuring the service is fully utilised, and furthermore, following a       successful trial of the       Find&amp;Treat service at a large Immigration Removal Centre (IRC) near       London, proposals are now       being made to extend the service permanently for use in this setting [e].
Broader influence on control of tuberculosis in hard to reach groups     In July 2009 NICE received the following referral from DH: "Produce         programme guidance on the         effectiveness and cost effectiveness of interventions based on active         case finding among hard-to-reach         groups (find and treat model) for reducing transmission of tuberculosis         and related mortality         and implications for service development."
The guideline development       group was chaired by       Hayward and considered a wide range of evidence including the research       described above and       expert testimony from the Find&amp;Treat service.
This resulted in the       publication of NICE Public         Health Guidance (37) on Identifying and managing tuberculosis among         hard-to-reach groups [f].
Key recommendations based on our findings included: mobile radiographic       screening to expand to       other higher incidence areas outside London; screening for TB in prisons;       screening for latent TB       in drug users; NHS to provide funds for housing of homeless TB patients       with no other recourse to       support; multidisciplinary teams to include social care workers to support       care; directly observed       therapy to become routine for homeless people, prisoners and drug users;       cohort review (a service       quality improvement model based on international experience and the London       TB profile) to       become routine across TB services nationally.
Simultaneously the Royal College of Nursing, British Thoracic Society,       Health Protection Agency,       National Treatment Agency for Substance Misuse produced detailed practical       guidance for       tuberculosis case management and cohort review.
In addition to the above       this guidance includes       a risk assessment tool modelled on our original TB patient profile form.
This helps to systematically       identify patients in need of enhanced case management [g].
The approach of adding the support of allied health professionals to work       alongside TB services       which we pioneered in the TB Link project, is now in use in at least 18 TB       services across London       alone.
A support workers' forum coordinated by Find&amp;Treat has recently       been established, and the       roles of those who attend vary considerably [h].
