     The direct economic impact of the XMaS project has been through       the commercialisation of       intellectual property generated as part of the research infrastructure       developments that have       occurred as new advances in synchrotron based experiments have been       implemented.
Commercial licence agreements (currently 9 agreements for individual       instruments, shared       between Liverpool and Warwick) are held in partnership with Huber         Diffraktiontechnik GmbH &amp; Co,       which is a world leader in specialist x-ray equipment.
By including the       commercialised equipment       in its catalogue, our research is disseminated to industry, central       facilities and academic users.
Since 2008, 22 instruments have been sold (mainly to synchrotron       facilities worldwide) which       equates to over &#163;700k sales turnover.
The instrumentation which has been       licenced to Huber       includes:            An X, Y, Z cryostat carrier for Huber 512/410 Eulerian cradle,         maintaining 40 micron         diffractometer sphere error with sub-micron precision in X, Y &amp; Z         (model no.
512.12M);       An in-vacuum "Tube Slit" assembly enabling slit screen to be mounted         within a few mm of         sample (model nos.
3016 and 300260);       An in-vacuum slit screen (model no.
3017);       An in-vacuum x-ray polarization analyzer (model no.
Polanvac).
According the Managing Director of Huber, "The XMaS impact is significant       in its overall       contribution to our business as the systems we sell extend our exposure       and hence attract a wider       international market for our products.
XMaS instrumentation with its       insight into the international       community's needs has widened our sales market and added value to our       systems.
The inclusion       of the licensed products in our portfolio has enabled to the company to       grow year on year despite       the current economic environment."[1].
An article in the EPSRC newsletter Connect describes the impact of the       XMaS instrumentation as       "big business" highlighting that "research can have impact through       innovative instrumentation as       well as science".
[2] The take-up of the XMaS-developed research       infrastructure enables enhanced       capability and capacity at synchrotron radiation facilities worldwide       through increased efficiency of       experimental procedure.
This can have significant cost saving benefits as       experiments cost &gt;&#163;10k       per day.
For example, one of the biggest sellers, the XYZ cryostat mount,       has enabled large       efficiency gains to be realised (up to 20% of measurement time saved) by       allowing motorised       repositioning of the sample).
[3].
The second type of impact generated by XMaS arises from knowledge         transfer through the         provision of trained specialists and know-how.
The demand for       synchrotron radiation extends       well beyond the academic community to industry and government       organisations.
This means that       the latest generation of machines are currently being built while existing       machines are upgraded to       provide more flexible experimental stations.
This leads to a requirement       for sophisticated       instrumentation to improve the efficiency of SR experiments in a wide       range of scientific fields, and       for trained specialists for this industry.
Since the XMaS project has been running, several new synchrotron       facilities have been built or       upgraded.
Through knowledge transfer and direct interaction with these       facilities, which include the       LNLS in Brazil and the UK Diamond Light Source (DLS) facility, we have       enabled commercial       projects to be completed more efficiently and cost effectively.
This was       typified by the joint       appointment of a post-doctoral researcher who worked on XMaS for two years       before transferring       to DLS [4].
Examples of exchange of processes include installation of an       electric-field capability       developed with NPL at DLS and, more recently, the Swiss Light Source have       implemented our       methods for controlling the incident polarisation.
In conjunction with       commercial partners, such as       NPL and DLS, we co-host, sponsor and run specialist meetings and       workshops.
A series of       meetings co-hosted by the NPL led to the development of a new web resource       detailing metrology       standards for electrical measurement.
[5] The success of this endeavour       resulted in XMaS and       NPL collaborating as partners in the EURAMET-EMRP project which brings the       premier European       metrology labs together with commercial partners such as IBM, New York.
[6]     The XMaS project has a commitment to provide the next generation of       material scientists that have       specialist expertise in advanced synchrotron radiation techniques.
As well       as contributing directly       to the running of synchrotron facilities, the diverse range of people       trained on XMaS have       transferred their knowledge and experience to their current roles that       span industry, other large       scale scientific facilities and education in schools.
Since 2008, more       than 50 post-doctoral and 150       postgraduate researchers have been trained on the beamline.
In addition to       those now in academic       posts, many of these researchers currently work at central facilities       worldwide with 15 working at       the UK national x-ray (DLS) and neutron (ISIS) centres.
Many other trained       researchers have       progressed into careers in directly related industries.
Dr. Mark Gallagher is a project scientist at Instrument Design Technology       (IDT), which is an       established leading supplier of complete beamline, systems &amp;       components to the global       synchrotron community [7].
He states, "My introduction to the speciality       of synchrotron radiation       began as a beam line user at XMaS.
Many of the skills required on a daily       basis in my current       profession were conceived during this period.
This was my first personal       experience of how       instrumentation development in the field is critical to scientific       advancement.
It is difficult to       envisage a more appropriate experience suitable for my present position       and has added great       value to my own role within the company."
