     The two areas of impact referred to in (1) correspond almost exactly to       the two fields of underpinning research described in (2).
Thus the work on       ecologism informs the impact on campaigns for social, economic and       political change, while the research on ecological citizenship underpins       the development of citizenship-based policies for encouraging       pro-environmental behaviour.
Inevitably there is overlap between these two       strands of research and the corresponding impact.
(1) Impact based on research on ecologism has been achieved through       engagement with national political organisations.
This takes two principal       forms: (a) Dobson's role as a lead writer on the 2010 Green Party       Manifesto, and (b) his role as a founder-member of the Green House think       tank.
(a) In relation to the 2010 Green Party Manifesto, the Green Party       parliamentary office attests that: `The manifesto is a statement of the       Party's discourse and its political project as well as its policy       proposals and Andrew Dobson was asked to write it because the Green Party       was confident in his ability to frame this project based on knowledge of       his previous published research and its deep influence on their activists'       [source 1].
Dobson's role was to set the order and tone and to write the       main text.
It draws on Dobson's research on the relationship between       citizenship and sustainability: `As citizens we think of the good of       everyone and of the future, and not just what we think is good for       ourselves, now.
Creating a fair and sustainable society is a job for       government at all levels &#8212; but it is also a job for us as citizens' (Green       Party 2010, pp.
28-9), and, `We would initiate a revolution in trust...The       Green Party will trust citizens and workers, not over-regulate them'       (p.29).
Dobson discussed the text in various face-to-face and online       forums and it went through a number of iterations until the final version       was ready for use in the 2010 General Election campaign.
The manifesto       launch was reported across the national print and broadcast media,       including by the BBC and Channel 4 News (April 15th 2010).
It       was central to the Green Party's campaign for the General Election 2010,       the Local Elections in 2011, and the European Parliament Elections in       2013.
264,243 people voted for the Green Party in the General election       2010, with the party gaining its first parliamentary seat (Brighton       Pavilion) in the election, 130 Green Party seats on 43 Principal       Authorities were won in the 2011 Local Election, and two Green European       Members of Parliament were elected in May 2013.
A Green Party Policy       Co-ordinator has confirmed the continuing significance of the manifesto,       stating that it is still very much a live document, available on the Party       website, that he refers to on a daily basis, and that he directs those       with policy enquiries to it.
(b) Discussions after the 2010 General Election led to the creation of       the Green House think tank of which Dobson is a founder member.
The       significance of Green House to the policy environment is indicated by the       reporting of its launch by the Government Department for Environment,       Food, and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), where Green Party Leader Caroline Lucas       was quoted as saying that Green House was an important step in bringing       Green politics into the mainstream (see DEFRA 2011).
Dobson wrote Green       House's first report, `Sustainability Citizenship' (2011) (downloaded       1,112 times by 10 October 2013), and he was a key organiser and speaker at       a major Green House conference on the `Future of Green Politics' on 13       October 2012, attended by over 100 people.
2) The impact of Professor Dobson's research on environmental citizenship       is evident through the attention given to his ideas by a number of public       organizations.
Dobson's work on environmental citizenship suggests a       strategy based on people's capacity for co-operative, other-regarding       behaviour.
This is an alternative to current Government policy for       encouraging pro-environment behaviour, which is dominated by fiscal       incentives/disincentives such as congestion charges and fines for rubbish.
This policy is preferred by Government because evidence suggests that it       works, in the short-term at least, and because it flows from the standard       economic behavioural view that people are motivated by self-interest.
However, there is increasing empirical evidence, some of which is based on       Professor Dobson's work, which suggests that people do indeed have the       capacity to act as `environmental citizens', and that this should be       reflected in policy design.
(a) In the light of this, Professor Dobson was asked by the Sustainable       Development Research Network (SDRN, which is funded by DEFRA, and of which       Professor Dobson was a member from its founding until 2012) to conduct a       systematic review of the environmental citizenship evidence.
The review       was published in November 2010.
It argued that environmental citizenship       should be regarded by government as a legitimate and effective policy tool       for pro-sustainability behaviour change, along with more established       approaches based on financial incentives and behavioural economics       (`nudge').
The report and briefing was distributed via the SDRN mailing,       reaching over 2,500 members of the network representing those with a       policy or research interest in sustainable development.
It also went out       via SD Scene, which goes to about 25,000 policymakers across       government.
The launch event in November 2010 was attended by members of       the policy community, and the report was the subject of the closing       plenary of the SDRN's annual conference in December 2010, with DEFRA's       chief social scientist giving a keynote response.
The annual conference       attracted 150 policy makers from across government and the voluntary/third       sector.
One Natural England social science specialist gives an indication of the       report's impact by saying: `Your review and conceptualisation on       "environmental citizenship" have informed our understanding and thinking       in relation to behavioural social science and the economics of       incentives...particularly useful - for instance in relation to thinking       around how a landscape-scale or group based agri-environment option might       best be designed.
The work also helpfully informs how NE can best engage       in partnership working with stakeholders and communities'.
(b) Following the publication of Dobson's review by the SDRN, he was       asked by the Development Education Association charity Think Global to       join a House of Lords roundtable discussion on `Nudge' and changing       environmental behaviour.
A Think Global executive comments that Dobson's       document `was on the Think Global and Involve websites and widely       circulated to policy thinkers and influencers.
There is obviously a big       discussion about behaviour change, and ... the note was part of this       debate'.
Dobson's SDRN review, and his presentation at the roundtable       event, led to other invitations and references to his work.
For instance,       Ofgem invited Dobson to give a presentation to their senior management,       one member of which commented, `I felt that your presentation on       environmental citizenship was very relevant to some of the issues we are       thinking about in Ofgem'.
Dobson's work was quoted in a Fabian Society       report `Climate Change and Sustainable Consumption: What Do the Public       Think Is Fair', and he was listed as one of several experts they       consulted.
Dobson's review is also cited in the final report of the       `Fishing for the Markets' evaluation to DEFRA in April 2011: `Evidence       shows that fiscal incentives may not be as important as we think they are       and that people will choose to purchase a product that is environmentally       sustainable as they perceive there is some common good in doing so'       (Evaluation Strategies Matrix, 2011, p. 11).
Dobson's research on environmental citizenship challenges the currently       dominant assumptions that govern most public policy in this area, and the       repeated invitations and citations referred to above are indicative of the       impact this work has had.
