     Recently, Dr Chassy has published a book with International Grand Master       Darko Ani&#263;1 that       presents a training method for chess players (Chassy &amp; Ani&#263;, 2012).
Informed by cognitive       psychology in general and findings from Dr Chassy's research, the method       shows how to improve       performance.
Some of the ideas underpinning the training method were       stemming from on-going       experiments that were published soon thereafter (e.g., Chassy, 2013).
In       the word of the publisher,       Dr Olivier Letreguilly2, the training method is appropriate for       both trainers and players.
Dr Chassy has engaged into academic research on chess psychology and       expertise ever since the       start of his PhD in 2003 at Brunel University.
After being awarded the PhD       in 2007, Dr Chassy has       started publishing in peer-reviewed journals (2008-2009).
The impact of       early studies from Dr       Chassy is evidenced by the invitation to give a talk at the laboratory of       neuroradiology of University       Hospital Tubingen.
The impact of the research carried out by Dr Chassy       went beyond academic       settings and reached real-world fields.
An international conference was       organized in 2009 about       how chess can contribute to cognitive development; Dr Chassy was invited       to present his research       and conclusions.
The conference was sponsored by the International Chess       Federation which       coordinates chess activities from local to world class levels.
The presentation at the conference has led Dr Chassy to receive a       proposal for writing a book       about chess training.
The publisher, Olibris, is a professional publisher       of chess books.
Olibris is       officially endorsed by the French Chess Federation.
That is, among all the       publishers of chess       books, Olibris is the only one to be recommended by the French Chess       Federation for players and       trainers.
The French Chess Federation is the institution that coordinates       chess activities all over       the countries and defines chess training programmes for official trainers.
To write the book, Dr       Chassy has teamed up with Darko Ani&#263;1, an International       Grandmaster (IGM).
Ani&#263;'s great       expertise as a teacher and trainer is evidenced by the fact that he has       for several years published       training articles in the most important chess magazine.
He owns a training       centre that is renowned       throughout the country and has been appointed for many years trainer of       the Olympic team of       France.
The book written in collaboration with IGM Ani&#263; has been published in       2012 with a huge impact on       the chess community.
Chess players and trainers have expressed their       interest in the method       proposed in the book and many of them changed their training practices and       routines.
A from a       chess player4 acknowledges the impact of Dr Chassy research on       her practice of chess.
A further       chess player has also written to acknowledge the positive effect of the       book on his training.
The       benefit for trainers is to have a scientific framework on which to ground       their training sessions.
Players also have greatly appreciated and welcomed the book.
Following its impact on practice, the book has been noticed by chess       institutions.
Dr Chassy has       received an invitation for a conference in October.
The general director       of the French Federation3       has informed Dr Chassy of the will of the federation to use him as a       consultant for matters of       training and impact of the game on psychological development.
The       Federation would like to       coordinate training programs across the country.
In this perspective Dr       Chassy has been invited to       participate in the development of the current training programmes.
This       letter is in resonance with       the letter from the owner of the publishing company,2 who       states that the book published is a great       tool for trainers and players alike.
Very recently, the person in charge       of coordinating the promotion       of chess to the government, has contacted Dr Chassy to ask for a series of       documents that will       summarise the social and intellectual values of chess.
The documents will       be published on the       website of the FFE during 2014.
The events planned for the near future acknowledge the influence of Dr       Chassy's research.
A       conference on training will be held during the next France Chess       Championship for Young players       which will take place April 2014.
Dr Chassy has been invited to explain       his training methods and       the scientific evidence underpinning it.
In parallel, the co-author has       been appointed Member of the       Technical committee for training coordination at the national level.
The       influence of Dr Chassy's       research and collaboration with chess professional is demonstrating impact       at international and       institutional levels.
