     The origins of the impact go back to 2003 when Ireland's police and       security service, An Garda       S&#237;och&#225;na, its Defence Forces and Government Departments including An       Taoiseach (Prime       Minister), Foreign Affairs, Defence and Justice each agreed to formally       participate in the first       academic evaluation of Irish national security policy since the foundation       of the state.
A year later,       Michael Mulqueen was invited to provide a confidential interim briefing on       Irish national security to       the Leader of the Opposition, Enda Kenny TD (currently Taoiseach/Prime       Minister), which fed,       directly, into a number of questions pursued at Leaders' Questions in the       D&#225;il (Ireland's Lower       House of Parliament).
Mulqueen continued his research upon reaching Hope, this was a strategic       is appointment to       strengthen our impact.
Users of Mulqueen's research 2009-12 include the       Irish Government and       Opposition, Irish Defence Forces (Irish Navy, Army and Air Corps), Garda       S&#237;och&#225;na (Ireland's       policing and national security agency, and non-governmental organisations       including leading       media outlets, as well as scholars in the fields of strategic studies,       policing and criminal justice.
In 2012, the resulting monograph (MUP 2009) was adopted by the Irish       Naval Service as a core       text to be read by its officers in training.
The decision was taken as the       organisation moved to       position itself in accordance with the strategic goal of being the       `smartest, most innovative, small       navy in the world by 2016'.
Mulqueen was subsequently invited to brief       Naval Senior Command on       the research findings.
He became the first civilian to do so.
The       confidential briefing took place at       Naval Headquarters in January 2012.
The monograph and a subsequent paper,       `Securing the       State...' (2009) have been well cited in the recent scholarship and in       media.
Their publication led to       Michael Mulqueen being invited by the Centre for Criminal Justice at the       University of Limerick to       co-author a submission to the Irish Government in response to its draft       White Paper on Crime.
Liverpool Hope University established the Centre for Applied Research in       Security Innovation       (CASI) in January 2012, following a successful application to the UK       Higher Education Innovation       Fund to support it (&#163;185,000 from 2012-2014 with additional funds       available until 2015)     This will enable the continuation and expansion of the research outlined       here up to REF2020.
High profile security leaders have agreed to join CASI and, specifically,       to provide practitioner       insight into its research agenda.
Rear Admiral Mark Mellett DSM, PhD,       Deputy Chief of Staff of the       Irish Defence Forces and, previously, Flag Officer Commanding the Irish       Navy agreed to the       appointment, in a personal capacity, of Visiting Professor for Maritime       Security.
Douglas Naquin,       Director of Open Source Intelligence (ret'd), Central Intelligence Agency       (CIA) and Randolph       Pherson, Chief, Strategic Planning and National Intelligence Officer for       Latin America (ret'd), CIA,       agreed to be appointed as Senior Research Fellows at CASI to bring cutting       edge insight into       implications of systematic innovation for intelligence agencies.
Some twenty five educational, industry, financial, naval, intelligence       and `blue light' agency leaders       attended CASI's symposium, The Maritime Economy and Governance:       Innovation, Energy,       Security and Growth', Liverpool (July 2012).
Among those attending was the       Chairman of the       Association of Colleges, UK; the Deputy Chief Executive of Manchester Fire       and Rescue Service;       the Vice-President of Suret&#233;Globale, a Big Data crime mapping company, and       the Chief Europe       Strategist of Trend Macro, a US blue chip investment firm, as well as a       range of other       entrepreneurs.
In parallel, CASI partnered with the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy       Studies, King's College       London and the Centre for Military History and Strategic Studies, National       University of Ireland,       Maynooth, to launch the first scholarly project into small navies.
Among       its outputs &#8212; which include       an edited collection on Ashgate (2014) &#8212; is an international conference of       academics and naval       practitioners (October 2012), which, as an indicator of impact, attracted       high-level speakers from       the US and Irish navies, US Coastguard, Swedish Defence Agency, Royal Navy       and others.
CASI was invited to provide a workshop on its research to the Irish       Maritime Energy Resource       Cluster (IMERC).
Industry attendees included high level (i.e.
director)       management of EMC2, the       cloud computing and Big Data solutions provider, and senior       commercialisation officials from       government agency, Enterprise Ireland (January 2012).
Mulqueen       subsequently addressed by       invitation IMERC's national conference on geostrategic growth for       Ireland's maritime economy,       attended by the Minister for the Marine and leaders in the maritime       logistics industry, security and       national media (March 2012).
Mulqueen was invited by the Chairman of the       European Coastguard       Function Forum (ECGFF) to address the 27 Member States on innovation in       networked coastguard       operations for maritime security, at the annual general meeting of the       forum in 2012 (August,       Dublin).
He was invited to address the 44 member states of the European       Civil Aviation       Conference (Paris, 2012).
Indicators of impact external to the EU came with an invitation to       Mulqueen from the Forum       Foundation for Analytical Excellence, the Washington DC-based organisation       led by former senior       members of the US intelligence community, to provide a high level briefing       on using innovation in       networks for national security.
Attendees included decision makers       (director, vice-president and       senior vice-president levels) from organisations including Microsoft,       Northrop Grumman and       American Defence International, as well as past and serving members of the       US intelligence       community.
Such work will lead to further impacts upon Irish institutions and       security policy processes which       has been ongoing since 2003 and this will undoubtedly influence public       understanding, political       and security institutions and the working of other agencies and users by       2020.
