     The research of Rees and Holmes has over the years involved looking at       the impact of the EU       (Europeanisation) on Ireland, as well as Ireland's role in Europe.
In the       context of Ireland, which is       a small EU member state, there is considerable opportunity for academics       to work closely with       government officials, elected representatives and government ministers.
In       effect, Ireland is tightly       networked and much of the research being undertaken is available to and       informs policy debates       and public discussion.
This is evident through the work of the Institute       for International and       European Affairs (IIEA)&#8212;Ireland's leading think-tank in this area--and the       Royal Irish Academy       (RIA).
Rees has played a role in both bodies, previously being part of       IIEA governing body and a       committee member of RIA International Affairs Committee.
In both these       bodies, there is close       interplay and involvement of officials and academics.
The research       undertaken in this study can be       traced back to 1997, when Rees and Holmes first analysed the use of EU       referenda in Ireland       (Coakley, Holmes and Rees 1997).
Rees and Holmes have sought in their earlier research to ensure that it       informs and impacts on an       understanding of the impact of Europeanisation on Irish public policy       (especially regional and       environmental policy), political institutions and socialisation agents       (parties, interest groups).
Prior       to this, Rees's research on Europeanisation and Ireland (2006, 2010) and       that of Holmes (2005,       2008) have aimed to have such an impact on the debates over Ireland's role       in the European       Union, and the impact of the EU on Ireland.
This has previously led to EU       funded research being       disseminated via workshops in Brussels attended by EU Commission officials       (2003, 2004);       dissemination of results via publication of specific country reports and       an integrated comparative       report (2004-05, 2006, 2008), and a public workshop for local / regional       authorities and other state       and private actors in the Mid-West Region in Ireland (2004).
All of this       has contributed to a better       public understanding of the impact of the EU on Irish public policy.
This trend was continued in the current impact case study which focuses       principally on the       research undertaken by Rees and Holmes around the Lisbon Treaty       referendum.
This referendum       was held in Ireland (June 2008) to enable Ireland to ratify the EU Treaty       of Lisbon (signed 13       December 2007).
Ireland was the only one of the 27 EU member states to       hold a referendum to       ratify the Treaty.
On this occasion (7th EU referendum), the       people voted "No" to the Treaty,       leading eventually to a second referendum in October 2009, in which the       "Yes" vote won the day.
In each of the cases, an amendment to the Irish Constitution (Bunreacht Na       h&#201;ireann, Article 29.4)       was required, which necessitated the holding of a referendum, which has       led to a number of legal       challenges which have required consideration by the Supreme Court (see Crotty         v. An Taoiseach       in 1987).
This most recently happened in 2013 over the ninth referendum       held on the EU Fiscal       Stability Treaty on 31 May 2013 (Rees, forthcoming 2013, Jahruch der         Europ&#228;ischen Integration).
As a consequence of these challenges and the problems associated with the       conduct of previous       referenda, there has been considerable concern to ensure that public       debate over the issues are       informed by expert and academic commentary, as much as by political debate       between differing       sides in the referenda.
As a result of the research undertaken jointly       with Holmes as well as       independently, Rees was invited as an expert commentator to participate in       the public deliberations       of the Joint Committee on European Affairs at its public meeting in       Limerick.
The meeting aimed to       provide information, as well as answers, around the implications of the       Treaty of Lisbon for Ireland.
In these contexts, much of the discussion has tended to focus on the       benefits and costs of EU       membership to Ireland.
The research by Rees on Europeanisation in Ireland       aims to provide an       explanation of and inform debate about the benefits and costs of EU       membership, especially in the       context of new treaty provisions in the Lisbon Treaty.
In particular,       Rees's research on Irish       security policy aimed to provide further analysis of the implications of       the EU treaty revision for       Irish "neutrality" and Ireland's security commitments to the EU arising       from such treaty change.
Rees also went on to speak at and provide information briefings at party       run information sessions       during the referendum.
Following the initial failure of the Treaty of Lisbon at the June       referendum, there was considerable       debate and discussion in Ireland regarding what would happen next.
In the       context of this       discussion, the Joint Committee on the Constitution decided in September       2008 to undertake a       review of the constitutional framework governing the constitutional       referendum process.
Arising       out of Rees's on-going research&#8212;now based at Hope and in continuing       interrogation of the shifting       scene--he was invited to address an Oireachtas (Irish parliament)       Committee on the Constitution       on the referendum process.
The broader aim of the committee was to foster       public debate on and       awareness of Irish membership of the European Union following the `No'       result in the first       referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon on 12 June 2008.
The testimony by Rees was the focus of debate and discussion by the       parliamentary members of the       committee and the work of the committee (including testimony by witnesses)       was reported on in the       media.
A report on the testimony was included in the official       parliamentary records of the Oireachtas       Joint Committee on the Constitution and published as a separate report by       the Oireachtas       (http://www.oireachtas.ie/documents/committees30thdail/jconstitution/report_2008/Report20090402.pdf.
It subsequently formed part of the citizens' advice information provided       by the Referendum       Commission (the body charged with providing neutral and unbiased       information on all referendums       on the constitution of the Republic of Ireland).
A number of communities and groups availed of the research including       Irish politicians, especially       those most active in EU affairs, such as the Taoiseach Enda Kenny (Fine       Gael), as well as Irish       lobby groups, such as those active in EU affairs.
The research and the       direct impact associated       with it might also have contributed to shaping public attitudes on the EU,       since it put forward a       generally positive picture of Irish involvement with the EU and since the       outcome of the second       Treaty of Lisbon referendum on 2 October 2009 was a `Yes' vote.
However,       this cannot be proven,       given the variety of those involved in contributing to the information       campaign.
It should, however,       be noted that research published on the outcome of the second Lisbon       Treaty referendum       highlights the importance of ensuring that high quality information is       available to the electorate and       that it is provided in a timely manner.
The provision of such information       on such complicated       matters as treaty reform is critical to ensuring that the public engage       and vote in referendums.
