     During the 2008 to 2013 period, the Entrepreneurship Education Team has       undertaken applied and collaborative research that resulted in a distinct       and material contribution to emergent and under-researched aspects of       Entrepreneurship Education, focussing specifically upon the development of       graduate entrepreneurs at University level in Business Schools and in       other, non-business faculties.
During this period, team members' research       and related results underpinned a significant impact upon the development       of entrepreneurship education advice, policy and practice at regional,       national and international levels.
The Business School's research has contributed significantly to the       development of enterprising individuals in the UK, continental Europe and       other industrially developed and developing countries.
Impact has been       mapped in terms of four universal impact chains:            The research influences the broad thinking and practice of         practitioners       Entrepreneurship education research affects the stance and advice         given by specialist advisory bodies in particular countries.
The research shapes UK government and EU policies internationally with         regard to entrepreneurship development.
The research is applied in the entrepreneurship education practices of         higher education institutions globally.
Evidence of the impact of the research in each of these regards is       detailed below.
Dissemination to practitioners     Throughout the review period, Professor Harry Matlay edited the Journal       of Small Business and Enterprise Development, and organised several       special issues on topics related to international entrepreneurship       education.
In addition, since 2000, he guest edited an annual Double       Special Issue in Education + Training, dedicated to pertinent educational       and training topics, including entrepreneurship education in a national       and international context.
These special issues promoted international       collaboration amongst practitioners as well as the dissemination of best       practice and innovative approaches to curriculum design, delivery and       assessment.
Additionally, the research team attended and presented their research       results at prestigious international practitioner conferences/events, and       were also invited to deliver Keynote Presentations and to lead on Themed       Workshops on emergent entrepreneurship education topics at prestigious       academic and practitioner events in the UK, Continental Europe, China,       Indonesia, Australasia and Africa as well as North and South America.
Specialist advisory bodies     Specialist advisory bodies occupy strong lobbying positions with       government.
They provide guidance and advice to practitioners.
In the UK,       the National Council for Graduate Entrepreneurship (NCGE) for example, was       formed in 2004 with the aim of raising the profile of entrepreneurship and       the option of starting a business as a career choice amongst students and       graduates.
By understanding the circumstances in which graduate       entrepreneurship can flourish, NCGE's goal was to influence, and inspire,       an increase in the number of students and graduates who give serious       thought to self-employment or business start-up.
Evidence Exhibit 1       (Corroborating Statement) of the corroboration of impact is a formal       statement from NCGE confirming the value of the work in "enhancing       understanding, thinking and application of policy and practice."
The UK Quality Assurance Agency for higher education's guidance upon       Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Education drew upon Professor Matlay's       expertise as an Advisory Board Member alongside his research (See Evidence       Exhibit 9: Report).
Government and EU policy     In the context of the European Community's initiative on entrepreneurship       development, Professor Harry Matlay was regularly invited to contribute to       entrepreneurship research at expertise level and his research has been       widely adopted to inform entrepreneurship education policy and practice.
The EU report "Directions in Entrepreneurship Education in Europe (2011)       utilised Professor Matlay's work (Evidence Exhibit 6 (Report)), and the       Joint Research Centre confirmed his contribution to have been "extremely       valuable" and to have "contributed to the wider policy agenda of the       European Union" (Evidence Exhibit 4 (Corroborating Statement)).
The UK Department for Business Innovation and Skills' reports `Graduate       Recruitment to SMEs' (2012) (Evidence Exhibit 7 (Report)) and "Enterprise       Education Impact in Higher Education and Further Education (2013)       (Evidence Exhibit 8 (Report)) drew upon Professor Matlay's longitudinal       research, and the department has signalled the work as `best practice',       advocating greater use of such approaches "to develop the evidence base".
Evidence Exhibit 2 (Corroborating Statement) documents the contribution       of Professor Matlay to the 2012 Wilson Review of Business-University       Collaboration for the UK government.
Global higher education practice     At individual, institutional, regional and national levels, team research       impacted significantly upon the development of specific aspects of       entrepreneurship education, and in particular the involvement of primary       stakeholders (e.g., undergraduates, postgraduates, `pracademics' and       entrepreneurs) in curriculum design, delivery and assessment.
Many of the entrepreneurship education principles identified by the       Business School team have been incorporated into the enterprise       development activities of higher education institutions internationally.
By way of example, Evidence Exhibit 3 (Corroborating Statement) details       the impact on graduate employability and entrepreneurship rates in the       University of Tasmania.
Ongoing impact of the Business School's body of work     The work of the team is ongoing and impact is increasingly evident from       the specific contributions of other team members.
Professor Hussain's       ownership succession work upon the role of entrepreneurship education       amongst graduate ethnic minority entrepreneurs to restructure and       reorganise finances in family businesses has had significant economic       impact.
Evidence Exhibit 5 (Corroborating Statement) demonstrates the       impact of this entrepreneurship education to "enhance economic activity       through a greater level of approval of ethnic minority applications".
Overall impact     Collectively, the evidence referred to in this case study confirms the       ongoing impact of entrepreneurship education research in the Business       School upon policy and practice in the EU and beyond.
