     Cultural diplomacy     The Scottish Ten project mobilised support at ministerial level in the       Scottish government [10] and has (so far) resulted in the very high       precision scanning of all five Scottish sites inscribed on the UNESCO list       of World Heritage Sites, and four of the five international sites.
Data       from each site was gifted to international partners, creating diplomatic       links between the Scottish Government and international organisations: the       USA National Parks Service (NPS), the Archaeological Survey of India, the       State Administration of Cultural Heritage (China) and Chinese Academy of       Cultural Heritage, and Sydney Opera House Trust.
As part of his trade       mission to China, First Minister Alex Salmond said: "The Scottish Ten         is an excellent example of digital diplomacy and cultural exchange,         helping enhance the mutual understanding between Scotland and China,         creating an atmosphere of respect, trust and celebration.
As a result of         a cultural memorandum of understanding I signed on behalf of the people         of Scotland with China we have seen a greater number of collaborations         across the arts, creative industries, heritage and national collections         allowing the people of both our countries to share some unique         experiences.
It's fantastic to be here in Beijing to personally handover         the first set of Scottish Ten data to the State Administration of         Cultural Heritage, which is a huge step in digital diplomacy" [11]     Impact on organisational policies     Scottish Ten research has resulted in demonstrable changes in Historic       Scotland policy and practice, most notably in their decision to embark on       their own programme of high precision scanning intended to cover their       entire estate, a core purpose made possible by the building up of a       critical mass of expertise in 3D scanning as a result of this       partnership.
[9][10]     Mitigation of risk to cultural heritage     3D models resulting from the Scottish Ten are already being used by HS,       NPS, and Cyark for documentation, conservation, management, research and       public engagement.
These activities allow the mitigation of risk to       fragile heritage sites by enhancing conservation planning [9] [9] which       has the potential to reduce the cost of managing the estate (for example,       NPS are using the scan as a baseline to assess speed of environmental       damage).
The data from the Scottish Ten project have been added to the       CyArk 500 collection of meaningful digital surrogates for 500 heritage       sites at risk worldwide (along with previous Historic Scotland/DDS 3D       scans e.g.
Rosslyn Chapel).
[12]     Public reach, impact and enhancing engagement     Scottish Ten and CDDV activities have been a significant factor in       raising the profile, nationally and internationally, of Scottish cultural       heritage and have been used extensively as a promotional tool for this       purpose.
For example there has been extensive media coverage of the       Scottish Ten/Rosslyn Chapel/Stirling Castle projects, highlighting both       the technologies used and significance of the selected heritage sites       [13].The reach of the public interest in, and media coverage of this       project is genuinely global, the television coverage of the Eastern Qing       Tombs scanning alone was broadcast to over 1 billion people.
The       availability of high quality 3D representations allows publics to get a       sense of a site from any Internet connected computer, anywhere in the       world [17].Representations of St Kilda are particularly valuable as no       public access is normally possible.
Via close association with the scanned       sites the project outputs have also been used to enrich the experience of       physical site visitors through interactive visitor education tools at e.g.
Rosslyn Chapel and, in the case of Mt Rushmore, a mobile application       developed by CyArk.
[18] Scottish Ten data has also been used in television       programmes.
[14] Scottish Ten has also run workshops with local       schoolchildren to explain the 3D scanning methodology and necessity for       cultural heritage management.
Economic impact     After the success of the Mount Rushmore scan, the NPS and CyArk committed       further investment for the creation of educational materials, based on       Scottish Ten digital assets, exploring the technology and cultural       heritage for all education sectors from primary to HE [19].Historic       Scotland offers HLF Skills for the Future learning bursaries (1/y for 4       years) attached to the Scottish Ten and its digitisation programmes [15].
Furthermore, the growth of the CDDV as a direct result of Scottish Ten       activity has garnered additional investment and contributed to the       commercial arm of the DDS, increasing the staff and equipment available.
The Scottish Ten has also contributed to the assets of international       tourism, firstly by making representations of data publicly available in a       form that can be accessed by potential visitors online (through images and       rendered video) [17] and secondly by providing key content to visitor       centres at Maeshowe and Skara Brae in Orkney, Nanjing Museum in China,       Mount Rushmore in the USA (inclusion in other sites is currently under       confidential discussion).
Contribution to academic field and knowledge exchange     The Scottish Ten project led directly to a conference series bringing       together sector experts from industry, government and academia.
Starting       with a workshop on digital documentation in 2008 (c.50 delegates), this       grew into the successful `DigiDoc' conference convened annually from 2009,       the most recent taking place in 2012 (c.230 delegates).
[16] This       conference series is the most public manifestation of the on-going       knowledge exchange between CDDV partners, government, and industry       partners such as CyArk.
Governmental support is evidenced in the addresses       given at DigiDoc conferences by Minister for Culture Michael Russell       (2009), First Minister Alex Salmond (2011), and Cabinet Secretary for       Culture and External Affairs Fiona Hyslop (2012).
The innovation       demonstrated by Scottish Ten collaboration also prompted UNESCO to convene       a single topic two-day international conference "I Know Where I'm Going:       Remote Access to World Heritage Sites from St Kilda to Uluru" held in       Edinburgh in 2011.
[16]     Knowledge Exchange was central to the Scottish Ten and on-site training       in 3D laser scanning has been delivered to over 20 individuals (India:7;       USA:4; China:1; Australia:4; Scotland:10 (including HS survey teams, HLF       bursary holders, and PhD students)) and working with a variety of       commercial scanning and survey companies.
Scottish Ten data is being used by the University of the Highlands and       Islands Orkney College to identify new archaeological sites and was a       central part of the PhD work of Alice Watterson, resulting in multiple       publications, presentations and exhibitions at the Universities of York       and Glasgow, and onsite at Skara Brae itself.
