     This work formed the basis of bids to the EUArtech programme and the       EPSRC Facility.
We were awarded ion beam time at C2RMF, Paris, through the       EUArtech Programme (nominally &#163;18k) to extend processing and       characterization, and sample analysis was carried out at the University of       Cardiff, as part of the Access to XPS initiative supported by the       EPSRC.
This enabled research to establish a link between fluorescence and       the presence of mercury, informing a novel screening method that allowed       us to work closely with the sector in designing adoption principles,       practices and policies.
Bids are underway to Leverhulme and STFC to extend       the work and specifically to address a wider repertoire of chemical       analysis common in specific historic periods.
The presence of large amounts of hazardous pesticide residues within       historic plant collections is a legacy from past conservation treatments       affecting many museums and institutions across the world.
It was common       practice from the 18th Century until the late 20th       Century to regularly apply highly toxic compounds of mercury and arsenic       to plant collections to prevent insect and fungal damage.
Regrettably, it       was not common practice to record the treatments that were applied, and       identifying contaminated specimens within collections today is impossible       without chemical analysis.
For an institution legally required to protect       its staff, visitors, volunteers and researchers, the detection and removal       of hazardous material from the herbarium environment is a top priority.
Unfortunately, many museum plant collections are vast, often containing       hundreds of thousands of specimens, making such a task difficult, both       costly and time-consuming, and impossible to achieve in many museums.
Nevertheless, historic plant collections are primary research resources       and access to them has to be maintained if they are to fulfil their role.
Current research has led to the development of a screening method for       identifying mercury-contaminated specimen sheets within any collection.
It       requires the use of a hand-held UV-A lamp, which is an accessible and       affordable item for the majority of museums across the world, and central       to self-detection and analysis.
It has, so far, been adopted by five key       cultural institutions as cited below.
The initial impact of this research is on museums and practitioners.
It       has changed professional conservation and curatorial practice, offering a       means to address a serious problem that could not previously be solved.
Subsequently, the research has impacted on the end-users of the collection       and is growing in importance at museums across the country and beyond.
In       removing the risk of exposure to toxic chemicals, allowing them to be       handled safely, ensures that all hazardous collections remain available as       a vital research resources.
An example of direct impact at the National Museum of Wales:       The research, carried out in collaboration with the National Museum of       Wales, was driven by the Museum's need to find a solution to a problem.
A       number of its conservation and curatorial staff were becoming ill after       spending extended periods of time working on the museum's plant       collections.
It was common for staff members and some visitors to work in       close contact with the collections, handling numerous specimens every day,       as well as close identification work using hand lenses.
The observed       symptoms were associated with exposure to the mercury and naphthalene that       had previously been identified in the collection during the Masters       research carried out by their botanical conservator (Purewal, 1996-98).
The herbarium was closed to the public and staff for a period, and       reopened with the introduction of changes in working practice,       specifically to reduce the risk of exposure to staff and visitors.
This       was seen only as a short-term measure, allowing the collection to remain       accessible, whilst the Museum searched for a means to ensure its       collection was safe to handle in the long-term.
Further research during       2009-13 has informed their approach as a regular element of their health       and safety procedures.
NMW has used the methodology to:            identify severely contaminated specimen sheets in its 800,000+         specimen collection, and to prioritise which collections required         immediate re-mounting.
ensure the implementation of safe, standard procedures to protect         personnel and visitors when handling the collections.
enable the removal of a large quantity of hazardous chemicals from the         herbarium environment.
National impact       More widely, the methodology is now being adopted by museums and       institutions across the UK.
The NMW is actively engaged in training other       museums to utilise the methodology in their plant collections (evidenced       in available reports, correspondence and corroborative material).
To date,       this has included the Natural History Museum [March 2008, Dr Mark       Spencer], The Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew [March 2011, Julia       Carretero], the British Museum [July 2011, Faye Miles], the Royal Museum       Cornwall [May 2008, Laura Ratcliffe] and the Royal College of Physicians       [March 2013, Laura Sleath].
All have identified mercury in their       collections using the methodology and have been able to determine whether       specimens are safe to handle or need re-mounting.
International impact       There is been keen interest in the methodology which is being disseminated       via international conferences: Rome (Metals in Paper 2005); New Mexico       (OLD POISONS &#8212; New Approaches, SPNHC 2006); Mexico (PIXE 2007); Berlin (New         approaches to managing contaminants in herbaria, SPNHC 2008), New       Jersey (Conservation Science Annual at the 2008 Eastern         Analytical Symposium) and Leiden (Bridging Continents &#8212; New         initiatives and perspectives in natural history collections, SPNHC       2009).
Impact is growing and continues to be evident, and has already       resulted in dialogue from the USA museum sector on adoption and refinement       of screening practices in multiple contexts (Reading Museum, Pennsylvania,       Ashley J. Hamilton, October 2013].
