     A major impact from DDS' underpinning research in medical visualisation       was the development of the 3D Head and Neck innovative learning tool.
In       2009, after an open competitive tender, the DDS was selected to deliver       the &#163;2m `NHS Education Scotland: 2D/3D Digital Visualisation Supporting       Interactive Educational Content' project (PI: Prof Anderson).
This       four-strand project researched and developed digital content for       interactive Head and Neck anatomy, instrument decontamination, virtual       patients and common disease processes for dentistry.
This was a complex       project relying on the high levels of interaction across multidisciplinary       development partners developed in the underpinning research.
The major       output from this project was a training tool comprising an anatomical       dataset and interface for the human head and neck representing a       world-first in resolution, accuracy, and realism.
Whilst most teachers of       anatomy would agree that dissection remains a critical activity there are       inherent limitations centred on the cost, accessibility and potential       health and safety issues which have been challenges for decades.
The newly       available 3D Head and Neck model provides an outstanding additional tool       for trainee doctors and dentists to learn the detailed anatomy of this       complex region.
This innovative learning technology is a key part of the       overall strategy of NHS Education for Scotland to provide leading edge       support for the education and training of dentists, doctors, nurses,       surgeons and the full range of allied health professionals in all       biomedical sciences that underpin high quality, safe clinical care.
Engagement with policy-makers and the medical community       On Wednesday 24 April 2013 DDS hosted a major launch event for the 3D Head       and Neck project showcasing the project outputs and DDS in general.
The       event was attended by around 50 expert delegates including First Minister       Alex Salmond and Dr David Felix, NES Dean for Dental Education, including       c.35 members of the European Dental Council Directorate, who extended an       international conference in order to spend a day at DDS using the 3D Head       and Neck.
In an interview First Minister Alex Salmond noted : "This is         a fantastic example of how [the research] can benefit patients in         Scotland" [7][8] and the training tool has received extremely       positive reactions from the clinical, academic, and industrial sectors       based on both existing and potential impacts [9][10].. Prof. Anderson was       invited to speak about the 3D Head and Neck at the Royal Society of       Medicine Innovation Day [11]to an audience of around 200 clinicians and       academics.
Educational impacts (direct from project outputs)       The four main project outputs (the 3D Head and and Neck model and       software, the infection control online resource, the virtual patient       interactive scenarios, and the disease process animations) are already       having significant impact in education across the NHS and universities.
The 3D Head and Neck is used for anatomical teaching for undergraduate       students at the University of the Highlands and Islands in Inverness,       Stornoway and Dumfries.
(Reaching students in rural and remote areas who       do not have access to traditional anatomical teaching methods was a core       outcome of the research).
There are 14 students in each year (It should be       borne in mind that the software has only just been released and this       number will grow significantly in the future and have international reach       as the model is leased elsewhere and commercialised).
The infection       control online resource is available to all NHS staff registered with the       NES Portal; around 27,000 potential users.
The recently-released Virtual       Patients for Training software (which includes four pharmacy-related       scenarios) has already been licensed 88 times by users from NES, the NHS       more widely, Boots, and independent pharmacies [14].
In Scotland alone there are 20,000 undergraduate students working within       healthcare disciplines in addition to over 100,000 clinical staff who       undertake continuing professional development.
Already, around two hundred       assorted viewers/trainees have had thousands of successful interactions       with the dataset.
Feedback from NES indicates that clinical uptake is       predicted to be rapid and comprehensive across Scotland.
Initial       evaluation and feedback from the Post-Graduate Dental Dean for NES is       extremely positive with trainees and clinicians vigorously adopting the       anatomical model [8][14].
Once the planned schedule of installations of       the model across Scotland is completed, then tens of thousands of       meaningful interactions with the model are expected annually.
Other educational impacts       The development of a critical mass of expertise in medical visualisation       led to the establishing of the innovative MSc in Medical Visualisation and       Human Anatomy designed and delivered by the DDS in partnership with the       University of Glasgow's College of Medicine, Veterinary and Life Sciences       (http://www.gsa.ac.uk/study/graduate-degrees/medical-visualisation-human-anatomy/).
This year's cohort is 23 students.
Collaboration on this project also led       to a co-supervised PhD between DDS and the University of Glasgow Dental       School in Paediatric Dentistry.
Economic impacts       During the lifetime of the 3D Head and Neck project, NES invested over       &#163;750,000 in the creation of 3D visualisation labs in Inverness, Stornoway,       Edinburgh, and Glasgow (with two more planned in Dundee and Dumfries).
These permanent facilities were designed and are managed by DDS in       partnership with NES.
The labs provide direct access to the project's       outputs for medical postgraduate trainees and clinicians, using the 3D       Definitive Head and Neck, virtual haptic injection simulation, haptic       lumbar puncture simulation, and thoracic and lower abdominal anatomy       models for anatomical learning, as an aid to pre-operative planning, and       as a basis for charting the progression and treatment of dental disease.
A       full time Educational Technician permanent post has been created to manage       the DDS/NES network of labs &#8212; an investment of more than &#163;150k in salary       alone.
The project itself employed 2 full time 3D modellers and 2       programmers at DDS.
2 FTEs have been retained on an ongoing basis,       increasing DDS' capacity to capitalise on the success of the research with       further research or commercial projects.
DDS has received to date &#163;192k in       additional funding from NES to expand the Virtual Patients for Training       tool to cover drug use, maternity, child protection, and psychological       intervention scenarios.
An additional &#163;100k was also granted by NES in       April 2013 to extend the functionality of the 3D Head and Neck.
DDS has       received 12 requests to license the tool on a commercial basis for use in       other teaching and training situations including hospitals.
It is       envisaged that this will create an income stream for DDS and NES in the       near future.
Evaluation/early results       3D digital model development process (including data acquisition, model       construction, interface design and implementation) were positively       evaluated and validated by multi-disciplinary experts in the fields of       medicine and computing science [13].
A preliminary (small scale)       evaluation of one of the learning tools (with pharmacy scenarios on       alcohol misuse, healthy eating, patient rights, and smoking reduction) was       conducted with very positive user feedback and showing an increase in       learning outcomes [14].
Full evaluations are planned for all work packages       in both undergraduate and postgraduate spheres, including at investigation       into where the resources fit best into curricula.
Public awareness and engagement       The 3D Head and Neck received considerable media interest, increasing       public awareness of the potential of digital teaching tools and       contributing to ongoing debates on the role of 3D technology as a       pedagogical tool [12].
