     Though a recent member of the cluster, Armstrong reflects the overall       research profile.
Her film, The Age of Stupid (2009), utilised a       technological perspective to convey its message on the future effects of       climate change.
New technology was also paramount in its online crowd       funding and its distribution (raising over &#163;900,000 overall): its history       making global premier was in an eco-cinema in New         York linked by satellite to 700 hundred cinemas in over 63       countries: "World's Largest Film Premiere Spanning Six Continents, More       than 50 Countries and Uniting Nearly One Million People Worldwide for       Climate Change Reform!
World Leaders and Newsmakers Join Global Cinema       Audiences for Satellite Premiere of Eco-Doc and Climate Change Panel       During Climate Week NYC" (Reuters, 17 September, 2009).
Another       documentary practitioner, Moore's An Eyeful of Sound (2010) proved       a forerunner in the field of animated documentary; "Moore's variety of       animation!
results in a film that is truly a sensual extravaganza and at       the same time, an inquiry into the limitations of everyday human       observation."
(Huffington Post, June 2010).
Screened at multiple       festivals to a range of audiences around the world, it gained       international awards (notably Nature Journal Scientific Merit Award at the       Imagine Science Festival, New York, Scinema Science Film Festival, Australia,       2010) and has also been used as an educational tool in the sciences.
Moore       has subsequently been invited to workshop with animators and scientists in       the USA and       Australia.
In the field of experimental documentary, Kossoff's trilogy of films       extends Walter Benjamin's theoretical ideas into practice, exploring how       technology impacts on our mapping of the urban.
Filmed on a mobile phone,       due to its specific materiality, Moscow Diary (2010), screened       internationally to large audiences (200 per screening), with engaged       audience discussions and was programmed with Jean-Luc Godard's Soft         and Hard at Festival International du Documentaire (FID) Marseilles.
"Kossoff's work is a kind of social and technological experiment that his       subject and muse might have appreciated."
(Phillip Cartelli, Film       International, September 2011).
Made in Wolverhampton (2011),       nominated for Time Out Best City Film at the Open City London       Documentary Festival, 2012, screened internationally and to local and       regional audiences, including Heritage Open Days by the Wolverhampton       Art Gallery, 2012, and MakeShift, 2012, a community based event at the       Lighthouse, Wolverhampton.
Negotiating the transition from analogue to digital, Sherwin's       experimental and performance-based work recently underwent a revival:       "Sherwin's continued commitment to exploring the rendering of imagery on       film and the process involved!
bestows great value to his work in the       field" (Aesthetica Magazine, October 2011).
Sherwin was invited to       curate a survey of Expanded Cinema, Film in Space for the Camden       Arts Centre, London (receiving 14,311 visitors, December 2012-Ferbuary       2013).
Focusing on the machinery of filmmaking, it was widely reviewed,       including Art Monthly (January, 2013) and Frieze (March, 2013).
His work       has also been compiled and published by LUX; Optical Sound Films       1971-2007 (2008) was published with a book, Messages 1981-84 in       2011.
Sherwin is regularly invited to run screening workshops, such as Melbourne       International Film Festival, 2008 and WORM, Rotterdam 2011.
With collaborator John Wood, Paul Harrison has exhibited their moving       image performance videos in over 40 national and international exhibitions       since January 2008.
Their recent US tour Answers to Questions,       confirmed their world international status within the art community and       the wider public: "Basic physics and gravity act as the protagonists in       these videos!
Considering themselves to be sculptors who use video as a       medium to document their work, the artists characteristically use       uncomplicated staging and filming techniques."
(Art Daily,       February, 2012).
Funding from the Arts Council enabled them to produce       more ambitious work such as Night and Day (2008).
The work has       been shown internationally and has entered the permanent collections of       Frac, Ille de France and Foundation de la Vache Qui Rit.
Published work       includes: Nothing Special a boxed DVD publication documenting       works produced between 1993-2011, with an interview produced by Tate,       London.
Exploring the Darwinian evolution of biological life forms with       interactive digital technology, and highlighting issues around climate       change, Dew Harrison (collaborating with Sam Moore, and two programmers)       created a real world interface for artificial life within a fictional       ecosystem.
Part of the Natural History Museum's international celebrations       of The Charles Darwin bicentenary in 2009, `Darwin200', Shift-Life       (2009) was made for the Shift-Time festival of ideas (with over 100,000       footfall from national and international visitors) in Shrewsbury,       Darwin's birthplace, allowing people to affect the behaviour of the       creatures in the ecosystem by directly changing the environmental       conditions.
