     Public access to a display of Glasgow's forgotten history     House for an Art Lover is a cultural attraction and tourist destination.
It hosts regular art, design and architecture related events in its       purpose built studios and seminar rooms.
The permanent display resulting       from the above research was designed by the project team in conjunction       with the board of HAL.
At the project's end, an interactive scene,       animated flythroughs, high resolution images (accessed through       workstations), and a selection of the physical archive collected during       the project were exhibited in a dedicated Interpretation Room in the main       House.
HAL recently refurbished the original stables and dovecote       buildings and turned this it into an educational and informative area to       showcase the history of Bellahouston and surrounding areas to park and       House visitors.
The digital model and archive of the British Empire       Exhibition (along with a newly commissioned animation using the original       data [12]) is now located in this self-contained Heritage Centre (which is       free of charge) along with information about shipbuilding on the Clyde and       the social and industrial heritage of the area surrounding the park       [9].The display and archive (both physical and digital) now forms an       important part of HAL's permanent assets and is included in their ongoing       press, publicity, and marketing strategies.
Its benefit is not only to       educate visitors about the history of Bellahouston but to give them the       opportunity to explore the site as it looked in 1938 in an immersive       manner, and crucially, to also demonstrate the possibilities of 3D       visualisation as a methodology for learning and engagement in a       heritage-centre setting.
A launch event at the culmination of the original       research attracted around 50 delegates to HAL to investigate the       exhibition further.
Physical visits to House for an Art Lover increased after the launch of       the permanent display.
(HAL's visitor tracking shows 12.8k in 2006, 12.9k       in 2007, 13.5 in 2008, 15.8k in 2009 [7] There was considerable public       interest in the Empire Exhibition project and the resulting permanent       display making a significant impact both locally and nationally with the       public actively engaging both during the project (e.g.
contributing       archive materials) and after the display was set up (e.g.
creating youtube       mash-ups of the animated flythroughs), inspiring public debate and       memory-sharing about the exhibition [14][15] and feeding into ongoing       events on the history of Bellahouston Park (e.g.
"Empire Exhibition       Glasgow 1938     An architectural exploration &#8212; 75 years on" 4/12/2013, Glasgow City       Heritage Trust, est.
120 delegates).
This was noted in the AHRC assessment       as was the project's "impressive" interaction with museums and the       public [5].
Three years after the project launch, the Empire Exhibition website was       still averaging around 1700 unique visits each month, peaking at 2369       visits (56,000 hits) in September 2009.
The website directs users towards       the physical display at HAL [3].
Economic impact for House for an Art Lover and DDS     A further grant from the AHRC entitled "Marketing the 1938 British Empire       Exhibition" [6] allowed HAL and Johnston to commission a designer to       create souvenirs specific to the Empire Exhibition such as postcards,       brooches, magnets, and printed materials [8] to sell in the HAL gift shop.
As of May 2013, HAL has sold 2,352 Empire Exhibition items (directly       generated from the follow-up research) for an income of &#163;6,189 [7].
The       research may also have contributed indirectly to e.g.
cafe sales.
Content from the underpinning research has also been included in other       souvenir products produced by HAL [10][11] and the success of the display       in the Heritage Centre encouraged HAL to commission further animations       from DDS in 2012 [12].
As a direct result of collaboration on the Empire Exhibition project, HAL       provides 2 scholarships per year to GSA postgraduate students (one       specifically for a DDS student (&#163;2,000), one for a student from any       department (&#163;1,500)) [13].
Resources for researchers outside academia     In addition to the public display, all research files from the project       were also deposited with HAL and physical and digital files can be       accessed by appointment.
This provides a valuable resource for future       research into the Empire Exhibition and the history of Bellahouston Park       by local historians and cultural heritage experts.
The follow-up grant from the AHRC also funded a one-off conference about       the Empire Exhibition at HAL which was well attended by a range of       delegates including architects, historians, academics, and interested       members of the public.
