     In primary care the UoL strategy led, first, to editorials in both BMJ       (doi:205; 10.1136/bmj.330.7481.4) and Lancet 2006 (2006:       doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68155-5; and 2007:       doi:10.1016/s0140-6736(07)60159-7y) highlighting the clinical importance       of the UoL's work in showing how practitioners contributed to the burden       of unexplained symptoms.
Each highlighted the implications for how routine       consultations should be conducted.
This, coupled with the success of the       UoL's publication strategy (sustained output of papers in BMJ and other       high-impact journals over several years), provided the endorsement that,       over subsequent years, led to adoption of the findings in practice       guidelines.
At a national level, the work shaped the joint Royal College       of General Practitioners and Royal College of Psychiatrists Working Group       on `management of patients with physical and psychological problems in       primary care' and the resulting report and guidance that the Colleges       published in 2009 [7].
This guidance emphasised that doctors' first task       in managing these problems is to avoid the iatrogenic processes that the       UoL work had demonstrated, and it used the work to show how doctors can       turn consultations to psychological issues without alienating patients.
It       highlighted the distinction between `explanation', which has the potential       to be therapeutic, and `normalisation', which is likely to be iatrogenic.
It draws explicitly from UoL work in specifying how GPs should construct       and provide these explanations.
The report cites 9 UoL papers (the largest       number from any research group).
The Forum for Mental Health in Primary       Care, jointly hosted by the same two Colleges, issued further Guidance for       Health Professionals on Medically Unexplained Symptoms in 2011 [8].
Again,       this was heavily influenced by the UoL work, with 9 citations, and       reiterated that the solution to the problem of unexplained symptoms lies       primarily in practitioners themselves, rather than in the patients.
We       have also influenced practice and understanding around unexplained       symptoms through sustained presentation at educational and professional       fora and with patient groups.
The findings about what patients need from       their GPs are included in one of the consistently most highly accessed of       patient-oriented websites (www.patient.co.uk),       a BMA `Highly Commended Resource' [9].
With funding from the MRC Network for Trials Methodology Research, in       2011 Young led a team of 11 influential researchers (from the Universities       of Liverpool, Sydney, Oxford, King's College London, Newcastle,       Birmingham, Brunel, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and       Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital and the Royal College of       Paediatrics and Child Health) in running a workshop on recruitment to       paediatric trials.
The workshop was attended by 115 delegates, including       many NHS practitioners.
It enabled the UoL team to engage in dialogue with       practitioners about how families wanted to be approached about clinical       trials and about practitioner discomfort in approaching families.
Practitioner feedback overwhelmingly indicated that the findings had       challenged their assumptions and would influence their practice.
Since the       workshop, the findings from the UoL research have been rapidly taken up by       governmental, professional and policy making bodies.
NIHR has included       them on its website as a resource for practitioners involved in clinical       research studies [10] and the reach of the UoL work was extended by       presenting the findings to practitioners involved in recruiting other       vulnerable patient groups to clinical trials (e.g.
stroke patients and       patients receiving end of life care).
The findings are cited in `"Turning       the Tide": Harnessing the power of child health research' [11], a report       by the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health on how to strengthen       child health research in the UK, and are also influencing guidance on       ethical practice in clinical research that is currently under development       by the College [12].
In 2011, Young was invited to advise members of the US National         Institutes of Health (Neurological Disorders and Stroke) on       recruitment to an NIH-funded international trial of treatments for       Duchenne muscular dystrophy (the FOR-DMD trial) [13] and to contribute to       a National Research Ethics Service training workshop for ethics       committee members and practitioners in the same year [14].
Through a       podcast given by Young for the 2012 International Clinical Trials Day,       which was facilitated by her involvement in the MRC North West Hub for       Trials Methodology Research and hosted by the Cochrane Collaboration [15],       the findings are also contributing to public awareness of clinical trials.
