     `Public engagement' impacts (Table D2, REF01.2012, p91) for Case Study 1       (EP/G00028X/1) involved several target audiences.
Similar to previous       scientific outputs from underpinning projects, two journal papers from the       study are aimed at relatively specialised readers &#8212; e.g.
those in a       position to influence change to statutory or voluntary standards and best       practice.
The output that has already reached a very wide audience,       including those in a position to influence a change to norms for housing       design, construction and infrastructural facilities, is `Design Guide:       Healthy Home Energy Laundering', available online at www.homelaundrystudy.net       (Menon and Porteous, 2012).
The evidence of the underpinning technical       papers, itself an incremental progression from earlier work (Section 2),       is vital to stimulating regulatory change.
Having first presented its       original insights to the Scottish Government's Building Standards Division       (BSD), the Design Guide (published spring 2012) was formally launched in       autumn 2012, and generated a large amount of media interest (TV, Radio and       newspapers), regionally, nationally and internationally.
Prior to this       widespread media airing, oral dissemination had been by means of seminars,       again with targeted audiences &#8212; i.e.
those who would not necessarily be       aware of the issues, but who could instigate meaningful change (e.g.
personnel from BSD, which is incrementally increasing the standards set       for energy efficiency; housing association managers).
The first of these       was held at the University of Strathclyde in late 2011 and the second at       Glasgow's Lighthouse in early 2012.
The latter, `Build Tight, Ventilate       Right: Air Quality in Housing' (02/02/12) benefited from the joint       organisational involvement with MEARU of CIC Start Online, a project that       linked the activities of a significant number of institutions in Scotland,       including those collaborating on Case Study 1.
It also attracted a vibrant       audience &#8212; perhaps also tempted by the international line-up of speakers,       which notably included Prof Jan Sundell from Sweden and Prof Hugo Hens       from Belgium.
The title of that event indirectly sums up the key awareness       revelation arising out of the domestic laundering study &#8212; namely even for       relatively old housing that has been upgraded to the point of being fairly       tightly sealed, `ventilating right' is a rarity.
The prevalence of       `passive indoor drying' (PID) on airing devices brings two consequences       for `indoor air quality' (IAQ) issue: firstly maintaining or boosting       heating when not otherwise required, and often together with open windows       (also venting tumbler dryers); secondly adding moisture to already       over-moist air.
The first directly compromises energy efficiency and hence       impacts on `fuel poverty', this linked to power use by appliances.
The       second leads to two health risks: firstly a moisture level that is likely       to add to dust mite populations, with proven links to asthma; secondly, it       has been analytically shown through analysis of air samples taken during       the course of the study to be associated with both higher overall airborne       mould spore concentrations and higher incidence of specific hydrophilic or       tertiary mould species.
The latter effect in particular again carries a       health risk for the vulnerable atopic sector of the population.
The       juxtaposition of energy impacts with potentially serious health impacts       has yet to be satisfactorily resolved for either existing housing stock,       including upgrades, or new-build.
Also, MEARU's parallel work in       connection with operation of MVHR systems has shown that this is no simple       panacea to `sealing tight' while `ventilating right' (confirmed by data       presented by key speakers at the February 2012 seminar cited above), or to       mitigating power use.
Therefore, the nature, significance and reach of the       public engagement as an impact, raising awareness of the issues and       problems and changing laundering tactics, implies vital succeeding       impacts.
Relatively minor, but critical, changes to regulation and best       practice are needed, and the prevailing culture affecting the many       `players' involved in the housing field (including landlords and       developers in both public and private sectors as well as numerous       consultants) also requires to take on board the research findings, and       proactively assist the process of reformative change.
Such change would       involve acquiescing to recommendations for solutions as suggested in the       Design Guide &#8212; e.g.
dedicated indoor drying facilities linked to       mechanical exhaust (recommended by DEFRA, UK Government), improved covered       outdoor drying, individual and communal, and greater provision of full       communal laundering provision.
As a corollary, related public health       research would shed further light on the findings, and it is envisaged       that a future medically-led research team should include the issue of       volatile organic compounds (VOCs &#8212; some from detergents and fabric       softeners) together with further work in relation to mould spore       concentrations and indoor drying.
