     The understanding and reinstatement of historic interiors       Reports written by Crick Smith establish a unique type of material       evidence that can be used to establish the nature of historic decorative       schemes.
Without this evidence, most properties seeking to reinstate       historic interior schemes would be acting on a highly speculative basis &#8212;       too conjectural to be credible for historians or funding bodies.
In       essence the material analysis allows a level of certainty about the       original scheme impossible without this analysis.
Ian Crick Smith, Michael       Crick Smith and Paul Croft advise clients during the progress of a       project, often submitting interim reports and preliminary research       findings, through this process they influence the direction of the       projects as well as providing a summary of the research in a final report.
Below are some examples of how their research is undertaken and used       across the sector.
The research carried out by Ian and Michael Crick Smith at Kenwood         House was an integral part of English Heritage's decision making       process, suggested new ways of establishing reversible reinstated       decorative schemes and allowed historians to understand the external       finishes that Robert Adam applied to his buildings.
They developed a       methodology for recreating the sanded exterior finish and then advised       contractors on reinstating the scheme and advised as to the success of       trial finishes.
Ian and Michael Crick Smith advised English Heritage on       how to make new decorative schemes reversible.
As well as producing       documentation, Ian and Michael Crick Smith were invited to attend Project       Team meetings that influenced the way that English Heritage carried out       the project.
As a direct result of this research the 'Deal Staircase' and       the South Front Rooms were redecorated according to a scheme of 1815-17 by       William Atkinson, as the research demonstrated that the Robert Adam's       interiors could not be recovered due to extensive subsequent alteration.
This restoration will be the subject of a series of articles published in       the English Heritage Member's Magazine, one specificly describing Crick       Smith's contribution.
The results of the research were described by Jeremy       Ashbee as 'radical and unexpected' and as such likely to influence English       Heritage's approach to future projects this is unconfirmed as yet due to       the recent completion of this project.
Research carried out by Ian and Michael Crick Smith on Elizabeth         Gaskell's House has formed the basis of a major project that aims to       recreate the appearance of the building during the author's occupancy.
The       authenticity of the interior is crucial to the credibility of the scheme,       as Gaskell is celebrated for the way that she uses interiors to       characterise her fictional creations.
A report in early 2009 established       the exterior colour, since reinstated.
A series of reports established the       decorative finishes of the windows and joinery, interior decorative       finishes and wallpapers and the external decoration.
In June 2012 the       Heritage Lottery Fund awarded the Manchester Buildings Trust a grant of       &#163;1.85 million to reinstate the interiors, an application based on this       research.
In 2013 Crick Smith were further engaged as consultants to       advise on the quality of the reinstated decorative finishes and Jim       Cheshire and Michael Crick Smith co-wrote an article detailing how the       paint research could be related to literary and biographic research, thus       enhancing the ability of members of the Gaskell Society to understand the       process of restoration and its historiographical basis.
In 2012, Sefton Council was successful in its application for over &#163;4       million from Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) to restore and repair the King's         Gardens Southport in 'a sensitive manner that respects their       historic design whilst providing facilities for today's users': their       ability to recreate the historic design was a direct result of this       research.
A specific objective was 'to restore all the surviving heritage       buildings, ornamental features and remove inappropriate later changes to       reinstate the original design coherence': the identification of an       authentic and coherent scheme was a direct result of this research.
In       both these ways Crick Smith's research added authenticity and credibility       to this major regeneration project.
The research relating to Church of St. James the Less, New Mills,         Derbyshire.
This research concluded that a decorative scheme of c.       1880 lay under layers of modern decoration.
Authentic paint research was a       requirement of the preliminary HLF bid, Crick Smith's research provided       this evidence and the phase 2 HLF bid was successful, resulting in a grant       of &#163;717,000.
Crick Smith were then commissioned to reveal sections of the       earlier scheme and to reinstate the original scheme in its entirety on one       wall.
The church is now a successful heritage centre that exemplifies a       respect for historic fabric while enabling a contemporary role for the       building, the recovery of the original scheme by Crick Smith was a vital       part in determining the character of the new centre.
