     Bell's research has influenced anti-discrimination law and policy in the       EU and contributed to the agendas of European NGOs working on       anti-discrimination.
Changes in this area of law and policy have the       potential to reach individuals and businesses throughout the EU, but also       beyond.
EU anti-discrimination law is a point of reference for European       countries that aspire to join the EU in the future and it is also       influential within the Council of Europe (e.g.
in judgments of the       European Court of Human Rights).
Influencing EU law and policy     Bell's membership of the European Commission's Network of Legal Experts       in the Non-Discrimination Field (2004-2010) involved commenting on the       implementation of Directives 2000/43 (ethnic equality) and 2000/78       (employment equality) within the Member States.
The Network was created by       the Commission to be an independent source of research and data on how       national governments transpose EU anti-discrimination law.
The work of the       Network is used by the Commission to inform its decisions on when to       initiate infringement proceedings against a state for non-compliance.
In       practical terms, the Network produced a detailed annual report on each       Member State of the EU, as well as those countries recognised as       candidates for EU accession.
Bell contributed specialist analysis of the       implementation of the prohibition of sexual orientation discrimination in       these countries, through making detailed comments on each annual national       report as well as co-authoring three editions of a comparative analysis       report, which provided an overview of the situation in the EU.
During this       period, the Commission pursued a range of Member States from across the EU       for shortcomings in national anti-discrimination legislation.
This led to       a steady enhancement in the quality of national legislation as states took       steps to comply with the EU Directives.
The significance of this lies in       improved legal protection for individuals who are at risk of experiencing       discrimination.
In 2008, he led a half-day policy review meeting with the `Action against       Discrimination, Civil Society' Policy Unit within DG Employment, Social       Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
This fed into preparation of a new set of       policy proposals published in July 2008.
The Head of Unit in the European       Commission wrote to Bell on 10 July 2008 stating: `our initial         discussion with you was very inspiring and we continued to come back to         that in our internal discussions on the successive drafts of the         text' (5.1).
On 2 July 2008, the Commission also published a       proposal for a new anti-discrimination Directive; the explanatory document       (5.2) cited a report co-authored by Bell (Developing       Anti-Discrimination Law in Europe).
This report was also cited in a       European Parliament resolution in 2008 (5.3).
In addition, Bell was regularly invited to speak at conferences of EU       policy-makers and legal practitioners on the implementation of EU       anti-discrimination law.
For example, this included the 2008 `Equality       Summit' (part of the French Presidency of the EU) and a 2009 European       Commission-funded conference in Brussels on comparative analysis of       national law and policy on positive action.
Influencing NGO strategy on the Proposed Directive     In anticipation of this proposed Directive, in 2008 Bell was invited to       chair an expert group on anti-discrimination law for the European Network       Against Racism (ENAR).
ENAR is an EU-wide network of NGOs from EU Member       States.
It combats racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related       intolerance.
ENAR's expert group was composed of 24 members, mainly from       European and national level NGOs dealing with discrimination on a range of       grounds and representing 9 different countries, but also including some       academics.
Bell (the only academic participating from the UK) wrote the       report of the expert group (5.4), which recommended that any       forthcoming Directive should cover a range of discrimination grounds       (religion, disability, age, sexual orientation) within one instrument       rather than separate Directives for each form of discrimination.
Although       the European Commission had initially intended to propose a Directive       limited to disability discrimination, it changed its approach and the       final proposal covered several grounds of discrimination (in line with the       recommendations of the expert group).
After the proposed Directive was issued, Bell was consulted regularly by       several Brussels-based European NGOs on their strategy in seeking       amendments to the draft Directive.
In particular, he provided advice to       ILGA-Europe.
ILGA-Europe is a non-governmental organisation bringing       together 408 organisations from 45 European countries.
It advocates for       equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex people.
Even       before the Commission had published its proposed Directive, Bell had       already drafted an alternative text for ILGA-Europe.
He assisted       ILGA-Europe in comparing its text with that of the Commission and spoke at       a hearing in the European Parliament arguing for a revision of the       provisions of the Directive relating to benefits for unmarried partners       (10 December 2008).
Some of the amendments recommended by ILGA-Europe were       subsequently addressed in the European Parliament's amendments (5.5)       to the proposed Directive (e.g.
on the exception for marital benefits or       clearer protection from multiple discrimination).
In 2009, Bell was also invited to join a virtual network of 9 European       legal experts consulted by the `Social Platform', an umbrella network of       European NGOs concerned with EU social policy.
The Social Platform       includes organisations such as the European Anti-Poverty Network, the       European Disability Forum, or the European Women's Lobby.
As a member of       the virtual network, Bell provided advice and information to the Social       Platform regarding its approach to advocating amendments to the proposed       Directive.
Influencing Courts on Anti-Discrimination Law     A book that Bell co-edited in 2007 (3.1), was cited in an opinion       of Advocate-General Maduro of the European Court of Justice (5.6)       and in a judgment of the House of Lords (5.7).
