     Research in the years preceding the Wyndford study (cited above),       together with that involved in the options appraisal itself, has       underpinned the key impacts partly through national and international       dissemination and incremental accretion of peer esteem, and partly because       the research recommendations were practical and achievable.
For CHA, the       latter aspect meant that the retrofit measures, both constructional and       servicing, were compatible with a viable business plan via their       analytical model &#8212; Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats       (SWOT), an impact replicable by other housing associations with similar       stock.
The citations (2-3 above) have their own trajectories in terms of       readership, and have a role in underpinning the credibility of the key       socio-economic impacts.
Notably, the empowerment embedded in `community       technical aid' was the factor that demonstrated to the residents of       Easthall the viability of retrofit as opposed to demolition.
Upgrading was       the route to the eradication of fuel poverty that was desired, and today,       for the residents of Wyndford, the principle has been extended in an       important way.
The 1960s Wyndford mix of four different systems of       high-rise (lift access) with low-rise (walk-up access) had all-electric       heating based primarily on storage units.
The occupants found these       difficult to control and therefore augmented them with direct-electric       heaters on a much more expensive tariff.
The retrofit to CHP has meant       that heat is now delivered to all spaces by responsive `wet' radiators,       all with valves enabling fine-tuning in each room.
Although we are now       used to seeing high-rise towers blown up (three in Greenock 11/03/13),       this is an intrinsically expensive route to achieving the required number       of affordable, energy-efficient housing units.
Retrofit is essential, and       the transition from unwieldy electric heating to the responsive systems       provided by CHP is a paradigmatic impact.
The other key impact of the CHP       from the landlord's perspective is the electricity generated offsets the       considerable power demand for lifts and communal lighting.
The reach and significance of such impacts first and foremost improves       the lives of the residents of this large-scale 1960s urban housing.
The       upgrade also impacts tangibly on Cube HA, not simply in its compliance       with the 2015 SHQS, but also in its standing as a leading and innovative       housing landlord and developer.
This is the largest CHP retrofit project       in West Scotland to date, and the visibility of its central plant room,       not to mention the visibility of the associated over-cladding, will help       to extend the reach and significance of the impacts well beyond Glasgow,       with the internet a powerful lay vehicle.
An invisible aspect, such as the       daunting economic challenges for the business model required to bring       about fruition from the underpinning research, is also likely to have       significant impact on elected councillors, Members of the Scottish       Parliament (MSPs) and their respective local and devolved governmental       instruments in Scotland.
Further, once interest is raised to that level,       it tends to spread.
The Wyndford CHP upgrade will certainly impact on       other parts of the UK, and is also likely to interest our European       neighbours who still have thermally sub-standard housing stock.
The CHP system at Wyndford has been operational for only a year (First       Minister Alex Salmond carried out the official switch-on in November 2012)       and the over-cladding work is ongoing.
Therefore, measured impact in terms       of improved comfort and control of comfort in these dwellings remains       downstream at this point.
The same applies to health improvements, and the       health study led by Lloyd as a 21st C spin-off from the 1990s       Easthall demonstration provides extrapolative evidence for Wyndford.
Financial benefit to CHA and its residents will also partly depend on the       precise details of CHA's business model, apropos tariffs, flat-rate or       metered charging and so forth.
What can be said at this stage is that       although SHQS compliance was the initial driver, and Cube HA has to       balance its books in a relatively demanding financial climate subject to       an interactive set of constraints and stressors, it also had from the       outset a wider altruistic agenda with the residents at its heart.
More       than 1500 Cube Housing Association tenants and around 200 owners are       benefiting from cheaper fuel bills (http://cubehousing.co.uk/home/home.asp).
Wider impacts will in their turn be partly dependent on the published       performance after a period of time, as well as the publicity machines of       CHA, associated bodies such as Glasgow Housing Association (GHA), umbrella       organisations such as the Scottish Federation of Housing Associations       (SFHA, the utility company involved, local government and governmental       instruments and voluntary sector NGOs such as Energy Action Scotland.
