     The nature of this work is collaborative involving multi-disciplinary       teams with diverse healthcare-related research and practice expertise.
Impact is a collective achievement but the particular contributions of       Macdonald's group are described.
4.1.
InclusiveCAD (G1), envision           (G4), envisage (G6) Health and welfare: As       explained in Section 2, user-engagement in the co-design of technology and       the visual tools enriched the communication between patients and       healthcare professionals.
Evidence of this can be found in the `Envision'       findings (ESRC/NDA, 2007-09, O1) and end-of-project report (S3) which       report on the benefits experienced by lay people, patients, clinicians,       healthcare and design practitioners without training in biomechanics.
Further evidence is available for the impact from the use of the       visualisations of movement data and tools further developed for therapists       and in-trials patients in a set of 5 individual physical rehabilitation       pilot clinical trials in 2012-2013 for `Envisage' (O2,3,4).
The visual       tools enabled clinical leads, therapists and patients to view movement       data, with overlays of supplementary information (e.g.
target &#8212; and       achieved -limb movement angles, symmetry or rate of walking) for real-time       feedback and discussion, allowing therapists to select exercises and views       best suited to patients' individual rehabilitation needs.
Loudon's and       Taylor's analysis of the data in the three stroke trials reveals the       relationship between improved: i) patient understanding of correct       movements for their rehabilitation treatment; ii) communication between       patient and professional; iii) objective understanding of progress (S7) &#8212;       challenges previously perplexing to successful rehabilitation using       current tools.
Society, culture and creativity: `Envision'       work won Glasgow School of Art a Nexxus (life sciences) Innovation Award       2011 acknowledging the most innovative product or service recently on the       market, or close to market, from a Scottish life sciences institution or       company.
The further knowledge acquired in the subsequent `envisage'       project has stimulated public debate and improved understanding of the       issues facing rehabilitation healthcare in meetings of rehabilitation and       therapy specialists (at conferences, workshops, demos, and networking       meetings addressing the diverse constituents of the sector, 9 press       releases, 2 policy document contributions, 3 TV pieces (e.g.
one patient       was shown using the system in-trial on BBC TV Scotland (31/1/13:       S8)), and 1 radio interview.
Additionally lay, professional and policy       audiences have viewed this work presented in numerous forums including       Lifelong Health and Wellbeing (LLHW) showcase events in Newcastle       (11/2011), Edinburgh (12/2012), and London (11/2013); AgeUK; to 70       academic, lay public and professional members at SPARC (11/2008);       Innovations Centre Scotland (12/2010); NHS24 (10/2011), and International       Longevity Centre and Actuarial Profession (05/2012).
Macdonald received a       Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation Butterfield Award (for Medicine and       Health) (G5) to visit a number rehabilitation centres in Japan to discuss       this work, resulting in reciprocal visits.
Public policy:       findings from `envision' (O1) were used as part of a 2008-09 Department of       Health report `(Research and Development work relating to assistive       technology) to Parliament pursuant to section 22 of the Chronically Sick       and Disabled persons Act 1970'.
The MRC selected the `envisage' work as       one of only two LLHW demonstration projects selected for an RCUK       Parliamentary Showcase, House of Commons, (5/12/12).
The Chief Scientist       Office (Scotland) reported this work in its e-bulletin (03/2013).
The MRC       Researchfish portfolio of evidence is available for the full `envisage'       team's engagement and impact activities with findings from envisage (S7)       produced in November 2013.
4.2 Mappmal (G3).
Practitioners and services: Mappmal impacted on a range of       professional disciplines, exemplified by invitations to contribute to       professional magazines, e.g.
`NHD' Dietitians magazine, the British       Association of Parental and Enteral Nutrition (BAPEN) newsletter, British       Journal of Community Nursing, and invitations to speak at Industry-led       study days to speech therapists, nurses and dietitians.
Following a       mappmal symposium, the Care Alliance invited the PI to deliver a study day       on our findings to care home managers.
Utilising our participative       stakeholder and technological development approach, `mappmal' research       made significant contributions, e.g., by: i) identifying new service       principles to optimise food provision and nutritional management; ii)       increasing technical knowledge of valid computerised means of monitoring       and tracking food intake against individual patient's nutritional       requirements amongst dieticians, nurses, health care assistants and       clinicians working in the care of older people in hospital and care homes.
A significant achievement here was Teal's (with our Newcastle partner)       development of an innovative `wipe' app assisting the visual recording of       food eaten by patients (O5).
Impact has been achieved through &gt;16       conference presentations, including presentation of our demonstration       prototype at 6 international conferences in disciplines of Computing       Science, Design, Nutrition, Sociology, 3 symposia and 6 UK exhibitions       (British Society of Gerontology (BSG) Plymouth 10/2011; Design4Health,       Sheffield (07/2011); British Geriatrics Society (BGS), Brighton (07/2011);       British Association of Parental and Enteral Nutrition (BAPEN), Harrogate,       (11/2011); and Hospital Caterers' Association (HCA), Reading (04/2012)       (S1).
The website www.hospitalfoodie.com (S2) has disseminated the       findings to &gt;30 countries resulting in enquiries from overseas teams to       hold discussions and/or view the prototype.
Two formal discussions were       entered with IT companies regarding the interactive software and interface       knowledge transfer partnerships resulting in one KTP.
Policy:       Following the launch of the `hospitalfoodie' prototype at an exhibition at       BSG, the Chair of BAPEN invited the team to work collaboratively to align       `hospitalfoodie' with BAPEN strategy and facilitate its adoption by       healthcare providers.
S1 provides impact details.
4.3 VisInVis       (AHRC/SFC, 2011-2012, G7) achieving local and national coverage in 2013       for our work (including S9).
