     The use of e-collars (or "shock collars") to train pets is a       controversial and emotive subject globally.
Proponents claim they are       valuable tools for addressing undesirable behaviours such as livestock       worrying and save lives as a result; whilst opponents claim they are       "barbaric" and unnecessary.
Following the creation of the Animal Welfare       Act in 2006, National and local UK governments came under sustained       pressure from organisations such as the RSPCA and Kennel Club to ban these       devices (1,2,3).
However Defra determined there was insufficient research       of a suitably rigorous scientific nature to introduce an evidence-based       blanket ban on their use across the UK.
Consequently they launched       competitive tenders in 2007 to investigate the physical properties of       owner-operated electronic collars, their use in the UK, their consequences       for dog welfare and their efficacy in addressing referred behaviours.
Our       engagement with stakeholders at the time (e.g.
Mills working with CAWC       which was feeding into DEFRA) and expertise in managing other       controversial projects (e.g.
Cooper's work on battery hens), along with       our research reputation in clinical animal behaviour, meant the University       of Lincoln was in a strong position to lead successful initial and       follow-up bids for this research.
Annual progress reports were presented to stakeholders from Defra, the       Welsh Assembly (who unilaterally introduced a ban in 2010 (4)) and       Scottish Government (who delayed introduction of planned legislation       pending the results of our research).
Whilst maintaining the necessary       confidentiality of results, the project team continued to maintain a       dialogue with other interest groups on both sides of the debate, such as       the Kennel Club, Association of Pet Dog Trainers (APDT) and industry       representatives such as Electronic Collar Manufacturers Association       (ECMA).
This included distribution of detailed research methodologies,       discussion of training approaches and recruitment of trainers for study,       and in case of ECMA providing copy of raw data for independent analysis of       study findings, in order to maintain confidence in the integrity of the       results as and when they were made available.
Following lengthy deliberation by government policy makers, Defra       published the study reports in June 2013, having prepared policy       statements for use by UK Governments (5).
This initiated publicity       campaigns by UK Kennel Club (6) and ECMA (7), national media attention       (8,9) and discussion by veterinary (6), pet training (10) and pet owning       interest groups (9), globally, partly managed by our Press Office.
The       research has therefore had major impact on legislators, campaign groups       and the pet industry, specifically:     Government Policy: Defra and Scottish Parliament (5) have now       indicated that they do not plan to introduce legislation on electronic       training aids but will work with industry on standards and use, the Welsh       Assembly will review the ban in Summer 2014.
Industry: ECMA is working with Defra on self-regulation; changing       its processes to address issues raised in the study (7).
These include a       revision of the quality of training manuals, tighter regulation of outputs       of devices and a change in the standards used for reporting of collar       electrical outputs in line with techniques developed during the study.
Culture and Society: Campaigners against the use of e-collars In       the U.K. and abroad (e.g.
Canada, see: www.banshockcollars.ca/alerts.php)       have used the results to strengthen their argument for an outright ban.
For example the Kennel Club (6,8,9) have highlighted our finding that       e-collars are not significantly more effective, but pose greater welfare       risks than reward based training for even severe problems such as       livestock chasing.
Likewise training groups such as APDT have used our       results to support their policy opposing the use of aversives in training.
Animal Health and Welfare: Not only are these results impacting       directly on animal welfare, with changes being implemented by industry,       but by raising awareness of our potential to address such issues, we have       engaged with other stakeholders to address their concerns.
For example,       following a series of meetings with trustees of the charity Feline Friends       (Derbyshire), they donated &#163;100k to the University to support research       aimed at addressing the impact of electronic containment systems       ("invisible fences") on cats; systems and species devoid of research as       noted in the CAWC report.
Our research impacts on important concerns for society in the U.K. and       abroad.
By working with stakeholders at all stages of the process, we have       been able to produce impacts that are deep and wide ranging, influencing       government policy, industry practice, advocacy and the culture of pet       trainers and owners considering their use globally.
