     The impacts of the underpinning research have affected a wide range of       beneficiaries at regional,       national and international levels.
The reach and significance of the       impacts may be categorised as;     Impacts on practitioners, professional services, local government and         national         specifications: Simons Group and NPS Ltd, acting as the industrial       partners have directly       benefited from the research and its outputs.
For example, the Simons Group       is using The Carbon       Lifecycle Evaluation Assimilation Framework and its associated tool to       benchmark projects at both       feasibility and tender stage.
Not only has this provided the Group with a       useful aid in facilitating       carbon conversations with their clients, it has enabled them to understand       the impact of carbon in       the projects they work on resulting in value engineering of both emissions       and costs as stated in       their website;       http://www.simonsgroup.com/p/h/Building_Greener/Benchmarking_whole_life_carbon/512/?lang=     In November 2007, concurrently with the KTP project with Simons Group,       Sodagar with five       partners (Simons Group, Davis Langdon, dcarbon8, Delta Simons and Total       Flow) founded the       Construction Emission Community of Practice (CECoP).
CECoP is an inclusive       voluntary group of       consultants and academics working collaboratively on developing the       protocols for calculating and       understanding the carbon footprint of buildings.
CECoP won the Royal       Institute of British Architects       (RIBA) East Midlands Special Award in 2008 for Architecture celebrating       excellence in the region.
CECoP collaborated with the Carbon Trust and Defra during the consultation       stage of the       development process for "Specification for the assessment of the life       cycle greenhouse gas       emissions of goods and services" (PAS2050), a publicly available       specification which came into       effect on 29 October 2008 (BSI October 2008, ISBN 978 0 580 50978 0).
The impact of this research has gone beyond the immediate collaborative       industrial partners.
CECoP, for example, has organized a series of national symposia and one       international       conference targeting the industry to share and disseminate the research       findings.
These include;            Timber Sequestration Symposium, 30th January 2009, Offices         of Davis Langdon, London.
Responsible Sourcing workshop, 22nd June 2009, Offices of         Davis Langdon, London.
Carbon Footprintng Symposium 1, 5th March 2008, Offices of Simons         Group, Lincoln       Carbon Footprinting Symposium 2, 2nd May 2008, Offices of         Davis Langdon, London.
Eco Deco Conference, 9th December 2008, University of         Lincoln.
Impact has also been achieved internationally.
Examples of this include       the UK-China Innovation       Forum on Sustainable Building Technologies, held in Beijing and Shanghai       in June 2011, at which       Sodagar, as the invited speaker, presented both the research and the       design tools.
Carbon4CAST the innovative carbon management tool which has been created       as part of the       research carried out in collaboration with NPS Humber Ltd, employs a       three-phase approach to       help large organisations establish strategy plans, identify energy saving       priorities, and optimise       spending.
It is currently being used to predict carbon emissions of Hull       City Council's building       portfolio (around 700 buildings).
Following its success at the Ecobuild       (see the following section),       Carbon4CAST is utilised by NPS Humber Ltd to improve environmental       performance of a range of       their clients including large retail organisations.
Carbon4CAST is also       rolled out to 27 offices of       NPS nationwide to accurately predict carbon emissions of their clients       including city councils.
NPS       is involved in negotiations with Chinese central and local governments,       including the Ministry of       Energy and Climate Change, for the utilisation of Carbon4CAST to forecast       and manage carbon       reduction targets in China.
Impact on raising awareness of the public: The research has       substantially raised public       awareness and acceptance of the potential of carbon management tools in       reducing environmental       impacts of buildings.
Carbon4CAST was showcased as part of the Innovation       Future Zone at       Ecobuild, 5-7 March 2013 alongside other industry-leading inventions.
Following a national       competition, the tool received the Innovation Award at Ecobuild 2013,       sponsored by the Modern       Build Environment Knowledge Transfer Network, a network of government       organisations that       brings together the latest developments in the built environment.
By invitation, Carbon4CAST was also exhibited at the Building Research       Establishment (BRE)       INSITE13 Conference and Exhibition on 2-3 October 2013.
Here, the       potential of the toolkit to       predict and reduce carbon emissions was demonstrated to the construction       industry, as it was       showcased in the Exhibition Zone and the Innovation Park &#8212; renowned for       profiling new and       emerging technologies.
Impacts on the environment: The research has resulted in       quantifiable carbon reductions of       businesses and activities, which in turn reduce the impacts on       environment.
The Simons Group,       for example, claims that during the period of research (2007-09) the       Carbon Leaf has reduced their       business carbon footprint by 25%, with much of this reduction being due to       better planning for site       energy needs and recording of site emissions, effectiveness of       communicating transport policy,       and energy awareness training.
