     Vall's scholarship continues to have beneficial impacts upon the CRLHR's       local constituents of       community and public historians.
Vall is a regular participant and       contributor to the Centre's       monthly public research seminar series, in addition to delivering research       informed public lectures       on the history of North East regional culture to the local museums and       community history groups       including the Dorman Museum (2008), Great Ayton Local History Society       (2008), North East       Labour History Society (2012), Heritage Gallery at Cargo Fleet (2013) and       the Gallery and baring       Wing, Northumbria University Gallery (2013).
In 2007 her research into industrial heritage (output 1) was recognised       by Middlesbrough Borough       Council, when she was invited by the head of urban regeneration, Tim White       (now retired) to       discuss her insights on the Swedish experience of urban regeneration, for       the benefit of future       planning in Middlesbrough.
The following year her expertise in urban       regeneration was recognised       by a Leverhulme Visiting Fellowship that brought Dr. Katarina Friberg       (S&#246;dert&#246;rn University       College, Stockholm) to the CRLHR to contribute to researching the history       of urban regeneration in       Middlesbrough.
The final project workshop, regarding past and present       approaches to urban       regeneration, was hosted by the CRLHR in 2008 and engaged public       participants, including       Malcolm Race, former editor, Evening Gazette, and Franklyn       Medhurst, Director of Teesplan       (1965), in dialogue with academics, including Professor Simon Gunn and       Professor Helen Meller,       regarding past and present approaches to urban regeneration.
The project       report, which Vall       supervised, was subsequently disseminated to Middlesbrough Borough       Council's principal       regeneration officers [1].
The local and community impact of her work continues as a member of the       Management       Committee of the HLF funded Teesside Industrial Memories project, where       she replaced Margaret       Williamson as the University representative in 2012.
Vall regularly       attends management and       steering committee meetings regarding the dissemination and publication of       the TIMP oral history       project results.
Her presence within the project continues to bestow       benefits upon this community       history group.
These benefits have been acknowledged by the Chairman as,       "making an important       contribution to TIMP's future strategy" [2].
Moreover, her role       within TIMP affirms the unit's broader       approach to impact through local community engagement [see REF3a].
In recognition of her       expertise in the cultural and visual heritage (outputs 2 and 3) Vall was       invited by TIMP to curate an       exhibition of photography and film, entitled `Memories of Industrial       Teesside', to coincide with the       launch of the project's most recent oral history volume, Life at         heads.
Memories of Working at         Head Wrightson, Thornaby-on-Tees.
In preparing the `Memories of Industrial Teesside' exhibition, Vall       collaborated with the curator of       the Heritage Gallery at Cargo Fleet where the exhibition was held.
She       also advised TIMP on the       representation of the region's visual landscape, including curating and       editing a film reel of material       showcasing the region's industrial heritage from the Northern East Film       Archive, formerly known as       the North East Regional Film and Television Archive (NEFA, Yorkshire Film       Archive).
NEFA is a       registered charity that is located at Teesside University and provides       public access to moving       image about North East England.
Vall collaborated with staff at NEFA in       developing and selecting       film showed during the exhibition.
The launch event featured a talk by       Vall attended by fifty       members of the public.
The talk was subsequently commissioned for       publication in the TIMP       newsletter and distributed to its 31 community members, as well as to the       local press and local       MPs.
On attending `Memories of Industrial Teesside' the MP for       Middlesbrough, Andy McDonald,       commented that it was an `excellent and very moving' representation of the       region's industrial       heritage [3].
An important dimension of Vall's research on the history of regional       culture involves a critical       appraisal of the process of culture-led regeneration in post-industrial       conurbations (outputs 1, 2       and 3).
In 2011 she was approached by the senior partner in Python       Properties Ltd., a regional       commercial property company and a major business contributor to the       regeneration of Teesside's       urban landscape, to explore links between the History unit at Teesside       University and Python       Properties Ltd.
The collaboration was taken forward following the launch       in 2011 of Python       Properties restored Cargo Fleet building, the former headquarters of       British Steel.
The building       incorporates a Heritage Gallery dedicated to the representation of       Teesside's industrial heritage,       and has hosted exhibitions of material from the British Steel Archive       Project.
In May 2013 Vall was       commissioned to curate an exhibition of photography and film to be held in       the gallery (see above).
Vall's timely appraisal of the process of culture-led regeneration is of       benefit to the organisation       whose signature regeneration of historic buildings actively uses art as a       tool to stimulate business       confidence and engagement with property development.
To this end Vall       contributed to the Python       Properties `Arts Festival' in 2013, delivering a public talk on `Art and       urban regeneration' attended       by graduate students, heritage professionals as well as members of the       public [4].
As well as extending the unit's longstanding commitment to engaging local       and community users,       Vall's research findings on culture-led regeneration in the       post-industrial landscape (outputs 1 and       2) have also benefited a national constituency of broadcasters, audiences       and policy makers.
Specifically, her research into the cultural heritage of industrial       regions has since 2009 drawn the       attention of a range of national broadcasters.
In 2009 she was invited as       panel speaker to the BBC       Radio 3 `Freethinking Festival' to discuss the regeneration of the North       East's industrial riversides,       broadcast on the station's flagship arts and culture programme, Nightwaves.
This was followed by       her interview contribution to the same programme, which critically       evaluated the launch of Anish       Kapoor's flagship public artwork, `Tememos', on the Tees [5].
A central concern of her research has been to explore the tension between       metropolitan       connoisseur culture and vernacular traditions (output 2 and 3), and in       2009 this came to the       attention of the Westminster Media forum when she was invited to speak to       the Keynote Seminar       `Nations and Regions'.
She contributed as speaker and panel member,       alongside representatives       from media and government, including the Head of BBC audiences, Penny       Young and the Rt.
Hon       the Lord Macdonald of Tradeston, Member of the Select Committee on       Communications.
The       seminar was attended by 100 delegates and the transcript of her talk was       published online by the       Westminster Media forum [6].
Most recently, and following the publication of Cultural Region       (output 3), Vall was contacted by       BBC4 producer Paul Greenan and invited to act as historical consultant to       a new documentary on       the history of regional television.
Vall contributed programme ideas in       preparation for the       documentary `Regional Television: Life Through a Local Lens', and also       featured as contributor in       the broadcast documentary (last broadcast, Wednesday 22 November,       2011).This research       expertise has at the same time continued to be responsive to local       audiences through its impact       upon regional media organisations, including BBC Look North, to       which Vall has contributed       interviews in November 2012 for features on the history of regional       culture [7].
The benefits of Vall's insights on post-industrial society have also       reached international audiences.
For instance, in 2009 Vall was invited, with Friberg, to discuss the       findings of their collaborative       research into the history of urban regeneration at Malm&#246; H&#246;gskola's Urban       Studies seminar, which       is attended by professionals in the Swedish urban planning sector (as well       as graduate students).
Most recently, Vall has been invited to the German University of T&#252;bingen,       to the Centre for the       Study of Threatened Orders, to speak in a public lecture about her       on-going research into       waterfronts and the history of urban regeneration [8].
Vall's underpinning research is driven by its concern to have beneficial       impacts for local audiences       as well as professionals in the heritage and museum sector.
This       imperative continues beyond the       census period through a new collaboration with MIMA (Middlesbrough       Institute of Modern Art),       which will deliver a conference (with Dr Matthew Grant, now Essex) in the       spring of 2014, to       coincide with MIMA's forthcoming exhibition on British Art in the 1950s.
The conference theme of       `Consensus politics and the new patronage: art and the post war       settlement', draws upon Vall's       research into cultural policy and community art (output 3) and will       feature public talks by the       conference organisers that will provide gallery visitors with an       opportunity to appreciate the wider       historical context for of the exhibition [9].
The impact of this body of work is cumulative and strongly embedded in       the CRLHR's ambition to       provide high quality research that benefits its constituency of local       users.
To date it has been       delivered important benefits that have inspired individuals in the local       community to think critically,       comparatively and historically about the complexities of regeneration in       an industrial region.
Building on her recent work with the North East Film Archive (see above),       Vall is extending this       relationship through the AHRC funded `Heritage Consortium' collaborative       doctoral partnership.
Vall is the lead for the Teesside strand of the Consortium, whose ambition       is to work with heritage       providers (including the NEFA), in providing doctoral training in       post-industrial heritage that will       embed impact in the research from its inception, engaging its       beneficiaries in a dynamic fashion       with the research as it evolves.
