     Silicon Providers     Liverpool's contribution to developing and modelling the intrinsic       devices has made them a cheap, stable and reliable commercial technology.
Typical costs are less than 20% more than those for non-radiation-hard       devices.
The number of international companies and research facilities now       able to offer p-type sensors for high radiation environments has grown to       8, including the world's largest supplier Hamamatsu Photonics (Japan) and       now 2 UK companies (Micron and e2v Technologies Ltd).
From 2008 onwards,       this research was continued as part of the Liverpool STFC Rolling Grant.
Suppliers such as Micron Semiconductor Ltd (MSL) and e2v supply to many       markets from medical applications to space and defence, but often the new       product lines are first developed to meet the exacting requirements of       fields such as particle physics.
This has been particularly true for MSL,       where the company Director writes in his supporting letter that their       collaboration with Liverpool "...has proven and continues to be, of         great benefit to expanding commercial activities, particularly in         Asia..." On radiation-hard developments such as n-in-p, introduction       of interstitial oxygen, and guard-ring optimisation for post-irradiation       high-voltage operation, he writes: "Since 2008, the establishment of         P-type substrate technology, which has relied on MSL fabrication and         process engineers working closely with Liverpool's device expertise, has         established MSL's pixel and strip offerings as the most         radiation-tolerant in the world.
These devices represent more than 30%         of MSL's business, and the technological edge over competitors permits         bids and results in major contracts, both in the UK and worldwide".
MSL has an annual turnover in excess of $5 million and "...is the UK's         leading radiation sensor specialist and provides a wide range of         products for applications in scientific laboratories, the nuclear         industry and aerospace and defence applications, and is a qualified         supplier for ESA and NASA to both H- and K-level standards."
In addition, Liverpool has contributed to designs available from other       international companies (Hamamatsu Photonics, and CNM) who now provide       p-type sensors as part of their catalogue.
With CNM, we also provide the       mask designs for the different prototype devices developed for studies of       performance after extreme neutron and proton irradiation.
We helped e2v develop this technology with Liverpool mask designs through       a joint industry-academia grant (ST/F011571/1 with &#163;327k to Liverpool)       leading a joint publication with e2v.
We have also held CASE studentships       with e2v and Hamamatsu (UK) as well as with MSL.
In the case of MSL (supplying mostly to the nuclear industry, space and       defence) their chief detector designer, Dr. Susanne Walsh, was trained in       the use of the CAD packages needed for sensor mask layout during an 8       month placement at Liverpool and continues to work closely with our design       experts.
Dr Walsh does all the company's in-house sensor design.
Other Impact     The building of the LHCb n-in-p VELO 2008-2012 was done based on the       n-in-p research, but required electronics expertise across a broad range       of UK industry including Hawk Electronics and Stevenage Circuits.
The       technologies developed that were ancillary to the n-in-p sensors, but       nonetheless vital to completing the instrumentation, included the       precision, low-thermal impact component mounting by Hawk Electronics, who       won a NW Industry award for their work with Liverpool in 2008 and the       circuit layout and design by Liverpool of high-tech hybrids (that hold the       sensors) by Stevenage Circuits.
On the back of this research, Hawk has now       been enabled to bid for EC contracts and Stevenage Circuits has added       thermal management to part of its product range of hybrids.
Both are       involved heavily in the ATLAS tracker upgrade prototyping efforts for the       HL-LHC at Liverpool with the prospect for bidding for major future       contracts.
The detectors designed by Liverpool for the LHC now form the basis of a       major new initiative in proton therapy instrumentation which recently       received a &#163;1.6 million Translation Award from the Wellcome Trust.
Here,       radiation hardness is key to long-term operation in the proton beam.
