     The research performed by the University of Oxford's OGBI since 1993 has       transformed the field of `glycomics' in three major respects.
First, by       making sugar technology available for clinical studies, and for the       biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries worldwide it has driven       commercial investment and revenue generation.
Second, it has led to the       design of new drugs that are pioneers in their fields.
Third, it has       advanced commercial production processes for biopharmaceuticals.
Commercial investment and sustained revenue generation       OGBI's research in the late 1990s was carried out in collaboration with       Oxford Glycosciences (UK) Ltd (OGS), a University of Oxford spinout       company specialising in integrating proteomics and genomics for drug and       biomarker discovery.
OGS's first commercial products were based on       Professor Dwek's research into methods for sugar detection and analysis.
In particular, OGS `miniaturised' Dwek's gel-based glycoprotein       identification and isolation platform1,2 and sold it worldwide       for scientific research.
OGS's success was endorsed by its acquisition by       CellTech for &#163;103M in 20035.
Royalty payments to Oxford       University attest to the on-going importance of OGS' commercial activity &#8212;       [text removed for publication].
Drug discovery       When OGS was sold in 2003, all of the University's share of royalties       (approximately &#163;20M) were ploughed back to fund translational research at       OGBI, which has since supported further commercial activity.
Continued       development of the iminosugar drug Zavesca (misglustat) for lysosomal       storage diseases6 is one example of commercial application       arising from this research (see impact case UOA5-04 for details).
Sales of       Zavesca since 2008 have generated CHF 315 million in revenues for       Actelion, the company sublicensed to sell it7.
A second       example, as yet without a proprietary name, has been developed by       Professor Zitzmann of OGBI, in collaboration with United Therapeutics and       Unither Virology.
With &#163;12M from United Therapeutics and $45M from the US       National Institute of Health, Professor Zitzmann and colleagues have       produced a powerful highly innovative antiviral iminosugar, which in       December 2013 is due to enter phase II clinical trials of its efficacy       against dengue virus8.
Glycoprofiling biopharmaceuticals       Therapeutic glycoproteins are used to treat various diseases.
For example,       many different recombinant forms of immunoglobulins are produced to treat       life-threatening conditions such as metastatic breast cancer and       non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Control of glycosylation is of major importance       during the development and production of these drugs, because glycan       chains can have marked effects on stability, activity and antigenicity in       intact organisms.
However, recombinant glycoproteins are typically       produced in cell culture systems and often consist of a mixture of       glycoforms.
Licensing bodies such as the European Medicines Agency and the       US Food and Drug Administration will allow for a certain range of       variation in glycoforms, but the manufacturer and the agency must agree on       the extent to which such variation is acceptable for a given drug       formulation.
Once a drug is approved, biopharmaceutical companies need to       ensure that every product batch falls within the defined range.
The National Institute for Bioprocessing Research and Training (NIBRT) in       Dublin is an organisation set up by the Irish government to support the       biopharmaceutical industry by providing operator-training courses.
Another       key area of focus for NIBRT is to assist the industry in maintaining the       exacting quality standards needed for biopharmaceutical production.
To       this end, the NIBRT GlycoScience Laboratory (headed by Professor Pauline       Rudd, formerly of OGBI), in collaboration with the Waters Corporation and       Beckmann, developed a state-of-the art version of the Glycobase database       that was first developed at Oxford4.
Glycobase 3+ provides data       for 650 N-linked and O-linked glycan structures including       both published and proprietary glycans9.
The database is being       used to bring greater control and predictability to products produced by       pharmaceutical companies.
The database is open access, enabling it to be       freely used by both academic and commercial users.
However, a specialised       subset of the database relevant to pharmaceutical companies, as well as       the NIBRT bioinformatics platform for interpreting the data, has been       incorporated into the Waters UNIFI 1.7 platform10.
Combined       with an automated platform for glycan release and labelling, thousands of       samples can be processed each week, making it invaluable for monitoring       cell cultures and for evaluating product batches.
On average the Glycobase       3+ database is accessed from over 150 independent IP addresses each day11,       with the largest concentrations of users in the US, Ireland, Germany,       Spain, France and Australia.
In addition to providing support through Glycobase 3+, the NIBRT       GlycoScience Laboratory provides a high-end contract glycoanalytical       service for pharmaceutical companies12.
The high-throughput       analytical and bioinformatic platform at NIBRT is based on the prototype       that was first developed in the OGBI at the University of Oxford3.
A large number of pharmaceutical companies use NIBRT's service to analyse       their products, and to carry out basic research into effector functions of       potentially novel therapeutic agents such as monoclonal antibodies.
These       companies include Shire, Agilent Technologies, GeneMediX, GE Healthcare,       Lilly, Janessen, Waters, BD, Merck Serono, Astellas, Reliance Life       Sciences, Unither, Pfizer, Merck, L'Oreal and Roche13.
[text         removed for publication]14.
