     1a) The HMP Drake Hall project (Walsh: February &#8212; August       2012), in collaboration with the charity Women in Prison, the Arts       Alliance and Clean Break Theatre Company, involved practical theatre       workshops with women at HMP Drake Hall in Staffordshire.
The project       engaged a core performance group of 15 prisoners, developed a research       focus group of 10 further prisoners, and had an audience of 45 prisoners       and staff.
Coverage targeted the UK female prison population through Women       in Prison's Ready Steady Go magazine, enabling a `remote' creative       process to all women's prisons in the UK of up to 8,000 readers.
The       process was discussed in an issue of Total Theatre Magazine and       was the subject of two prize-winning academic essays (Walsh 2012; Walsh       2013).
1c) The LOV project (Morrow) has had significant impact on       arts provision for young people in Lincolnshire: 854 young people have       been involved as audience members, 637 as workshop participants, 112 as       artists and performers and 137 as decision makers.
Forty new artist       commissions are in place, 23 new events for young people have been       organized, 4 ongoing regional/national partnerships forged, 7 regular       groups established as commissioning artists and 3 new jobs created.
An       evaluation of the Lincolnshire One Venue `X-Change' programme is being led       by the School of Sport and Exercise Science in the University.
The Paul       Hamlyn Foundation has recognised this as a benchmark project for future       similar initiatives around the country, and is rolling out similar schemes       in rural areas nationwide.
2a) The Hepatitis C Interactive Theatre process (Walsh:       January &#8212; April, 2013), in collaboration with United Lincolnshire       Hospitals, culminated in a performance to over 50 sector professionals and       users.
The process was shortlisted for the Nursing Times Award for Team of       the Year 2013 for promoting awareness of the Hepatitis C Virus.
Walsh       is producing a DVD of performed materials aimed at service providers and       users.
2b) Our engagement with Lincolnshire Social Services Training       House was piloted in 2011 with 8 social workers, 4 social work trainers       and 2 performers in role play scenarios around child protection issues.
The Learning and Development Officer for Lincolnshire County Council       stressed how the initiative had `impacted on the quality of training in       Lincolnshire Social Services'.
The project was further developed through       2013 and is expanding to encompass training scenarios relating to domestic       abuse, substance abuse and neglect.
2c) Lace Housing (Lawrence: 2012) involved 3 students, 20       service users and 3 carers and is being considered as a component of the       University's Performance Enterprise Initiative to offer graduates       professional employment.
3a) Participant feedback from It Happened Here (Lawrence:       2009) detailed the increased cultural ownership and confidence       participants felt as a result of the project, leading to several       volunteering as tour guides.
Following the project, Hoxton Hall (lead       partner) attracted significant Heritage Lottery funding for related       projects, and has since received &#163;3 million capital funding, partly to       develop an archive of its cultural role for and with the community.
3b) Dambusters 70 (Lawrence: March-May 2013) was       performed at RAF Scampton on 16 May 2013 as part of the national       commemoration.
Revisiting personal experience through performance impacted       participants (performers), observers (audiences) and communities (local,       regional, national), and dissemination allowed this impact to be part of a       national memorialisation of historic achievements.
It played to an       audience of 500 and was adapted for BBC Radio Lincolnshire audience of       30,000 listeners.
BBC North also tracked the process, reaching a TV       audience of 100,000.
The work was seen as audience building for both Radio       Lincolnshire and BBC North and offered positive publicity for the RAF.
Its       impact on enhancing the cultural capital of listeners is evidenced by       ongoing/repeat commissions from the BBC.
3c) STORM (Lawrence, O'Thomas: May 2011 -       April 2012) provided an effective template for collaborating with       multi-language partners, offering audiences a new performance methodology       and an awareness of how performance can reflect cultural dialogue.
Our       collaboration with East Lindsey District Council directly influenced a       successful application for Arts Council Catalyst funding to further       performance collaborations between partners.
In addition to the discrete impacts noted, this case study has had       significant tacit impact on participants, audiences and communities.
This       has contributed to the building of self-esteem; the bringing together of       communities; the shared remembrance of communally-significant events; the       civic inclusion of marginalized groups (the elderly, the incarcerated);       and the empowering and empowering of marginalised communities.
