     This research had a direct and tangible impact on changing the law       protecting academic freedom in all the universities of Denmark.
The 2007       article in Higher Education Policy (HEP) showed that,       utilising measures of academic freedom from the 1997 UNESCO Recommendation         concerning the Status of Higher-Education Teaching Personnel, the       worst two nations in the EU for the protection of academic freedom were       the UK and Denmark.
This led to considerable debate in Denmark, with the       Minister initially rejecting, but later accepting the findings of the       research.
On 4th December 2007, this HEP article featured in a       major article in a Danish newspaper, Information (Denmark's       equivalent of The Times), in which, responding to the findings of       the HEP article, the President of the Danish University Lecturers'       Professional Association (Dansk Magisterforening &#8212; DM) Ingrid       Stage, stated that DM were considering a complaint to UNESCO.
On       the same day, the Minister responsible for universities, Helge Sander, was       subjected to hostile questions in the Danish Parliament about the absence       of protection for academic freedom in the 2003 Danish University Act.
Sander's main response1 was to disparage the evidence of       the HEP article, and argue that, given that seven ex-communist       nations headed the EU ranking, he was glad that Denmark did not.
Karran responded to these criticisms in a letter published in Information       on 13th December, which noted that `in many of the ex-Communist       states, university professors were often among the few people to speak out       against the regime' and that `Helge Sander reports finding `extended       satisfaction when visiting the universities', and it may be the case that       there is a stronger cultural commitment to academic freedom in Denmark       than is evident from an examination of the laws, but until such research       is undertaken, Sander's comments have the status of contestable opinion,       not fact'.
Sander responded with a short comment in Information       (17th December, 2007) accepting that staff in Eastern European       universities were strongly influential in the fight for freedom, but       argued that the ranking in the HEP paper was biased.
Consequently,       Karran (Information, 20th December, 2007) again       responded by indicating that, for reasons of economy and space, the       newspaper had provided a summary table which simplified his findings.
To       further counter such critiques, the next paper by Karran, in 2009,       published in the British Journal of Educational Studies, utilised       the UNESCO academic freedom parameters exactly.
In May 2008, the DM President stated in ForskerForum (the       monthly magazine of the Dansk Magisterforening), that: `The Danish       university law degrees of freedom must now be tested against the       international UNESCO declaration in response to an inquiry by the English       scientist Terence Karran from Lincoln University which showed that the       Danish academic freedom is fully depressed in western context'.
As a       result, the DM set up an online petition to get the Danish       parliament to change their academic freedom policy, which attracted 6,502       signatures.
Karran was asked by the DM to help draft the       submission to the joint ILO-UNESCO Committee of Experts on the Application       of the Recommendations concerning Teaching Personnel (CEART), which is       responsible for assessing complaints against national governments in       respect to alleged breaches of the 1997 UNESCO Recommendation.
Reporting       in 2009, the CEART did not find that the Danish legislation was in       violation of the 1997 UNESCO Recommendation but recommended that       `the Government and the DM engage in social dialogue on issues of       university governance'.
In 2009, the Danish government established an evaluation team comprising       five international academic experts from outside Denmark to examine the       2003 University Act.
Karran helped prepare the DM submission to       the Evaluation Team.
The Evaluation Team's report concluded (page 39)       `article 17.2 of the 2003 University Act... is seen by many academic staff       members of the universities as a major symbol of the controversies around       the Act, as it gives the institutional leadership the formal power to tell       individual staff members which academic tasks to perform.
The article       could be regarded as an intrusion into traditional values and rights of       academic university staff... we find that the question can be raised       whether article 17.2 in all its details fits the Danish and European       traditions with respect to academic freedom...
Taking these considerations       into account, the Panel recommends the Parliament to remove or reformulate       the article 17.2'.
Following the evaluation, legislative changes took place.
On May 19th       2011, the Danish Parliament adopted an amendment to the University Law,       Section 33 of which repealed section 17 of the 2003 University Law, which       had stated that `The Head of Department may allocate specific jobs to       specific employees.
Members of the academic staff are free to conduct       research within the strategic framework laid down by the university'.
Had       this research into academic freedom in the EU not been undertaken, there       would not have been an appeal to UNESCO, an external evaluation of the       law, or a change in the law as a result.
