     Researchers in 21st century literature at Lincoln have worked       to exploit the beneficial potential of their research through a strategy       of targeted dissemination of activities 1) by engaging a wider audience       through open events and online magazine Alluvium in contributing       to the ways in which 21st century literature is understood; 2)       by inviting school children, teachers and the wider public to reflect on       recent significant political and social events as mediated through       literature and drama; and 3) in these ways by influencing the wider       public's understanding of, and secondary teaching practice with regard to,       21st century literature.
Working at the forefront of digital       technologies, publishing strategies and political policy, Eve and     Edwards have embraced the public dissemination of research on 21st-century       literature in the creation of two new `gold' open access (free to read)       journals, Alluvium [2012] and Orbit: Writing Around Pynchon       [2012], which have rapidly established global readerships beyond Higher       Education.
The open access nature of the Lincoln-based Alluvium       and Orbit, coupled with strong social media interaction built on       the back of Eve's and Edwards' academic reputations as a       result of their research in MFS and C21 and Adiseshiah's       Twenty-First Century Fiction, has had a tangible social impact in       forging international cooperation and dialogue centred around contemporary       literature.
Alluvium has attracted a substantial following beyond       the academy, receiving 9,623 unique visitors from 48 different countries,       demonstrating considerable international reach.
Developed out of Eve's,       Adiseshiah's and Edwards' published research on 21st       century literature and literary criticism, Alluvium shows early       signs of transforming the relationship between higher and secondary       education where the appetite for concise, accessible scholarship is       changing both teaching practice and students' approaches to 21st       century literature.
A teacher from Bristol Grammar school, Roland Clare,       talks about referring `aspiring literary students to [Alluvium]       because it's such an attractive portal into a world where people are       writing about ... literary issues because that's the kind of animals we       are, rather than because it's on the boring syllabus.'
George Holt, a       Bristol Grammar student, says: `I truly found reading some of your       articles exciting and educating ...
In my mind this website is a more       personal... literature centric version of Wikipedia.'
Eve also       runs the annual `Pynchon in Public Day' from Lincoln, where participants       worldwide &#8212; most of whom are outside of Higher Education &#8212; interact online       to demonstrate their appreciation of Pynchon's writing, to which Eve's       widely-disseminated research directly contributes.
William Davis, a       non-academic, talks of finding it `gratifying' to have the `opportunity to       join that level of discussion.'
This annual event, which developed into an       international community of cultural and intellectual exchange in which       many individuals (such as Davis and Jim Lawrence) now recommend Eve's       work to Pynchon newcomers on Twitter, has already had a positive       educational impact and full-article coverage in The Guardian, The         New York Daily News and The LA Times.
Micha Knerr explains       that Eve's research-informed blog posts `make [him] want to deal more with       this demanding kind of literature, and read [Pynchon's work] by looking at       the themes [Eve] point[s] out in [his] posts more closely'.
The       event has also had economic impact upon Greg Thomas' Los Angeles-based       business, Trystero Coffee (which takes its title from one of Pynchon's       novels), which has seen an increase in sales owing to media coverage for       the event: 'Pynchon in Public Day has provided an absolute benefit to my       small endeavour along with a literary benefit to the local community'.
With Lincoln colleagues in Performing Arts, Adiseshiah has       enhanced the impact of their practice as research through the       co-organisation of annual research-informed festivals on contemporary       playwrights, where performances in the Lincoln Performing Arts Centre are       followed by post-show discussions involving the local community.
The March       2010 `Caryl Churchill Festival' included a student site-specific       performance of Seven Jewish Children with an audience of over 100       members of the public, university employees and students.
The festival's       profile and impact were significantly raised by the post-show discussion       hosted by Adiseshiah, which included two speakers, Dr Anna Bernard       and Professor Moch&#233; Machover.
Feedback from the event demonstrated       appreciation of this rare opportunity to discuss the Palestinian-Israeli       conflict as represented in performance.
Elizabeth Groucutt, who teaches       Language at South Wolverhampton and Bilston Academy, made particular       reference to the educational benefits of the event, saying `the       site-specific performance of Seven Jewish Children &#8212; really helped       me to think about new ways of using our new spaces'.
The festival also       hosted a collaborative project coordinated by Performing Arts Lecturer,       Martin Curtis, who drew on Adiseshiah's research to work with       North Kesteven local secondary school on Churchill's 1982 play, Top         Girls.
After collaboratively exploring Top Girls and its 21st       century relevance through workshops, the project culminated with Lincoln       Performing Arts students and North Kesteven students performing scenes of       Top Girls and contemporary adaptations of it to sell-out audiences       during the festival.
Drama teacher, Rachel Yarsley, considered it a       valuable educational and social experience for the students.
Collaborating       with university students helped with improving the confidence and       ambitions of the pupils, and the experience has contributed to the shaping       of drama teaching in the school.
