     Researchers in life writing and literary/dramatic representations of       marginalised communities and hidden histories have been keen to use their       research to benefit communities socially, educationally and economically,       outside Higher Education.
This has involved working with local communities       to discover, narrate, make visible and preserve marginalised life stories       and histories.
Workshops and events focused on this work have been held       both at the University of Lincoln and in community centres in the villages       in question.
The primary manifestation of social and educational benefit of this       research can be seen in the various local Lincolnshire research projects       which have been funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund.
These community-based       projects are being supported by the cross-disciplinary AHRC `Connected       Communities' project, `Telling Our Stories' (February 2013-2014) of which       Adiseshiah is a named co-investigator and to which Culley       has actively contributed.
There are five separate local projects from       communities in Lincolnshire and Humberside: two projects in the       town of Caistor; one from Chain Bridge Forge near Spalding; one from a       suburb of Hull; and a further project from West Deeping.
These local       heritage projects involve exploring local industry and architectural       connections to the history of a local school; capturing stories of life       and work in Caistor; connecting the experiences of the Huguenot people's       journey to the Hull area as refugees in the 16th century with stories of       contemporary immigration; recording the memories of Chain Bridge Forge in       Spalding and developing it as a heritage site; and researching and writing       the history of a section of the defunct Stamford Canal as part of a wider       local history narrative.
The impact of this project involves educational, social and economic       benefit.
Educational benefit has resulted from the `Telling Our       Stories' project's promotion of knowledge transfer, where skills and       knowledge &#8212; such as research methodologies, political/ethical       considerations of oral interviewing, theoretical issues in life writing,       practical methods of involving communities in sharing stories through       creative poetry/drama workshops, and the recording/documentation of these       stories by means of traditional and contemporary forms (including digital       media and social networking) &#8212; are shared with local communities.
Through       this direct educational benefit, local communities have been empowered to       control their own research processes and narratives.
Social benefit       has occurred as the project has enabled communities to connect through       their participation in local history projects and has supported these       groups in sharing their knowledge and skills in researching,       writing/representing and documenting new histories of their own.
These       activities help to foster more inclusive, cohesive and confident       communities.
Cross-generational and inter-cultural community exchange form       part of the local project activities, which produce better understandings       and appreciations of community diversity.
Economic benefit is also in evidence.
In supporting the       development of local heritage projects, the University-based team is       helping to promote locality interest which will pay dividends in terms of       economic developments locally.
For example, the community-based research       is supporting bids for museum status, which has inevitable prestige and       longer term economic benefit for local communities.
Engagement with the       University enables these endeavours.
Research insights into the particularities of group life writing were       drawn on to underpin the methodologies used to frame each of the following       group workshops.
Informed by her research on Caryl Churchill's plays that       comprise oral testimony &#8212; particularly Fen (1983), a play about       rural working-class labour &#8212; Adiseshiah offered community groups       drama workshops focused on facilitating the emergence of individual and       community stories through practical role-play, and the writing of       monologue and dialogue at two Open Days in 2012.
This formed part of the       `Looking Back for the Future' project (2012), that was geared towards       enabling community groups to bid for Heritage Lottery research grants to       write their stories.
Subsequent to this, in May 2013 Culley led a       workshop for successful grantees at Caistor Arts and Heritage Centre as       part of the `Telling Our Stories' AHRC project (2013).
The workshop       focused on exploring ways in which writing of biographical sketches and       collective histories can create a sense of community, solidarity and       voice.
Discussing past stories of life and work in rural communities, and       exploring the relationship among labour, identity and self-representation       enabled the group to consider the value of preserving everyday experiences       and to reflect on different methods of life narration.
Participants       commented in their written feedback that they found the session `very       empowering' in encouraging them to value stories `from anyone' (Susan       Nicholson) and suggested that it provided `new ideas' (Sue Neowe) on how       to use and present the material generated by the project.
In June 2013, Adiseshiah       and Culley ran three workshops (entitled `My Stuff') for 30 school       children (aged 8) involved in the Chain Bridge Forge project at the       University of Lincoln.
The workshops encouraged the children to write       monologues inspired by their personal objects, as a creative way of       opening up ideas about how to represent memory and personal narrative, and       of improving writing and communication skills.
