     The World Health Organisation estimated that in 2010 42m children under       the age of 5 years were obese, of which nearly 35m were living in       developing countries.
They describe childhood obesity as one of the most       serious public health challenges.
A majority of obese children become       obese adults, and obesity leads to 30,000 premature deaths per year in the       UK alone and a cost of &#163;1b to the NHS.
The UoL research into the impact of advertising on the food preferences       and intake of children is extensively used as an evidence base and source       of recommendations by regulators and policymakers throughout the world as       they grapple with the adverse consequences of increased childhood obesity       and associated childhood and life-long diseases such as diabetes.
The       research also informs the public directly, enabling them to act and apply       political pressure.
The following impacts have occurred since 2008 and       stem from the UoL research.
The UoL research, particularly that pre-dating current regulation on       advertising to children, definitively demonstrated links between branded       advertisements and increased preference for, and intake of, unhealthy,       obesity-inducing foods &#8212; especially amongst overweight and obese children       and those exposed to the most television.
Consequently, the UoL has       pro-actively engaged in a programme of outreach to communicate these       findings to policymakers, health organisations and the general public in       the UK and internationally through interviews with UK and international       broadcast and print media with the objective of influencing policy debates       [7].
The research has strongly influenced policymakers       internationally.
Since 2008, the UoL studies have been widely used by key       agencies to substantiate and promote their policy positions, including the       International Obesity Taskforce of the International Association for the       Study of Obesity, the British Heart Forum and US Institute of Medicine, as       well as the European strata of the World Health Organisation.
In 2008, the UoL was invited by the Department of Health to bring       together key policy stakeholders to report on the impact of new media on       the marketing of food and beverages to children.
The initial UoL studies       were presented to the WHO via the European Network for the Reduction of       Marketing to Children, an organisation of European Health Ministries       constituted to coordinate national contributions to the formulation and       implementation of WHO recommendations on the marketing of foods and       non-alcoholic beverages to children.
Two extensive, systematic literature       reviews formed the basis for the WHO recommendations, with the UoL body of       work informing the key report on the extent, nature and effects of food       promotion to children [8, 9].
In 2011, due to the strength of UoL research       and the body of evidence built up, the WHO (represented by Dr Joao Breda,       Programme Manager, Nutrition, Physical Activity and Obesity) entered into       an agreement with the UoL to develop a European WHO-collaborating centre       examining the marketing of food and non-alcoholic beverages to children       [10].
The UoL has contributed directly to WHO reviews and policy       documents; the UoL's Halford and Boyland were the sole academic       consultants in the preparation of the WHO report, Marketing of foods         high in fat, salt and sugar to children [11].
The public dissemination programme driven by the UoL research and its       citation by others generated political pressure to act.
In 2009, Ofcom       fully implemented regulations on the promotion of high fat, salt and sugar       (HFSS) foods to children on television and in 2010 they reported that       there was a ~37% reduction in such advertising.
Regulators have       benefited from being able to act on sound evidence and the general         public have benefited from increased understanding [7] .The UK       example of regulation was not the first, but it is often cited       internationally so other regulators are taking a keen interest in the       impact of the UoL research when formulating their policies.
Broadcast media are only a part of the advertising problem; there is       increasing use of internet and mobile telephone applications to direct       marketing at children, so it is now recognised that broader action has to       be taken.
In this context, the UoL's recognized expertise and research on       advertising has informed the UK Department of Health (2008-), the European       Network on Reducing Marketing Pressure on Children (2010-) [12], the       EU-funded StanMark project for improved marketing standards (2010-11)       [13], and WHO (European region) [9,10,11,14] as they seek to tackle all       avenues of food advertising.
These findings on the failure to control food promotion to children along       with more recent experimental data on advert exposure on children's food       preferences are regularly presented to WHO, European and international       health agencies, where they continue to inform the development of       recommendations for regulatory regimes.
