     Hughes' work has impacted upon public debate and attitudes, government       policy and cultural       capital in South Africa, readdressing a deeply entrenched male bias in the       presentation of African       nationalist leaders (empowering participants in South African public       debate to challenge the       predominantly patriarchal understanding of African nationalism in public       discourse) and Dube's       relationships outside South Africa.
It has informed South African       government work on Land Reform       and challenged public perceptions of the ANC's history.
In the lead-up to the ANC's 2012 centenary, First President       demonstrably impacted on the South       African press, leading them to highlight Nokutela Dube's role in the ANC's       growth and the       connections between South African nationalism and America.
Hughes selected       extracts of her       work for a double-page spread in City Press (circulation 250,000),       South Africa's premier `black'       newspaper, for the day of the ANC centenary, and was interviewed on       national television (SABC2       and e-tv) and radio (Radio 2000).
Articles based on her research were       published in       Johannesburg's Sunday Times (circulation 504,000) in December 2011       and in Business Day,       reflecting changes in attitudes engendered by the book.
Features in The         Witness revealed how the       authors' views had been changed by the book: one focusing on ANC contacts       with America and       the other noting that `women tend to be dropped from memory no matter what       their contribution is       to society' emphasising the importance of Nokutela Dube's newly-discovered       role.
First President       has been the primary source for Prof. Cherif Keita's efforts to popularise       Nokutela's memory, leading in       early 2013 to Nokutela's posthumous receipt of a Mahatma Gandhi Satyagraha       Award.
A       headstone is finally being erected over her grave, forming part of the       National Liberation Heritage       Route honouring those who fought against segregation and apartheid.
In       July 2013, Hughes's work       was used extensively in the Heritage Impact Assessment Report to recognise       Ohlange as a Grade II       Provincial Landmark.
The book's appearance led to wider public controversy.
Well-known local       writer Jacob Dlamini       featured it in South Africa's leading business/finance daily, Business         Day, eliciting a response from       Tito Mboweni, recently-retired Governor of the South African Reserve Bank,       debating what       constituted acceptable usage in discussion of political leaders' private       life.
Hughes' work has increasingly changed and challenged public perspectives       in digital fora.
It       featured on the blog posts of two high-profile figures.
Zachie Achmat       (leading global campaigner       for AIDS treatment), called it his book of the year saying, `it has       diminished my ignorance of the       links between South African and African-American intellectual history'.
Controversial South African       writer Moss Mashamaite challenged a white author's `right' to write about       a black political figure       demonstrating the work's contribution to wider South African political       debates about gender and       race.
Hughes work has impacted directly on public and political debate about       land reform.
It was quoted       extensively in the Government Green Paper (2011) on land reform       (addressing one of the most       pressing legacies of apartheid), strengthening arguments for radical land       tenure change,       demonstrating parallels between 1930s and present-day land reform.
The       paper concludes that the       book, `addresses the hunger and need for land by African people.
The       situation has not changed       much since the 1930s...we must change it now!'
This paper led to national       reference groups on       land reform working towards a lands rights management board (to be charged       by the government       with pursuing the land agenda reform) being established.
Hughes has used her research to create major cultural resources,       challenging prevalent gendered       perceptions concerning African Nationalism.
Her publications led directly       to her work as advisor for       five new permanent exhibitions on the Woza eNanda heritage route (Durban       City Council's flagship       heritage project); and to producing the heritage interpretation at Dube       TradePort, the largest       international air logistics hub in the subcontinent &#8212; a series of tall       fixed panels in both English and       Zulu on the main walkway approach.
Hughes wrote interpretive text on Dube       and other historical       figures associated with the area, such as Mahatma Gandhi and Albert       Luthuli (1950s ANC       President).
She broke down the male bias often characterising such       interpretation, by including       material on Nokutela Dube's achievements, the first time ever in such a       public heritage installation.
She also presented a new perspective on the relationship between the Dubes       and Gandhi,       important in a region where relationships between African and Indian South       Africans are complex       and sometimes tense.
Hughes also provided visual material (images of       Nokutela Dube were       displayed publically for the first time) and wrote the inscription for the       new sculpture of John Dube       at the entrance.
The Trade Port and the sculptures/panels were officially       opened by South African       President Jacob Zuma in March 2012.
