     Bell's work has impacted upon the work of media professionals in the UK       and beyond.
Her research has been discussed amongst media professionals at       the highest level within Europe.
It was picked up by Professor Pierre       Sorlin, who invited her to present findings to MEPs at the European       Parliament in Brussels, informing the UK section of a report on European       history.
She has also been invited to give workshops to television       professionals, examining changes and developments in TV history       programming in recent years.
Bell has spoken at, and led, workshops bringing together academics and       media professionals using theoretical research to inform media market       awareness, including the `Per una storia televisiva dell'Europa'       workshops, Bologna, in 2008 and 2009, and a 2009 Lincoln symposium       addressed by Bell as co-organiser, bringing together high level UK       professionals, including Janice Hadlow, Controller of BBC2, Jeremy Isaacs       and Martin Davidson (BBC), and independent programme makers (Wall to Wall,       Flashback and Testimony Films), to discuss the significance of the       project's findings for programming.
Bell's involvement in the Bologna workshops led to her work's inclusion       in political debates on media presentation of history within Europe.
Her       analysis of UK history programming was included in the Tanti passati         per un futuro comune?
La storia in televisione nei paesi dell'Unione         europea 2011 report by Pierre Sorlin (Sorbonne).
Sorlin and the       other contributors, including Bell, were invited to present at Brussels in       December 2011 by Salvatore Caronna, a leading Italian MEP.
Attendees       included politicians and media professionals: Caronna, an MEP and       representative of the PD (former Communist) party; Dario Carella,       vice-director of the regional news section of the Italian broadcaster RAI;       Juan Fernando Lopez Aguilar, MEP and president of the commission on civil       liberties, justice and internal affairs; Marc Tarabella, MEP; Anna Colombo       General Secretary of the Social Democratic Group of the European       Parliament; and Sorlin.
Such interest in this research points to its wider       impact upon politicians as well as scholars and media professionals.
One       of the MEPs and an Italian news site reported on the event on-line.
Within the UK, Bell also shared her research insights annually with media       professionals on the project's advisory board, enabling engagement with       key ideas developed in the course of the project, as well as interaction       between media professionals, historians and other scholars.
This informed       and encouraged reflection amongst media professionals present, evidenced       by the printed comments of one panel member, founder and head of history       at the independent TV company Flashback.
(Downing, 2011).
Three of the       advisory panel members the producers and founders of media companies       Flashback TV, Testimony Films and Wall to Wall &#8212; representing Military and       Archive, Oral History and `Reality' and Genealogy programme types &#8212; also       organised and/or led panels at the Televising History 2009 conference and       identified how their various levels of involvement in the project impacted       upon their practice, informing their wider concepts of the representation       of the past on television, encouraging them to consider the nature of       presenter-led television, and the contrasting concept of `ordinary       history' from beyond the professional's perspective (Televising History       Conference 2009 report).
The project's value has been acknowledged by film makers who have       described its impact on their thoughts and work.
The CEO of Flashback TV       noted that project meetings were essential, `to create a space in the       schedule ... to think more broadly about where Television History has come       from and where it is going' (e-mail 2013) whilst the head of Testimony       Films called the resulting book, `the best analysis of history programme       making in Britain that has ever been produced ...
I have recommended it to       friends and colleagues' and reported of the seminars, `[I] feel I learned       something about the broader context of history programme making from them'       (e-mail 2013).
Another independent film-maker wrote of the project's work,       `I and a friend &#8212; who runs the [media] company "Available Light" &#8212; are       currently debating with each other this very subject and I have just       passed on to him your book' and, `[the research] has had some influence on       my current project, "The Dragon and the Eagle" an enhanced e-book or app       on Welsh emigration to America' (e-mail 2013).
Bell has been invited by to       speak to the staff of Wall to Wall, the production company for Who do         you think you are?, a hugely successful series.
The CEO of the       company, believes the insights of the project's research, particularly       Bell's work on changes in programme content and format as detailed above,       reveal why presentational changes, unnoticed at first, have occurred.
He       believes that examining these is of significance to his work in       originating and producing history series more broadly.
Thus the project's       impact continues in the future.
