     The research that led to this impact has been a continuing project over a       number of years, and arose out of an absence of critical analysis of the       lack of control of powers of entry to private premises available to       officials other than the police.
As noted above, the published work is the       principal reference point for both academics and practitioners in relation       to this issue.
As revealed by the research, the number of non-police entry powers is       extensive.
The powers are used by:             Central government departments &#8212; most departments employ officials         with entry powers in relating to certain of their functions.
Examples         include:                 Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs -animal health           and welfare, control of pests and diseases, fisheries, food standards,           archaeological sites, sites of special scientific interest          Department of Health &#8212; sale of medicines, storage of embryos, care           homes          Home Office &#8212; immigration, data protection, freedom of information          Department for Business, Innovation and Skills &#8212; financial           services, competition          Department for Work and Pensions &#8212; health and safety, social           security               Local government officials &#8212; examples include:                 Environmental health &#8212; including public health, boarding kennels,           building regulations, pollution, safety of sports grounds, dangerous           trees          Food safety &#8212; slaughter of animals, fertilizers and feeding stuffs.
Health and safety at work          Highways &#8212; survey, maintenance          Housing &#8212; vermin, overcrowding          Planning &#8212; survey and evaluation, development, tree preservation,           listed buildings          Public entertainments &#8212; cinemas, theatres, music venues, public           houses          Rates and council tax          Social services          Trading Standards               Public utilities &#8212; all companies supplying services involving the         provision of gas, electricity, water or telecommunications have         statutory powers of entry to private premises in certain circumstances.
In 2007 Professor Stone was contacted by a member of the House of Lords,       Lord Selsdon, who was interested in producing a private member's Bill to       regulate non-police entry powers of the above types, having come across       such powers in his working life in banking and other industries, and being       concerned about the potential for their abuse.
He had discovered the 2005       edition of Professor Stone's book as being the only source that provided       information about these powers.
He had also found that many government       departments where unable to list the powers which they had, until directed       towards the relevant section of Professor Stone's book.
Professor Stone was then involved in the drafting of the private member's       Bill, and its associated schedule of powers.
Professor Stone also drafted       the Code of Practice which was attached as a schedule to the Bill.
The aim       was to produce some standardisation into the ways in which such powers       were used, and to ensure that those subject to them were given proper       information about them &#8212; wherever possible before their exercise.
These       changes would have the effect of addressing some of the problems       identified in the research as regards inconsistency and lack of clarity in       the scope of such powers.
The Bill was introduced in the House of Lords in       the 2007-08 session, and completed all stages there in July 2008, but at       that stage it lacked government support, and was not debated in the       Commons.
The Home Office then (i.e.
summer 2008) expressed interest in this       possible reform, and Professor Stone was involved with discussions with       Lord Selsdon and Home Office officials.
Although still lacking government       support, Lord Selsdon reintroduced his Bill in the 2009-10 session, when       it again completed all stages in the House of Lords (concluding with its       Third Reading in April 2010).
Following the general election, later in 2010 the Coalition Government       indicated to Lord Selsdon that it intended to take over this matter, and a       reform along similar lines to the proposals contained in Lord Selsdon's       Bill and the Code of Practice was included in the Protection of Freedoms       Bill 2011.
This became the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012.
The result of the new legislation is a much clearer statutory framework       of law governing the powers of entry of officials other than the police.
The Act provides for a comprehensive two-year review, carried out within       each government department, of the need for existing powers (which is       currently ongoing), and a `gateway' procedure, which is intended to make       it harder to create new powers without establishing the necessity for       them.
Where such powers do continue to exist, they will be exercisable       subject to a Code of Practice, which is currently in a draft form.
Professor Stone has provided his expert comments on this draft to the Home       Office, and expects to continue to be engaged with the implementation of       the law.
This work is ongoing.
As will be seen from the list of agencies exercising powers of this type       given above, the impact of this reform and the underpinning research will       be widespread, and will affect virtually all government departments, many       aspects of local government work, and all companies involved in the       provision of public utilities.
All of the many thousands of officials who use such powers will become       subject to statutory provisions and a code of practice, which will       regulate their use.
This should result in improvement in their operation,       not least from the point of view of the citizen who is subject to them.
As       noted in the 4th edition of The Law of Entry, Search and Seizure       (p1) `The exercise of these powers raises basic issues about the scope of       individual freedom [i.e.
quiet possession of one's own property], and the       extent to which that freedom can legitimately curtailed by the exercise of       powers by the police or other central or local government officers'.
The reform that is the subject of this impact case study will therefore       have the important effect of redressing the balance between the rights of       the citizen and the powers of officialdom.
