     Rats are responsible for massive damage across the globe.
Sometimes it's       dramatic, like the rodent swarms in South Asia leading to widespread       famine and civil war.
Often it is more hidden and chronic, like nibbling       away 20% of a family's grain store or spreading disease - part of daily       life in developing countries.
In each case, mystery has shrouded both       causes and effects of rodent damage, leading either to wildly       inappropriate treatment or no treatment.
Against a background of neglect       in global research on rats as pests, Steven Belmain's work is arguably       more notable.
He has helped mitigate a regional famine and save lives in       the most recent bamboo-related population outbreak in Bangladesh, and       changed national policy and prompted regular plague surveillance in South       Africa.
He has demonstrated how an African city can reduce rat-transmitted       disease, and how rodent damage to crops can be reduced by over 75%.
He has       shown how communities can transform health and livelihoods if they work       together and that rat-damage can be dealt with sustainably without using       poisons.
Finally he has raised awareness through extensive media work.
When the food security disaster struck Bangladesh, the UNDP, WFP, Save       the Children and Helen Keller International (2008-2009) consulted Belmain       extensively to inform their international relief efforts to avert a       regional catastrophe [3b].
In 2008 Belmain was commissioned through the UN       to lead a team of scientific experts to apply his methods, first to       confirm the scale of the problem and second to provide evidence-based       policy intervention recommendations [3c].
Dr Belmain informed Government       of Bangladesh ministers with facts on the phenomenon at several       high-profile meetings to enable them to respond appropriately.
The       adoption of his recommendations on how to reduce damage to agriculture and       health helped mitigate a regional famine and undoubtedly assisted in       saving many people's lives and livelihoods [3d, 3.2, 3.3].
When the bamboo       masting ended in 2010 there were no confirmed fatalities directly       attributed to food insecurity, a considerable improvement on the 10,000+       documented deaths that occurred in the region 50 years ago [5.7].
Many       food security assessments carried out by NGOs and UN agencies showed that       the famine caused severe food shortages, underweight children and mothers,       miscarriage and many other health and socio-economic problems including no       money for school fees and selling children.
However, use of Belmain's       research helped mitigate the growing crisis by ensuring regional relief       efforts and funding for emergency food continued in a targeted fashion at       the appropriate scale and timing [5.6].
Dr Belmain's research in South Africa, which started in 2002 [3h, 3f, 3e,       3a], has led to changes in national and regional policies [5.8].
For       example, his discovery and highlighting of the absence of dedicated       qualifications in rodent pest management led the National Pesticide       Regulation Authority of South Africa to change its regulations: anyone       wishing to commercially engage in rodent management must now pass specific       examinations.
Presently (2008-2013), all new qualifying pest control       operators who want to deal with rodents have a component on control of       rodents.
In the city of Durban, Dr Belmain's research in the Ratzooman       project [3f] raised awareness of rodent diseases found in squatter camps       and informal settlements; it led to a clean-up campaign and       institutionalised rodent trapping programme by city authorities that       continues to be operated under the `Ratzooman' banner [3.5, 5.9].
Furthermore, Dr Belmain's research prompted the South African Department       of Health to establish a plague surveillance expert panel.
It has operated       every year since 2006 and now routinely surveys "at risk" areas for plague       outbreaks [3.4, 5.8].
Belmain's research directly led to the development       of a new design rat trap by a commercial company in South Africa which has       been part of its sales portfolio every year since 2008, as part of its       pest control services.
The trap is sold through existing marketing chains       nationally and for export throughout the member countries of the Southern       African Development Community [5.10].
Belmain's research has had considerable impact on society by raising       public awareness about rodents and the impact they have on people's       livelihoods in developing countries.
Discovery Channel commissioned a       nature documentary featuring Dr Belmain in 2009, following his research on       rat swarms [5.3].
Other examples of media work include international radio       and internet programmes [5.2, 5.4, 5.5] as well as magazine articles in       journals such as Science [5.1].
Belmain's research on the       Bangladesh rat population outbreak has been incorporated into a book       [3,2], which will help inform future generations when the event happens       again and ensure better preparedness to avert famine.
