     The underpinning research contributed directly to national and       international discussions and agreements on the phase-out of ozone       depleting gases.
A major impact has been via contributions to the Montreal       Protocol, EU legislation, advisory roles and dissemination.
The World Meteorological Organisation and the Montreal Protocol       The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has published 7 Scientific         Assessment of Ozone Depletion reports since 1987.
The most recent in       2010 (published spring 2011), contains over 35 citations to underpinning       research performed in the Department of Chemistry.1 On the       evidence of their ongoing research contributions, the group led by Pyle       was asked to contribute scientific evidence to all the WMO assessments.
Pyle was a lead author on the 1985, 1991, 1998 and 2002 assessments and       contributing author and Assessment Co-Chair of the 2010 report.
The       earlier reports all feed into the on-going Montreal Protocol regulation       process.
In addition, Harris contributed to all reports and was a lead       author on the1994 report as well as the report currently being prepared       for publication in 2014.
On the basis of their expert knowledge and       research contribution, the Cambridge team were also selected to contribute       to the shaping of the reports' accompanying executive summaries, which       include information for policymakers, most recently in 2010.LC1     Pyle was also a lead author in the special report for the UNEP/WMO       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on "Safeguarding the       Ozone layer and the Global Climate System" in 2005.2 This       report had a major impact on the direction of subsequent research on the       climate impact of CFC replacements, which is now starting to be reflected       in international regulation and which is a major topic in the current WMO       Scientific Assessment where Harris is a lead author of the chapter on       `Scenarios, Information and Options for Policymakers'.
The WMO assessment       reports (most recent 2010, published in 2011), and in particular their       summaries, have also been used internationally to monitor the success of       the Montreal Protocol in protecting the ozone layer and climate, for       example, by comparing the rate of halocarbon reduction with that observed,       and to inform the wider public about the process.
The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer came       into force in 1987, in response to the scientific evidence that       human-induced depletion of the ozone layer was indeed occurring.
The       Protocol mandates that the measures it introduced must be regularly       assessed (now every 4 years) on the basis of available scientific,       environmental, technical, and economic information.
In particular, it       specifies a scientific assessment process by which panels of experts are       required to prepare reports to guide policymakers in their decisions       regarding the protocol.
The original Montreal Protocol in 1987 called for       modest regulation on the emission of CFCs and allowed for on-going       revision based on scientific evidence.
The 10 subsequent amendments and       adjustments to the Protocol, based on the Scientific Assessments, brought       about more rapid phase-out of the CFCs and also added new controls for       many more ozone-depleting compounds.
The most recent adjustments were made       in 2007, were enacted in the following years and remain current (see below       for on-going EU legislation).
The impact of these amendments and       adjustments (reduced ozone depletion) will be felt for many decades.
Pyle       and Harris have worked to ensure their research has been widely reported       in the media since 2008, thereby contributing both to the public       understanding of the importance of climate change and the role of       environmental policy.
3,4,5,6,7&amp;8     On the basis of his significant research contribution, since 2008       Professor Pyle has been one of four international Co-Chairs of the Science       Assessment Panel (SAP), who provide direct advice to the Meetings of the       Parties to the Montreal Protocol1.
By undertaking these roles,       it has been possible to ensure that the group's research findings are       effectively communicated to the policymakers.
The Chief Officer,       Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol       Secretariat, provided the following statement about the role of the SAP: "The         SAP plays an invaluable role in analysing, interpreting, and presenting         atmospheric trends.
The clarity of this work has enabled global         political/regulatory decisions that have resulted in a continuing         improvement of stratospheric ozone levels since the inception of the         Montreal Protocol in 1987, as well as aiding the many amendments to         accelerate the Protocol's progress.
I would like to thank Professor Pyle         and his team for their continued dedicated efforts to provide a sound         scientific basis for our work in protecting the environment".LC2     Pyle's involvement in the Montreal Protocol has been funded since 2007 by       DEFRA, to whom he provides ad hoc advice.
Impacts on Health The Montreal Protocol has had a major impact in       avoiding ozone depletion, in avoiding climate change thanks to the phase       out of those ozone-depleting substances which are also greenhouse gases,       and in preventing UV-related health issues.
A recent paper, using model       calculations by the Pyle group, indicates that, by 2030, the Protocol will       have prevented two million cases of skin cancer annually, and further       reinforces the case for the Montreal Protocol.9 Ensuring that       the Protocol is adjusted and amended according to the latest scientific       developments is essential to their continuing impact.
EU Legislation The various assessments, informed by Cambridge       research and that of the international community, led to a strengthening       of the regulations covering production and emission of ozone depleting       substances.
EU legislation was introduced in 2008 to speed up the phase       out of the HCFC family of halocarbons, replacements for the CFCs.10       Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), another family of halocarbons, are replacement       gases for the ODS which have the attractive property that they do not lead       to any ozone depletion.
They are, however, strong greenhouse gases and so       there are very good reasons to limit their future growth.
Based on the       halocarbon research, Dr Harris gave evidence to the European Parliament in       June 2011 during a special session of the ENV committee on `Reduction of       non-CO2 Emissions'.
This session was part of the process which led to a       resolution passed by the European Parliament and, in 2013, to the       introduction of EU legislation on Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases limiting       future HFC usage.11     The Senior Administrator for the European Parliament, Committee for       Environment, Public Health and Food Safety writes: "since 2008 I have         appreciated the impact of its pioneering research and assessment         influence in the regulatory process of the Environment, Public Health         and Food Safety Committee of the European Parliament...Overall, research         by the Cambridge group made a significant impact to both policy actions         and environmental protection.LC3     Working with Industry Pyle continues to provide informal,       independent advice to industries producing and using halocarbons (e.g.
3M).
