     The research findings and conclusions have been included in a series of       child pedestrian road safety guidance documents aimed at members of the       public and professionals, and have influenced the implementation of       pedestrian safety programs internationally.
The efficacy of one US-wide       accident prevention initiative, which drew on the research programme, has       recently been positively evaluated as reducing childhood road accident       injuries by an independent peer reviewed cluster control research studya,b.
The research has also led to the principal investigator being invited to       act as advisor for international (Ghana) and local (UK, Lincolnshire Road       Safety Partnership) road safety programs.
The US Safe Routes to School (SRTS) programme's guide for parents and       caregivers, Teaching Children to Walk Safely as they Grow and Develop,       highlights Tabibi and Pfeffer's findings regarding the limitations of       children's attentional skills when finding a safe place to cross.
The Safe       Routes to Schools Program is a Federal-Aid programme of the US Department       of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).
The Teaching         Children to Walk Safely guide is made available via the US National       Center for Safe Routes to Schoola at the University of North       Carolina's Highway Safety Research Center.
A recent independent evaluation       of the effectiveness of the US Safe Routes to School programme in New York       City found that implementation of the program resulted in a 33% reduction       in school-aged children's pedestrian injuries.
The rate of school-aged       pedestrian injury during school-travel hours decreased by 44% in the       post-intervention period (2009-2010) relative to the pre-intervention       period (2001-2008) in the districts where the programme had been       implemented.
In districts where the programme had not been implemented the       injury rates were unchangedb.
Tabibi and Pfeffer's research is cited as an influence on the development       of another empirically validated road safety training package developed by       the Monash University Accident Research Centre, Australia.
This programme       emphasises limitations in childrens' cognitive capacities as a risk factor       for child pedestrian collisions.
A case-control group evaluation of this       computer simulation based training programme in 71 children found it to be       effective in reducing critically incorrect road crossing decisions, with       no accompanying reduction in missed opportunities for safe crossing in the       treatment groupc.
Cognitive performance measures (e.g.
colour       trails task) were also found to modulate the effect of the training       intervention with children who scored lower on cognitive assessments       benefiting more from training.
Tabibi and Pfeffer's research has also formed the basis of another widely       available online road safety guide for parents called Teach Your         Children to be Safe Pedestrians.
The guide is distributed via the       EBSCO health library (an evidence based information website designed to       deliver the best-available evidence based information directly to       clinicians and health professionals).
It is also available in both English       and Spanish versions via over 100 hospital websites, including, for       example, the Aspen Medical Centre Denver, Tufts Medical Centre, Boston,       and the New York University Medical School Langone Medical Centred.
The research findings regarding adult behaviour when accompanying       children to school are cited by the US National Highway Traffic Safety       Administration guide for State Highway Safety Officers, Countermeasures         that worke.
This effective countermeasures guide for       policy makers emphasises the importance of cultural and social norms for       roadside behaviour in its recommendations for evidence-based adult       supervision countermeasures.
Tabibi and Pfeffer's research on children's attention has been widely       cited in many other road safety planning reports, research reviews and       educational materials, including the UK Department for Transport Research       Reports,f and is also cited in a number of best-selling       developmental psychology textbooksg.
The research has also been       cited by the Children in Wales Child Accident Prevention Practice       and Information Exchange scheme, and Le Programme intercantonal de       pr&#233;vention des accidents d'&#233;nfants, Switzerlandh.
Further evidence of the impact and influence of Dr Pfeffer's research on       pedestrian safety are her advisory duties for international and local       non-academic organisations.
As a result of her research on childhood road       safety, she was selected and appointed to serve as an international mentor       for the World Health Organisation Mentors for Violence and Injury       Prevention program (WHO MENTOR-VIP) from 2007-2008i.
The role       of the international mentor was to provide guidance and support to a       professional working in a low-income country on a specific project.
Following on from this work, Dr Pfeffer was invited by the coordinator of       the WHO MENTOR-VIP programme to contribute to a symposium at the Safety       2010 World Conference in London about the mentoring experience, to       showcase successful mentoring relationships and to encourage the       development of future mentoring partnerships among professionals and       researchers in the field of violence and injury preventionj.
Locally, she was also commissioned to evaluate the `2 fast 2soon' road       safety education programme for young drivers (17-24 year-olds) by the       Lincolnshire Road Safety Partnership.
The Lincolnshire Road Safety       Partnership's `2fast2soon' programme won the Prince Michael of Kent       International Road Safety Award in 2010, and continues to be offered to       young drivers in Lincolnshire.
