     Gill has developed very strong relationships with conservation NGOs such       as the RSPB and Birdlife International over many years, which has resulted       in Gill's research being specifically designed to address issues of       relevance to species conservation management (corroborating sources A -       C).
The actions required to implement effective conservation of migratory       species require international co-operation and contributing to Action       Plans is one of the most effective means of encouraging and implementing       the international-scale species conservation required by EU legislation.
Research by Gill and colleagues at UEA has:     1.
Identified appropriate actions for individual nations, including site       protection, habitat restoration and management and a moratorium on       hunting.
In particular, to address the issue of godwit hunting in France,       Gill and colleagues quantified the extent of overlap (in France) of       godwits from the increasing Icelandic population and declining European       population, in order to assess which populations are exposed to this       hunting pressure.
As a result of this, and following negotiations and       discussions at the workshop organised by Gill (research reference 4),       a 5-year moratorium on hunting was introduced in France in 2008       (corroborating source A), and extended for a further 5 years in 2013.
2.
Directly informed the development and adoption of EU and       African-Eurasian Waterbird Agreement (AEWA) Action Plans for Black-tailed       Godwits (corroborating sources A and B), with the milestones shown below:            Workshop: 1st October 2007 in La Rochelle, France       First draft: December 2007, presented to the AEWA Technical Committee       Second draft: May 2008, presented to the Range States       Final version: August 2008, adopted by the 4th session of the Meeting         of the Parties to AEWA in September 2008.
The workshop and subsequent published Action Plans identified and       prioritised a range of conservation actions to be undertaken by member       states, and a working group was established to guide the implementation of       the AEWA plan (see below).
3.
Developed techniques for wet grassland restoration and management to       benefit breeding wading birds.
To improve the design of these       agri-environment initiatives, Gill also developed collaborative research       with the RSPB, identifying techniques to restore and manage wet grasslands       for breeding waders.
These techniques have greatly improved water       management and retention on grasslands, and are highly successful at       attracting breeding waders and providing key resources during chick       development.
They have been adopted as UK agri-environment schemes and       implemented on ~3000 ha of lowland grassland in England (corroborating       source C).
Gill is also a member of the AEWA Working Group guiding international       implementation of the AEWA Plan.
Agricultural development has been a major       driver of godwit population trends, and key recommendations are improved       design and targeting of agri-environment initiatives, increased protection       and management of key breeding and wintering areas and a temporary ban on       hunting in France (the only European country in which godwits are not       protected from hunting).
In order to identify key conservation actions for implementation through       the Species Action Plans, Gill organised a workshop in 2007 in La       Rochelle, France, for scientists, conservationists, hunters and       policy-makers, including representatives from NGOs, universities and       institutes in the UK, Iceland, the Netherlands, France, Spain and       Portugal.
The workshop and subsequent publications (research reference 4;       corroborating source B) were specifically designed to synthesise research       findings and identify recommendations to feed directly into the       development and implementation of the Action Plans.
A key focus was on the       impacts of hunting on the species, and subsequent negotiations using the       outputs of the research that were reported in the workshop resulted in a       moratorium on the hunting of godwits in France.
This hunting moratorium       ended in 2013, but a further five year hunting ban was agreed in September       2013.
The research team are involved in ongoing assessments of the       influence of the moratorium on godwit populations, and thus the case for       continued restriction of hunting activities.
The AEWA Action Plan specifically called for efforts to restore breeding       habitats and ensure adequate protection of migration and wintering sites.
In 2011, the Plan was adopted and an International Working Group was       established to guide and co-ordinate the implementation of the Plan.
The       Working Group consists of two National Representatives from each country       (one from government and one national expert), and two members of Gill's       research group (Dr J Gill (PI): UK and Dr J Alves (post-doc): Portugal)       are active members of the Working Group as expert National       Representatives.
This Working Group is a key mechanism through which our       research is used to directly inform policy development and implementation,       as our work forms the basis of our recommendations on the prioritisation       of actions and the countries in which actions should be concentrated.
Gill was recently asked by the RSPB to run a similar workshop addressing       the causes of population change in all 37 species of godwits and curlews       (the Numeniini) throughout the world.
As many of these populations       are declining severely, and one curlew species is likely to soon be       declared extinct, there is an urgent need to identify and implement       appropriate actions.
This workshop took place in Germany in September       2013, and the conservation recommendations identified at this workshop       will be published later this year.
