     Dog bites account for tens of millions of injuries annually, with the       highest risk occurring amongst children (World Health Organisation data).
In the UK, dog bite injuries accounted for 6,450 hospital admissions in       2012 (16% of which were children), and cost the NHS around &#163;3.3million per       year (Health and Social Care Information Centre; DEFRA).
A research programme carried out at the University of Lincoln, drawing on       the knowledge, expertise, skills and facilities in the Lincoln Baby Lab       and Evolution and Development research group, led to the creation,       development and assessment of an effective evidence-based tool for dog       bite prevention (the BD DVD and booklet), which has had international       impact on veterinary practice and injury prevention policy, enhancing the       health and wellbeing of children and dogs and improving public       understanding of the risk factors associated with dog bite injury.
Other       beneficiaries include parents, teachers, veterinarians and dog trainers.
The research programme has generated impact of local, national and       international reach.
Assessment of the effectiveness of the BD DVD was carried out via       questions about additional example scenarios which probed children's       knowledge before and after training.
Children were found to show       significant learning about safe behaviour around dogs immediately after       training and for up to a year afterwardsa,b.
Parent       questionnaire assessments indicated that 48% of parents stated that their       children behaved more safely with dogs in general as a result of the       training, and 38% said their children behaved more safely around their own       dog.
In addition to the evaluations carried out at the University of       Lincoln, a recent independent randomised controlled study has confirmed a       significant improvement in childrens' ability to recognise dog bite risk       factors following BD training relative to exposure to a control       computerised training task (fire safety training)c.     Following successful evaluation of the efficacy of the tool, over 80,000       copies of the BD DVD and booklet have been distributed to 21 different       countries, with the accompanying BD booklet translated into 17 different       languages.
The German Veterinary Association (GVA), German Federal Chamber       of Veterinarians, the Federation of European Companion Animal Veterinary       Associations (FECAVA) and the American Veterinary Association all       officially recommend the BD DVD as a dog bite prevention toold.
Rabies is a significant health concern following dog bite injuries       internationally, and the Global Alliance for Rabies Control report       recently recommended BD for use as part of rabies education and prevention       programmese.
Schools and nurseries in the UK and abroad are using the BD DVD and       booklet as part of health and safety educationf.
For example,       the Munich municipality, in cooperation with GVA, has used the Blue Dog       DVD as an injury prevention programme in nurseries since 2009g.
In Belgium, education policy has specified the application of the BD in       schools, and the BD is included as part of the leading Belgian teachers'       handbook and education programmes sponsored by the government of Vlaams       Brabanth.
Examples of the impact of the BD project at a national level within the       UK are its recommendation by the National Health Service Choices website       (the `online front door to the NHS')i, and its use by the Dogs       for the Disabled charity in The National Autistic Society and University       of Lincoln's lottery-funded project, `Parent Autism Workshop and Support'       (PAWS).
Significant impact has also occurred on a local scale via the use       of the BD DVD in nurseries, Sure Start Centres and schools in       Lincolnshire.
The BD DVD is used by social workers and dog trainers at Pet         Respect in and around Hull, working with underprivileged families       and young offenders.
The Dock House Homeless project, Domestic Violence       Project, and Humberside Police have all used BD training to enhance       understanding and reduce dog bites in children.
Public awareness of childhood dog bite injury risk factors has also been       raised by widespread international and national media coverage of the       project's research findings.
In 2010 the University's dog bite prevention       research programme was chosen as one of the three key features to       represent the World Safety Conference (London 2010) to the media and       public.
Other media coverage has included BBC Newsl, Sky News,       BBC Look North, TV Prague, Radio 1, Five Live, BBC Radio Scotland, Radio       Wales, Radio Teeside, Bay FM, Radio Lincolnshire, Lincs FM, Scientific       American, The Guardian, The Telegraph online, The Daily Telegraph,       Lancaster Guardian, Lincolnshire Echo, Liverpool Echo, S&#252;ddeutsche Zeitung       (one of the top 10 Germany-wide daily newspapers)j, and Partner       Hund (German dog owners magazine).
