     An agreed outcome of this England Golf-funded research [3b] was the       production of a technical report [3a] that was provided to key decision-       and policy-makers within the organisation.
The technical report's findings       and recommendations were discussed in significant depth within England       Golf, including at the top level at senior executive meetings.
This led,       in the final quarter of 2011, to dissemination down through the       organisation via discussions with the regional development officers and       the county development officer network.
To address and impart the research       findings within and throughout practice and policy, at the end of 2011 a       working group was set up by England Golf to revise the GolfMark scheme.
This research was highly influential in leading and shaping the revisions       made to the existing GolfMark scheme [5b].
With respect to the widening participation and improving GolfMark       research, recommendations made to England Golf that were adopted are       grouped under membership and GolfMark, as follows [see Whole Sport Plan       2013-2107: 5c]:     Membership recommendations adopted     1) Offer greater range of memberships facilitating more short-term,       student, junior and part- time engagement.
2) Promote female-friendly environments.
3) Appoint individuals from minority groups to prominent decision-making       positions.
4) Re-evaluate membership selection processes and dress codes.
GolfMark recommendations adopted     5) Highlight long-term economic impact of GolfMark among clubs.
6) Reduce the complexity of the application process.
7) Require clubs to provide more effective infrastructures for the       provision of coaching among target groups.
The revised GolfMark scheme was piloted in fourteen clubs across the       country during 2012, and the success of this has led to GolfMark having a       much greater focus upon clubs' overall business in relation to aspects       including operations, development and marketing.
The new GolfMark was then       re-launched nationally in 2013, and is an integral aspect linked to one of       four key performance indicators within England Golf's proposed Whole Sport       Plan for the period 2013-2017 [5b-c].
One specific example of the impact derives from the finding from the       research that the barriers to engaging in GolfMark included some clubs'       inability to embrace and modernise in accordance with the scheme's       objectives.
To educate and guide clubs and individuals, in addition to the       processes of accreditation and maintenance of good effective practice, the       revised GolfMark now supports them through an online signposting and       resource system, assisting them to both achieve and then maintain GolfMark       status [5d].
There are a number of direct beneficiaries from the impact of and changes       derived from this research, including:     1) The national governing body, England Golf, has implemented change       based on recommendations to reduce the decline in participation rates and       to widen participation.
This has broader implications for addressing       participation rate objectives regarding the whole community, and young       people specifically, as set by Sport England.
A potentially even wider       benefit is that this may contribute to Department of Health objectives       related to increasing physical activity participation amongst the national       population.
Hence, the beneficiaries are not only England Golf, but also       other bodies including Sport England and the Department of Health.
2) The increased and wider participation addresses inequality issues, and       the increased activity and income will provide clubs with greater power to       direct their future development.
Hence, direct beneficiaries include clubs       throughout England and their members, particularly those that embrace,       implement and attempt to gain from the revised GolfMark scheme.
It is considered by England Golf [5a-b] that the impact and value of this       research has improved the GolfMark scheme, and will consequently benefit       government, and many stakeholders of golf, including golf's governing       bodies, clubs, members, and professional coaches, as well as wider       communities, such as children/young people.
It is anticipated that the       recent changes in policy and strategies implemented based on this research       will lead to increased and wider participation in golf, and over the next       few years data will become available to demonstrate the effectiveness of       these changes.
These data will be tracked and analysed to further assess       the long term impact of the research findings.
