     Ellis's research into mental health history has informed current practice       by challenging       longstanding notions of cost, stigma, equality and related concerns.
Exemplifying the unit's key       strategic aim of partnership working, this influence has been achieved       through collaborations       with a wide range of stakeholders, including the NHS and the third sector,       and via extensive       outreach that has successfully engaged both specialists and the public.
Since 2012 Ellis has collaborated with the South West Yorkshire       Partnership NHS Foundation       Trust as part of its Change Lab programme.
One of Change Lab's flagships       has been `Breaking       Down Barriers to Wellbeing'.
Using the volunteer-led Stanley Royd Museum       in Wakefield as a       focal point, Ellis was invited to devise and deliver teaching and learning       activities for a diverse       group of visitors.
The Trust's Programme Coordinator has described Ellis's       contribution as       clearly demonstrating "that the museum can play a significant role in       fulfilling the Trust's       mission and objectives" [a].
This has led to further investment &#8212;       including refurbishment, the       appointment of a professional curator and greatly extended opening hours.
As a result, the       Trust has been able to convert an under-used and under-resourced museum       into a vibrant hub       to meet Change Lab's aims of "engaging others in thinking about mental       health and breaking       down the barriers and stigma that surround it".
The Trust has confirmed       that the "learning       activities that [Ellis] developed had a positive impact on attitudes       towards mental health and       learning disability" [a].
This collaborative venture built on earlier partnerships developed by the       History team, in       particular the Out of the Shadows exhibition at the Thackray       Medical Museum in 2010.
Ellis       was invited by the Thackray and Leeds City Museums to act as academic       lead.
The aim was to       enable and encourage debate on mental health provision.
Ellis's research       led to participation in       the project by those who might otherwise be excluded from heritage       initiatives, and visitors to       the exhibition included current service users.
The Community Team Manager       at Leeds City       Museums has pinpointed Ellis's "passion, enthusiasm and knowledge" as key       to not only       ensuring the success of the project but also securing additional funding.
[b] This has enabled       Leeds Museums to follow up Out of the Shadows with other       exhibitions, extending the initial       reach.
The project also led Ellis to act as PI on a joint bid with       the Thackray for an AHRC       collaborative doctoral award, securing &#163;50,000 to explore further the       themes that emerged from       the project.
In 2011 the University of Huddersfield Archives Service and the West       Yorkshire Archive Service       (WYAS) submitted a joint application to JISC, with Ellis invited to be       academic lead on       HistorytoHerstory, a project to document the lives of Yorkshire       women from 1100 to the present       day.
The aim of the bid was to repurpose an existing database of archival       material for an       interactive website, with Women and Mental Health among eight key themes.
Ellis's role was to       coordinate the development of non-HE learning materials.
Since its launch       in October 2011 the       website has averaged 40 new visitors a day and has been featured by BBC History         Magazine,       The Guardian [c] and various local media, including BBC radio.
The       Head of Archives at WYAS       has noted that it was only through Ellis's expertise in the field of       mental health history that it       proved possible to open the mental health records to the wider public [d].
Moreover, the       demonstrable success of the project played a significant part in a       successful initial bid to the       HLF for a new archive building for WYAS.
Through Huddersfield's successful Connected Communities project Sound       Craft Vision Place, Ellis       worked with mental health charities to develop individual projects.
St       Anne's Our Minds, Our         Histories and Mencap's Social History of Learning Disabilities       were awarded Heritage Lottery Fund       funding of &#163;8,000 and &#163;9,500 respectively following these collaborations.
Ellis's supplementary bid       in 2013 to the AHRC to enhance these projects has led to wider engagement       and dissemination,       including further work with Leeds City Museum [e].
Leeds Mencap's Head of       Fundraising has       remarked that Ellis's "research expertise helped... to both raise [our]       profile and disseminate key       messages about learning disability and inclusivity" [f], while St Anne's       has credited the research       with helping the organisation change the way in which mental health and       service users are       represented [g].
In 2013 Ellis's work on stigma and mental health also led       to engagement with the       Orleans Gallery, a local-authority-run gallery in Richmond-on-Thames,       allowing it to frame an       exhibition on `outsider' art within a broader context and so draw on wider       funding, raising the profile       of both `outsider art' and the gallery itself [h].
