     Studies at Huddersfield pioneered interdisciplinary methods for the       systematic examination of historic battlefields, augmenting researchers'       capacity to resolve longstanding questions of military history.
They also       revealed archaeology's value in identifying threats to battlefield       survival, allowing design and targeting of conservation management       strategies or recording action on major UK and European battlefields.
The Head of the Strategic Planning and Management Division at English       Heritage (EH) has acknowledged that Foard's work has "had an impact on       professional practice", noting: "Managers and curators have a better feel       for how to target work and resources and how to identify those areas that       have greater significance than others.
It is therefore easier to identify       the degrees of harm identified in the National Planning Policy Framework."
[a] An example of this, locating Bosworth enabled EH to revise the       registered boundary and, with Leicestershire County Council (LCC),       commission a Conservation Management Plan &#8212; a UK first [b, c].
In 2010, at Huddersfield, Foard completed the first detailed assessment       of risks to England's battlefields.
This EH-commissioned study employed       understanding from the research to assess threats and conservation needs       at Stamford Bridge, Northallerton, Boroughbridge, Towton, Adwalton Moor,       Halidon Hill and Newburn Ford.
Foard's report now guides their management,       shaping decisions by EH, local authorities and the Battlefields Trust.
Action includes the revision of Adwalton Moor's registered boundary,       conservation management at Towton and initiatives by the Battlefields       Trust on threats at Newburn [d].
In 2011, following recommendations in the 2010 report and the draft of       Foard &amp; Morris 2012, for the first time EH allocated &#163;127,000 in the       National Heritage Protection Plan for work on historic battlefields over       four years and prioritised a review of all Battlefield Register boundaries       [e].
Moreover, Foard's Edgcote assessment, for the Battlefields Trust, was       instrumental in 2013 in EH registration of that battlefield, securing       modification of the HS2 route to minimise impact on the site and ensuring       appropriate archaeological investigation prior to construction.
At Hastings in 2011-2013 EH funded the extension of the survey       methodology to 11th century evidence and assessment of EH's       conservation management of the site.
This revealed major contamination by       re-enactment and other public events, resulting in guidance of       international relevance regarding use of historic battlefields, leading EH       to reconsider practice at Hastings.
In 2013 Foard's research into modern agriculture's damaging effects on       metal artefacts in the topsoil led EH to apply one of its AHRC       Collaborative Partnership awards to establish the scale and nature of       these impacts, to guide mitigation measures through agri-environment       mechanisms.
Foard's work has also influenced conservation policy in Belgium.
In       2011-2012 Flanders Heritage Agency allocated &#8364;60,000 for an exemplar       survey at Oudenaarde led by Foard.
In 2013, for the Agency, Foard       collaborated in studying Lafelt battlefield.
The Head of Department of       Heritage Research and Protection has described the collaboration with       Foard as "vital to the Flemish Heritage Agency", with the Oudenaarde and       Lafelt reports providing "the basis for the development of a governmental       vision and policy regarding Flemish battlefield sites older than WWI" [f].
Foard also advised the archaeological service in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany,       on survey of the threatened Lutzen (1632) battlefield.
The research, through high-profile media attention, raised public       awareness of battlefield archaeology and showed how evidence can be       explored using modern scientific methods.
Leicestershire's Assistant       Director, Communities and Welfare, has noted that the Bosworth Project       "changed the way the site is interpreted and communicated to the public"       and "together with the new exhibition at Bosworth, improved visitor       figures" &#8212; from 38,380 in 2008/2009, before site discovery, to 43,420 in       2010/2011, after discovery, and projected to reach 57,000 in 2013/2014       (based on first six months at 34,427) after dissemination of the research       [g].
The Head of EH's Strategic Planning and Management Division has       stated: "Foard's work at Bosworth, predictably, attracted considerable       public attention, generating real national cultural impact, and has helped       to reinforce the importance of protecting these places for the wider       public."
[a]     A Time Team Special: The Wars of the Roses focused on the Bosworth       investigation and attracted 1.6m viewers when first screened in 2011 [h].
In addition, in 2013 the Bosworth success led Videotext Communications to       commission Foard to direct new fieldwork at Hastings for the 1066 Time       Team Special.
Also in 2013, media coverage led to high-profile talks at       Chalke Valley History Festival; a Royal Armouries VIP event at the Tower       of London; and, funded by the National Parks Service, at the Fields of       Conflict Conference, Columbia, USA.
It also persuaded the Battlefields       Trust to collaborate with Foard in seeking HLF project funding to advance       understanding, conservation, interpretation and public access for all       sites of the Wars of the Roses.
