     Domestic violence is an area where public bodies and government have been       keen to demonstrate progress in improving their response.
Both Labour and       the coalition government have produced plans for responding to domestic       violence.
Burton's impact on policy making in domestic violence cases has       been partly as a result of direct involvement in advisory bodies       considering her own and others' research in this area.
From 2001-2006,       whilst Labour were in power, Burton was a member of the Domestic Violence       Advisory Group (DVAG convened by the LCD/MOJ).
She as invited to be a       member of this group as a result of her expertise on the legal responses       to domestic violence and was the only academic member.
The group was mainly comprised of senior judiciary, police, prosecutors       and representatives of support agencies such as Refuge and Womens' Aid       Federation England (WAFE).
The group contributed significantly to the       consultation paper Safety and Justice (Home Office, 2003) which in turn       informed the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004.
Although the       legislation predates the impact period, it has ongoing impact as key       measures, such as criminalisation of the breach of non-molestation orders,       continue to influence the effectiveness of remedies available to victims       of domestic violence.
The influence of the legislation was evaluated by       Burton for the LSC in 2009 (3.6 and 3.7).
It appeared that       criminalisation might have reduced the number of protection orders made,       but Burton advised caution on drawing this conclusion and recommended more       effort be put into ensuring specialist solicitors were available to       support victims through the legal system.
One of the key policies considered by the DVAG in 2002 was whether third       parties, such as the police, should be empowered to apply for civil       remedies on behalf of victims of domestic violence.
Research by Burton (as       lead researcher), was used to inform a decision not to proceed with a       pilot at that time (3.2).
However, the government is currently       reviewing this policy and Burton's research is being used as a resource to       inform that review process.
The current review is motivated by the pilots       of domestic violence prevention orders, and continuing concerns about       police handling of domestic violence complaints.
Burton found that the       police were concerned about being authorised as third party applicants for       civil protection orders, and recommended fuller consideration of who might       be authorised as an applicant in order to ensure the measure is successful       if implemented.
Overall Burton's research showed that service providers were in favour of       a pilot of third party applications, if issues of consent of the victim       are appropriately handled (3.2).
The Home Office considered this       research when setting up pilots of domestic violence prevention orders       (DVPOs) in 2010.
In several recent House of Commons briefing papers,       Parliamentarians have been referred to Burton's research on third party       applications (see 5.3), and also to her research for the Legal       Services Commission (LSC) examining trends in applications for       non-molestation orders (see 5.1-5.3).
Burton was part of an interdisciplinary team who were responsible for       evaluating the first five Specialist Domestic Violence Courts (SDVCs) in       England and Wales.
Although some of these courts had been evaluated       individually, there was no study examining the features of best practice       for court specialisation by examining different models.
The research       looked at best practice across the five courts and compared this with       other jurisdictions.
The findings of this research, reported in 2003-4,       informed a decision by the MoJ and the CPS to introduce two more pilot       domestic violence courts experimenting with different models.
Both the       original five court evaluation and the evaluation of the CPS pilot courts       (carried out in 2003-4) found that independent advocacy support for       victims of domestic violence was crucial to increasing their safety and       wellbeing.
The evaluation showed that the development of specialist courts was       central to the delivery of that support, and also helped to increase the       sensitivity of practitioners, especially magistrates, to the dynamics of       abuse; it contributed to attitudinal change and some improved outcomes,       although victim withdrawal remained high.
As the research showed that       court specialisation did improve victims' experiences of the criminal       justice system, the two SDVC projects led to the decision to roll out       SDVCs nationally.
Within a few years, there were over 100 such courts and they formed a       central plank of Labour government policy to improve criminal justice       response to domestic violence (Safety with Justice, 2008, Home Office).
Court specialisation remains a key feature of criminal justice policy       (Swift and Sure, Home Office, 2012).
Outside government, Burton's research on the civil remedies for domestic       violence has been of interest to a wide range of third sector agencies and       practitioners.
The outcomes of the research for the LSC, and       recommendations for more effective delivery of advice for victims of       domestic abuse, were discussed in a number of journals which have a       practitioner audience (such as Family Law) and WAFE published an article       for their Journal `Safe'.
She is regularly contacted by third sector       support agencies for information about her research to inform their       campaigning and advisory services.
