     Research led by Professor Lu has played a critical role in informing the       creation of the Edumecca SRS, an innovative solution to the problems of       previous student response systems.
By incorporating the use of widely       available equipment &#8212; specifically, the internet and mobile devices &#8212; SRS       has been made more affordable, easier to employ and applicable to a range       of scenarios far more diverse than the traditional classroom setting.
It       is now used in Europe and the US &#8212; not just by academia but also by       industry &#8212; and its success has led to additional major funding streams for       further research.
Between January 2009 and December 2010 the Edumecca project was presented       at around 60 events across Europe, including December 2009's Online         EDUCA, held in Berlin, which attracted more than 2,000 attendees and       was described as the world's largest conference on technology-supported       learning and training.
Almost a hundred institutions worldwide, including       schools, universities and companies, were also given access to the SRS for       testing during this period.
These dissemination efforts, coupled with the       advances and advantages they served to highlight, have since been       reflected in the geographical and disciplinary spread of the system's use.
Internationally, the Edumecca SRS has been employed by institutions       including NTNU, Trondheim, Norway; the Centre for Flexible Learning,       S&#246;derhamn, Sweden; Onderwijscentrum Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and the       University of Amsterdam, Netherlands; Hogeschool-Universiteit Brussel,       Brussels, Belgium; the University of Zagreb, Croatia; Petru Maior       University, T&#226;rgu Mure, Romania [a]; and Kennesaw State University,       Georgia, US [b].
The range of subjects covered includes physics,       electrical engineering, sport and nutrition, computing, mathematics,       history, languages and religion &#8212; illustrating the Edumecca SRS's       suitability for both problem-based learning (in which a question might       have only one correct answer) and opinion-based learning (in which several       answers might be acceptable) [c].
Feedback from users to Professor Lu has       demonstrated the system's ability to offer the acknowledged benefits of       earlier forms of SRS (e.g.
increased participation, enhanced capacity to       gauge students' comprehension) while significantly widening the       technology's applicability and reducing associated costs (the average       commercial SRS retails at around &#163;1,000 for a 30-student classroom; the       Edumecca SRS significantly reduces this figure by precluding the need for       "clickers") [d].
The system's effectiveness in small-group teaching has also been       highlighted, with the University of Buckingham publishing the results of a       pilot exercise in which all but one of the students who took part agreed       that the Edumecca SRS "enhances the learning experience".
The findings,       published in 2011 in Italics, the e-journal of the Higher       Education Academy, concluded: "The use of a SRS has had a positive effect       on student learning and students' experience in small-group teaching...       [It] increases participation, helps students understand the lecture and       indicates where further effort is required" [e].
The system's effectiveness in large-group has also been addressed, with       Petru Maior University of Tirgu Mures in Romania for a group of 260       students.
From Professor Moldovan: "Students enjoyed this new technology       enhanced learning instant feedback, participation, motivation because the       mobile evaluation deploys advanced wireless response technologies."
"This       new technology brings economic benefits to the training, as the system can       use the low cost devices like iPod touch in comparison with commercial       product Click."
Following a further innovative approach, SRS has been       internationalized into other EU languages: Romania and Hungarian.
Professor Moldovan further stated that through Professor Lu's research,       the mobile learning methodology is not just used by English speak users       but also by native Romania speak users [a].
The experience that related to the SRS is also stated by Dr Powell in       Knennsaw State University, USA, "The SRS system did open our eyes to the       world beyond clickers and to the deficiencies in online systems like "poll       everyone", it showed us what was possible, and we really appreciate that.
The technology used in SRS is advanced and brings economic benefits to the       users, as the system can use the low cost devices like iPod touch or       users' own devices.
The system also saves data for faculty, allowing them       to measure student improvement in the polling activities over course       sections or time."
"This tool is of great benefit for faculty wanting to       show improvement in teaching strategies or wanting to test the       effectiveness of different strategies in multiple sections, without       resorting to exams.
Your innovative approach in mobile learning system       sheds light on the new trend of pedagogical circle, i.e.
learning in       mobile age.
Fortunately for us, the impact of your work stretches beyond       England and the European continent to the United States, where we are very       lucky to be able to benefit" (b).
Adoption of the Edumecca SRS has also helped a number of institutions       secure major funding.
In 2011 the Centre for Flexible Learning was awarded       a &#8364;300,000 EU grant to help transfer and disseminate the technology, while       S&#248;r-Tr&#248;ndelag University College, Trondheim, won similar funding, worth       around &#8364;3m, in 2012 [f].
A great potential of SRS commercialization has       been proposed in the EduMecca exploitation report [g].
The flexibility of the system, particularly its capacity to facilitate       "distance learning", has allowed its use to be extended to industrial,       laboratory and other settings.
In several countries it has formed a key       element of the training required for the Welder Certificate qualification.
The Hungarian Association of Welding Technology and Material Testing made       the system available to 90 companies and more than a thousand people in       2010.
Norwegian firm QM Soft has used it in eight modules of its training       course, and it has also helped train welders in Sweden, Slovakia and       Slovenia.
Studium Ltd, the company subcontracted by the Hungarian       Association of Welding Technology and Material Testing to carry out       training, has reported the Edumecca SRS's "positive impact on student       learning and experiences" [h].
In 2011, in response to a request from Leeds University's bioscience       department, Professor Lu used the SRS technology as the basis for Mobile       Lab Mate (MLM), a mobile application allowing the automatic submission,       storage, retrieval and visualisation of data generated in experiments.
The       system reduces users' workload by obviating the need for paper-based       logbooks [i].
Efforts to commercialise MLM for wider use are now under       way.
At the request of Helen Ribchester, a Senior Lecturer at the       University of Huddersfield's School of Human and Health Sciences, the       prototype of a similar system was also produced for occupational       therapists.
The work has been presented in the two large International       conferences on Digital Society         in France and Software         Engineering Research and Practice, USA 2013.
The technology has also been used for industrial applications, including       the development of a user interface controller for ML Shaw Fabrications       Ltd's patented Intelligent Kitchen Ventilation (IKV) system.
They       mentioned in their letter "...with your help and involvement we were able       to move a lot quicker than we anticipate and we are now in production of       selling the IKV system to schools and colleges.".
The Manchester-based       company paid more than &#163;600 per set for its previous interface, whereas       the Huddersfield-designed successor costs only &#163;110 per set &#8212; a saving of       around 75 per cent for the firm [j].
