     The assay developed by Taylor and colleagues was used to identify pelagic       cod-like eggs collected       in ichthyoplankton surveys in the Irish and North Seas by International       government-funded       fisheries institute partners from England (Cefas), Scotland (Fisheries       Research Services),       Netherlands (Institute for Marine Resources and Ecosystem Studies), Norway       (Institute of Marine       Research), Denmark (Danish Institute of Fisheries Research) and Germany       (Leibniz Institute of       Marine Sciences) and coordinated by the Planning Group on North Sea Egg       Surveys of the       International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) (research       references 1-3).
ICES is an       intergovernmental organization whose main objective is to increase the       scientific knowledge of the       marine environment and its living resources and to use this knowledge to       provide advice to       competent authorities.
The ICES network comprises &gt; 4000 scientists       from almost 300 institutes       with 1600 scientists participating in activities annually.
The Irish Sea survey revealed the spawning grounds of cod, haddock and       whiting, demonstrated       that a spawning stock of haddock existed in the Irish Sea and indicated       that previous estimates of       cod stocks using the annual egg production methods (AEPM) were biased       upwards due to       inclusion of haddock and whiting eggs in the calculations.
The North Sea       survey also identified the       current spawning grounds of cod, confirming that major historical spawning       grounds for North Sea       cod were still active in 2004 but that some localized populations may have       been reduced to levels       where it was difficult to find cod eggs in the plankton.
These populations       could be at particular risk       of severe depletion and were identified as potentially requiring targeted       conservation measures       (corroborating source D)     In 2005, the assay was adopted by Cefas after they set up a molecular lab       with funding from       DEFRA and assistance with design and specification from Taylor.
Cefas then       implemented the       assay in routine pelagic egg surveys to provide a more accurate use of       AEPM for stock       assessments in the Irish Sea (corroborating sources A-C).
By their own       assessment, Cefas have       repeatedly used this methodology very successfully for large scale egg       surveys in the North and       Irish Seas (corroborating source D).
Cefas also used the assay successfully in the 2008 and 2010 egg surveys       in the Irish Sea for       which `cod-like' eggs were genetically analysed, and the annual egg       production method was       conducted to estimate stock size for cod in the Irish Sea (corroborating       sources C and E).
Since       cod fishing is effectively banned in the Irish Sea, this methodology has       been essential for Cefas to       be able to accurately measure the recovery of cod stocks in this area.
A       letter of support, from the       Chief Scientist at Cefas, states that the assay developed by Taylor `represents         a very significant         contribution to the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks around UK         waters' (corroborating source       F).
The assay has also been implemented in an egg survey at an International       level in the Baltic Sea       by the Swedish Board of Fisheries (now under the control of Swedish       University of Agricultural       Sciences SLU) (http://sustainability.formas.se/en/Issues/Issue-2-May-2011/Content/In-         brief/Swedish-Board-of-Fisheries-rd-transferred-to-SLU/ ) and a       letter of support confirms the       impact of the research for fisheries conservation &#8212; `the assay         represents a significant contribution         to catch-independent fisheries monitoring'.
The assay will be used       again in this year's analysis of       the 2013 Swedish ichthyoplankton survey (corroborating source G).
