     University of Huddersfield research has significantly raised awareness of       new ways of designing more efficient, cost-effective and sustainable       management networks using knowledge engineering, automated planning,       domain modelling and machine learning techniques.
It is now playing a       leading role in the &#163;16m EPSRC Autonomous and Intelligent Systems       Programme, which has attracted more than &#163;4m in financial and in-kind       support from hi-tech industries.
McCluskey's work has been central to galvanising a shift towards the       adoption of design autonomy and autonomic systems, in particular the       implementation of properties of self-management, self-maintenance and       adaptation within transport systems.
As well as via the dissemination of       scholarly work, this has been achieved through involvement with technology       transfer events, joint industry-university projects and professional       groups.
Examples in the area of road transport have included `Artificially       Intelligent Intelligent Transport Systems?
', a talk at Portsmouth       for more than 50 road transport consultants on the value of intelligent       systems in road transport systems (November 2009) [ref A]; `Intelligent       ITS?
From component intelligence to self-awareness' a talk invited by the       Technology Strategy Board at Innovate '11: Connect for Growth under the       seminar `Mobility with Intelligence in 2015', attended by approximately 70       transport professionals (October 2011) [ref C]; and an article on domain       modelling for Air Traffic Technology International, a professional       publication aimed at air traffic experts (2009) [ref B].
The Portsmouth conference in particular was pivotal in a move towards       wider recognition of the value of truly intelligent transport systems, as       demonstrated by feedback from delegates.
The Technology Strategy Board's       Innovation Platform Leader for ITTS remarked that the event signalled a       "move away from the usual non-productive debates" [ref A].
It led to the       formation of the iMFV (intelligent mobility: future vision) collaboration       (http://www.hud.ac.uk/imfv/),       with McCluskey as one of the founding members.
iMFV's members and       associates are transport consultants and professionals who work with       McCluskey to "influence change in society's attitudes to mobility as part       of a wider review of transport in society" and to "change the behaviour       (or the way of thinking) not only of end users but technology providers,       planners and policymakers" [ref D].
The Director of SG Transport       Innovation Ltd, a founder member of iMFV, has confirmed that McCluskey's       work has "influenced thinking within the transport arena" and "raised       awareness of the potential AI holds for the management of complex urban       road networks" [ref E].
The significance of McCluskey's research was further recognised in 2011       with the award by COST, an intergovernmental framework for European       Cooperation in Science and Technology, of a major project, Towards       Autonomic Road Transport Systems (ARTS), within its Transport and Urban       Development area [ref G].
As Action Chair for ARTS, McCluskey leads a       consortium of members from universities, consultancies, transport       authorities and industry from 24 countries throughout Europe, aimed at       advancing the state of the art in engineering transport technologies in       order to address problems in road transportation networks such as traffic       overload and environmental consequence.
This is resulting in widespread       dissemination of leading-edge research in computer science to the road       transport community through seminars, co-located workshops,       academic-practitioner meetings, training schools and cross-national study       visits.
Recent examples include a meeting with Newcastle and Gateshead       City Council in April 2013 to discuss delivering cost savings and       improving network efficiency through the use of autonomic transport       systems.
A training school organised by COST ARTS in Paris in May 2013       attracted over 50 transport-related early career participants and featured       McCluskey as a speaker [ref I].
The Managing Director of transport       consultancy KAM Futures has reported that the ideas and networking       opportunities resulting from the ARTS network have led to his company's       involvement in nine project proposals "with combined value of over &#163;2.5m,       with currently a greater than 50% success rate" [ref F], adding: "The       ideas and techniques emanating from McCluskey's research... are currently       informing a step-change in thinking."
The Director of SG Transport       Innovation Ltd has observed: "The impact of [McCluskey's] research is       being felt within the UK and also European-wide through the COST Action."
[ref E]     In May 2012 Minister of State for Universities and Science David       Willetts, announced &#163;16m in funding from government and industry for a       series of high-profile projects in the Autonomous and Intelligent Systems       Programme, aimed at developing intelligent autonomous systems deemed vital       to the future competitiveness of UK companies in sectors including       advanced manufacturing, energy, transport, healthcare and defence.
The       underpinning research reported in [refs 1-6] led to McCluskey and       Professor Austin Tate, of the University of Edinburgh, winning one of the       first tranche projects, Machine Learning and Adaptation of Domain Models       to Support Real-Time Planning in Autonomous Systems, which is being       carried out at Huddersfield and Edinburgh (website: http://www.aiai.ed.ac.uk/project/hedlamp/,       EPSRC awards &#163;366,420 and &#163;348,426 respectively, EP/J011991/1 and       EP/J011800/1).
McCluskey is leading this EPSRC project, known as HedLamp       for short, to develop the capacity for robotic machines to learn and adapt       knowledge in order to make their own plans and decisions.
Major industrial       partners such as BAE Systems, Schlumberger, National Nuclear Laboratory,       Sellafield Ltd, Network Rail, SCISYS, DSTL and the UK Space Agency are       providing over &#163;4m in financial support and technical expertise.
HedLamp       is already influencing the practice of leading multi-national oilfield       services provider Schlumberger, where, as confirmed by one of the       company's Program Managers, it has encouraged "new ways of thinking about       encoding information, process and control" [ref J].
Work resulting from       HedLamp was recently presented to Schlumberger's CEO and is considered "an       important part of the overall effort in automation in oilfields" [ref J].
