     Impact on government, regulatory bodies, industry and charities       This research has changed the approach taken by regulators, policy makers       and industry to the issue of identifying and responding to the needs of       consumers in vulnerable situations.
It has led to changes in the practice       of industry, providing a secondary benefit to those consumers.
Following publication of the report for eaga Charitable trust (3.4)       on the information and advice needs of people facing multiple barriers in       relation to access to energy, CCES's recommendations have heavily       influenced Ofgem (the energy regulator) in its development of a new       consumer vulnerability strategy.
CCES led a workshop with the Ofgem's       Consumer Policy Team in March 2011 and the insights of the work helped       Ofgem to develop a broader understanding of the needs and issues facing       consumers in vulnerable positions which has been incorporated in their       vulnerable consumers' strategy and has been used in their work with energy       companies to promote best practice (5.2).
The research itself was disseminated widely and meetings were held with a       number of organisations between December 2011 and March 2012 to discuss       the findings and taking the insights further in the development of policy       and practice.
In particular, meetings were held with the Energy Retail       Association (ERA), officials from the Department of Energy and Climate       Change and major suppliers.
The ERA expressed particular interest in       CCES's recommendations regarding adoption of the BSI `Inclusive Service'       standard; common branding of priority service registers; and a protocol       for suppliers in dealing with third parties.
The recommendations are being       followed up through the ERA's Debt Policy Group.
The most recent research (3.6) has been welcomed by, among others,       Age Concern, Consumer Futures, National Energy Action and the Ebico Trust       for Sustainable Development.
For example, Professor John Hills, LSE and       author of the review of fuel poverty definition for the government said:       "... it looks highly relevant.
It's come just in time to inform our         thinking on the final report of the review" (5.8).
Chris Leigh, Deputy Director Fuel Poverty, Department of Energy and       Climate Change: "we have found that your work gives a very helpful         insight into the challenges that low income and vulnerable households         face in dealing with energy issues.
Many of our policies to help these         households are focussed on energy companies and having a clearer         understanding of the barriers that they face helps us to develop and         implement policies in ways that help ensure that they meet our wider         objectives.
Your findings will be particularly relevant for the         implementation of the Green deal and new Energy Company Obligation"       (5.9).
Phil Levermore, Ebico Trust wrote to say that the report "has been         forwarded to the Board of Trustees of the Ebico Trust for Sustainable         Development to help inform them of the needs of the chronically sick and         disabled."
(5.10)     Membership of policy making groups       Graham has been a member of the European Commission's working group on       vulnerable consumers in the energy sector since 2011.
He has made       presentations on the research to the group in May 2011 and September 2013       and has been an active participant in developing policy within the group,       doing the initial drafting for a significant part of the report which will       be presented to the Citizens' Energy Forum in London in December 2013.
The       research had a direct impact on the ways in which the Commission has       framed the problem, in terms of its discussion of the drivers of       vulnerability (as opposed to the traditional approach to framing the       problem in terms of vulnerable groups) (5.1).
Graham was also a member of Ofwat's Future Regulation Advisory Panel in       2012 where he was part of a group providing feedback to Ofwat on the       development of its regulatory policy (5.7).
Partly as a result of her involvement in the research, Lennard became the       Chair of the Public Utilities Access Forum (PUAF) in 2012, having       previously been Vice Chair from 2010.
Here she plays an active role in       influencing the future direction of the Forum which includes regulatory       representatives as well as consumer bodies and voluntary organisations.
In       particular, she played a central part in re-launching PUAF this year as       Essential Services Action Network (ESAN) with a wider remit and       membership.
She is also a member of Ofgem's Consumer Challenge Group which       is currently involved in advising Ofgem on the next electricity       distribution price control from the consumer standpoint.
Impact on Complaint handling       The work CCES has carried out on complaint handling for both Ofcom and       Consumer Focus (CF) has provided an underpinning advice base for their       respective policy development on complaint handling by providers and       independent organisations (5.5).
In its most recent policy paper (5.4),       CF has emphasised that society cannot simply or easily be divided into       `vulnerable groups' and `the rest'.
People's circumstances change and       anybody can become vulnerable at any time, for example through job loss or       bereavement.
In addition, CF stated that that the policies and practices       of service and product suppliers in different markets can heavily       influence the choices available, the decisions people make and the extent       to which people are in vulnerable positions (see 5.4)     International influence       International impact came when Graham was invited to provide a keynote       address for the ACCAN (Australian Communications Consumer Action Network)       national conference in Melbourne on 28 June 2010, as well as participating       fully in the conference itself.
The problems in relation to       telecommunications complaints led to an investigation by the Australian       Communication and Media Authority and Graham's research was cited in their       final report (5.6).
The work (3.3.and 3.4) has also       been extended to include work on complaints in the legal services field       for the Legal Ombudsman and discussion of relevant issues with the Legal       Services Board in the UK (5.3).
