     The Director of BBC World Service stated: `The research that Professor       Gillespie and her team       have conducted over the last 6-7 years has made an extremely valuable       contribution to our internal       policy debates at BBC World Service on strategy and editorial matters.'
Since 2007 this team has created an enduring partnership with the BBCWS.
Findings have been       presented at over 20 workshops at the BBCWS and at an ongoing OU/BBCWS       joint lunchtime       seminar series (seven to date).
Up to 30 BBCWS staff at all levels and       across sections, as well as       FCO officials, have come to debate our findings and gone on to translate       them into policy, practice       and programming decisions.
Collaborations with the FCO led to Gillespie       and Webb submitting       evidence to the BBC Trust, the House of Commons Home Affairs Select       Committee, and the       House of Lords Committee on Soft Power (Section 5: 4).
It is in geopolitically strategic services &#8212; BBC Arabic and Urdu       &#8212; that our impact has been most       direct, by enabling the BBCWS to reconceive its audiences as global       diasporas.
BBC Arabic Service: Our research on BBC Arabic audiences' use of       social media, presented at a       lunchtime seminar and in a report circulated among senior management       (Section 5: 3), directly       influenced BBC Arabic's strategic `Change Project' (2012).
According to       the Change Project       Director: `Your recommendations highlighted the lack of a cohesive social       media policy across the       service as a major problem and provided strong, independent, robust       evidence that underpinned       my decision to set up three major work streams as part of the BBC Arabic       Change Project ...
Your       research was integral to these very positive developments ...
Your report       was very helpful indeed.'
Both the Change Project Director and the Head of Audiences stated that       our recommendations led       directly to:     (i) strategic change: management re-structuring and the creation       of social media and digital       editorial posts     (ii) editorial change: the flagship daily political talk show `Talking         Point' was re-scheduled to       accommodate diaspora audiences, and the `100 Women Season' created       to tackle perceived       under-representation of women     (iii) greater audience engagement: a 60% increase in unique users       at Arabic Online since       January 2013.
BBC Urdu Service: Gillespie's briefing paper for the FCO on       diaspora news consumption (Section       5: 4, 2007) contributed to a successful FCO bid for &#163;1 million funding       from HM Treasury for the       BBCWS to work with diasporas in the UK.
The BBCWS then commissioned       Gillespie to research       media use by the UK Pakistani diaspora (Section 5:3, 2007).
The BBCWS       Managing Editor of       Future Media stated the findings were: `really useful in providing       evidence about this audience but       also made us realise that we need to have a much more robust offer.'
Our       research catalysed       strategic and editorial decisions at the BBCWS Urdu Service and the wider       BBC including:     (i) reduction of planned investment in online Urdu services for the       diaspora, since Urdu literacy is       limited;     (ii) commissioning of a BBC1 serial about UK Pakistanis (`Citizen Khan')       and the BBC's first Urdu       TV programme (`Sairbeen' news/talkshow);     (iii) avoidance of association of `Pakistani' with `terrorist' in BBC       reporting.
Human resources: One of our reports to WS (Section 5:3, 2010)       identified career progression       concerns among staff in all the Language Services surveyed.
The BBC's       Human Resources       Manager stated: `Since that period, we have been placing more emphasis on       strategic activities to       help address some of the issues that the report raised.'
Our research       criticised `language silos' and       called for integration of multilingual BBCWS staff in working practices       across the BBC.
This       informed decision-making during the BBCWS's move from Bush House to New       Broadcasting       House (2012).
Institutional memory and OU/BBC Partnership: Gillespie organised       three witness seminars with       serving and former diasporic broadcasters from BBCWS Bush House, and led       collaborative       research on creative writers who work(ed) for the service.
Findings were       published for non-academic       audiences in Wasafiri magazine (`Writers at Bush House', 2011) and       a commemorative       volume, Tales from Bush House (eds, Ismailov, Gillespie, Aslanyan,       2012).
The impact of this       strand of research was that the BBC WS belatedly recognised its importance       as a historic site of       diasporic cultural creativity (Section 3: 4, 2010).
BBCWS created a       writer-in-residence post (from       2010) and consulted Gillespie for the Radio 4 programme `World Service         Writers' (2012; audience       c. 2.5 million).
Further, as part of the BBC's International Playwriting       Competition (IPC), the Georgi       Markov Prize was instituted at Gillespie's instigation, marking the BBC's       recognition of this eminent       BBCWS broadcaster and writer, and Gillespie co-commissioned, with the OU,       the BBC radio       broadcasting of the IPC's winning plays, further cementing the enduring       OU-BBCWS partnership.
