     There are three domains in which Enacting Citizenship has made an impact:     (1) Giving EU-level activism greater influence: Activists and MEPs       are campaigning to protect       and expand civil, political and social rights made possible by European       citizenship.
They are       resisting a narrower interpretation put forward by some Member State       governments and some       European policy makers that EU citizenship principally gives mobility       rights that are largely of       economic benefit.
Our research provides empirical evidence for this       broader definition.
It also       shows how vulnerable groups have used European citizenship to access these       rights when they       are denied them by their governments and in doing so have strengthened the       EU as an institution.
This has had an impact on how citizenship is understood and invoked by       activist campaigns and       European commission policy makers during the European Year of Citizens       2013.
It has       encouraged both to see the EU as responsible for fostering and supporting       these rights claims by       activists.
This was acknowledged when ENACT was highlighted for its impact by a       recent EU policy review       by the European Commission, which praised the fact that it went `beyond       juridical accounts of       citizenship in attempts to explore the enactment of citizenship by       ordinary citizens and residents.'
Moreover, as Simon Schunz (Directorate-General for Research &amp;       Innovation at the European       Commission) notes, `... the FP7 project ENACT has contributed to advance       our understanding of       some of the less explored processes of enacting citizenship.
The       terminology used by the project       has been widely discussed, for instance as part of a 2012 Policy Review on       EU citizenship       published by the European Commission, and has sparked controversial       debates at conferences'.
The European Commission (17/07/13) news report stated that `Enacting       European Citizenship has       come to some highly original results based on using an innovative       methodology involving activists       and civil society directly in conducting the research, and not limiting       the research to "traditional"       forms of citizen participation, or actors who already consider themselves       to be "European" citizens.
European Alternatives has been involved in the research and thinks that it       reflects very well the       approaches that they have found productive and also the problems with       which they are faced daily       in their work promoting active European citizenship.
They think the       research is highly pertinent in       the current European situation and in the context of the European year'.
http://ec.europa.eu/citizenship/news-events/news/17072013_enactingeuropeancitizenship_en.htm     Further evidence of impact comes from the European Commission's       Directorate-General for       Research and Innovation publication Scientific Evidence for         Policy-Making: Research Insights from         Socio-Economic Sciences and Humanities (2013, EUR 25765) in which       ENACT is cited in the       section on `The citizen in the European Union'.
The issues addressed in       this area relate to the       development of European democracies, to the rights and obligations of       European citizens, and to       the shared values in a diverse union.
The report argues that ENACT `...       shows how the actions of       groups and individuals on the margins of the European Union, just as much       as those of formal EU       institutions, have an impact on EU identity and its policies on       citizenship.'
[p. 267].
Isin was invited onto the working group for the European Year Citizenship       Alliance (EYCA) to draft       a manifesto to be presented to the European Commission in 2013, enshrining       the principles of an       `active European citizenship.'
Our role in this campaign stems from       ENACT's articulation of how       European citizenship is enacted.
As the only academic partner in the       alliance, we provide an       intellectual framework for the ECYA and other organisations that use a       broad definition of       European Citizenship.
During EY2013 we held joint workshops hosted by Rui Taveres MEP at the       European Parliament       and at the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC), attended by over       40 delegates.
Irini       Pari of the EESC stressed the importance of our research evidence for       furthering the social aims of       the European project, at a time when they are being marginalised by the       ongoing economic crisis.
This event was aimed at analysts (rather than senior figures) and sought       to directly inform policy       thinking on citizenship.
Linda Ravo of the European Commission said of the       workshop that it       revealed `the importance of getting the European project closer to the       citizens'.
It built on previous       policy workshops for ENACT in Brussels in 2010 and in Nijmegen in 2011.
(2) Enhancing intercultural understanding of citizenship through         workshops designed to         help non-academics in their work about citizenship.
Directly through       workshops and interviews       and indirectly through published research, we inform public opinion about       the creative ways in       which people can be political and act as citizens in times of crisis.
Our articulation of citizenship informed Arabic language media coverage       of the unexpected and       inspiring activism produced by `the Arab Spring'.
In a series of       programmes broadcast in February       2012, Russia Today's Arabic Service used our broader definition of       citizenship and the symposium       it inspired to inform their coverage of the impact of the Arab Spring.
Salwa AbdelTawab, the       journalist who proposed the reports, stated: `Any previous approach in the       media tackled the social       aspects of the protests in the Arab countries from a mere economic       perspective.
The idea of a new       relationship between citizens and governments, new notions forming about       identities and rights       was new and gave more depth to the continuing discussion of the       developments in the region.'
In February 2012, Isin was invited to discuss enacting citizenship on Thinking         Allowed on BBC       Radio 4 and Nightwaves on BBC Radio 4.
(3) Inform public opinion by articulating a vocabulary through which         activists can         understand themselves as citizens.
Impact is the starting point of       our research model: activists       and their needs are integrated into the entire research process.
Appointed       as Canada Research       Chair in 2002, Isin founded the Citizenship Studies Media Lab (CSML) based       at York University.
This network of activists and researchers became a model for the three       projects based at the OU.
ENACT led activists, lawyers and researchers to co-produce Enacting         European Citizenship       (2013), the culmination of a series of research reports designed to help       policy makers understand       the work of activists as acts of citizenship.
OECUMENE and ENACTMENTS have       spread this       methodology beyond the study of Europe and North America, and to a       self-sustaining and growing       community of activists and researchers.
Working with activists and policy       makers was integral to       ENACT.
For example, our team included a judge, an aid worker with the Red       Cross, and many       other activists.
Through workshops with non-governmental organisations       (NGOs) in Riga and       Istanbul in 2010, we ensured that our findings on activism as citizenship       could be used to support       the work of the very activists we researched.
OECUMENE has reinforced       these links by building up       a network of over 20 civil society activists and a further 400 members of       our website.
In February 2012, Net4Society used ENACT as a success story for Social       Science and Humanities       (SSH) funding by the European Union.
Net4Society's article on ENACT's       impact observed: `Before       ENACT, any discussion of European citizenship was dominated by lawyers,       who naturally stressed       the legal aspect of citizenship.
This has changed, thanks to the civil       society organisation "European       Year of Citizens 2013 Alliance", choosing as its slogan "European       citizenship is more than rights!"
The European Commission is now explicitly seeking new research projects to       investigate "how       citizens claim and enact their rights".
This is recognition of ENACT's       role in supporting and marking       the importance of activism as an aspect of European citizenship.
Our research is contributing to a wider public discourse about activism       both online and via       broadcast media.
We regularly contribute research-based articles to       OpenDemocracy [5.1].
Each       article has received over 2,000 views, and 51% of visitors are from       outside the UK and USA.
The       average view time for our articles is over 6 minutes (compared to 3.5       minutes across       OpenDemocracy as a whole).
According to the online editor, Andrew Hyde,       conversation strands       on the website on our articles on topics such as EU immigration and the       use of Sharia law in the       UK reveal the disproportionately high interest our research has gained on       a website well known for       informing the work of activists and policy makers.
Regular contributor to       OpenDemocracy and       author on Balkan and Russian issues Iannis Carris wrote, `I thought the       citizenship after orientalism       partnership with the Open University was excellent &#8212; exactly what       OpenDemoncracy does best,       staying close to current news, and at the same time getting behind it to       look much deeper.'
