     Context     Stroke is the most common cause of severe adult disability and a key       healthcare issue in the UK.
Every year, 120,000 people in the UK have their first stroke and a further       30,000 people have a       subsequent stroke.
More than 10% of these stroke patients are left with       chronic hemispatial       neglect syndrome (neglect) &#8212; they are unable to process or perceive       objects on one side of their       body &#8212; even if their sight has been unaffected by the stroke.
This       syndrome is commonly linked to       poor stroke recovery.
Individuals with neglect (regardless of severity)       typically require additional       weeks in hospital (118 days versus 78 days), needing nearly twice as many       hours of physiotherapy       and occupational therapy, and are more prone to falls and persistent       urinary incontinence.
Post       discharge, patients with neglect are more likely to require ambulatory       assistance and long-term       institutionalisation or assisted living.
University of Glasgow researcher       Dr. Monika Harvey has       extensive research expertise in the underlying cognitive neuroscience of       visual perception, and has       successfully used this to train stroke healthcare professionals and help       stroke patients with vision       disorders.
STARs `Vision after Stroke' &#8212; a training resource for stroke           healthcare professionals     In July 2011, as a direct result of her work on neglect rehabilitation       and vision-control mechanisms,       Dr. Harvey was recruited as an expert advisor in the development of an       advanced vision module       for the Stroke Training and Awareness Resources (STARs) Project.a,b       STARs is a freely available,       Scottish-Government-backed online training resource for health and social       care staff who work with       people affected by stroke.
Its goal is to equip health professionals with       the core competencies       outlined in the Scottish Government's Coronary Heart Disease and Stroke       Strategy action plan       (2002).
The approach provides an engaging and interactive learning       resource encompassing       patient scenarios in a series of video clips and animations with       supporting reference materials.
In Scotland, the latest guidelines on stroke-related neglect (Scottish       Intercollegiate Guidelines       Network, 2010), recognised that there was a lack of understanding of the       hemispatial neglect       syndrome thus highlighting an unmet training need.
The STARs project aims       to improve       understanding of the visual control processes underlying patients'       impairments, which is a       paramount consideration if rehabilitation interventions are to succeed.
Hemispatial neglect       syndrome affects patients' balance and depth perception so that they have       difficulty with basic       tasks such as dressing themselves, picking up objects and walking or       moving around obstacles       safely, increasing their chances of injury.
This results in greater       dependency on the healthcare       system and family members, and can be compounded by post-stroke loss of       confidence and       depression.
The STARs `Vision after Stroke'b module provides targeted       training geared towards identifying and       assessing appropriate treatment strategies for stroke patients with visual       problems.
Dr. Harvey led       the design of the hemispatial neglect case study contained within this       module, outlining its       definition and distinction from visual-field loss, methods of assessment,       diagnosis, treatment and       follow-up.
She also provided expert input into the agnosia (inability to       recognise common objects)       and eye-movement-disorder case studies.
The `Vision after Stroke' module       was launched at the       December 2012 UK Stroke Forum in Harrogate, a yearly multidisciplinary       stroke event attended by       approximately 1,500 practitioners.
The relevance of the module to routine       rehabilitation practice       and awareness raising of visual problems in stroke patients is evident       from evaluations of the       module at this eventb reporting that...     ...`[the module] relates directly to my working practice'     ...`the subject of visual problems [is] interesting as this is not the         first thing people in general         look at when people have a stroke, but for the patient it can play a         large part in their quality         of life'     ...`Found this very interesting and could associate a lot with many         patients in the stroke unit         and especially a condition known as Charles Bonnet Syndrome which a         patient in our ward         had recently and staff including myself would have benefit with more         information when         dealing with his care'     Rapid and wide reaching uptake of the STARs `Vision after Stroke'           module     Following its launch, additional dissemination of the `Vision after       Stroke' module was achieved via       mailed information to all 31 Scottish stroke units and 991 GP practices.
Consequently, the module       has experienced a rapid, wide-reaching uptake.
In the 8 months from launch       to 31 July 2013, the       advancing module series of STARs had 17 473 unique visitors browsing the       site (an average of 43       pages viewed per visit); users were located in 113 countries worldwide.
Whilst these visitors will       have been spread across the range of 16 advancing modules, the `Vision       after Stroke' module was       noted as the second most popular of all the advancing modules in Scotland       thus highlighting the       demand for further information in this area.
Over the same period, 152       healthcare practitioners       successfully completed the `Vision after Stroke' test evidencing their       learning through the module       and obtaining the module training certificate.
These practitioners ranged       from occupational       therapists and physiotherapists to doctors and nurses specialising in       rehabilitation with users       located both across the UK and internationally (e.g.
New Zealand).b       As a direct result of Harvey's       research, STARs has addressed a previously unmet training need, providing       invaluable support for       a range of healthcare providers.
Implementation of visuomotor action-training in rehabilitation           clinics     In 2010, Harvey disseminated her neglect rehabilitation work at the       Federation of the European       Societies of Neuropsychology Annual Meeting in Amsterdam, Holland to over       500 clinicians and       researchers.
Further to this, the visuomotor action-training technique has       been implemented in 1       German Stroke Rehabilitation Centre and 1 stroke outpatient unit.
Since       its adoption in October       2011, the approach has been applied to over 60 patients with neglect       syndrome.
This rehabilitation       approach is favoured by the clinics as it is inexpensive (for instance,       the wooden rods, required for       lifting, can be purchased for less than &#163;20), easy to apply (patient and       carer can be trained in a       single session), does not rely on the patient understanding his or her       condition and has shown       enhances life quality.d,e
