     The innovative human CB model developed by Wormstone and Duncan at UEA       has played a       crucial role in the development of a new IOL, known as the         bag-in-the-lens (BIL).
BIL is       commercially available from Morcher Implants (Product name: Type       89) and to date Morcher       have sold 12,651 units worldwide (corroborating source A).
Surgical       implantation of BIL       markedly reduces the incidence of PCO.
Because the CB model is generated through a simulated operation in the       laboratory, it is       essentially the same as that generated in a cataract patient.
This makes       it an ideal platform for       testing novel clinical concepts in a regulated environment, which is       amenable to ongoing       observation and analysis.
This led the Medical Director at the University       Hospital Antwerp to use       the Wormstone/Duncan CB model to evaluate the novel BIL.
She knew of the       CB model and its       potential through published papers (section 3) and through discussions       with Wormstone and       Duncan at academic conferences.
These discussions provided further       assistance in applying the       CB model to test the BIL, whose introduction into the eye requires a       technically demanding       surgical approach.
This was of major value, as shown in the testimonial       below:     "I have personally employed the capsular bag model to great effect in         the development         of the BIL design and believe it has been an invaluable tool in         translating my original         concept into a device that has improved the lives of tens of thousands         of cataract         patients."
(corroborating source B)     Using the Wormstone/Duncan CB model, the skills needed for this surgical       procedure could be       developed and honed, as follows.
In contrast to conventional cataract       surgery, which requires a       single capsulorhexis (capsular tear) in the anterior lens capsule, the BIL       technique involves the       use of a twin capsulorhexis lens design, and performance of anterior and       posterior       capsulorhexes of the same size.
According to this concept, if both       capsules are well-stretched       around the optic of the lens, any remaining lens epithelial cells will be       captured within the       remaining space of the capsular bag, and their proliferation will be       limited to this space, so the       visual axis will remain clear.
The CB model allowed it to be ascertained       that the BIL surgical       technique and implantation could be applied to human lenses, and was       therefore appropriate for       cataract patients.
Moreover, the model allowed comparison with       conventional IOL designs and       thus demonstrated the ability of BIL to prevent PCO formation and show       that the BIL is a major       advance on existing devices (corroborating sources A-C).
The beneficiaries are those patients that have had surgical       implants with this new technique and       who will not experience deterioration in vision nor require further       surgery because of PCO.
The       BIL is surgically implanted into ~5000 adult and child patients a year in       Europe alone, effectively       restoring their vision and the Medical Director at the University Hospital       Antwerp has personally       implanted &gt;8000 since the lens received European CE mark approval in       2004.
Significant       numbers of BILs have been implanted now and the outcomes are impressive.
Of         particular         interest is the application to children, who have rapid onset of         blinding PCO; in nearly all         cases; the BIL prevents PCO, even in these extreme cases.
The       limiting factor in the uptake       of this approach is the level of skill required by the surgeon to carry       out this procedure, a       challenge to many surgeons.
Implanting BIL is not standard practice and       thus is not       conventionally taught.
To address this issue, and to increase the pool of       surgeons using the BIL       procedure, wet lab and instructional courses are now run at the annual       European Society of       Cataract and Refractive Surgeons conference.
In addition, an international       panel of BIL       Instructors has been established who pass on their knowledge and       demonstrate the technique       (corroborating source B).
The weight of clinical data is strong and       numbers employing BIL are       growing.
Wormstone is also testing novel IOLs for Anew Optics using the CB       model.
Data generated       using this model is aiding development of new IOL designs and their       selection for clinical trials.
In reference to this work, the CEO of Anew Optics has stated:     "The findings were revealing and have made a major impact on our         strategies and         approach in future clinical trials.
In essence, I consider your work in         the capsular bag         pivotal for evaluating the performance attributes of new technologies."
(corroborating source D)
