     Himmelweit's arguments were used, among others, by the developing       international `gender       budgeting' movement to persuade international bodies, governments and       civil society       organisations to adopt GIA to improve their policy making.
Many countries       have now adopted       some form of gender budgeting and many Non-Government Organisations (NGOs)       have been       monitoring the gender impact of their government's policies.
The       importance of OU research to this       process can be seen by the wide citation of Himmelweit's papers in policy       documents (e.g.
International Monetary Fund (IMF) working papers, Unifem, and the UNDP),       invitations to speak at       high level conferences at the United Nations (UN), the European Union,       regional and national       governmental bodies, and contributions to the Commonwealth Secretariat's       gender budgeting       programme.
More recently, she has helped build capacity in GIA for       governments and NGOs, e.g.
in Iceland and for the charity, Action Aid.
Internationally, the Gender       and Tax project has led to the       annual joint tax dialogue conference, run jointly by the World Bank, the       IMF and Organisation for       Economic Co-operation and Development and attended by finance ministers       from around the       world.
This discussed gender issues in taxation for the first time in       December 2011, and drew       heavily on the project's results.
Himmelweit's argument that childcare should be seen as part of societal       infrastructure is now       accepted in Scotland, where the chief economist's office is developing an       analysis of the economic       benefits of public investment in childcare to present to the first       minister.
In the UK, the Labour Party       has adopted this position and the shadow Financial Secretary proposed an       amendment to the       Infrastructure (Financial Assistance) Bill to include childcare under its       provisions:       (http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201213/cmhansrd/cm121015/debtext/121015-0002.htm#12101531000001).
The Women's Budget Group (WBG), a civil society think tank that       Himmelweit initially chaired and       whose Policy Advisory Group she now co-ordinates, regularly assesses the       gender impact of UK       budgets and spending reviews.
WBG reports (http://www.wbg.org.uk/RRB_Reports.htm)       have       been widely cited as evidence of the adverse impact of the UK coalition's       government's austerity       measures on women, thought to be responsible for a divergence in women's       and men's voting       intentions.
OU researchers (De Henau, Himmelweit and Santos) are leading       contributors to these       reports.
In the UK, the Equality Act (2010 amended 2011) now requires public       sector bodies to pay       attention to the gender impact of their activities.
By demonstrating       weaknesses in the Treasury's       own GIA, OU researchers provided evidence for legal challenges (by the       Fawcett Society) and       investigations (by the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC)) into       whether the Treasury       had fulfilled its duties under the Acts.
During the Fawcett case, the       Treasury conceded that they       had looked at the gender impact of only two of over 100 budget measures,       expressed regret at not       having met the requirements of the Gender Equality Duty, and pledged to       take a different approach       in future.
While this case was pending, Himmelweit, along with representatives of       other `protected groups',       was invited by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to discuss how he could       ensure that the Equality       Act was adhered to in the forthcoming spending review.
Nevertheless, after       that spending review,       the EHRC did decide to conduct a formal assessment of whether the Treasury       had met its       obligations under the Act.
Himmelweit, through the WBG, was again asked to       provide evidence,       and was invited to a seminar to consider whether HM Treasury could have       extended their       distributional analysis in order to consider equality impacts.
The       Commission made various       recommendations to assure better future compliance and practice       (http://www.equalityhumanrights.com/uploaded_files/Inquiries/s31_final.pdf)       including two that       picked up directly on WBG practices, and invited Himmelweit to be a member       of its expert advisory       group, working with HM Treasury to implement these recommendations.
Himmelweit was invited, with Fran Bennett (Oxford University), to give a       seminar at the       Department for Work and Pensions to civil servants working on the Welfare       Reform Bill, for which       they drew on the results of their joint GeNet research.
These results also       informed presentations       they made to peers as the Bill went through the House of Lords, advice       given to individual peers,       and briefing notes they provided on gender impact as particular amendments       were discussed       (http://wbg.org.uk/RRB_Briefings.htm).
The work of the WBG on these issues was cited several       times in debates in parliament, and some speakers quoted almost verbatim       from these briefing       notes (see e.g.
http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld201011/ldhansrd/text/111123-gc0001.htm#11112397000150).
For       example, so as to prevent reinforcing a male breadwinner       model, Amendment 52 C provided for second earners to have an individual       earnings disregard.
Himmelweit used both GeNet and GenIX research findings in the presentation       she gave to an all-party       seminar and in the briefing notes she wrote on second earner issues for       peers       (http://wbg.org.uk/pdfs/Notes-on-second-earners_-final.pdf).
Many of those who spoke in favour of       the amendment had attended that seminar and Lady Howe, a cross-bencher and       previous chair of       the EOC, decided to support and speak to the amendment only after       receiving these briefing notes.
Baroness Lister, who moved the amendment, had asked Himmelweit to brief       her on the issues and       to comment on a draft of her speech.
In it she said `... this is one of       the most important issues in       the Bill that affect women.
I am grateful to members of the [WBG], of       which I am a member, for       helping me to think through some of these issues.'
She later withdrew the       amendment after the       minister responsible (Lord Freud) promised to revisit the issue and       summing up said `...
I now take       it as the official departmental view that it will, in the fullness of       time, consider improving incentives       for second earners, either through a second disregard or through the       taper, as and when resources       permit.'
(Hansard, House of Lords, Grand Committee, Thursday, 3 November       2011       http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld201011/ldhansrd/text/111103-gc0001.htm#11110382000131).
Lord       Freud, giving evidence to the Work and Pensions Select       Committee on 10 July 2013, confirmed that a second earner disregard was       one of the first potential       alterations that he was planning to assess by a randomised control trial.
