     MusicJacket     Music teaching practitioners used the MusicJacket to improve their         practice, with consequent benefits to individuals.
During 2010 the       MusicJacket system was used over a period of two months in violin lessons       with a group of 10 children ranging in age from 6 to 14 years.
Three years       later, the impact of the technology was still felt, as explained by one       teacher: `This system was very successful for this student and altered her       bowing patterns consistently and accurately.
... the MusicJacket had       therefore been responsible for a permanent change in the student's bowing       technique.'
[5.1]     The MusicJacket research also impacted on teaching practice at       professional and Masters level.
In March 2011 the Utrecht Music       Conservatorium invited van der Linden to take part in a continuing       professional development course for violin teachers and to run a class       with Masters students in Music.
The introduction of the MusicJacket to a       class of Master students gave the lecturer a technological tool to help       stimulate reflection and debate about their styles of practising.
The       lecturer commented: `Seeing the external technology needed to chart a       playing technique made the students value and understand their own       internal workings.
They understood better that it is not just doing but       witnessing the playing that makes for accuracy.
This required them to       think about how their goal-oriented practising might be clouding their       feedback mechanisms, preventing true advancement in study.'
[5.2]     The system also created public interest in science and engineering       approaches to creative areas and was shown on national television in the       BBC series for young people, Bang Goes The Theory [5.3].
Haptic Bracelets     Haptic Bracelets made an impact on health, where they demonstrated         they can alleviate problems with gait following a hemiparetic stroke.
Stroke survivor JB commented on the effect of the Haptic Bracelets on her       walking: `it makes you stand up straighter ...
When I stand up straight my       hips move better and I walk more smoothly and it's easier.
...
This helps       me to walk in time.
It's just sort of having an even pace ... which helps       me stand up straight and walk properly.'
[5.4]     Awareness of the Haptic Bracelets as a new approach to gait       rehabilitation has been spread through participative demonstrations with       the professional Association of Chartered Physiotherapists with Interests       in Neurology (ACPIN), which were attended by around 50 NHS       physiotherapists [5.5].
A hands-on workshop for NHS physiotherapists at Wye Valley NHS Trust was       held at the invitation of the Stroke Research Facilitator [5.6].
This       workshop examined the role of the Haptic Bracelets in gait rehabilitation       for stroke, Parkinsons and related conditions.
Haptic Lotus 	A theatre event featuring the Haptic Lotus         stimulated public interest and engagement in new technologically         mediated approaches to accessibility for the arts.
We provided the       opportunity for some 150 participants to gain hands-on experience with the       Haptic Lotus, during performances in Battersea Arts Centre in June 2010       [5.7].
The audience involved both blind and sighted people from a wide       range of backgrounds and professions: accessibility, gallery and heritage       professionals, artists, technology innovators, scientists and teachers.
This stimulated informed public discourse through reports in       national newspapers and popular magazines.
Guardian journalist       Naomi Alderman, in her column on technologies and gaming, describes the       event as `my standout theatre experience of the year' [5.8].
The Haptic Lotus was also discussed in Wired (the magazine for       future science, culture and technologies), reviewed in Switched       and featured in Philosophy Now, where it sparked a discussion on       how philosophers from Locke to Schopenhauer, Wittgenstein, Magee and       Milligan, had approached the issue of different kinds of knowledge,       distinguishing between the simple ideas of our senses and the complex       ideas of reflection [5.7].
This work also had impacts on awareness, attitudes and understanding.
In       2012 during the planning of a new interactive Information Age gallery, an       Accessibility Advisor to national museums, including the London Science       Museum said: `awareness of this project, and other examples of innovative       practice, has encouraged the museum to widen its approach to multi-       sensory access.
These projects have definitely inspired us to think more       creatively about solutions to overcome sensory barriers and to explore       more diverse approaches to interpretation' [5.9].
Other impacts on society, culture and creativity 	Public         interest and engagement in scientific and engineering approaches to       technologically enhanced senses have been stimulated by the demonstration       of our research to diverse audiences in informal settings.
For example,       during the Brighton Science Festival (21 February 2009) and at the London       Museum for Science (23 June 2009), primary school age children interacted       playfully with each other wearing the minimal TVSS system, thus getting       direct experience of, and engagement with, sensory substitution [5.10].
