     The CEI research impact on the space sector of e2v imaging business takes       a number of forms ranging from modifications to fundamental understanding,       and may directly impact the work or instrument performance of a space       mission by enhancing performance which enables a telescope to see deeper       into the universe, or to hold a particular performance for longer while       operating in space where radiation damage limits equipment lifetimes.
One of the key impacts of CEI research and training is through support of       the collaborating company, where continued support provides an increase in       UK competitiveness, exports and job protection and job creation.
This is       directly evidenced through the CEI involvement in the BIS Regional Growth       Fund grant to a value of &#163;3.8m, where around 100 new jobs in the       high-performance space sector will be created.
The e2v CEO Keith Attwood       was recently quoted in the CBI magazine saying:     `By rethinking how it can get more out of its technology across the       business &#8212; and working with the University of Nottingham and The Open       University &#8212; e2v has expanded the size of its potential markets from &#163;2bn       to &#163;3.5bn a year.'
An example of impact arising from the activity of the CEI in space       instrumentation is in ESA's Euclid project, where the work of the group       has led to changes in the electronics which drive the image sensors to       achieve up to a factor 2 times improvement in radiation hardness (and       hence making the instrument able to meet its performance specification       while in orbit in space, which otherwise would have suffered a degradation       beyond the scientific performance requirements).
This work has primarily       occurred during 2011-2013.
A second example of impact is the CEI space-science research programme       which has created a tangible benefit to e2v is in the development of CMOS       image sensors (CIS) for space applications, in collaboration with e2v.
As       a result of over six years of background research being conducted through       two consecutively sponsored PhD students, in 2013 CEI were awarded a       co-investigator role funded by the UK Space Agency to work with e2v to       develop and supply a new type of CMOS image sensor into the visible camera       consortium of ESA's JUICE mission, destined for Jupiter with launch 2022.
This grant from UKSA will provide a &#163;1m contract to e2v for the sensor       supply, which we will then pass on to our collaborators in DLR-Germany.
Besides being a large industrial procurement contract, it will represent       one of the first high profile space missions to adopt this new technology,       which has been under development within e2v for eight years, and will act       to showcase the technology and its improvements over older technology, and       will lead to further overseas sales into the other space agencies around       the world.
A third example is work on the Gaia mission resulting in a 2013 Sir       Arthur Clarke Award for Space Achievement &#8212; Industry/Project Team, awarded       to e2v, for work on Gaia and other missions, where the OU CEI is working       as part of the High Performance Imaging Team at e2v.
Finally, CEI is undertaking more basic R&amp;D into CIS which will yield       benefits further downstream.
As a direct result of CEI underlying R&amp;D,       in 2013 e2v has already submitted an initial Patent Application to support       our development of thicker detectors which will improve sensitivity at       wavelengths in the IR and X-ray ranges.
This patent will be used as part       of e2v's Patent Box to protect its business interests, improve       competitiveness, and win more contracts in these areas.
A separate but key form of CEI impact has been PhD and CPD-level       professional training that resulted in nine industrially-sponsored CASE       students achieving PhDs since 2008, with all of them going on to full-time       employment in science research and high-technology companies, with a       further three students due to complete in the coming year, and a further       six being trained mid-PhD.
In the last 12 months CEI has also trained 13       external professionals at a `CCD Basics Workshop', a three-day on-site       residential training course, where organisations such as ESA and SSTL       (Astrium) consider the course as an option for their engineers' personal       career development.
In summary, the work with the CEI industrial sponsor, e2v, has many       spillover benefits to UK industry which helps competitiveness, winning new       contracts, and training scientists and engineers and thus secure jobs       within the UK economy.
These additional benefits might arise for example       through recommendation of a minor process modification during manufacture,       or through achieving a deeper understanding of the processes at work in       the sensors, which may then be communicated to potential customers,       helping secure future contracts.
