     The Open University co-produced Frozen Planet &#8212; a seven-hour BBC One       television series that       was the highest rating natural history series in the UK since 2001.
It was       scientifically coherent       and was the first prime-time BBC natural history programme to devote an       entire hour to how the       poles are changing through climate change.
It carried a high profile       environmental science       message, and the public, society at large, the media and the UK government       benefited from the       impact through timely accurate presentation of polar science.
As a co-producer, The Open University was intimately involved in the       production of Frozen       Planet and our input throughout the REF period shaped the science       portrayed, subjects to be       filmed, and the scripts.
Brandon's research expertise became a key       underpinning element and it       raised areas of polar-related science previously unknown in the public       sphere.
These included       physical science based on his own research and leadership, and animal       behaviour through his       cross-disciplinary collaborative publications.
The first five episodes were devoted to the environment and animals,       building on Brandon's       basic research and expertise.
The sixth episode portrayed the place of       people in the polar       regions and showed the place of scientists at both poles.
Episode 7 was       crucial and was called       `Thin Ice`.
`Thin Ice' was devoted to the science of how the poles are changing.
It       was a tour of the best       evidence we have for why and how the polar regions are changing, and the       potential impact on       the rest of the planet.
Clearly, the science behind the episode and the       narration by Sir David       Attenborough were to be profoundly important.
Relating to our published       research, the science       issues portrayed included, for example, krill stocks in the southern       ocean, the fate of the       Antarctic ice sheet and the state of the Arctic sea ice cover.
Where the       science did not directly       link to our research publications, such on the melting of the Greenland       ice sheet, we determined       the importance and the narration.
In The Open University we used our experience of communicating climate       science to the public       and were prepared for the inevitable debate.
This in fact started more       than six months before       the first broadcast, when the House of Lords Communications Committee       questioned Sir David       Attenborough.
Baroness Fookes directly asked:     "Sir David, we have heard a report, which may or may not be true, that at       the end of your latest       series `Frozen Planet' there is a big statement by you on environmental       issues, which could be       regarded as controversial... Can we ask if it's true or not?"
Sir David responded that he was the narrator of the series and he was       sure it was solid science.
Just before `Thin Ice' was broadcast it was attacked in print by Lord       Lawson and others in the       Daily Telegraph and other publications for being a biased exaggeration.
Brandon led media       discussion pointing to both his and the communities' research which       supported the science       portrayed.
Part of our relationship with the BBC is educational and at the end of       several Frozen Planet       episodes David Attenborough advertised a free double-sided A0 map of the       polar regions with       the Arctic on one side and the Antarctic on the other.
Brandon prepared       this in collaboration with       the British Antarctic Survey, and around the map edges were several       thousand words of       research-level information and scientific images of the poles.
The Open       University sent out       263,000 of these maps on request to the general public, raising the       profile of polar research.
The series was watched by an average of 10.8 million people per episode       with a further 12       million views on the BBC iPlayer.
In the United States the average per       episode was over 20       million.
This made it the highest rating natural history series in the UK       since 2001 and the       largest environmental science message in the UK of 2011.
The impact       extended into       government policy and influenced the passage of the Antarctic Bill into UK       law in 2012-13.
Subsequently, over 2500 people paid to take an Open University short       course called Frozen       Planet, consisting of a 260-page book and various online film and       activities based on the filmed       material and the science behind it.
Brandon also prepared a wide variety       of extremely popular       open educational resources with tens of thousands of downloads.
His work       on and around the       series led to him being awarded the Times Higher Education `Most       Innovative Teacher of the       Year, 2012'.
