     The pursuit of pure ecological research into the functioning of       hydrological niches has not only       advanced ecological theory, but has provided practical benefits to       society.
It has enabled the       impacts of water abstraction on sites of conservation interest to be       objectively assessed, water       management of nature conservation sites to be based on scientific       knowledge, and both the       practitioner community and interested members of the public to understand       how climate drives the       species composition of wet meadows.
The need to designate and manage the few surviving remnants of       species-rich wet grassland in       England was recognised in 1973.
Numerous sites were subsequently       designated and managed for       their nature conservation importance.
Initially, presumably because they       were labelled `wet       grasslands', their managers strove to retain water on them by building       bunds and blocking ditches.
This mindset was reflected in the management prescriptions of       agri-environment schemes in which       landowners were paid to raise water levels.
Against this background, our       research showed       unexpected results (e.g.
Gowing et al., 2002).
The evidence was that       species richness in these       systems was greatest where drainage was at its most efficient.
Further       research confirmed these       findings (e.g.
Gowing et al., 2005) and allowed specific advice to be       produced for people wishing to       conserve particular features of nature conservation interest.
Specifically, the pattern of water       availability over the year could be prescribed to favour a particular       species or community of       interest.
Often this practice involved holding water tables as high as       possible during summer, but       low enough to drain excess water in winter and spring.
The research team at The Open University regularly advised organisations       such as the       Environment Agency (EA) and Natural England (NE) on a site-by-site basis       during the period       2000-05 (e.g.
outputs 5 and 8 below.)
During this period the EA identified       the need for general       guidance to all managers of wet grassland of conservation interest.
It       formally commissioned a       publication entitled `Ecohydrological guidelines for lowland wetland plant       communities' in 2004 and       approached The Open University to write the lead section on grasslands.
The effect on the ground       of this work was to alter the mindset of managers to the extent that where       they had previously built       bunds and blocked ditches on sites of nature conservation importance, they       were now removing       bunds and clearing ditches to safeguard the biodiversity of their sites       (e.g.
culverting and bund       removal works at North Meadow Special Area for Conservation (SAC),       Cricklade, Wilts.).
The       guidelines have become a standard reference work for wetland managers and       the EA paid for       them to be updated in 2010.
Another route to impact was advice given to the EA on the appropriate       assessments it needed to       undertake on sites designated as SACs under the European Habitats       Directive.
Floodplain       Meadows were designated under this directive and The Open University team       produced a series of       reports (e.g.
outputs 4 and 7) to identify the risks posed to these sites       from external influences.
The       EA recognised that many of its Area Offices were commissioning similar       advice and therefore       suggested The Open University host a national project in partnership with       a range of relevant       organisations to coordinate the monitoring, analysis and communication of       information relating to       floodplain meadows.
The Floodplain Meadow Partnership was therefore set up       in 2007 and since       then has proactively interacted with practitioners to implement the new       understanding arising from       our group's research.
Since 2007, The Open University has worked in partnership with seven       other organisations (see       list of contacts below for details), all of which are involved in the       conservation of this threatened       habitat.
The partnership, hosted by The Open University, and funded by       environmental charities,       seeks to support practitioners within the member organisations and beyond       via an interactive       website, regular newsletters, workshops, field visits, guided walks,       public lectures and a       conference.
The workshops are aimed at site mangers, who are taught       practical skills allowing       them to assess their own sites and amend their management to enhance       biodiversity.
Over 100       managers have been trained in this way, representing the majority of       people managing designated       sites in this category.
Since 2008, the research team has visited 93 sites across England and       Wales both to gather data       and to provide advice.
Many of these have had their management altered in       response to the       evidence provided by the earlier research, including all five of the sites       designated as being of       international importance under the Habitats Directive.
In seven cases       drainage channels were       reinstated to facilitate removal of flood waters, which avoided species       loss through episodes of       anoxia.
The Partnership is the first point of contact for people with       questions about the       management of floodplain meadows; we have over 650 people requesting our       newsletter, have       had over 2500 unique visitors to the interactive website and have reached       over 8000 people at       face-to-face events over the past six years.
Feedback received from       participants describes how       they have altered practices, such as cutting dates, following their       interaction with the University       research.
