     Professor Rymer's group is developing the new area of environmental       volcanology as citizen science, using a wide range of established and       emergent geophysical, geochemical and bioassay tools to investigate the       impact of chronic (background, persistent) volcanic activity on the local       environment.
A critical feature of the group is that it is part of an       international network of collaborators working closely with local       communities, government-run volcano observatories and universities in       several countries.
Citizen scientists volunteering to undertake       measurements on volcanoes represent a major theme common to many of the       studies.
Earthwatch is the charity that has collaborated with the OU on many of       the recent citizen science expeditions.
It offers untrained members of the       public the opportunity to work in peer-reviewed research projects and has       found that many returning citizens express very clear enthusiasm and       report positive experiences.
Nigel Winser, Executive Vice President       (Observations) of the charity, commented:     `Your work over many years with these individuals fulfils Earthwatch's       mission to engage people worldwide in scientific field research and       education to promote the understanding and action necessary for a       sustainable environment...
These volunteers return and engage their wider       communities &#8212; in schools, in business, with other academics and in the       home &#8212; with their own outreach activities.'
The following are examples of the substantial impact this approach is       having on the volunteers, policymakers and the local communities       surrounding the persistently active volcanoes in Iceland and South       America.
Citizen scientist observations at Askja volcano in Iceland suggest that       magma has been accumulating beneath the caldera since 2007 and colleagues       at the Nordic Volcanological Institute increased their surveillance of the       area during the summer field seasons of 2009 onwards.
The Open University       team has collaborated with local volcano scientists in this area over       several decades, and worked together with citizen scientists over much of       that period.
Professor Gu&#240;mundsson, Professor of Geophysics and       Head of the Faculty of Earth Sciences, Reykav&#237;k, comments:     `The decades-long collaboration with the volunteer Earthwatch teams has       been particularly valuable, since their contribution has led to fieldwork       campaigns that is difficult to see how could have been carried out in any       other way.
Here are two important aspects that need to be considered.
Firstly, the volunteer participation brings resources into research that       would otherwise not be available.
Secondly, the vast majority of all the       volunteers that have participated in your Earthwatch projects act as       proponents of science within the general public.'
More recently, the group's work at Po&#225;s volcano, Costa Rica, involved       citizen scientists in predicting increased local environmental damage from       2009 and helped to inform the volcano observatory staff and National Park       officials who restricted access by the public to the crater area during       the degassing crisis of 2009-10, reducing the risk of injury.
To mitigate       against such hazards, operational guidelines for monitoring and responding       to changes in volcanic degassing were put in place in Costa Rica and       Nicaragua in 2009.
These will be essential for establishing short-term       responses to gas-related health emergencies, as well as medium-term land       management policies to reduce the effect of degassing on human and       agricultural activity.
Both are of direct economic benefit to vulnerable       communities.
The Open University group and several cohorts of citizen scientists have       worked closely with the Nicaraguan government body tasked with volcano and       environmental monitoring, and share all of the research results with them.
Educational material has been provided from this project to the National       Park Office and is now used in its visitor centre to inform the public       about volcanic risk and environmental impact.
In the past year work has       begun with local farmers to study water quality with a view to advising on       safety for agriculture.
This has educated and trained the wardens within       the National Park, who are now able to identify species of flora and fauna       that can be used to monitor poisonous gas levels, and has allowed them to       develop a more systematic recording of volcanic activity.
More generally, several volcano observatories have benefited from this       research and the approach of using citizen scientists to both acquire data       and help integrate and involve local communities.
Several observatories       and civil defence organisations and geological surveys have requested       collaboration and advice.
Training has also been requested and given to       students from other higher education institutions (from the UK and       elsewhere).
