     The following are a series of examples of the way in which the research       of Frederickson and the Open University group has helped the UK Government       and waste management industry reduce the quantity of organic waste going       to landfill sites.
The EU Landfill Directive (31/1999/EC) sets tough       targets for reducing the amount of biodegradable municipal waste (BMW)       sent to landfill: for the UK these are to reduce to 75% of 1995 BMW level       by 2010, 50% by 2013 and 35% by 2020.
In 2004 these targets were embodied       within the Landfill Allowance and Trading Schemes (LATS and LAS)       administered by the Environment Agency.
Waste Disposal Authorities       investigated sustainable waste management technologies such as composting       of source-segregated BMW and the use of mechanical biological treatment       (MBT) to pre-treat residual BMW to reduce landfilling of BMW.
In 1995 Jim Frederickson co-founded the Composting Association which is       now the Organics Recycling Group (ORG) at the Renewable Energy       Association.
In 2005 and 2009 he was invited to join the BSI committees       which developed and then updated the first UK specification for waste-       derived compost (BSI PAS100) and in 2005 The Open University developed a       new PAS100 compost bioassay test and updated this in 2010.
Frederickson       was appointed to the Technical Advisory Committee overseeing the UK       Compost Quality Protocol (2007 to present); this is the Quality Assurance       scheme for waste-derived compost products.
Jeremy Jacobs, Technical       Director of the ORG, comments: `Jim's extensive contribution to promoting       and developing standards in the waste industry has made a significant       impact on waste policy, resulted in improved environmental protection and       has undoubtedly benefited the natural environment enormously.'
According       to the WRAP survey of the UK organics recycling industry (WRAP, 2013), the       UK composted almost 6 million tonnes of BMW in 2012 compared with just       150,000 tonnes in 1995.
The use of mechanical and biological treatment (MBT) to pre-treat       residual BMW prior to landfill is a new technology to the UK.
The       Environment Agency working with industry developed an evaluation scheme       for quantifying decreases in BMW landfilled due to MBT.
The Open       University was part of the Environment Agency team (with WRc PLC) that       developed the core test methods (DR4 and BM100) and protocols for this;       these were embodied in the Agency's 2005 and 2009 guidance for the       statutory evaluation of MBT plants (`Guidance on monitoring of MBT and       other treatment processes for the landfill allowances schemes (LATS and       LAS) for England and Wales').
Kathryn Nicholls (Senior Technical Advisor       waste recovery (Biowaste) at the Environment Agency comments: `By       developing the DR4 and BM100 biodegradability tests and by contributing to       the overall MBT evaluation methodology, The Open University has made a       significant impact on reducing environmental risk (e.g.
through leachate       pollution and greenhouse gas emissions) of landfilling residual household       waste.'
Approximately 2.5 million tonnes of residual waste was treated by MBT at       30 sites in the UK in 2012 (WRAP, 2013).
In 2009, The Open University       entered into an ongoing research partnership agreement with AmeyCespa Ltd       to assist them in the evaluation and optimisation of the Cambridge MBT       facility.
Open University research findings included exceptional       reductions in potential landfill methane emissions (&gt;90%) from treating       BMW.
Jonathan Jones (Principal Operations Manager) comments: `This Open       University research has been immensely valuable to AmeyCespa Ltd and has       contributed much to our understanding of the biological treatment process       and how best to optimise plant operations and minimise environmental       impacts.'
Further evidence of the key role played by The Open University group in       supporting government initiatives is in the development of test methods       and specifications for anaerobic digestion (AD).
Jim Frederickson was       appointed to the British Standards Institute PAS110 committee in 2008       (PAS110 is the UK specification for application of digestates to land).
The Open University was commissioned by WRAP to develop the Residual       Biogas Potential (RBP) digestate stability test for inclusion in PAS110:       2010.
The OU undertakes this key RBP test on behalf of the AD sector with       approximately 250 RBP tests having been completed.
PAS110: 2010 underpins       the Biofertiliser Certification Scheme (BCS).
According to http://www.biogas-info.co.uk/,       the AD sector currently comprises 106 AD plants processing approximately 5       million tonnes of waste per year.
There are currently 12 AD plants which       have achieved certification under the BCS       (http://www.biofertiliser.org.uk/).
Dr Nina Sweet OBE (WRAP Anaerobic Digestion Special Adviser) comments:       `In providing a key stability test method (RBP) for digestate in PAS110:       2010 and by contributing to the wider development of the PAS110: 2010       specification, Jim Frederickson and the Open University team have directly       aided the development of the anaerobic digestion sector, which is a       Government priority.'
