     The impact of work by Dr Gauci and the Ecosystems Group has influenced       several groups of       policymakers and users, often by direct interaction and targeted research.
The research of Gauci and the Ecosystems Group demonstrated that acid       rain pollution       suppresses methane emissions from wetlands, and was featured in a US       Environmental Protection       Agency Report to Congress (Methane and Nitrous Oxide Emissions From       Natural Sources.
United       States Environmental Protection Agency Report: Office of Atmospheric       Programs (6207J) EPA       430-R-10-001, Washington, DC 20460 April 2010).
This led Defra to       investigate the potential role       of sulfur pollution in mitigating emissions from restored UK peatlands.
The economic potential of       understanding peatland carbon dynamics and the role of sulfate in       mitigating emissions has been       recognised by the Great Fen Project, which is taking the carbon balance       and offsetting of a great       swathe of the Cambridgeshire Fens into account in its future plans       (http://www.greatfen.org.uk/about/studies).
The work helped the Great Fen Project to recognise       that while its `re-wetting' conservation restoration strategy arrests       carbon loss by reducing carbon       oxidation, the high sulfate concentrations that exist within the fen peats       means that there are likely       to be lower methane emissions than could normally be expected to occur as       a consequence of       elevating the water-table.
The work was influential in planning the       purchase of much of the area for       conservation, in part through marketing the scheme's carbon offsetting       potential and avoid carbon       losses.
Gauci and the Ecosystems Group's work on the fluvial carbon losses of       pristine and degraded       tropical forested peatlands in Borneo feeds directly into the IPCC       (Intergovernmental Panel on       Climate Change) and REDD (UN Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and       Forest Degradation       programme) processes, since they have provided the only currently       available data on dissolved       organic carbon (DOC) exchanges for such ecosystems.
This understanding of       the carbon       dynamics of the ecosystems is essential in subjects covered by protocols       such as REDD, including       carbon offsetting, avoided carbon losses and mitigation of carbon losses,       because dissolved       organic carbon is the single largest carbon fraction lost from these       ecosystems via river drainage.
The Open University-led study was discussed in detail at three IPCC       workshops in Brazil,       Tanzania and Japan and is central for establishing the baseline for       natural DOC losses within the       IPCC Wetlands Supplement and for identifying a scaling factor for DOC       losses from drained       tropical peatlands.
Annette Freibauer (one of the Coordinating Lead       Authors of Chapter 2 `Drained       Inland Organic Soils' of the 2013 Supplement to 2006 IPCC Guidelines for       National Greenhouse       Inventories: Wetlands), points out that the work:     `has been a very important scientific source in the development of       methodologies and       emission factors for DOC for drained and rewetted organic soils.
The paper       has been quoted       in the scientific background text and has been used as one out of four       tropical studies for       DOC losses from natural ecosystems and as one out of two tropical studies       on which the       methodology for anthropogenic DOC losses was based.
As these numbers show,       the       scientific literature on anthropogenic DOC losses in the tropics is very       limited so that this       paper has been of particularly high value for the 2013 IPCC Wetlands       Supplement.'
Given the contribution of DOC to understanding carbon balance within       these ecosystems, the       findings reported by Moore et al.
(2013) will directly feed into future       REDD demonstration       projects that will have both local development and positive climate       benefits.
In the UK, findings of Gauci and The Open University group have helped       shape a Defra-supported       research programme to look at the carbon dynamics response to peatland       restoration       work that has been highlighted in a government Natural Environment White       Paper `Natural       Choice: Securing the value of nature'.
The OU component of the research       was to work on intact       and restored lowland fen sites at Wicken in Cambridgeshire to understand       the exchanges of       greenhouse gases including methane, N2O and CO2.
The       project has been identified in the       White Paper as research that will demonstrate `...how best to manage our       lowland peatlands in       a way that supports efforts to tackle climate change'.
The group's       research into controls on       methane emissions feeds directly into an Open University-led international       research network on       methane (www.methanenet.org), which has hosted a discussion meeting on       methane mitigation       (November 2011) and a session on the same subject at a major international       meeting (Planet       Under Pressure 2012) associated with the UN `Rio+20' meeting.
The meetings       involved       policymakers and Planet Under Pressure 2012 was specifically geared to       communicating       science to policymaking bodies and NGOs.
