     The King James Bible is the founding text of the British Empire       (including breakaway countries       such as the United States), and was carried to every corner of the       English-speaking world by       migrants and missionaries.
It matters now, both as a religious text and as       the finest embodiment of       English prose.
Campbell's research into the KJV has impacted on public       awareness of the cultural       significance of that version of the Bible, and has engaged with issues       concerning Biblical literacy       and the place of the Bible in a society that is at once post-Christian and       multi-faith.
Economic Impact       [text removed for publication] Sales figures of the Bible were boosted by       the decision of the       Secretary of State for Education Michael Gove and the DES to buy a copy of       Campbell's edition for       distribution to every school in England and Wales.
When news of this       decision was leaked to the       press (May 2012), a debate was initiated about whether the distribution of       the KJV was an       embodiment of a nostalgic Tory vision of a Christian England, or an       enlightened move to acquaint       the English with a literary and spiritual resource that lies at the heart       of British history.
Changing Public Perceptions of the Bible in the UK       The wider significance of Campbell's research is indicated through       worldwide media interest and       public lectures (over 60 invitations in 2011-13, all for public       audiences).
Media exposure has       included an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today Programme (6.5 million       listeners, 23 November       2010), a BBC World Service interview (10 million listeners, 31 December       2010), participation as       consultant and contributor to 'The Story of the King James Bible', a       three-part series on Radio 4       hosted by James Naughtie (3.5 million listeners, 3-5 January 2011) and       participation as consultant       and contributor to 'When God Spoke English: the making of the King James       Bible', hosted by       Adam Nicolson broadcast on BBC4 (June 2011) and BBC2 (July 2011).
On BBC       local radio       Campbell gave interviews at 10-minute intervals to 23 BBC local radio       stations (9 January 2011), in       each interview adducing Bible translators associated with the region in       which the station was       broadcasting.
In Leicester Campbell contributed to a three-part `Faith' radio programme       (November 2010); he       also recorded several radio pieces for BBC Ulster (January-February 2011),       which broadcasts to a       constituency in which Christianity has been a divisive force.
Behind the       scenes he gave a talk       (26/1/11) to some 30 faith producers and presenters at the BBC Centre in       Bristol, where they were       encouraged to investigate new areas, notably Black Majority Churches,       where the KJV is often       used.
Ashley Peatfield, the BBC's editor of Religion and Ethics for the       English Regions notes of       Professor Campbell's work with BBC producers and presenters that it was:     instrumental on two levels.
Hearing from a recognised academic expert       allowed our       team to have a full grasp of the subject area and its relevance and       significance [which]       then allowed our presenters to convey that knowledge and understanding to       a wider       audience and to make their questioning and exploration of the subject       matter credible       and meaningful [.
.
.
], bring[ing] audiences to a subject area they might       initially consider       dry or irrelevant.
BBC local radio religious broadcasting reaches 1.5       million people on a       Sunday morning and enjoys the highest share of listening of the week on       BBC local       radio.
This topic was discussed elsewhere on the radio stations too with a       combined       reach of about 8 million people.
The majority of the audience is older and       largely from       social groups who might not regularly access stations like Radio 4 which       would       routinely cover these types of areas.
Indeed, a significant section of the       BBC local radio       audience does not access other BBC content.
So, this was not only helpful       in reaching       a wider audience but in reaching one that might not encounter this subject       area       anywhere else.
Worldwide Impact and Engagement with Difficult-to-reach Groups       This work has achieved audiences world-wide that academics would not       ordinarily reach:       fundamentalists, the religious right in the US (there was even a review in       Glocktalk, a leading on-       line firearms forum), the black community, members of more marginal       Christian groups (Mormons,       Christian Scientists, Jehovah's Witnesses), and new secular constituencies       such as the readers of       GQ Magazine, for which Ed Vaizey (then Minister         for Culture, Communications and Creative Industries)       reviewed the Bible book (February 2011).
The project has also contributed to interdenominational, interfaith, and       intercultural understanding.
This is illustrated by a visit to the Vatican (1 March 2012) to speak at       an exhibition of manuscripts       which led to Pope Benedict XVI asking the church in Cuba to invite both       exhibition and speakers to       the country; and a lecture on the King James Bible at Aligarh Muslim       University in India (5       February 2013).
In the United States, Campbell gave two extended interviews to National       Public Radio: a 30-minute       interview with `the Book Show' on WAMC Northeast Public Radio was       broadcast in February 2011       on more than 100 stations in the region, and material from another       interview was used extensively       on a programme that was broadcast nationally to some 900 stations which       have a total listenership       of 26 million.
On Christian radio, Campbell gave interviews to Transworld       Radio (January 2011)       and the TruNews Christian Radio Network (2 November 2010).
One reason for       this attention is       that, in the words of the TLS reviewer, 'Campbell has the edge ... in his       account of the reception       history of the KJV in the United States' (9 February 2011).
This exposure in the US has led to an invitation for Campbell to act as       senior scholar (together with       Alistair McGrath of KCL) on a project mounted by the Green Scholars       Initiative that aims to explore       the sources for the KJV and the most important revisions made until the       modern text was       established by OUP in 1769, work that will feed into the establishment of       the Museum of the Bible       near the National Mall in Washington DC in 2016.
As a direct result of his       research, Professor       Campbell has been appointed to the planning committee of the Museum, and       is charged with       responsibility for the History floor of the Museum, which includes       Biblical archaeology and the       history of the Bible.
As part of his work for the Green Scholars Initiative, Campbell has given       lectures at their travelling       exhibition of Biblical manuscripts and books, two of which lectures are       now available on video.
The       Association for Christian Schools International (ACSI) is using the videos       both for continuing       education for its tens of thousands of teachers at 24,000 schools       globally, and to supplement       course resources.
