     The work of The Open University Planetary and Space Sciences group has       had significant impact through academic-industry partnerships, supporting       UK space sector and government agencies.
Our research can be very applied       in nature, and we "speak the language" of industry and engineers, meaning       we can work well in multidisciplinary and cross-sector teams.
Here we use       a series of case studies to illustrate The Open University contribution to       academic-industry partnerships that have attracted ESA funding, won       contracts to supply ESA, and supported enterprises to move into new areas       of business, all of which help to safeguard jobs in advanced manufacturing       in the UK.
Some of the projects we have undertaken have also influenced       ESA's ability to develop global partnerships.
The first example, the L-VRAP (Lunar Volatile Resources Analysis Package       2011-2012) project within ESA's Lunar Lander programme, initially       attracted &#8364;300k to a consortium led by The Open University (including RAL       Space, EADS Astrium Ltd, Fluid Gravity Engineering (FGE), and the NASA       Astromaterials Research Office, USA).
The L-VRAP project allowed EADS       Astrium, an established prime contractor in space hardware, to be involved       in Lunar Lander design with a view to future opportunities to tender for       contracts with ESA in any eventual mission implementation.
The L-VRAP       study allowed FGE, a UK based scientific consultancy specializing in       computational physics, to apply its expertise in a new area of research,       Jim Merrifield of Fluid Gravity Engineering commented:     `Partnering with The Open University on the L-VRAP project has enabled us       to restart our line of activity in in-space plume modelling which has       allowed us to make a stronger case for proposing repeat business.
Additionally, certain aspects of the plume regolith interaction needed to       support L-VRAP have enabled us to participate in contracted work concerned       with the sub-sonic liberation of dust from solar panels on Mars.
This is a       new area of work for us, both in terms of application and flow regime.'
The L-VRAP project has also had significant impact in the European Space       Agency because of the recent renewed interest in international       partnerships for a lunar lander mission.
Berengere Houdou, Head of the ESA       Lunar Lander Office commented:     `The work of The Open University team led to the design of a package to       analyse complex chemistry and potentially valuable resources on the Moon.
This has provided us with an important input for discussions with       potential international partners, with a view to developing an       international lunar exploration programme.'
The second example, the DUSTER project (2012-2013), is led by the UK       based space engineering consultancy Magna Parva, with partners FGE and       makes use of a key piece of Open University knowhow, chemical pumping.
The       initial work has attracted over &#8364;450k to UK industry and placed them in an       excellent position to win the contract to build devices to extend the       lifetime of future martian explorers built by ESA.
Miles Ashcroft of Magna       Parva commented:     `The successful contract win with ESA to perform the DUSTER project was       heavily influenced by the ability of MPL to be able to partner with Fluid       Gravity Engineering and The Open University.
In particular the benefit of       utilizing existent practical research and a knowledge base in the       applicable field.
Additionally it is expected that this will provide       on-going benefits as the developed technology is pulled through into       flight applications.'
In our third example, The Open University partnered with SEA (Systems       Engineering and Assessment), in 4 ESA studies (2006-2009) to help       implement planetary protection strategies for Mars missions.
The work was       led by SEA, and the partnership with the OU allowed them to move into a       new area of business, training scientists and engineers in European       industry and research organisations in building microbially clean       spacecraft.
The training materials developed by The Open University were       delivered to Thales Alenia Space (Italy &#8212; prime contractor for ExoMars)       who have delivered training to over 600 people working on ESA space       mission programmes in 6 countries across Europe.
Subsequently, SEA won       contracts from ESA to undertake work on precision cleaning for returned       Mars sample curation.
This work is of strategic importance to the UK,       since it is prioritising sample curation in the post-ExoMars       programme.
Finally, the impact of the Planetary and Space science group capability       extends to several international partners.
One such example is CSEM, a       Swiss manufacturer of MEMS (microelectromechanical systems) for clocks and       watches, for whom a &#8364;400k ESA project with The Open University enabled a       move into the manufacture of MEMS-based miniature gas chromatograph-mass       spectrometry equipment for space missions and other applications.
