     Furneaux's research on Charles Dickens has reshaped perceptions of the       author and his age for modern audiences in a period of burgeoning interest       in the nineteenth century and its legacy.
Her work has specific impacts       upon the public perception of Dickens and the Victorian period, and wider       impacts for the ways we think about reading, and approach and experience,       queer lives.
The reach of this research is evidenced in Furneaux's       resulting work as consultant (for BBC2, the Dickens 2012 steering group,       the Charles Dickens Museum, and CityRead), a series of popular public       events, and a schools' project and learning resource.
Rethinking Victorian Sexuality, Gender and Domesticity     A THE review recognised the wider impact of Queer Dickens       for modern experiences of sexuality, in `mak[ing] a political intervention       into the way we live now' and in providing `an alternative, optimistic       line of genealogy for queer parents and children' (June 2010).
It has       contributed to re- thinking concepts of the normative and has provided,       according to the TLS, `a demonstration of how things can be done       differently' (August 2010).
Queer Dickens received international media coverage (e.g.
Telegraph,       The Times in India, THE) and has been widely discussed on       discussion boards and blogs.
It has generated a turnover of &#163;25,000 for       OUP, and has been central to a number of public events.
In summer 2012,       Furneaux was part of a lively public discussion of the book in panel on       the book at the Dickens Universe, California &#8212; the leading international       group on Dickens, and one that encompasses Dickens enthusiasts, high       school teachers and academics.
In October 2010 she received a Writers and       Critics award from Drake University, Iowa, where Queer Dickens is a set       text, and was invited to give a public lecture and produce online material       for a wider audience.
Furneaux has also given a range of talks for       historical and literary societies and at events to mark Gay and Lesbian       History month.
Furneaux's edition of Forster's Life of Dickens has also reached       a wide audience.
It was a top- selling title internationally for Sterling       in 2012 (10,000 copies, with a turnover of &#163;300,000), and was recommended       in The Times' and Independent'`Best Books on Dickens'       lists.
The project also promotes and had a financial impact for the CDM,       with whom Furneaux worked to select illustrations, generating &#163;18,000 in       copyright fees, a significant sum for a small museum.
Queer Dickens for New Audiences     Furneaux has engaged with large, varied audiences on the history of       sexuality, gender, and ideas of family.
She acted as an advisor, promoting       a more complex view of Dickens's treatment of women, for BBC2's `Mrs       Dickens's Christmas Dinner', presented by Sue Perkins (December 2011).
The       challenging of preconceptions of Dickens's work continued in CityRead 2012       (focussed on Oliver Twist, for which Furneaux ran a FaceBook reading       group, accessed by over 12,000 readers www.facebook.com/cityreadlondon).
Discussion topics included Dickens's treatment of adoptive parenting with       many readers commenting on how their perceptions of Dickens had been       changed by the reading group.
One blogger said `As Dr Holly Furneaux points out [.
.
.]
most       contemporary adaptations, including the famous musical, turn Brownlow into       Oliver's grandfather.
This gives the story a conventional twist that puts       Oliver back with his blood relations.
It seems in the 20th and       21st century, we have not let go of Victorian ideals of what       the family should be [.
.
.]
Mr Brownlow truly loves Oliver as his son and       this makes him the perfect father regardless of biology or society.
An       idea that even in 2012 is radical and challenging'.
Furneaux developed this work, together with Nicky Gale, the Head of       English at Limehurst High School, Loughborough, for year 7 classes, using       Dickens's writing to think through different ideas of parenting and home.
Gale reported that the project had effectively engaged students both in       reading more Dickens and in rethinking ideas of normative homes and       families.
Furneaux has published the resource in the leading journal for       secondary English teachers (6, above).
Pupil learning summaries included:       `CD is an amazing author and there's more than one way of doing a family       tree", "everyone has a different idea of home", "family is more than just       blood and it's more than what I thought it was'.
Shaping the Bicentenary Celebrations, and the Future of the Charles           Dickens Museum 		  Furneaux was on the central committee for       events to mark Dickens's bi-centenary in 2012, and, together with CDM and       other partners she organised the international travelling conference `A       Tale of Four Cities', leading the closing event at the Museum of London       (200 participants).
This event was the CDM's first conference, and since       its success the Museum has incorporated joint public/academic conferences       into their programme.
Museum Director, Dr Florian Schweizer, has commented       that the CDA, and bi-centenary conference, have given the museum a more       active role in scholarly work, and have demonstrated the benefits of       bringing different Dickens constituencies together.
He adds: `Dr       Furneaux's academic and audience engagement work was one of the most       significant components of the Dickens 2012 bicentennial celebrations in       the United Kingdom.
Her engaging, diverse and creative activities were a       major achievement in the commemoration of Dickens, and she has created       exemplary models for forging partnership between academic and non-academic       organisations.
The objectives and targets set by Dr Furneaux were met       through all of her activities, and it is no exaggeration to say that she       has, through her untiring efforts, reshaped the way in which many people       in the United Kingdom can appreciate, engage in and enjoy Dickens's works       and heritage.'
Furneaux's commitment to extending the reach of Dickens for modern       readers beyond the academy also saw her help to establish the `Friends' of       the CDM in 2005, which now has over 500 members and has generated       significant revenue for the Museum.
Together with Malcolmson, she has       organised public events for the Friends and has been involved in planning       and delivering the Museum's reopening, after its Heritage Lottery Fund       redevelopment.
Furneaux successfully applied for AHRC cultural engagement funding       (&#163;20,000) to help the museum reach new audiences in 2013.
Furneaux       continues (since 2006) to be lead organiser of Dickens Day, the annual UK       meeting of Dickens academics and enthusiasts, which has audiences of over       150.
Through these on-going activities, initiatives arising from       Malcolmson's and Furneaux's research will continue to have long term       impacts for the CDM, and the broader Dickens community.
