     Stannard's work on Spark has raised her cultural prominence within a       broad range of contexts, has       generated new editions and adaptations, and has contributed significantly       to ongoing debates on       the ethics of the ever-popular genre of the literary biography.
Reach       The first authoritative account of Spark's life and work, the book has had       an extended reach       through its serialisation in the Guardian and its selection as BBC       Radio 4's `Book of the Week'       (2009, aired for a week twice daily).
Radio 4 achieves listener figures of       1.2 million (BBC figures),       and The Guardian had a circulation in 2009 in excess of 300,000.
Stannard's was the lead       interview on Mark Lawson's Radio 4 `Front Row' (27 July, 2009).
After the       Lawson interview,       Stannard published `Meeting Muriel Spark' in the Sunday Times;       other media interviews and       invitations to major festivals and lectures followed.
Sales and Publications       The hardback book to date has sold 11,000 copies worldwide, the UK       paperback c. 4,000 copies,       + 180 e-books, generating a turnover in the region of &#163;250,000.
The       interest generated by the       biography has fed into the production of a number of new editions of       Spark's work which have       been published since 2009, in particular seven books and audio books from       the Edinburgh       publisher Canongate, Carcanet's new edition of her autobiography Curriculum         Vitae, and       Edinburgh University Press' hardback editions of Spark's novels.
New Audiences       As well as the financial benefit to publishing houses, the media, and the       UK economy, the book       has intellectual impacts spread across a huge range of readers worldwide,       some of whom have       been made aware of Spark for the first time (e.g.
`[A] riveting account,       but more importantly makes       the reader eager to discover her novels, just as a good literary biography       should' - Waterstone's         Books Quarterly, Autumn 2009).
Audience responses have demonstrated that a range of communities has       recognised and become       involved in different aspects of the book, thus extending the pull of       Spark for various audiences:       the Scots, especially those from Edinburgh (her childhood, education and       sense of national       identity); the Jewish community (the dispute with her son over her racial       origins); Catholics (her       conversion and theological interpretations); Americans (her years in New       York and close       association with the New Yorker); Italians (her residence in Rome       and Tuscany); literary historians       (her life on the fringes of literary London during the 1940s and 1950s);       historians (her life in       Southern Rhodesia and her work for Sefton Delmer's black propaganda unit       during the war); and       feminists (the discussion of Spark's early critical and biographical work,       especially on Mary       Shelley).
Reviews reflected the range of ways in which the book has reshaped       engagement with Spark       (`Stannard offers fascinating new information about the abiding importance       of Judaism in Spark's       imaginative life' &#8212; Benjamin Ivry, Forward; `Stannard's deeply       committed, splendidly fashioned, fact       and soul-searching biography is the veritable Book of Revelation' &#8212;       Richard Wittington-Egan,       Contemporary Review; `I was thrilled when this was published,       because I was able to better       understand one of my favourite authors.
It's a terrific mix of fact and       sensational storytelling' Adele       Parks, Red; and `Muriel Spark is among the richest and most       satisfying literary biographies of our       time: not only a portrait of the artist herself but also a rendering of       her literary and social context       and a judicious examination of her works'.
[....Stannard's] critical       attentions do just what a literary       biography should: make the reader hungry to explore her works' &#8212; Frances       Taliaferro, Wall Street         Journal).
One benefit, then, comes through the expansion of public       knowledge of cultural history       across these many interest groups.
Spark and Scottish National Identity       The Scots saw the book as a national `event'.
Two dramatisations of       Spark's work were specially       staged for the launch of the book at the Edinburgh Festival in 2009.
The       Scottish government saw       Spark as an iconic national figure, and the book was helpful to the       Festival in its projection of       Scottish national and cultural identity.
Stannard was one of only two       authors from the Festival       invited to attend the formal Festival reception and to meet the Minister       for Scotland at the Scotland       Office.
Stannard was interviewed at length by BBCTV Scotland (17 August       2009) and The         Scotsman (27 July 2009).
In 2011 Stannard was invited to form a       panel on Spark for the World       Congress of Scottish Literature in Glasgow, 2014.
Ethics and Literary Biography       The book was a news story even before publication due to the difficulties       Stannard had       encountered in trying to negotiate an agreed text with Spark.
Ion Trewin       (`Whose Life Is It       Anyway?'
Independent on Sunday, 20/8/09, 40-41) discussed the       problems of being an authorised       biographer and gave substantial coverage to Muriel Spark.
(See also, Peter       Allen, 'Biography of       Muriel Spark Will Reveal Author's Tortuous Relationships', Daily         Telegraph, 18/7/09).
The book       has become a classic case study in the areas of `publishing ethics,       privacy and copyright'.
Selected Impact Indicators       The range and extent of Stannard's public appearances demonstrate the       widespread public       interest in his work.
He gave sell-out talks and interviews at major       venues, for example, the       Edinburgh International Book Festival (18/8/09), the Cheltenham Literature       Festival (11/10/09) and       the Glasgow Literary Festival (13/3/10).
In addition, there was       considerable internet discussion of       the book by reading groups and bloggers, as well as reviewers and       scholars.
In 2010 Muriel Spark was shortlisted for the James Tait Black       Memorial Prize (biography section).
