     The project has fostered understanding of complex concepts amongst a wide       international public,       helped artists and curators use these ideas in their own practice, and       extended the Tate's display       collection through the restoration of two previously unexhibited       paintings.
Shaping Displays and Impact on Tate Visitors     A collection of thirty-eight historic works from the Tate Collection was       displayed in a free exhibition       `Art and the Sublime: Terror, Torment and Transcendence', from April 2009       to November 2010.
The selection illustrated the changing historical meanings and possible       interpretations of the       concept of the Sublime.
The display included a brochure published by Tate       Publishing (March       2010) and multi-media interpretation in the gallery itself, with wall       texts and audio commentary.
An       accompanying catalogue, drawing substantially on Shaw's work, has sold       over 1,500 copies.
This exhibition was accompanied by a newly commissioned text piece by       Douglas Gordon, `Pretty       much every word written, spoken, heard, overheard from 1989...' in Gallery       9 and the adjoining       Octagon space, 16 February - 23 May 2010.
Tate Britain receives in excess       of 1.5 million visitors       (source: Tate Annual Report) per year.
Feedback on the exhibition (on       independent blogs) shows       that it had encouraged visitors to think anew about their experiences of       the Sublime, to compare       these with the historical examples documented, considering why particular       scenes and places       evoke intense responses, and to re-discover the art of the Sublime: `this       synoptic hang whose sole       common denominator is the sublime as announced by the organizers provides       the chance to       retrieve certain forgotten paintings "previously considered devoid of       interest"'.
Two unexpected outcomes of the project were: the `rediscovery' and       subsequent restoration of the       painting `The Raising of Lazarus' (1822) by B. R. Haydon, which initiated       proposals for a display       and a short documentary film (included on the project website); and a       conservation project       involving the painting `Beyond Man's Footsteps' (1894) by Briton Riviere.
Diana Donald, an       acknowledged expert on nineteenth-century art and culture, wrote an       in-focus text to accompany       the work on the Sublime website, and the painting itself was the subject       of an in-focus display,       curated by Christine Riding, which opened at Tate Britain in May 2011.
New Appreciations of the Sublime, Online     The official project website went live in January 2013.
It includes seven       films commissioned and       produced by the project team in collaboration with Tate Media and Tate       curators: one on the `Art       and the Sublime' display and Douglas Gordon commission, three on       site-specific contemporary art       commissions (Douglas Gordon at Tate Britain, Bill Viola at St Paul's       Cathedral and Mark Wallinger       at the White Horse) and three art and location films (on John       Constable/Salisbury, J M W       Turner/The Highlands, James Ward/Gordale Scar), on which Shaw advised.
See       http://www.tate.org.uk/art/research-publications/the-sublime/films-r1141202.
Qualitative responses from members of the public to the project's       activities are documented in       these short films.
Reactions include an enhanced awareness of the gallery       as a space, an       awareness of nature as something that can overcome human agency, and the       ways in which the       curated paintings combined with the Gordon's installation created a new       sense of paintings'       soundscapes.
Since January 2013 the website has generated 26,000 page       views.
Engaging New Audiences     - The research team staged four Sublime events at `Late at Tate' (the       Gallery's free public       programme, designed to attract new audiences): 'Sublime Environments' in       collaboration with       Cape Farewell (6 February 2009), `Beyond Scale' (2 October 2009), `The       Real Thing' (3       September 2010) and `Sublimity' (3rd December 2010).
These events       attracted over 5,000 visitors.
- Tate Conferences and Seminars: `The Baroque Sublime' (9 May 2008), `The     Sublime in Crisis:     New Perspectives on the Sublime in British Visual Culture, 1760-1900' (14-15     September 2009),     `Modernism and the Sublime: "Wrong from the Start"' (30 November 2009) and     `The Contemporary     Sublime' (20 February 2010).
The average attendance for each of these     events, attended by     curators, artists, post-graduate students, and young museum professionals as     well as academics,     was 140.
Impact on Practitioners     Representative evidence:       Recognising the significance of Shaw's work in mediating the concept of       the Sublime to non-academic       audiences the British artist Simon Morley included an extract from Shaw's       book in his       critical anthology The Sublime (see section 2).
The painter and       photographer John Timberlake       summarises the impact of the project on his creative practice thus:     Professor Phil Shaw's work on the sublime has been of pivotal       significance in the further       development of my own fine art practice and research in the past few       years.
His book The       Sublime published by Routledge was very helpful in my thinking through of       the visual tropes       and representations of the sublime, and thinking through the implications       for landscape art.
The conference `Wrong from the Start' which he organised at Tate Britain       late in 2009, was       immensely helpful in allowing me to begin thinking through those subsumed       elements and       traces of the romantic sublime- whether acknowledged at the time or not &#8212;       that infused       Modernist aesthetics.
The artist Daniel Iles comments: `[the Sublime Object] provided me with       ways into thinking about       my own practice that avoid any sense that mere visual attractiveness is a       relevant critical approach       to it'.
These testimonials demonstrate the project's impact on       practitioners, and the potential of its       temporal reach for future generations of art-lovers and artists alike.
