     Plant Bioscience Ltd, as the Sainsbury Laboratory's technology       transfer company, has secured 13 granted patents (in Belgium, France,       Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland and UK, all as European Patent       EP1232274; US Patent 7,217,854, Canadian Patent 2390152, South African       Patent 20023388, Australian Patent 782788, New Zealand Patent 518,947       Israel Patent 49388, Japanese Patent 4884628, International Patent       Publication No.
WO 01/038512 all entitled "Enhanced Transgene         Expression by Co-Expression with a Suppressor of Post-Transcriptional         Gene Silencing (PTGS)") that include the Sainsbury Laboratory's       discovery and the practical uses of RNAi suppression.
Details of the       Sainsbury Laboratory's patent portfolio covering RNAi and RNAi suppression       can be found on the Plant Bioscience Ltd website (corroborating       sources A and B).
Plant Bioscience Ltd has licensed these patents to a number of       companies either as stand-alone licences or in combination with other       protein expression technologies such as the HT-CPMV expression system.
In       total, Plant Bioscience Ltd has entered into 30 licences for the       suppressor technology with a variety of commercial entities.
The licensing       fee income alone for these is in excess of &#163;0.5 million (corroborating       source C), which reflects the commercial importance that several       established companies and SMEs, including Medicago attach to the       RNAi suppression technology (corroborating sources D-F).
The main commercial impact of the silencing suppressor proteins is in       "Molecular Pharming" applications in which genetically engineered plants       are used as "factories" to produce industrially and medically important       proteins.
In these applications, maximising the protein yield is       paramount, and suppressing gene silencing is therefore an extremely useful       tool.
Plant Bioscience Ltd first licensed the silencing suppressor       IP to Large Scale Biology (which at the time was a leading       Molecular Pharming company) and CropDesign, amongst other       companies (corroborating sources D and E).
Medicago has also been       using the silencing suppressor P19 discovered by Baulcombe and his       colleagues to increase the yield of ectopically expressed proteins about       5-fold in plants.
This company combines RNAi suppression with another,       in-house, technology, involving the use of Virus-Like Particles (VLP), to       produce recombinant vaccine antigens in plants.
As Medicago state       in their letter of support:     ".....the silencing suppressors developed by Prof. Sir David Baulcombe       had a big impact on our activities and are an essential component of our       technology platform to produce our lead influenza vaccines."
(corroborating source G)     We are aware that the VLP-based vaccines that are being produced by Medicago,       using the RNAi suppression technology, have not yet reached the public       market place.
However, they are in an advanced stage of development, and       are in Phase II clinical trials.
Other companies are at a similar stage in       the production of other vaccines using the same technology and the       investment needed to reach even this stage represents a very substantial       commitment, of time, staff and resources.
