     Haslam's research into Ford has contributed to his transformation from       esoteric modernist writer with a small but loyal academic following into       widely acclaimed early twentieth-century novelist.
That Haslam's monograph       makes the case powerfully for Ford's significance as a major modernist       figure is confirmed by Andrzej Gasiorek in his review in Literature         and History, where he describes Haslam's research as `timely and       trenchant', and concludes that her work `convincingly promotes Ford as a       maverick advocate of modernist techniques'.
Through new editions of Ford's       writings, broadcast and print media, and public events, Haslam's research       into Ford has reached increasing audiences.
The discovery of Ford by a new       generation of readers has enriched cultural life and resulted in economic       benefits.
Haslam's research on Ford has had a direct economic impact via increased       sales of new editions of Ford's novels.
This is most clearly demonstrated       in the sales figures for Haslam's Wordsworth Classics edition of The         Good Soldier: On 29 June 2011, Haslam's edition of The Good         Soldier had sold 4,200 copies; in November 2011 the total was 6,000;       and on 8 October, 2012, the total was 12,001.
It was listed at number 4 in       the Wordsworth `Top 10 Bestsellers' list in October 2012, is the first       title listed on the Amazon Ford page, and was ranked at number 1,566 in       the Amazon Bestsellers list in October 2012.
Such sales figures       demonstrate that many of the purchasers enjoying cultural enrichment from       Haslam's edition of Ford's best-known novel have been non-academic       readers.
Complementing Haslam's Wordsworth edition aimed at popular audiences has       been her contribution to cultural life in part-editing the new scholarly       Carcanet editions of Ford's Parade's End.
The cultural impact of       this research is illustrated in the many positive reviews in the popular       media, with several reviewers specifically mentioning these editions.
For       example, Mary Gordon in Style (2012) wrote, `The new Carcanet       edition of Parade's End is, therefore, a literary event that is       worthy of the very greatest rejoicing.
It honors the original text in a       way that no other edition has done.
.
.
.
[T]he editors have labored       valiantly to give us a definitive, authoritative edition' [5.1].
In the       same spirit, Boyd Tonkin in the Independent (18 August 2012)       suggested, `Newcomers [to Ford Madox Ford's Parade's End       tetralogy] will have one publisher above all to thank: Manchester-based       Carcanet Press, which issues the sequence both in separate volumes and as       an omnibus edition.
Michael Schmidt's outfit, a notable poetry specialist       but one with a keen eye for the lesser-spotted classic of fiction,       publishes all of Ford's work.'
[5.2]     Haslam has used her Ford expertise to contribute to media broadcasts and       public events, thus further enriching cultural life and encouraging       reading of Ford's works.
Haslam has been utilised in recent BBC television       programmes on Ford.
She was the academic consultant and an interviewee for       the BBC 2 television programme, `Who on Earth was Ford Madox Ford?'
(Culture         Show Special by Alan Yentob, broadcast 1 September, 2012) [5.5].
The       viewing figures were 535,300, and the audience appreciation score was 84%.
Rupert Edwards, producer/director of the BBC 2 Culture Show Special,       has described Haslam's `detailed knowledge [of Ford studies] in the UK and       internationally' as of `invaluable assistance' to the Culture Show.
The production, he notes, `was able to take advantage of Haslam's detailed       biographical knowledge of the Parade's End tetralogy'; the `newly       edited Carcanet edition of the tetralogy and in particular, A Man         Could Stand Up edited by Haslam, were invaluable resources, as was       her critical study of Ford and the war, Fragmenting Modernism'.
[5.9]     Haslam was an academic consultant to the BBC 2 television programme, `The       World of Parade's End' (broadcast 24 August 2012) [5.6], and was       academic consultant and interviewee for a film on Ford's life and work       currently in production in the United States (Ford Madox Ford: A Man         Mad About Writing, director Paul Lewis, Subterracon Films).
Haslam has contributed to public events on Ford.
In addition to chairing       a discussion with Susanna White, director of the BBC/HBO Parade's End,       and Rupert Edwards, producer/director of the Culture Show, at a       public event at the Ford Society's Parade's End conference in       London in September 2012, she delivered three public lectures on Ford: one       as part of the South Bank `The Rest is Noise' Festival on 3 February 2013       (audience 40+) [5.8]; the second at Stony Stratford library on 19 March       2013 (audience 70+) [5.7]; and the third to the 2013 public seminar series       at the Imperial War Museum, `Reappraising the First World War', which drew       an audience from well beyond Ford enthusiasts.
