     RED has democratised the scholarship of reading.
It has taken research       into reading beyond academic circuits and created a resource that depends       upon the input of many members of the public to gather research data and       to participate in the production of new research.
It is comparable to the       `citizen science' projects that have proliferated in recent years.
More than 120 volunteers have contributed a fifth of all entries (c.       6000 items) in the database, making RED the largest single repository of       publicly sourced, unsolicited and voluntarily contributed information       about readers and reading in the world.
Volunteers can follow their own       personal interests (such as the reading habits of their favourite writer),       or enter information from reading diaries of an ancestor in their own       family papers.
They receive guidance and training from RED project       members, and develop expertise in handling and interpreting documentary       sources.
The open nature of the online contribution entry system means that RED       can support unsolicited volunteers based anywhere in the world.
This form       of crowdsourcing generates supportive and symbiotic contact between       members of the public and publicly funded academic research.
The       contributions of volunteers have generated new research questions,       including PhD projects, and a number of scholarly publications.
Feedback from the volunteers indicates that their cultural lives have       been enriched by working with RED.
One volunteer records, `I enjoy       research that captures glimpses of unsung lives.
The RED project does that       very well.
It is anti-abstruse, like a good biography.'
Another       volunteer's comments capture the inclusive and democratic ethos of RED, as       she reflects, `It's good that interested "amateurs" like me can get       involved in areas of research which interest them.'
A third volunteer       attests to how RED is transforming public understanding of the history of       reading when she notes, `it has made me more aware, in a more immediate       way since it is based on individual reading experiences that       non-academic readers often read exactly the same kind of works as so-       called "&#233;lite" readers'[5.5]     Reports in the mainstream media of RED's achievements recognise its       impact on the cultural lives of both volunteer-contributors and of members       of the public exploring the database.
James Macgowan in The Ottawa         Citizen [5.4], for example, quotes Simon Eliot's claim that RED will       contribute to answering major research questions, such as how `books are       read [and] who reads which books', but he also captures the popular appeal       of RED by immediately adding, `Well, OK, but I say it's just plain fun'.
Jennifer Howard in the Chronicle of Higher Education [5.3]       emphasises how RED has helped `push the field [of Book History] along',       especially since `the database moved online [and] they've thrown it open       to crowdsourcing, asking volunteers to contribute records'.
Like Macgowan,       Howard stresses the pleasures all readers or users can discover in       browsing the RED database.
As she observes, `Roaming through such material       brings the experiences of past readers alive'.
Other institutions with a mission to engage the public in arts and       humanities research have been inspired by the example of RED.
For example,       Bethan Ruddock sees RED as a model training and outreach tool to be used       by librarians and archivists in order to engage all library-users.
In Ariadne.
Web Magazine for Information Professionals, she concludes, `[RED] is       a fantastic resource, and deserves the support of the community' [5.1].
The British Library has also embraced RED, including it in its `100       Websites to Capture the Digital Universe', and describing it as `essential       reading for future generations researching our life and times in 2013'       [5.2].
RED continues to grow apace, and its positive impact upon the cultural       lives of its volunteers and non-academic users will grow accordingly.
The       numbers of volunteers are expanding as the RED partner projects in       Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and New Zealand gather momentum, and a       further cohort of volunteers is being recruited for the Listening       Experience Database (LED), an AHRC-funded project (&#163;750k, 2013-18) based       directly upon RED and run by the Open University Music Department and the       Royal College of Music.
Usage of RED by has increased year-on-year, with Google analytics data       indicating that the number of unique visitors to the website has increased       from an average of below 1,000 per month in 2010 to more than 1,500 per       month in 2013.
RED has reached many non-academic users, with evidence of       continuing engagement via social media (for example, by February 2012 RED       had been mentioned or listed in some 4,210 instances in the blogosphere,       largely in personal blogs [5.6 and 5.7].
