     Influencing evidence-based government policy       The `People-centred eco-design' project led to an invitation to provide       evidence to the 2007 Parliamentary Committee Enquiry on Climate Change and       subsequently to develop the methodology for a government-sponsored       micro-generation study.
The results of the project `Household adoption and       use of micro-generation heat' (2007) (reported in Reference 3.1) were used       in evidence in the UK government's June 2008 Micro-generation Strategy         Progress Report and in the comprehensive review by Element Energy       Ltd (Source 5.1).
This research was publicised by the BBC, the Independent       newspaper, professional journals and at an invited presentation to       Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC).
The results fed into       DECC's 2012 micro-generation heat strategy consultation, `Strategic       framework for low carbon heat in the UK' (Source 5.2) that informed the       Government's March 2013 The Future of Heating policy document.
The `Community composting' report (Reference 3.4) showed DEFRA's 2009       proposal to change waste site regulation would adversely affect many       small-scale community composting sites.
On this evidence DEFRA changed its       policy; removing a proposed charge and increasing the exemption threshold.
Influencing sustainable transport policy       Potter was a founder member of the Transport Taxation Group,       chaired by Stephen Joseph from the NGO Campaign for Better Transport,       which facilitates interaction between HM Treasury and the research/NGO       community.
Potter's research led to his participation at       Treasury/HMRC briefings and appointment as Transport Commissioner for the       Green Fiscal Commission (2007-09).
Chaired by Robert Napier,       members included Lord Adair Turner, Lord Chris Smith (Chairman,       Environment Agency) and MPs from the three main parties (including, Greg       Barker, now Minister of State for Energy and Climate Change).
Potter's       research formed the core of the Commission's transport briefing paper with       Paul Ekins from UCL Energy Institute (Source 5.3).
In the run-up to the 2010 election, Potter was invited to provide       guidance on transport and fiscal policy to the JMG Foundations Quality of       Life Policy Group, a Conservative Party think-tank instigated by MPs Zac       Goldsmith and John Gummer.
OU research on transport taxation design is       directly cited in their Blueprint for a Green Economy (Source       5.4).
Potter also authored a chapter in the 2013 Liberal Democrats' policy       development Green Book (Source 5.5).
In 2008 Potter was invited to a Treasury meeting supporting the       King Review on vehicle and fuel technologies, leading to a range of new       measures in the 2008 budget.
In 2011 he was an invited national expert to       the European Commissioner for Taxation and Customs Union, Audit and       Anti-Fraud (CEC DG TAXUD) on the Expert Platform `Green Budget Europe       Company Car Taxation Workshop' in Brussels.
His research policy assessment       paper is in a 2013 joint publication by DG TAXUD and Green Budget Europe.
Potter and the OU team have also worked with the Business in the Community       Ways2Work programme, including authoring a Travel Plan Tax Guide in The         Essential Guide to Travel Planning, Department for Transport 2008,       and National Business Travel Network (NBTN) advisory note 1- Tax and         Travel Plan Measures, July 2008 (Source 5.6).
Enhancing knowledge and practices of public and private organisations       Results from the `'Household adoption and use of micro-generation heat'       (2007) project were disseminated to installers, manufacturers, customers       and users through the Energy Savings Trust (Source 5.7).
The findings led       to the Energy Saving Trust's national `Heat Pump Field Trial' (2008-10),       with the OU team as research partners.
The OU research support is       documented in several EST publications aimed at the public, equipment       installers and manufacturers, and resulted in the rapid introduction of       more user-friendly controls and to DECC updating its Microgeneration         Installation Standard: MIS 3003 (Source 5.8).
Research on `Understanding recycling behaviour' resulted in Thomas'       appointment as Strategic Advisor to Hampshire County Council in 2004-7,       which had major impacts on policy change in the period 2008-13.
Robert       Lisney, previously Assistant Director of Hampshire County Council,       comments on the research: `We used the expertise of the OU team with       Christine as the leader on many occasions to undertake research both for       future policy and decision making.
...
I have been very pleased to take       the information and use it for my own decisions and also to influence the       next generation of policy... On so many fronts, one has been able to use       the outcomes in a real sense' (further corroboration in Source 5.9).
The       Community Composting Network (coordinator Cath Kibble, Source 5.10) has       been instrumental in delivering the changes and benefits resulting from       the work of Fredrickson and Slater (Reference 3.4).
A key impact of the research on `Innovative transport technologies and       systems' is the close partnership with Milton Keynes Council.
This       partnership has played a major part in shaping the Milton Keynes Low       Carbon Living Programme and the development of a number of low-carbon       trial and pilot projects in the Milton Keynes area.
Following an invited       submission to the 2008 Milton Keynes Bus Strategy consultation, Stephen Potter       gave a presentation that led the Council to explore demand responsive       operations and a trial project is now due to be implemented in 2014.
This       work subsequently led to developing the MK: Smart project, led by the OU       with an &#163;8m HEFCE Catalyst grant and a further &#163;8m of partner co-funding,       which will provide a big data ecosystem to support a range of smart city       technology deployments including innovative transport designs.
Geoff       Snelson, Milton Keynes Council's Director of Strategy, sums up our role by       saying:       `Milton Keynes aims to be a pioneering city for low carbon living.
We are       lucky to have the Open University with its world class capabilities as an       enthusiastic local partner in delivering our programme.'
(Further       corroboration can be obtained from Source 5.11).
Education and public engagement       The `household ecological footprints' research by Caird and Roy       has led to online interactive educational eco-tools, one of which       accompanied the popular BBC/OU Coast TV series, and was completed       by 9000 people.
A second eco-lifestyle quiz for schools on the soils       education website (http://www.soil-net.com/)       was funded by DEFRA.
Wider engagement from our Sustainable Design research       programme is achieved through OpenLearn and iTunes U podcasts.
