     a.
Knowledge transfer and cross-fertilisation     Non-academic impacts from this research have informed different       communities, enabling a cross-       fertilisation of ideas, resources and projects with many third-sector       institutions.
The research has       both directly influenced the programming of the National Portrait Gallery       and encouraged       interdisciplinary links with institutions from British theatre.
The         First Actresses exhibition (which       included 54 works and attracted over 25,000 visitors) involved       collaborative work between       researchers across different disciplines, museums and theatres (see 5.3).
The V&amp;A Museum and       the Theatre Museum, the Garrick Club (London), the Maugham Theatre       Collection at the National       Theatre and Chawton House Library all provided exhibits and related       lectures, and the theatre       company East 15 contributed to the public programme.
Using shared digital resources with the National Portrait Gallery, the       Open University has also       provided open access online resources to accompany the exhibition,       enhancing public       engagement and knowledge transfer between the two institutions.
The Open       Arts Archive is being       used to further this cross-fertilisation and global access (see 5.5).
A       collaborative international       conference at the National Portrait Gallery in November 2011 which brought       together specialists       from the fields of theatre history, art history, performance, drama, music       history, curating and       literature, was open to the public and archived on the Open Arts Archive.
East 15 contributed the       first performance of a new play by Elizabeth Kuti Enter a Gentleman       (see 5.5) below).
The       relevance of key gender issues to modern celebrity culture was explored in       the parallel exhibition       of portraits of modern actresses, The Actress Now, in the NPG in       2011-2012.
Several       contemporary actresses were invited to give gallery talks and media       interviews on both exhibitions,       including Joley Richardson, Anna Chancellor and Ramola Garai (see 5.3)     b.
Public engagement, dissemination and extending debate     Each stage of this on-going research project was accompanied by a       strategic programme of public       engagement to the widest possible constituencies.
Since 2003, Perry has       given 29 invited public       lectures or talks in the UK and abroad, based on the research outputs       listed above.
These have       included lectures at Dr Johnson's House, The Georgian Society, The       Holborne Museum Bath, V&amp;A       Museum, Copped Hall, Essex, two Women's Institute talks (see 5.6), Chawton       House Alton, the       Romney Society and eight public tours at the National Portrait Gallery.
The project also involved a       series of international lectures (in galleries and universities and open       to the wider public) including       Yale University, Hong Kong University, Massey University, Auckland Art       Gallery and Auckland       University, encouraging wider public engagement.
The First Actresses exhibition made accessible new research on the       role of gender in the history of       British theatre, and included important works in private collections which       have previously been       inaccessible to the wider public.
The learning and interpretation       programmes that accompanied       this exhibition have included fourteen separate events with contributions       from actors, theatre       historians, dress historians and online support materials.
Events and       resources that highlighted the       role and significance of feminine portraiture included a series of five       podcasts produced by Perry       with collaborating researchers from music history, dance history, theatre       history and literature, and       featured five key works from the exhibition, and an ITunes U video (see       5.5).
c. The first actresses: media impacts     The exhibition provoked extensive media interest and debate, and received       over 140 recorded UK       press acknowledgements (excluding listings and international press).
This       included 56 reviews in       national newspapers and magazines, 50 reviews or features in the regional       press, and 39 features       in arts and special interest and online publications (see 5.1 and 5.2).
Press coverage revealed a       consistent engagement with the key underpinning research theme: the       critical importance and       visibility of women and gender in theatrical culture of the period.
Many       reviews also focused on the       research `rediscoveries' featured in the exhibition, including Simon       Verelst's portrait of Nell Gwyn       (see 5.2 ) and The Three Witches by Daniel Gardner.
In one of three separate features in the Guardian Amanda Vickery       emphasised its importance as       `the first show to explore the importance of women in early English       theatre through portraiture',       citing key aims to reveal that `portraiture is always a form of dazzling       performance, not a mirror       image', and that `the first actresses benefited from an emerging publicity       machine that anticipated       aspects of the modern star system' (see 5.1)).
Richard Dorment of The         Telegraph applauded the       show's ambition to explore aspects of eighteenth century theatre by       understanding careers and       representations of women (see 5.1).
Similarly, Matthew Reisz in the Times       Higher wrote that       `alongside the spectacle..., we witness a resolute search for professional       recognition and       respectability' (20 October, 2011).
The exhibition was reviewed on Radio 4's Front Row and Gill Perry       was interviewed for a BBC       London News Report and for Radio New Zealand (April 2013).
The exhibition       themes influenced       the shape of one of the BBC's 2012 anniversary series Shakespeare         Uncovered.
The episode       titled `Shakespeare's Women' included an interview between Richardson and       Perry in the       exhibition, exploring relevant gender issues.
Shown in the UK on BBC2 in       2012 (and repeats on       BBC4; in the USA, Canada and Australia (ABC) in March 2013), viewing       figures totalled over three       million (See 5.4 below).
Lucy Worsley also filmed material in the       exhibition for her three-part TV       series Harlots, Housewives and Heroines on BBC4 (May 2012).
