     The management of ethno-cultural diversity is an issue of increasing       importance to all contemporary European states and societies, including       the UK.
Liberal democracy has sought to accommodate such diversity using       the model of minority rights, which deems all citizens equal regardless of       ethnic origin, but which also grants ethnic minorities certain positive       rights relating to their distinct culture.
The practice of minority rights       is, however, far from uncontested, bringing into focus the question of how       to ensure that granting additional rights to particular sub-cultures does       not undermine overall societal cohesion or the integrity of the state.
Such contestation has been especially acute in the states that have       emerged in Central and Eastern Europe over the past century.
In the newer       states of Central and Eastern Europe, lack of experience with democracy       coupled with memories of past border disputes and ethnic conflicts mean       that central governments often see territorially-based devolution of power       as a potential threat to state sovereignty and integrity, especially where       ethno-national boundaries overlap state borders.
Non-territorial cultural autonomy (NTCA) is viewed as a means of ensuring       peace between minorities and majorities, and protecting minority rights.
Until recently, however, little was known about the original NTCA model       and previous efforts to apply it within the region.
Smith and Hiden's work       addressed this gap in the literature, and their research into the       potential of NTCA to provide a multicultural template for modern politics       continues to influence the debate around cultural autonomy in Europe.
Under international law, many of the Balkan states have a duty to create       conditions that enable real participation in decision-making processes by       various minority groups, these governments continue to express great       interest in NTCA as a method for facilitating this requirement.
Smith's       research findings continue to influence national governments, political       parties and national minority representatives in the UK, Romania, Armenia,       Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia, the Council of Europe and the Organisation       for Security and Cooperation in Europe [1].
Since 2005, Smith's research team have contributed to the European Centre       for Minority Issues (ECMI)'s work on NCTA [2; 3].
The ECMI was set       up by European governments in collaboration with researchers to work on       minority issues and advise governments and other bodies such as the       Council of Europe and interested political parties supporting minority       rights throughout Europe.
The ECMI believe that NTCA is a possible means       of introducing peaceful legislation for minorities, it remains one of       their key research topics and they continue to support the dissemination       of the theory to governments throughout Europe.
In November 2012, Smith       co-organised a conference on NTCA in Belfast in conjunction with the ECMI       and Queens University, at which the Rt Hon Charles Clarke gave a keynote       speech discussing the relevance of NTCA concepts to multiculturalism and       minority rights around Europe and in a UK context [4].
The       conference was open to the public, and the conference         papers were published by Peter Lang in 2013.
Smith's work with the Romanian government on NTCA for the Hungarian       minority within Romania, continues to shape the debate between Hungary and       Romania.
His 2005 briefing to the Romanian government in Bucharest on the       Estonian model of NTCA and the Smith and Hiden research findings provided       the basis for a minority law which was drafted to implement NTCA [5].
Although the ruling coalition lacked the two-thirds parliamentary majority       needed to pass the law, the concept of NTCA continues to significantly       impact public policy debates in Romania.
In 2010, the Romanian government       announced the expansion of cultural and ethnic identity rights for       minorities, which was seen by some commentators, such as the campaigning       group DIVERS, as an attempt to move towards the aims of the law [6].
The law remains tabled for debate and some of the Hungarian minority in       Romania are now lobbying for territorial autonomy for the geographically       concentrated Hungarians in Transylvania and cultural autonomy for the rest       of the minorities (Bucharest           Herald, June 2012, `Hungarian Ambassador: Autonomy is the only       compromise solution and we'll obtain it').
The Hungarian government       supports cultural autonomy for diaspora Hungarians, and territorial       autonomy for large groups of Hungarians in other countries.
The vice       president of Hungary was quoted in 2010 by the Romanian         news agency Agerpres; `For those Hungarians living in the         diaspora we seek cultural autonomy while for those living in blocks we         seek territorial autonomy &#8212; all these are European practices.
If other         nations can, we can also within the EU norms.'
Therefore, the project has extended its consultancy role from the       Hungarian minority party in Romania to external policymakers and advisors       in Hungary proper.
Smith has worked with the Institute for Research on       Hungarian Communities Abroad, a think tank established in 2011 by the       Hungarian government.
In April 2013, he was the keynote speaker at a       conference in Budapest attended by the Deputy Prime Minister of Hungary,       Swiss MP and Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly member Andreas       Gross, the President of the Hungarian NTCA Council in Serbia,       representatives of Hungarian minorities from neighbouring countries, MPs,       journalists and representatives from embassies in Hungary, plus academics       and students, numbering around 100 people in total [7].
The       conference was entitled `Territorial Autonomies in Europe: Issues and       Challenges', but it encompassed broader issues of autonomy, including       non-territorial.
Smith spoke on the theory and practice of non-territorial       autonomy.
The Armenian government drafted a law on national minorities following       the ECMI report on NTCA in 2005 &#8212; the law was in continuous debate in the       Armenian parliament from 2006-09 and the 2009 Council of Europe survey       reported that the Armenian government was developing a law on national       minorities.
Although supported by the Council of Europe, Armenia's draft       legislation was ultimately defeated due to rising dissent over the       territorial versus non-territorial autonomy debate.
The Council of Europe       Venice Commission has maintained an interest in NTCA particularly as a       result of the Armenian effort (Council of Europe: Committee of Ministers,       European           Charter for Regional or Minority Languages: Application of the Charter           in Armenia, 2nd Monitoring Cycle, 23 September 2009,       ECRML 2009).
Briefings by Smith and Hiden to governments and minority       groups in Croatia in 2006 and Armenia, Hungary and Slovenia (2007) helped       to lay the groundwork for the widening debate.
The influence of University of Glasgow research and the ongoing priority       of the debate is evidenced by the Council of Europe reissuing Smith's       report on NTCA in Europe as part of Participation of Minorities in         Public Life, (Council of Europe, 2011) [1].
