     Research by the University of Huddersfield has played a key role in       offering solutions to the issues       with inhaler therapeutics experienced by the scientific and clinical       community.
More importantly,       the knowledge that has emerged from these studies is passed onto patients       suffering from       respiratory diseases.
One of the most significant ways in which this has been achieved is       through major involvement in       developing "gold standard" clinical guidance.
Chrystyn was a member (and       leading author) of the       joint European Respiratory Society/International Society of Aerosols in       Medicine Task Force that       produced consensus guidelines (2011) for all healthcare professionals on       the use of inhalers [5.1].
This multidisciplinary collaboration has provided clear, up-to-date       recommendations that enable       prescribers to choose the aerosol delivery device most suitable for their       patients and to ensure       their patients "can and will use" these devices correctly.
The       recommendations drew on several       elements of the research carried out at Huddersfield, chief among them the       importance of the       delivery device; the widespread failure to adhere to an optimum treatment       regime; the relationship       between inhalation, resistance and lung deposition in the use of dry power       inhalers; the       significance of patient inhalation profiles; and the risk of a       deterioration in treatment efficacy if an       inhaler is substituted for a different device at the prescribing or       dispensing stage without involving       the patient.
Subsequent work [5.2, 5.3] has continued to build on this       guidance.
The Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) has also acknowledged the       significance of Chrystyn's work       in informing guidelines on asthma management with inhaler use in       particular.
GINA's Global       Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention, (revised 2012 and next       revision in 2014),       presents a comprehensive plan to manage asthma, with the goal of reducing       chronic disability and       premature deaths while allowing patients to lead productive and fulfilling       lives.
Over the past 6       years Chrystyn's work has received international recognition.
Professor       Tari Haahtela [5.4], a       board member of both GINA and the World Allergy Organisation (WAO), has       described Chrystyn's       work as "outstanding... both innovative and practical", adding: "His       observations have been rapidly       implemented to the practice of therapy &#8212; e.g.
development of better       inhalers in terms of drug       delivery and handiness to use.".
Professor Peter Barnes [5.5], a member of       the Science Committee       of GINA and the Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease       (GOLD) guidelines, has       praised Chrystyn's "major contribution" in the field and Professor Eric       Bateman.
[5.6], a member of       GINA Science Committee and Chairman of its Board states "Internationally,       he is an acknowledged       leader in the field and has provided insights and methodologies to       optimize the use of inhalation       therapies".
Chrystyn's expertise has been further recognised through other major       international organisations'       use of his techniques.
In 2011 the International Primary Care Respiratory       Group (with Chrystyn as       a major collaborator) &#8212; whose overarching mission is to raise standards of       care in individual       countries and globally through collaborative research, innovation and       dissemination of best       practice and education &#8212; began iHARP [5.7], a study involving 5,000       patients in Western Europe,       Scandinavia and Australia, which aims to validate objective methodologies       to help healthcare       professionals offer patients more effective inhaler training.
From 2013       Chrystyn's methods and       findings are being used in two further studies: HITEC is investigating how       adults with asthma and       chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) use their inhalers, and ELIOT       is assessing how       well asthma patients maintain the correct use of their inhalers.
Professor       David Price [5.8],       Managing Director of Research in Real Life (RiRL) Ltd, a key stakeholder       in these three studies,       has remarked on the importance of Chrystyn's "unique objective methods" in       informing strategies       to improve asthma care both nationally and internationally.
Such       collaboration has been extended       to Huddersfield's involvement in a forthcoming &#163;2.1m National Institute       for Health Research Health       Technology Assessment project to identify the synergy between low-dose       theophylline and inhaled       corticosteroids in COPD [5.9] at seven UK clinical excellence centres.
Chrystyn's research has also resulted in extensive engagement with the       pharmaceutical industry.
A number of key commercial developers have drawn on his expertise in       clinical studies to optimise       inhalation techniques and others to introduce new in-vitro methodologies       to more closely mimic       how patients use inhalers.
Such in-vivo/in-vitro work is widely       acknowledged as difficult for       industry-based researchers to undertake, since there is almost always a       perceived conflict of       interest.
The on-going work is adapting compendial methods to replace       mechanical inhalation       simulations by those achieved by patients.
World-renowned inhalation       technology specialist Dr       Jolyon Mitchell [5.10], Scientific Director of Canada's Trudell Medical       International, is among the       leading international experts to acknowledge the value of Chrystyn's       contribution.
