     University of Huddersfield research has shown that prevention and       management of SSI and chronic wounds in clinical practice is variable and       could have detrimental outcomes for patients.
As such, it has helped shape       policy and practice in areas including planning interventions, quality of       life and well-being &#8212; which are vital if patients are to receive       evidence-based, cost-effective treatment in both the primary and secondary       healthcare sectors.
The research has made a significant contribution to a series of       influential Best Practice Statements, all of which either cite SIS's work       or benefited from expert review by members of the team.
The first, The Use of Topical Antiseptic/Antimicrobial Agents in         Wound Management, was originally published in 2010, with a second       edition following in 2011 [a].
It is intended to "support the appropriate       use of topical antiseptic/antimicrobial agents and... clinical       decision-making that ensures their prescription only when clinically       indicated" and to "give guidance to clinicians who have to make daily       judgments which impact on the quality of care patients receive".
It has       had more than 2,500 individual downloads and has been used as evidence to       support NHS Trust formulary development and the use of appropriate       dressings for the management of wound infection.
Ousey served as a member       of the peer-review panel.
The second statement, Care of the Older Person's Skin, was       produced to "provide relevant and useful information to guide those active       in the clinical area who are responsible for the management of skin care       in an ageing patient population" [b].
Its second edition (2012) cites       research by Ousey, who also served as a member of the peer-review panel.
The third statement, Effective Exudate Management, was published       in June 2013 to "provide relevant and useful information to guide those       managing highly exuding wounds" [c].
Ousey was again involved in the       peer-review process, which cites her work on negative pressure wound       therapy.
Within M&#246;lnlycke Healthcare, results and conclusions from (3) have been       used to educate employees and provide evidence for the use of Safetech       dressings, citing clinical advantages over alternative products that may       be used inappropriately due to lack of education or perceived cost       implications [d].
With increasing high-level clinical evidence of the benefits of CHG in       antisepsis and prevention of catheter and exit &#8212;line site infections, the       significance of Conway's work has provided "important details on the       applicability and dynamic mode of action of chlorhexidine on human skin"       and helped clinicians understand the outcomes of clinical trials in this       challenging area [e].
SIS's work has further contributed to best practice through Challenges in       Wound Care (CIWC), http://challengesinwoundcare.hud.ac.uk,       an e-learning resource drawing on various elements of the group's       SSI-related research and building on the success of the team's       multidisciplinary on-line healthcare update tool.
Originally launched in       2008 and subsequently revised throughout the impact period, CIWC has been       released in various formats, ensuring compatibility with the NHS's VLE.
Using a problem-based structure to address questions surrounding the       assessment, diagnosis and management of various wound care scenarios, it       promotes the importance of working in a multidisciplinary team to achieve       optimum outcomes for patients.
Users during the impact period included 350       clinical practitioners employed by Yorkshire and Humber Strategic Health       Authority, which adopted CIWC as best practice, making it available via       its own e-learning platform, and more than 120 members of clinical staff       at Kent Strategic Health Authority.
Feedback specifically emphasised its       suitability and ease of use by current wound care practitioners [f].
SIS has communicated its research to a wide range of stakeholders through       the successful development of strong collaborative links with the health       service sector.
In September 2012 it hosted an event to showcase its       expertise for an industry audience, leading to Ousey's appointment as a       national advisory panel member for 3M and Coloplast [g].
The industry has       further acknowledged the value of SIS's studies through a number of awards       [h].
Ousey's research into reducing the risk of SSI in cancer patients       after spinal surgery won first prize in the Hard-to- Heal Wounds category       of the 2012 Wounds UK Awards [i], and she was also highly commended in the       Patient Experience category of the 2013 Journal of Wound Care Awards.
Members of the public have also benefited from the research team's       expertise, with SIS promoting healthy living and well-being by holding two       "Leg Awareness" days at the University.
These events took the form of       drop-in sessions providing diagnosis of potential tissue viability       problems, such as peripheral vascular disease, lymphoedema and oedema.
Attendees were offered compression hosiery, physiotherapy, advice and       reassurance as appropriate, with referrals to GPs or podiatry services for       further investigation and/or treatment also made as necessary.
The first       event, held in 2011, attracted 54 people, while the second, staged in       2012, attracted 37.
All attendees were asked to complete a questionnaire,       and 100% of those who responded said they were satisfied with their visit       [j].
