     Evaluation and substantiation of health claims for EFSA on soy         isoflavones and health: Health claims made in relation to food     products require authorisation under EU law before they can be used in the     labelling and marketing of products in the EU.
EFSA are the EU agency who     are responsible for verifying the scientific substantiation of any health     claims.
These health claims are a core marketing strategy that the global     food industry employ to increase sales of premium products with claimed     enhanced functionality.
For the consumer, the demonstration of evidence-     based health claims can protect them from purchasing foods with misleading     information on potential benefits.
To substantiate or refute the significant     number of claims made by the food industry, EFSA (the EU agency that     provides independent scientific advice and communication on existing and     emerging risks associated with the food chain) committees comprehensively     review all clinical trials and associated research following a submission by     the food industry to produce a panel consensus document (EFSA scientific     opinion).
Our research has been used to underpin a number of EFSA scientific     opinions on health claims for isoflavones present in soy foods.
In 2009, the EFSA Panel on Dietetic Products, Nutrition and Allergies       relied on some of our research (research reference 1-2) to develop a       scientific opinion that cause and effect relationships have not been       established between the consumption of soy isoflavones and the maintenance       of bone mineral density in postmenopausal women.
Specifically, a distinct       contribution of our work (research reference 2) was to draw attention to       the `lack of evidence of a clear dose-response relationship between       dietary intake of soy isoflavones and the claimed effect, and the       different results obtained depending on the source and nature of the       isoflavones used' (pp.6-7, corroborating source A).
This health claim was       reviewed by EFSA in 2012, and our EU funded work (research reference 1)       was used to further inform the opinion that consumption of soy isoflavones       does not show an effect on bone mineral density (pp.
8&amp;12,       corroborating source B).
As a result, the health claim was rejected by       EFSA, and food companies (and others) are not permitted to promote food       containing soy isoflavones for bone health in Europe.
Our research       (research reference 2) was also key to the rejection of other soy health       claims (corroborating source C) with the panel concluding that the       evidence for a cause and effect relationship was not established between       soy isoflavone consumption and a range of other health endpoints including       vasomotor symptoms and cardiovascular risk factors.
Professor Cassidy's       earlier work on soy foods, specifically soy protein, was used to underpin       decisions on health claims relating to heart health in the USA (Food &amp;       Drink Administration, 1999) and the UK Joint Health Claims Initiative       (JHCI) (2002).
Risk assessment `Hazard characterisation of isoflavones' -           Refinement of regulation EC 1924/2006: Professor Cassidy,       through her research outputs and committee involvement has significantly       informed the policy debate surrounding the potential risks:benefits of       consuming soy isoflavones.
Some controversy surrounds the consumption of       soy, given its oestrogenic potential and the potential for high levels of       exposure in certain population groups through supplement use and soy       infant formula.
Our research has influenced the consensus statements of       international government agencies including EFSA, the American Heart       Association (AHA) Advisory group and the UK Government Committee on       Toxicity (COT), who have examined the potential hazards associated with       consumption of soy isoflavones.
In the UK, COT's policy review of the toxicity of chemicals in the diet       was informed by Cassidy's soy isoflavones based research.
The recent 2012       initial report focusses on the infant diet in support of a review by the       UK Government Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition on infant       feeding.
In particular, the report uses UEA research (research reference       3) to provide scientific evidence on the absorption of isoflavones by the       body, depending on age and the food source (pp.6-7, corroborating source       G).
This expands on COT advice in 2003 (corroborating source F), which       used earlier Cassidy research, and partly defined the UK government's       subsequent research programme on phytoestrogens/isoflavones.
Professor       Cassidy's earlier work on soy also informed an American Heart Association       advisory for health professionals on the risks:benefits from soy intake       (2006, corroborating source H).
In summary, our impact has been to protect the public by providing       balanced scientific evidence for health claims, and to raise awareness of       the potential risk:benefit profile of consuming soy foods with a specific       focus on isoflavones.
