     University of Huddersfield studies in the field of physical organic       chemistry have led to widespread       economic, industrial and societal benefits, in large part through the       continued success of IPOS, the       formation of which was a direct result of research carried out since the       early 1990s.
Much of the       impact arising from the research described above has been generated       directly through the work of       IPOS with the chemical industry in the period since 2008.
Although the Innovative Physical Organic Solutions unit (IPOS) was formed       in 2006, major       expansion has occurred since 2009 with the award of &#163;3.6M of European       Regional Development       Fund support [G1].
IPOS has moved to new purpose-built laboratories ("Page       Laboratory" &#8212; 200       m2); Agilent has added investment of ca.
&#163;3M, and the Page       Laboratory is now an "Agilent Centre       of Excellence".
IPOS now consists of five academics (Page and Atherton,       with Charsley, Sinnott       and Maskill [last three Emeritus/Visiting]).
Co-workers include Dr N       Powles (Senior Research       Fellow, 2006-present), Dr M Stirling (Senior Research Fellow,       2006-present), Dr M Chadha       (Quality Manager, 2010-present), and four Research Fellows, six PhD       students and four       technicians.
Atherton, Powles and Stirling have more than 60 years'       industry experience between       them.
IPOS has become self-financing, with income of &#163;0.6M p.a.
Income from       consultancy and training       for the chemical and related industries in particular has grown       significantly, from around &#163;150,000       and &#163;8,000 respectively in 2008/2009 to around &#163;385,000 and &#163;34,000 in       2012/2013.
IPOS now       provides full-time employment for 11 members of research staff [5.1].
IPOS has so far carried out research projects for more than 150       companies, of which over 70 have       been SMEs.
The large majority of projects and enquiries are from within       the Yorkshire/Humberside       region, where regeneration is critically dependent on new,       non-traditional, high-technology       companies, meaning IPOS's expertise has been vital to economic growth in       the area.
Around 30       enquiries are now received each month from throughout the UK.
Of the many       successful projects,       one example is their 15-month collaboration on gas-liquid kinetics with       ACAL Energy, of Runcorn,       which has led to a &#163;15M venture capital investment [SL1].
The Society of Chemical Industry has officially recognised the scale and       significance of Page and       Atherton's contributions to the industry, most recently through the       activities of IPOS.
Atherton       received an SCI Chemistry for Industry Award in 2013 in recognition of his       "contribution to process       chemistry", and Page received the same honour in 2011 for work "which       provides a potential major       benefit to society" [5.2].
Specific areas of work undertaken by the research team before and after       the establishment of       IPOS have benefited a wide range of stakeholders and end-users, the most       notable being the       following.
i.
Synthetic oligonucleotides for therapy     Huddersfield's work in the area of synthetic oligonucleotides,       particularly in terms of improving the       economics of the large-scale synthesis of small interfering RNA (siRNA)       oligonucleotides, has       enhanced industry practice.
The findings were first applied by Avecia,       which sponsored early       research in this field, and later by Pfizer [SL2].
Huddersfield's findings       [3.1-3.2] have improved       efficiency and delivered cost benefits by highlighting key considerations       in the large-scale       manufacture of oligonucleotide-based therapeutics particularly with regard       to solvent selection and       reactant stoichiometries; the large scale synthesis of oligonucleotides       traditionally involved       considerable volumes of solvents and excessive amounts of expensive and       fragile       phosphoramidite reagents.
Since 2012 GlaxoSmithKline has supported and drawn on Huddersfield's       continuing research in       this area as part of the company's efforts to develop a substantial       portfolio of oligonucleotide-based       therapeutics, many of which are in late-stage clinical trials.
GSK has       been guided by Huddersfield's       studies in devising the synthesis technologies required for stage 3       trials.
GSK's Oligonucleotide       Synthesis Group has confirmed: "Your research provides the fundamental       chemistry understanding       that we need in order to develop robust, scalable and sustainable       oligonucleotide manufacturing       processes."
[SL3] This further underlines the research's contribution to       the health of society, as       therapeutically important mRNAs are used for treating diseases arising       from genetic disorders.
ii.
Providing solutions to antimicrobial resistance     Huddersfield's research in the area of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) has       also led to improvements       in healthcare by helping companies to design new products.
The finding       that the &#946;-lactam ring is       not inherently reactive [3.4] has contributed to a shift towards novel       designs of alternative       antibacterials and Huddersfield's outputs describing the mechanism by       which &#946;-lactamases       catalyse the hydrolysis of &#946;-lactams [3.5-3.6] has influenced the       development of new therapeutics       such as those developed by Basilea Pharmaceutics, of Basel, Switzerland       [SL4].
This work has       anticipated key elements of the Department for Health's `UK Five-Year       Antimicrobial Resistance       Strategy', introduced in 2013, one of the principal strategic aims of       which is to improve knowledge       and understanding of AMR.
Such advances also deliver economic benefits,       given that AMR is       currently estimated by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and       Control to cost &#8364;1.5bn in       healthcare expenses and lost productivity each year.
iii.
Chemical reactions in liquid ammonia     Huddersfield's work on solvolysis reactions, most notably the finding       that liquid ammonia can be       considered a "green" solvent, has influenced the industrial manufacture of       chemicals.
The       technology has been adopted by Syngenta, which has used it to develop "new       route options" and       has begun transferring these to the company's laboratories [SL5].
Research       in this area has also       formed the basis of an IPOS patent application for the conversion of fatty       acids to amides [5.3].
