     The impact of our research can be traced directly to the policy decisions       about the two key policy       imperatives of the Climbing Higher strategy.
Evidence of the       impact is provided below.
Numbers in       superscript refer to particular sources to corroborate the impact (in       section 5).
Public policy linked to sport and physical activity in Wales was       addressed explicitly in the Welsh       Government's first national strategy, Climbing Higher.
Research       conducted at Cardiff Met has       informed policy decisions, influenced changes to the capture and         management of data         linked to physical activity provision, and altered the nature of that         provision for the         engagement of two particular age groups (60+ and 16 and under) &#8212;       together, 45% of the       Welsh population in 2012.
Indirectly, it has also reduced public spending       on less effective       alternative provision and enhanced the health and well-being of these       segments of the population.
The main beneficiaries of the impact of this research have been the Welsh       Government, Ministers       with relevant portfolio responsibilities, Sport Wales (as a Welsh       Government sponsored body),       local authorities, schools, national governing bodies for sport and       community providers of physical       activity.
Importantly too, the findings of the national School Sport       Survey released by Sport Wales       in October 2013 indicate that the number of young people taking part in       sport or physical activity       three or more times a week has risen from 27% in 2011 to 40% in 2013.
Physical activity levels amongst children and young people have been a       focus of sustained work       by Sport Wales.
The evaluation of the Secondary School Sport Pilot       Programme was reported in       2006 by researchers at Cardiff Met, and published in 2007 [2].
As a result       of the findings of that       evaluation there was a recommendation for the 5x60 programme to be       `rolled-out' across Wales9.
The recommendation was accepted and implemented by Sport Wales.
By       November 2009, there       were 218 secondary schools involved, and 99% of all secondary schools had       a `5x60 Officer' in       post8.
The Free Swimming Initiative in Wales was the first free-to-use national       public health programme       linked to swimming in Europe, and the Welsh Government currently invests &#163;3.5         million per         annum in its delivery.
The impact on its continuation made by the 42       page Final Report [4] was       made explicit by the Audit Committee of the National Assembly for Wales in       2008: "The Assembly       Government's flagship scheme for increasing physical activity, its Free       Swimming initiative,       contains a number of weaknesses.
We recommend that the Assembly         Government implement         the recommendations in relation to the Free Swimming Initiative made by         both the Auditor         General and the evaluation report produced by the University of Wales         Institute, Cardiff"       [original emphasis]7.
The first clear evidence of the impact of the research was concerned with       data capture and       management of information about free swimming.
The Interim and Final       Reports of the evaluation       led to a recognition of the inadequacy of the previous arrangements for       monitoring participation.
As       a result, a joint report published in January 200811       acknowledged the work conducted at Cardiff       Met to establish the method and to collect important baseline data.
It       also contained       recommendations about the practical requirements.
The Final Report was presented to the Welsh Government and the Free       Swimming Steering       Group, chaired by Sport Wales, in February 2008.
Various pieces of       policy-related correspondence       make clear how the research shaped policy implementation in each of the 22       local authorities in       Wales.
In 2010, a `Restricted &#8212; Cabinet Business Paper'2, drew       upon findings from the evaluation       some of which were circulated by Sports Wales10.
From this, the       Minister for Heritage presented       proposals that were directly influenced by the list of policy implications       identified in the Final Report       [4].
These were accepted and put into effect3.
They included:            The Free Swimming Initiative to become embedded into `Local Authority         Partnership         Agreements' produced by each local authority2;       The extension of the entitlement to free swimming for young people         outside of school         holidays to include weekends2;       An increased variety of activities to attract a wider range of young         people2;       A review of target groups2 &#8212; most recently, between 2012         and 2013 a pilot has been         conducted on Free Swimming for Veterans and Armed Forces Personnel4.
There were also findings from the Final Report that informed the       amendment to the previous       arrangements for free swimming:            The requirement for a robust performance measurement system2;       A move away from `free splash' towards developing structured water         based activities.
As a result new minimum levels of provision were implemented throughout       Wales2.
Additionally, the Free Swimming Programme in England launched after       publication of the Final       Report in Wales was symmetrical in the choice of targeted groups and main       beneficiaries.
The       Research Brief for the `Evaluation of the Impact of Free Swimming' in       England, released in January       2009, noted specifically the evaluation of the Free Swimming Initiative in       Wales5.
A Briefing Paper       from the Association for Public Service Excellence6 also drew       attention to the lessons learnt from       Wales in relation to the Initiative and reported relevant data11.
It concluded: "The benefits of free       swimming initiatives have been evidenced (...) from the lessons learnt in       Wales, particularly in       relation to the over 60s" (p.5) &#8212; two research references [5, 6] also       refer.
Commenting on the two main policy imperatives of the `Climbing Higher'       strategy, the former Chief       Executive Officer for Sport Wales notes [emphasis added]1, "the         research produced by the         Cardiff School of Sport in relation to the Free Swimming Initiative and         `5x60' has impacted         on the future policy direction and implementation that these programmes         have taken.
The       researchers have demonstrated an ability to shape the policy framework and       also consider its       implementation by organisations operating throughout Wales."
