     Professor Williams has produced one of the most accessible and positively       evaluated CBT models for treating mild to moderate depression and anxiety       disorders.
His core series of workbooks, `Overcoming depression and low       mood: a five areas approach' has sold 10,734 copies since 2008a       and his approach to guided self-help CBT has been shown in clinical       research and practice to effectively treat depression.
Williams has       achieved significant local, national and international recognition for the       pioneering dissemination of his `five areas' model through two       complementary approaches &#8212; practitioner training and the provision of       online resources.
Practitioner training       Courses to train healthcare practitioners in using the `Overcoming       depression and low mood' materials with patients have been developed, and       then evaluated in the Glasgow team's research, facilitating the       implementation of self-help CBT treatments within existing clinical       settings.
The SPIRIT programme has operated since 2002, during which time it       has received (and continues to receive) NHS funding of around &#163;127,000 per       annum.
The first accredited course of this kind, it delivers training to       teams operating within NHS Greater Glasgow &amp; Clyde (GG&amp;C).
Currently, all `adult' and `older adult' mental health teams in Glasgow       have been trained in SPIRIT, with 287 practitioners trained since 2008.b       This focus on team-based training has enhanced the assimilation of new       practice into wards and, since 2008, mental health clinical admissions in       GG&amp;C have undergone `five areas' assessment, with use of the SPIRIT       programme recorded in the electronic patient record/PIMS system.
Widening access to Self-Help and Psychological Interventions       (WISH) is a programme funded by the Scottish Government to provide       short-course training to healthcare and community practitioners, carers       and physiotherapists, using a low-intensity application of the `five       areas' approach.
In a pilot study performed from 2009 to 2010, WISH       provided training for 597 healthcare professionals practicing across three       Scottish NHS boards (Highland, Dumfries &amp; Galloway and Lanarkshire)       and employees of a national charity "Action on Depression" (AOD), in how       to support patients using the `five areas' resources.
AOD staff and       volunteers lead small groups and provide telephone support for online       versions of the five areas approach.
Since the beginning of April 2011, a       further 985 practitioners have been trained with WISH, including       clinicians from two additional NHS boards (Lothian and GG&amp;C)c       and funding has been extended a further year until March 2014.
Online resource       Williams' second approach was to develop a free-access CBT-related website       called "Living Life to the Full" (LLTTF).
This was based upon the original       `Overcoming depression and low mood' book plus new resources to increase       accessibility.
LLTTF was established in 2004 (and re-launched in 2011) to       widen and expedite the delivery of an adult life skills course; it can be       used alone or together with books, DVDs and face-to-face classes in both       clinical and non-clinical settings.
Since 2008, 208,604 members have       registered with the website,d which receives an average of over       45,000 visits per monthd and has a Google page ranking of 5 (on       a 0-10 logarithmic scale that reflects both the number and quality of       other webpages referring to the site).
Put into the context of other       popular websites, a ranking of 5 is considered to be a good score; for       example, the bbc.co.uk website has a ranking of 9 and the scot.nhs.uk       website has a ranking of 6.
Since 2008, Williams has supported a number of       national and international projects that roll out local delivery of LLTTF,       which are outlined in the subsections below.
NHS Living Life is a telephone support line for people with low       mood or anxiety that is funded by the Scottish Health Department and       available in Scotland since 2011.
Operated by GP referral or       self-referral, patients are directed towards the LLTTF website and the       "Overcoming depression and low mood: a five areas approach" workbook, and       receive support using these from SPIRIT-trained therapists.
An independent       audit of the 2008-2010 pilot study of 224 patients who completed the       online treatment course found that 83% were either in remission or had       recovered upon completion of this course.e Feedback was       overwhelmingly positive, with responses including:            "The course is helping me think things through and I'm coping           better.
I'm better able to catch and stop negative thoughts."
(Student, aged 22 years)       "The online course with the follow-up phone calls is genius!
It has           helped me so much and helped me get back to work."
(Teacher, aged         40 years)       "The anxiety session was a real eye-opener for me.
Thanks for your           support.
It has been a great resource."
(Social worker, aged 46         years)          NHS Choices is the online `front door' to the NHS, and is the       largest health website in the UK.
The site hosts a webpage called the       `moodzone', which offers practical information and interactive tools for       people with subclinical mood-related issues.
Williams was invited to       create a suite of eight CBT- based podcasts relating to low mood and       depression, which are based on the original `Overcoming depression and low       mood' series materials.
The podcasts have been available online since       February 2013, and been collectively viewed 45,803 times by 31st       July 2013.f     AWARE Defeat Depression is a charity based in Northern Ireland and       the Republic of Ireland that delivers LLTTF life skills classes to groups.
In 2009 and 2010, the pilot course was delivered to 46 groups (with a       combined total of 356 people), including groups representing       ex-prison-officers, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals,       carers and women.
The proportion of participants identified as being       depressed (according to a standardised depression questionnaire) dropped       from 73% at the start of the course to 12% after completion of the course.f       All participants said they would recommend the course to friends.
The       success of the pilot study led to the uptake of LLTTF classes in the       Republic of Ireland by the Irish charity AWARE, which, in partnership with       the Tesco supermarket chain, provides ongoing financial support for CBT       classes in both urban and rural areas.
Since June 2012, 1,336 people have       completed the six-week programme of life- skills classes, the completion       of which was associated with a 50% improvement in low mood (based on a       validated clinical questionnaire to assess severity of depression) and       high levels of satisfaction with the course, as suggested by the following       comments:h            "It changed how I dealt with situations and I have stuck with the           information given and been using it."
"Realising my thoughts cause my feelings means I can now control my           feelings and make myself feel better."
"Beneficial in terms of improving my understanding and providing           practical steps to take."
Highlighting the value of self-help CBT, and improved access to it by       practitioner training and online resources, the Canadian Mental Health       Association (CMHA) adapted the "Overcoming depression and low mood: a five       areas approach" workbook with support and training from Professor       Williams.i Bounce Back, a CAN $6 million initiative, employs 26       staff members in British Columbia who offer on-referral, low-intensity       self-help CBT telephone support for patients in primary care with mild or       moderate depression.
There have been 22,475 patient referrals since the launch of this       programme in June 2008.j In a survey of 2,903 patients who       completed at least one of the 3-5 sessions offered, only 56% were       considered to be depressed after completion of the LLTTF course (compared       with 91% prior to the course).j Bounce Back also offers a DVD       version of the LLTTF course and has distributed about 67,000 copies.j       The CMHA also run life skills classes modelled on those run by AWARE and       people can self-book onto the classes at http://www.llttf.ca.
In 2010 and 2011, the CMHA piloted the website and classes; of the 228       participants who were surveyed in the pilot study, 85% found the course to       be useful and 91% said that they would recommend it to their friends.i       The LLTTF Canadian website provides on-going certified training to a       nationwide network of facilitators who provide CBT coaching for the same       LLTTF classes described above that AWARE offer; so far, 120 facilitators       from five Canadian states have been trained.k     In recognition of his sustained outstanding contribution to CBT and its       dissemination in the UK and internationally, in 2013 Williams was awarded       an Honorary Fellowship by the British Association for Behavioural &amp;       Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP), the leading body for CBT provision in       the UK.
He is one of only 16 other people to have received this highly       prestigious Fellowship since the founding of BABCP in 1972.l
