     The Gay Men's Sexual Health (GMSH) Survey has provided robust evidence on       the sexual behaviours and prevention and testing activities of MSM in       Scotland since 1996.
Since 2008, the findings have informed health       guidelines in Scotland, the UK and Europe and have been used in successful       NHS sexual health campaigns.
Health guidelines and practice     European level guidelines     The GMSH Survey findings &#8212; of rising infection levels and substantial       proportions of HIV-positive men undiagnosed at the time of survey &#8212; were       part of a wider body of similar findings from across the EU which formed       the evidence basea for guidance released in 2010 by the       European Centre for Disease Prevention &amp; Control (ECDC).
The ECDC       states in its Guidance Report on HIV testing: increasing uptake and         effectiveness in the European Union that `the issue is the extent to       which people living with HIV who need treatment are unaware of their       infection' and identifies `low-risk perception' as an important barrier to       being tested.
UK level guidelines     National guidelines on safer sex were issued in 2012 by the British       Association for Sexual Health and HIV and the British HIV Association.b       These guidelines, provide guidance for practitioners in Level 3       Genitourinary medicine (GUM) services (Tier 5 in Scotland).
The Glasgow       research is cited in the evidence-base for recommendations on repeat       testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs, p12&#8212;13) which include       `HIV testing should be routinely recommended to all individuals attending       GUM or sexual health services.
Pre- and post-test discussions and       counselling support should be available'.
Scottish guidelines     McDaid was invited to be part of the Scottish Government's HIV Action       Plan Groupc which produced the HIV Action Plan in Scotland:         March 2009 to March 2014.d As part of the Scottish       Government National Sexual Health &amp; HIV Advisory Committee, McDaid was       on the Project Groups tasked with the relevant actions in the HIV Action       Plan aimed at `Reducing levels of undiagnosed HIV and transmission in       Scotland' (specifically Action 7 and Action 9 Project Groups for the       periods May 2010&#8212;Dec 2011 and Mar 2011&#8212;Apr 2012 respectively).
Action 7&#8212; `Systems         to monitor risk behaviours and new HIV infections among persons at         highest risk of acquiring infection will be reviewed and, if         appropriate, developed and implemented' &#8212; arose directly out of the       2005 GMSH survey findings and the recognised need to learn whether the       findings applied to broader geographical areas.
Action 9 of the plan &#8212; `Existing         guidance on prevention of HIV transmission in MSM' &#8212; led to the       production of Health Protection Network Guidancee tailored to       national and/or local circumstances.
The survey findings (ref 5 and 6 in       section 3) contributed to the evidence base for the guidance and the       survey is given as an example of the behavioural outcome measures to use       in addressing research gaps and local needs assessments.
The HIV Action       Plan was subsumed into the National Sexual Health &amp; Blood Borne       Viruses (BBV) Frameworkf published in 2011, which brought       together the two areas for the first time.
The BBV Framework informs       practice across the Scottish NHS Boards and they are held accountable for       the delivery of the outcomes in the Framework.
Health practitioners and voluntary organisations     The insights gained through the GMSH survey were shared with health       practitioners and NGOs through informal channels, including local events       with voluntary organisations such as Gay Men's Health and Terence Higgins       Trust Scotland.
Between 2008 and the present, McDaid has disseminated GMSH       survey findings to more than 150 healthcare practitioners and managers,       and voluntary sector workers.
These events raised awareness on the current       risks, delivered Continuing Professional Development (CPD) training and       provided information to help inform the practice and delivery of services       to MSM in clinical settings.g,h McDaid was also twice invited       to present GMSH survey findings at Gaycon (in 2008 and 2012)i,       a biennial conference on gay and bisexual men's sexual health and       wellbeing attended by ~150 healthcare and public health practitioners, NGO       representatives and policy makers at local and national levels.
Public awareness and health campaigns in Scotland     Findings from the GMSH surveys have been covered extensively in the       mainstream media (e.g.
BBC) and specialist press (e.g.
NAM/AidsMap article       warning of the `perfect storm' in HIV transmission, and a Nursing         Times article emphasising that `safer-sex' messages need to be       reinforced among gay men living with an HIV-positive diagnosis' and citing       University of Glasgow work4 in the article's first paragraph)j.
In the press coverage, attention was drawn to the high levels of       undiagnosed HIV-positive men and levels of HIV-positive men who were still       engaging in sexual risk behaviour.
The GMSH survey findings have also       driven targeted HIV awareness campaigns in the Edinburgh, Lothian and       Glasgow areas, beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2009.
Subsequent       GMSH surveys (2008 and 2011) have found consistently higher awareness of       HIV risk among respondents and a maintained increase of 23% more       respondents having been tested for HIV.
In the 2008 survey, almost half       the men surveyed reported a recent HIV test; a substantial increase over       2005 findings.
There had also been a decrease in undiagnosed HIV infection       (42% of men testing HIV positive were undiagnosed in 2005 compared with       26% in 2008).
`HIV: the comeback tour' was developed by a multi-agency group in Lothian       led by NHS Lothian.
As a public information and social media campaign, it       aimed to increase HIV testing and condom use among gay and bisexual men       and was piloted in Edinburgh in 2007.
The campaign materials and       information were created with direct input from the GMSH researchers, who       provided specific figures for the areas being targeted by the materials       and whose findings informed the general focus of the campaign.
Specifically, the GMSH finding that approximately 40% of HIV-positive men       in Scotland were undiagnosed was cited in campaign materials including       8,000 posters and postcards, which were distributed in clubs and bars       throughout Edinburgh's gay scene and more widely through primary care,       community (libraries and leisure centres) and local transport networks       (200 bus posters) in the city.
External evaluation of the pilot phase       reflected increased awareness among MSM and a 23% increase in HIV testing       in Edinburgh.
In 2008, in the lead-up to World Aids Day (1 December), NHS       Lothian announced the second phase of the campaign.
This included a       roll-out to additional social venues, 126 GP surgeries, and 180 pharmacies       as well as libraries throughout the Lothian area; massive mobile       billboards carried on 20 regional buses in addition to the existing bus       posters; regular peer education sessions using trained volunteers;       internet outreach using specific websites such as Gaydar.com to promote       campaign messages, and further publicity in the media.
For example, `ads'       for the `tour' featured in The List, and a series of `tour dates'       with `merchandise stalls' giving away postcards and leaflets on sexual       health, testing services etc.
The GMSH findings were instrumental in another high-profile campaign.
Run       by NHS Greater Glasgow &amp; Clyde (NHSGG&amp;C), NHS Lanarkshire and NHS       Ayrshire &amp; Arran health boards, the `Make Your Position Clear' (MYPC)       campaigni was aimed at the estimated 50,000 gay and bisexual       men in the three health board regions.i This campaign resulted       in greater awareness of the risks of HIV and the need for prevention and       won a Silver Award in the 2010 Institute of Practitioners in Advertising       Effectiveness Awards, which judge healthcare-related communications.
In a       presentation at Gaycon 2012, the NHSGG&amp;C delivered its evaluation of       MYPC (as part of a three-campaign social marketing programme which also       included HIV: the Comeback Tour).
NHSGG&amp;C reports that in a survey on       Gaydar.com, one of the channels used by the campaigns, 72% of people       agreed that the campaign had made them think about the risks of HIV; 57%       said it had made them consider getting tested; and 41% said they had       gained new knowledge about HIV and testing.
In the campaign evaluation,       which surveyed 822 MSM in Glasgow, those with mid-to- high exposure to       MYPC were more likely to have been tested for HIV (but not STIs) in the       previous 6 months.
These findings informed the use of social marketing       interventions by NHSGG&amp;C.h
