     Below are four short case studies of different models of collaborative       impact:     1) In 2008 for the show `How to Be Hospitable' at the Collective Gallery       in Edinburgh, Hewitt as part of the group FREEE, proposed an extended       democratic conception of collaboration in community participatory art, by       emphasizing the need for communities to take control of cultural projects       themselves, in order to promote `bottom up' creativity and regeneration.
In this FREEE attempted to facilitate a non-affirmative consensus through       participation.
To often `top down' participation with artists, Hewitt,       stresses, "pathologizes dissent and critique."
In this sense more broadly,       Hewitt/FREEE have pursued a collective participatory practice in which the       utilization of the skills of non-artists on various community projects       produces an esprit de corps, that defines the collaboration       between artist and `community' as a form of democratic `theatre'       (recently, for example, in 2010 the group formed an amateur choir to sing       various political slogans).
Hewitt, is also an advisor to the art and the       public sphere think tank ixiia.
2)With the appointment of Rona Lee as Reader in Fine Art in 2010-2013,       this question of collaborative art as a form of `expanded theatre' &#8212; quite       different from the theatrical as such or art as theatre &#8212; has       pushed the discourse on impact in quite a different direction.
Lee's       ongoing research is concerned with the geographical, environmental and       epistemological function and identity of water, and over the last two       years has worked closely with oceanographers in the development of new       modes of sea-floor visualization (National Oceanography Centre), as a       reflection on existing models of knowledge production.
Since 2008-Rona       has been invited by Dr Henry Ruhl of the National Oceanography Centre       (NOCS) to act as a consultant on a large-scale National Environment       Research Council (NERC) funded research project involving the compilation       of highly detailed images of the seabed.
Affiliation to the NOCS has a       provided her with a platform to profile her enquiry to researchers from       the GeoData Institute, Centre for Maritime Archaeology, Institute of       Maritime Law, Maritime Energy and Complexity Science groups.
In the light       of this her work has been widely discussed in the geo-scientific community       and she is increasingly called on as a contributor to debates around       seabed resource management.
In 2009 she received a Leverhulme Trust Award:       &#163;12.300.00 for the exhibition Mapping, Howard Gardens Galley (Nov-Dec).
http://www.ronalee.org/notebook/130/mapping-howard-gardens-gallery-12th-nov-18th-dec-2009     This science/art interface is yet another strand of what drives the       legacy of `art and social practice' in the cluster, and across other       subject areas: what are the means and ends under which art's powers       engagement, can be made active, and legible and purposeful?
3) A key project underwriting collaboration between artistic specialists,       non-artistic specialists, and the public (point 3, section 1) has been       Black Country Creative Advantage (2010-11).
Initiated from within the       cluster this project involved an extensive model of exchange and       collaboration between artists, designers, planners, architects and various       arts organizations and funding bodies in West Bromwich in order to       research into possible urban regeneration in the area.
With a primary       emphasis on public involvement and assessment of `specialist solutions'       the project established forums for public consultation and collaboration.
This process was facilitated by the research associate Monika Vykoukal.
With an artist and architect she set up a workshop for young people and       children to create their own imaginative models for regeneration in the       area, and established a regular market stall in the centre of the town,       which became the main focus for public discussion about the issue of       regeneration.
She also produced a newsletter and blog.
The project also       involved establishing contact with various agencies and bodies to       facilitate the project.
These included: Multistory, Longhouse, Housing       Dept., Sandwell Council, Community History &amp; Archives Service,       Sandwell Council, Spatial Planning Department, Sandwell Council, Black       County Society, West Bromwich Town Team, Sandwell Primary Care Trust,       Sandwell Community Information and Participation Service, Sandwell       Libraries and Archives, Transform Sandwell, Sandwell Council, and       Neighbourhood Manger, Communities Unit West Bromwich.
4) Photography, after a period of re-organization in response to the       ending of social documentary as a general programme of technical expertise       on the Fine Art degree, has placed an increased emphasis on photography's       `post-media' social engagement.
This is central to the work of one of the       younger researchers in the cluster, Dean Kelland.
In his research on 1960s       British comedy, he combines performance, image and text, as a way of       transforming photography and video into a space for the reclamation and       re-visitation of popular cultural memory.
In this sense Kelland's work       also looks to theatre for a model of expanded practice.
In 2012 he had has       first solo show at the Ikon Gallery, Birmingham.
He has also been invited       to contribute documentary material to the online publication `Reframing       Photograph', Michigan University Press, and was invited in 2011 to speak       as a performer at the 5th Annual Conference on Comedy, at       Salford University.
Overall, then, the terms and boundaries of collaboration and       participation have established a research programme that operates across       disciplines, in and outside of the gallery, and in multiple social       settings, contributing to both advanced critical debate in the artworld       (Hewitt, Lee) and to debates on cultural policy (Hewitt, Black Country       Creative Advantage).
