     Huddersfield's research into the microbial production and metabolism of       polysaccharides has had       a significant impact in two distinct areas.
Firstly, research into EPS       production has impacted on       manufacturing industry, both the dairy industry and manufacturers of       personal care products,       where it has driven developments in the use of bacterial starter cultures.
Secondly, work on       microbial gas production has impacted the policy arena surrounding the       disposal of nuclear waste,       where it has informed the debate on safety and helped deliver economic and       environmental       benefits.
Throughout the impact period the methods established for screening LAB       cultures for EPS       production have been adopted by industry.
Initially applied to fermented       milks, the techniques are       now used for various fermented products with functional properties.
For       example the personal care       industry has recruited EPSs as agents for modifying the viscosity and       performance of personal       care products.
The methods developed at Huddersfield for characterizing       EPSs have been       adopted by Croda (Europe) who have acknowledged that our work has provided       `valuable input to         development of our strategy for characterizing product candidates' [A].
The work has also guided government research organisations outside the       UK.
For instance, the       Spanish Dairy Institute (Instituto de Productos Lacteos de Astruias &#8212;       IPLA) is currently using the       results of Huddersfield's research into EPSs from bifidobacteria to       identify specific mutant cultures       that are good EPS producers and have proven health benefits.
IPLA       scientists have described       Huddersfield's contribution to the Institute's ongoing work in this field       as having `pivotal importance'       in strengthening the research direction of the Probiotic group [B].
A number of patents have also cited the research, including United States       patent number US       73232 B2, which was granted in January 2008 to Luc De Vuyst and Bart       Degeest, of Vrije       Universiteit Brussel, for a method for preparing yoghurt and other       fermented milk products using a       starter culture with an EPS-producing micro-organism [C].
A number of agencies with responsibility for developing the safety case       for proposed underground       storage facilities for nuclear waste have drawn on Huddersfield's       expertise in modelling the       microbial decomposition of cellulose and gas generation.
This work was       funded through several       successful bids for research contracts from the UK's Nuclear       Decommissioning Authority (&#163;65,000       during the impact period [G5, G6]) and Ontario Power Generation       (OPG), which is responsible for       Canada's nuclear waste disposal facilities.
Acknowledging their       significance, researchers from       SERCO, the National Nuclear Laboratories and other UK universities have       contributed       experimental data for use in Humphreys' computational models.
As a result,       Huddersfield's work       has helped shaped UK and Canadian government policy in this increasingly       important area.
This is       evidenced by Huddersfield's contributions to a series of key position       papers and technical       documents, chief among them 2010's Near Field Evolution Status Report,         Radionuclide Behaviour         Status Report and Gas Status Report for the NDA [D-F]       and 2011's Environmental Impact       Statement Summary and Postclosure Safety Assessment for OPG [G-H].
The latter relate to OPG's proposed Deep Geologic Repository (DGR)       Project for Low and       Intermediate Level Waste at the Bruce nuclear facility in the Municipality       of Kincardine.
Huddersfield's work has been crucial to what OPG has described as "a         thorough, traceable, step-wise         assessment process" to identify the potential environmental       repercussions of all phases of the       project.
Humphreys' modelling has helped to demonstrate the likely effects       of microbial       decomposition in the years following closure, leading to the conclusion       that the repository will take       "hundreds of thousands or even millions of years" to re-saturate.
A       public hearing into the project,       which was the first of its kind in Canada, took place in September 2013.
Dr Humphreys contributed       as a `microbiology expert' and his comments are cited in the transcript of       the meeting [I].
If       approved, the DGR is expected to be operational by 2018.
In the UK the NDA has suggested the building of such facilities will       bring about not just major       environmental benefits but considerable economic impacts.
It has been       estimated that the initial       work to investigate the potential geology at a selected candidate site       would require an average of       around 440 staff and take around 10 years to complete; construction would       require 840 staff; and       operation would require 560 staff.
Huddersfield's work in this field is       therefore helping to lay the       foundations for what experts believe will be a major new industry.
