     Ndekugri's research has resulted in the publication of a highly regarded       textbook on building       contracts the first edition of which won the Gold Award of the CIOB's       Literary Awards Scheme       (Reference 4 on corroboration).
This was an international competition with       judges drawn from the       ranks of expert practitioners under the chairmanship of an academic.
It is       now established as a       practitioner's handbook on building contracts.
It has been observed by our       many informants that it       is not uncommon for a disputant, on arrival at the hearing of a dispute       with a copy of the book, to       notice that the other side as well as the tribunal also have copies on       their tables.
The use of the       book as a key reference on hotly contested issues has now been       corroborated.
In a review of the       book, Roger ter Haar QC (ter Haar 2010), a leading London Silk, compared       it favourably with       Keating on Construction Contracts, which has been revered for over       half a century as the       practitioner's "bible" on construction contracts.
Most of the research has been carried out with outreach activities       heavily subscribed to by       practitioners and policy makers.
For example, the passing of the HGCRA was       greeted in the       construction industry with alarm because of Parliament's unprecedented       intervention into private       contracts and the imposition of what was perceived as an impossibly tight       timetable for the       resolution of complex construction disputes.
This legislation sparked off       such a furore in the       construction industry that when our research team was invited by the       Society of Construction Law       to present the first ever survey into adjudication practice under the new       legislation, more than 200       practitioners attended.
The presentation provoked extensive debate from       the floor.
This event was       followed by a national conference in Wolverhampton on 20 November 2001 at       which more than       100 practitioners also attended.
Leading practitioners were invited and       made presentations on       identified areas of controversy.
This conference was so successful that it       attracted the attention of       the national Construction Press (e.g., Construction News of 13th       Dec 2001).
Wolverhampton has       continued to be a centre of excellence for CPD on dispute resolution based       on internationally       leading research.
With funding from the EPSRC and collaboration from the universities of       Leeds and Reading,       Ndekugri's research has resulted in the establishment of FIDIC-NET, an       international network of       experts on, and users of, the FIDIC family of construction contracts.
The       Network Steering       Committee included a former judge, representatives of FIDIC and       international contractors, the       academics and a Partner of Fenwick Elliott (a construction law firm       adjudged No.
1 in the UK for       many years).
Four international workshops were run with participation from       engineers and lawyers       from many countries.
The website developed as part of the project was       gradually populated with       articles, workshop reports and PowerPoint presentations prepared as part       of the activities of the       Network.
On account of their determination that Ndekugri's research       offered solutions to some of       the problems often encountered in the procurement of infrastructure in       developing countries, the       Rome-based International Development Law Organisation (IDLO) invited       Ndekugri to develop and       deliver a training workshop on international contracts to engineers and       lawyers from developing       countries on 12-13 November 2012.
The event received a score of 4.38 out       of 5 by delegates       (Evidence: Reference 9 &#8212; A Workshop Evaluation Report prepared by Val&#233;rie       Robert of IDLO).
The research into international contracts was also designed to achieve       impact simultaneously with       the research in three main ways.
Firstly, representatives of organisations       with a say on the content       of international contracts were involved as part of the research steering       committee or workshop       presenters to highlight their positions on certain matters.
For example,       membership of the original       research steering committee included international lawyers and       representatives of FIDIC and the       European International Contractors group.
To get the position of the World       Bank and the other       Multilateral Development Banks the three most senior managers in the       Procurement Department of       the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development made presentations.
Secondly,       workshops were deliberately designed to stimulate debate.
Thirdly, the       general membership of the       Network were sent newsletters highlighting the discussions at the       workshops and encouraged to       continue the debates using the Network's online discussion forum.
The       debates stimulated by       FIDIC-NET informed subsequent amendments to the contract (Reference 8).
Edward Corbett of       Corbett &amp; Co, a leading firm of specialist international construction       lawyers provides testimony on       the continuing impact of FIDIC-NET whilst Peter Chapman may be contacted       to corroborate the       contribution of FIDIC-NET to best practice in the use of Dispute Boards.
