     Knowledge Transfer Partnerships     Our work on the implementation of BIM for prefabrication led to a KTP       with Banro Holdings Ltd. which transformed the company's working practices       and aided it in increasing the number of projects they could handle,       whilst improving efficiency of prefabrication projects within the company.
The project was independently assessed as grade B (Very Good) by       reviewers.
Benefits included a substantial profit increase (http://www.ktponline.org.uk/case-study-search/862/KTP_BanroHoldings_754.pdf).
In 2010 our research in the BIM area led to the establishment of a highly       successful KTP with Severn Partnership Ltd. and the practical       implementation of 3D modelling and Scan2BIM within the company.
As a       consequence of the KTP, the company is now one of the leading suppliers of       Scan2BIM for the construction industry.
The company's reach went global,       resulting in increased turnover and profitability (http://www.wlv.ac.uk/default.aspx?page=33962)       (References 1&amp; 2).
The project was shortlisted for two business awards       and received a Grade A (Outstanding) from the independent review process.
Building on our Augmented Reality and BIM research, a second KTP was       successfully established with Severn Partnership and is currently       on-going.
Results from this KTP are already extremely positive and a new       sister company has been established based on the work undertaken (http://www.seeable.co.uk).
We have just won a new KTP to focus on the application of ICT to enhance       health and safety in the rail sector.
This work will further bring       together our research in the areas of BIM, Augmented Reality and Health       and Safety.
Our expertise in the field of BIM is now having significant regional and       national impacts on the construction industry.
In the last 24 months we       have operated a substantial number of Innovation Vouchers funded by the       TSB.
These have assisted companies in developing BIM implementation       strategies.
We have held conferences on BIM implementation (http://www.ciat.org.uk/en/media_centre/news_and_events/events.cfm/freebimfree#.UmAidmTJEuc)       for the construction industry and Heesom now sits on several committees,       including the CIAT national BIM group and the Midlands BIM Hub.
In       addition, the expertise derived from our research activities within the       field of BIM has led to an on-going collaboration with the Construction       Industry Training Board (CITB) and the National Construction College (NCC)       to deliver state-of-the-art seminars on the topic around the UK (for       example, see http://www.fmb.org.uk/grow-your-business/training/green-building/building-information-modelling)       Over 30 seminars have been delivered all over the UK to over 600       construction practitioners (Reference 3).
CPD and Training     Over 150 construction professionals have been trained through various CPD       programmes organised by the then UK West Midlands Centre for Constructing       Excellence (WMCCE), the University of Wolverhampton, the Council for the       Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) and the Abu Dhabi Police       Force, UAE (Reference 4).
Stimulation of Practitioner Debates     One of the principal ways of achieving this impact has been through       membership of key decision-making bodies in industry.
For example, Oloke       has been a member of the ICE Health and Safety Expert Panel since 2005       (Reference 5), a role through which he participates in the work of several       practice sub-panels and contributes to topical issues (e.g.
the on-going       consultation towards revision of the CDM Regulations).
He is the current       Chairman of the ICE's Health and Safety Register Working Group, which has       the delegated authority of developing and promoting policies for the ICE       Construction Health and Safety Register.
Practitioner debate has also been       stimulated by our team's contributions to workshops for practitioners.
Sometimes publications come to the attention of the professional       institutions and they are found important enough to warrant a Press       Release either to influence the practice of their members or stimulate       debate.
Our work on corporate manslaughter exemplifies this type of       impact.
The ICE found the outcomes of Ndekugri's study (Ndekugri 2013) so       instructive to consulting engineers that they issued a Press Release       bringing it to the attention of their members (Reference 6).
Contribution to Best Practice Guidelines     Our health and safety research has made a very important contribution to       the ICE in their development of guidance on best practice in health and       safety management, which is now available as a manual (Reference 7).
Oloke       also contributed extensively to the development of the London 2012 Safety,       Environmental and Health Manual for the procurement of the infrastructure       for the 2012 London Olympics (Reference 8).
Our work on delay analysis has       been incorporated by the International Association of Advances in Cost       Engineering into their practice guidance on forensic analysis of delay       (Reference 9).
