     The impact derived from Alldridge's research relates to his work with the       Law Commission Bribery Advisory Group from 2007 and the subsequent advice       on the draft Bribery Bill in 2009 and the Bribery Act in 2010.
This impact       arose from earlier advisory work on the draft Corruption Bill in 2003 and       evidence given to the OECD delegation on bribery in international business       transactions, which are outside the REF impact assessment period but which       provide contextual background to the later impact achieved.
As a result of       Alldridge's involvement in this legal formation, the UK now has a reformed       law of bribery, which is compliant with the requirements of the OECD       convention.
Earlier contextual advice and evidence on corruption and bribery           (2003-2008)       In 2003, the government introduced a draft Corruption Bill (Jan 2003, Cm       5777), for consideration by a Joint Parliamentary Committee.
This draft       Bill itself was based on the Law Commission's 1998 report, and contained a       defence of consent, premised on the view that the principal-agent nexus       stood at the heart of bribery law.
The procedure around bills is designed       to enable a parliamentary committee to consider a range of possible       solutions to a problem, and so the Committee (chaired by Lord Slynn of       Hadley) appointed Alldridge (who took a different view of the law,       reflected in his published work) as specialist adviser.
Alldridge wrote       many of the questions put by the Committee to witnesses before it,       including all those put to Lord Falconer (the Lord Chancellor) and Lord       Goldsmith (the Attorney General).
The Report from the Joint Committee on       the Draft Corruption Bill also contained an annex written by Professor       Alldridge setting out his views: `Annex 4: Note by Peter Alldridge,       specialist adviser, on locating the harm in bribery and corruption &#8212; an       alternative approach' (www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200203/jtselect/jtcorr/157/157.pdf).
Related to this activity, in 2004 and 2008 the Working Group on Bribery       in International Business Transaction of the OECD conducted site visits to       the UK.
Such visits are the primary means by which the `soft law'       obligations set out in the Convention are enforced (OECD Convention       Article 12).
The purpose of the visit was to encourage the UK government       to enact legislation on bribery.
The OECD's visits were motivated by its       increasing concern that the UK government was not complying with its       obligations under the Convention.
As part of this process, the delegation       interviewed witnesses, including academic experts.
Alldridge gave evidence       to this delegation in 2004 and 2008.
In its 2008 report, the Working Group       cited the view of panelists consulted (including Alldridge) that the       consent of a principal should not constitute a defence in bribery cases,       and noted (para 39) that: "principal consent at a minimum interferes with       the investigation and prosecution of foreign bribery cases in practice."
(www.oecd.org/dataoecd/23/20/41515077.pdf)     Membership of the Law Commission Bribery Advisory Group and           alteration of consent defence principle       Assembled from March 2007, Alldridge was a member of the Law Commission       Bribery Advisory Group, in which he continued to put his view forward to       the British civil service.
Alldridge's interventions were crucial in       altering the British government's position on the consent defence.
In a       consultation paper produced in 2007, the Law Commission adhered to its       previous position that bribery is a crime against loyalty and not the       market (Law Commission Consultation Paper No 185, Reforming Bribery (LCCP       185, 2007)).
It set out an answer to the position expounded by Alldridge       (in Annex 4 to the Report from the Joint Committee on the Draft Corruption       Bill) in an appendix (Appendix D &#8212; `The Harm in Bribery &#8212; Individual or       Market-Based?'
pp.
264-279).
The Commission felt that bribery should not       be conceived as anti-competitive behaviour (which was sufficiently       prevented by other offences).
Instead, it recommended a version of the       bribery offence that turned upon the existence, among other things, of       prior duties (to act impartially, to act in good faith or to be in a       position of trust).
During the consultation period, which ran until March       2008, Alldridge gave a paper to a conference at the Home Office (later       published [1]), which pointed out the flaws in this approach.
He showed       that some of the duties envisaged by the Law Commission could only be       found in contracts, usually contracts of employment.
Since they were set       out in contracts, they could be altered by contracts, and where this       occurred, it would create a defence of the consent of the principal.
Alldridge showed that bribery laws all over the world are directed to       protect competition.
As a result of this paper, the Law Commission changed its view.
It       produced a further report in 2008 (Law Commission 313, Reforming         Bribery), which refers to Alldridge's 2008 paper published in Criminal         Law Review (2008) [1] and accepted that the argument made was "a       very important objection" (para 3.91).
It also made substantial changes to       the proposal in the Consultation Paper.
In particular, the Commission       accepted (finally, but not expressly) that bribery is a crime directed       against anti-competitive behaviour and replaced the idea of `duty' with       one of reasonable expectation, thereby avoiding the problem to which       Alldridge had drawn attention.
Advice on the draft Bribery Bill (2009)       In 2009, the Government introduced a draft Bribery Bill along the lines       proposed by the Law Commission.
Alldridge was again appointed specialist       adviser to the Committee, this time chaired by Viscount Colville.
He       contributed to questions and the debate in the Committee and to a report,       which was much more clearly focused upon ensuring compliance to the OECD       Convention.
The Committee reported in July 2009 (29 July 2009 HL 115 HC       430 I and II).
It endorsed the Bill, which was vastly improved compared to       the 2003 Bill.
Thanks were given to Alldridge for his contribution.
In       2010, the Bribery Act was passed, and came into force in April 2011.
Alldridge's work had a wide reach during the process of reform.
Firstly,       his work had an impact on the parliamentary process, where he acted as a       specialist advisor to two Joint Committees on Draft Bills on corruption       and bribery, one of which took place during the REF2014 period.
Secondly,       he had an impact on the Law Commission, which drew up the legislation,       shaping key aspects of the legislation.
Thirdly, both prior to and during       the REF2014 period, he had an impact on the Organisation of Economic       Co-operation and Development's Working Group on Bribery in International       Business Transactions, which sought to ensure that the United Kingdom       complied with its obligations under the Paris Convention on the Bribery of       Foreign Public Officials.
Fourthly, beyond such official bodies,       Alldridge's research has influenced public understanding of bribery in       international business transactions.
He explained and analysed this issue       during the period of reform in numerous interviews with news and broadcast       media (including the New York Times, the BBC and CNN), and at       seminars and symposia open to non-academic audiences.
The outcome of this       research &#8212; the legislation itself &#8212; has had a reach not merely to the       United Kingdom, but to all business transactions worldwide.
