     In early 2009, semiconductor researchers working within the School held       the first of a series of meetings with senior technologists at the e2v       facility in Lincoln to explore the strengthening of informal links between       the two groups, which date back over 20 years.
e2v, a company with over       1500 employees and a turnover, in 2013, of &#163;200M, manufacture a wide range       of electronic devices including high-frequency oscillators, which exploit       the negative differential resistance arising from the Gunn effect in III-V       semiconductors.
These devices, which are grown by MBE and fabricated using       semiconductor processing techniques in cleanrooms, are supplied to the       aerospace, military and automobile industrial sectors, mainly for use in       radar systems.
The interest within the School in strengthening links with e2v arose from       the growing research portfolio of theoretical and experimental studies of       high-frequency (&gt;100GHz) oscillators, which had been identified by our       semiconductor researchers as having the potential for commercial       exploitation.
Within e2v, the motivating factors were: their common       interest in enhanced high-frequency devices; their strategic aim to       develop closer interactions with leading semiconductor research groups       with complementary interests; the new opportunities for collaboration       between Nottingham and e2v in the areas of nitride semiconductors,       resonant tunnelling, THz acoustics and device modelling.
The initial discussions subsequently expanded in scope to encompass not       only research collaborations, but also the relocation of the company's       microwave semiconductor facility from a site in Lincoln; the company were       at that time exploring options to re-locate their activity to a site with       higher-quality clean-room infrastructure.
The infrastructure for       nanofabrication which the School has built up over the last 25 years (MBE       growth, nanofabrication, our extensive capability for electronic and       optoelectronic characterisation, and access to clean rooms and the       associated technical and research personnel) provided strong motivation       for e2v to move to Nottingham.
The discussions with e2v then followed a dual-track process, encompassing       both research collaboration and relocation.
The initial focus of       collaborative research was on the adaption of the numerical techniques       described in Section 2, which were developed by Fromhold, to the       modelling of silicon p-i-n diodes.
In our approach the whole device &#8212;       including the contacts, energy bands, and scattering processes &#8212; was       included in the model.
This was of particular interest to e2v, and proved       crucial for obtaining quantitative agreement between the calculated and       measured device characteristics.
In collaboration with e2v, Fromhold       modified his model so that it could be used to calculate electrical       characteristics of devices that are used by e2v in receiver-protection       systems.
This activity was initially supported through a successful application to       the EPSRC Knowledge Transfer Secondment (KTS) scheme (&#163;40k:       01/11/2010-30/10/2011) and, by the end of the funded period, software for       calculations of the static characteristics of the diodes had been       transferred to e2v who now use the package as part of their component       testing and quality control procedures.
In a follow-up study supported by       a TSB Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) (&#163;194k: 36 months from autumn       2012; 50% funding from e2v) the simulation software is being extended to       include coupling to the electromagnetic environment (to model       high-frequency characteristics) and variation of material properties.
The       market for systems which includes these components is worth close to &#163;3M       per year to e2v, and our collaborative work has promoted a shift of e2v's       investment priorities to include the development of in-house software to       simulate device characteristics.
In parallel, discussions on the relocation of e2v progressed to involve       their Board of Directors, and the University of Nottingham Management       Board, leading to the establishment of a formal collaboration.
The       collaboration is based on three contracts spanning a 5-year period from       October 2010 with a commitment of &#163;1M from e2v [A], including an initial       capital investment of &#163;0.35M.
These contracts cover: the construction of a       90 m2 purpose-built ISO Class 7 (Class 10000) manufacturing and       research cleanroom [B]; the lease of the cleanroom and additional office       space to e2v [C]; service and collaboration agreements [D] with the School       (Nottingham PI Mellor, Associate Professor in Physics).
The latter       covers protection of intellectual property, access by e2v to School       facilities (workshops, another nanofabrication cleanroom, and plasma       deposition equipment, which e2v now use in their manufacturing processes),       and commits the partners to knowledge transfer collaboration.
The       commitment of the School to this joint venture is evident through our       appointment of an Experimental Officer with expertise in commercial       semiconductor device manufacture to work with the e2v staff and build the       collaboration.
In addition, a Hermes fellowship (a University-administered       scheme funded by the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) to support       innovation and business engagement) was awarded to Patan&#232; to work       with e2v on new sources and detectors of high-frequency (GHz-THz)       radiation based on semiconductor superlattices (see Grant (ii) in Section       3).
The e2v facility was completed in 2011 and has since been operated by two       senior e2v engineers.
The physical relocation of e2v has led to an       acceleration of knowledge transfer to the company.
In addition to the       general support provided through our infrastructure and expertise, we       highlight the growth of SiO2 layers by PECVD (as described in       Section 2) on 3-inch wafers.
These wafers are used by e2v to manufacture       high-frequency oscillators, and the high quality of the oxide layers that       we developed for etch masks (see Section 2) proved critical in this       fabrication process.
In addition we have used our experience in the       control of doping profiles to grow GaAs layers using MBE for e2v.
These       layers were processed into varactor diodes used by e2v to tune       high-frequency circuitry.
The e2v manufacturing activity, which draws       heavily on our research infrastructure, has been successfully embedded in       the School; sales of components manufactured in the facility since its       launch in 2011 amount to approximately &#163;7M (&#163;3M/annum) [A].
The Group Chief Technology Officer of e2v has stated [E]:     `e2v made the decision to relocate our microwave semiconductor device         manufacturing facility to the School of Physics &amp; Astronomy at         Nottingham primarily because of the facilities, skills base and closely         aligned research interests.
We were also attracted by the School's         excellent track record of research and its world leading expertise and         the synergy with e2v's long term ambitions.
The success of this         initiative has already been demonstrated through the transfer of         modelling and processing techniques originally applied to fundamental         aspects of device physics to e2v's design and manufacturing processes.
Notably amongst these; the device simulation of p-i-n diodes, the         deposition of oxides used in our commercial production and the supply of         semiconductor layers grown by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE).'
The e2v-Nottingham activities are supported by the Nottingham Steering       Group in Microwave Semiconductor Devices, established in 2010, with a       membership including senior e2v staff.
At knowledge transfer meetings,       held 3 times a year, semiconductor researchers within the School present       their research and identify, in discussion with e2v, pathways to       exploitation.
These meetings have led to changes, at Board level, of the       company strategy for high-frequency device manufacture and development.
To       this end, e2v have identified and prioritised routes for translating our       research into new and improved products, as articulated in their Strategic       Action Plan (STRAP).
The first priority of this road map was to develop       better sources and detectors of GHz and THz radiation, building on our       expertise in modelling and the growth of nitride semiconductors.
A further significant benefit to e2v of the new facility is the       mitigation of risk from import restrictions arising from the US       International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).
The company is       vulnerable to changes in these regulations and the new, Nottingham-based       facility provides additional flexibility for the company to access and       manufacture components from an ITAR free source [A].
e2v's Chief Engineer,       Microwave Semiconductor Devices confirms the strategic importance of their       link with Nottingham,     `I'm glad to report that the research at Nottingham has further guided         strategic thinking at board level, with regard to technology and product         road maps (including the company's STRAP).
These collaborative         activities will open new markets and opportunities for us and         importantly will enable us to move up the supply chain and provide our         customers with solutions for systems.
Of particular increasing         importance is our joint ability to provide new and novel compound         semiconductor technology and components from an ITAR free source.'
[A].
