     The UK CSIP is coordinated by IOZ and primarily funded by the UK       Government to comply with       specific national and international conservation agreements (e.g.
ASCOBANS       and OSPAR) and       European legislation (including EC Habitats Directives and the Marine       Strategy Framework       Directive).
The first identification of by-catch in UK-stranded common       dolphins led to realisation of       the need among scientists and policy makers better to understand and       quantify the population level       impact of the phenomenon in exposed species in UK and European waters.
For       example, it       resulted in numerous UK Government and EU-funded independent       observer-based studies to       quantify cetacean by-catch in commercial fisheries and develop mitigation       measures to reduce       unsustainable cetacean by-catch rates in specific European fisheries [a].
Diagnostic criteria for       cetacean by-catch developed by CSIP are still widely used today in UK [b]       and overseas [c,d].
As a result of our work on gas embolism, the Spanish Government imposed a       ban on high       powered naval sonars in the vicinity of the Canary Islands.
This ban was       recently hailed as a major       conservation success since no further mass stranding events (MSEs)       occurred since the ban was       imposed (including 2008-2013 period) [e].
The Canary Islands were       formerly a "global hotspot" for       beaked whale MSEs so the ban is likely to have prevented several MSEs       during the REF period.
The European Parliament also issued a non-binding resolution to stop the       deployment of high-       intensity sonars within the EU until the completion of a global assessment       of its cumulative effects       on marine life following initial publication of our gas embolism findings       [e].
The IOZ-led CSIP investigation into the 2008 common dolphin mass       stranding event (MSE) in       Cornwall concluded that concurrent naval exercises in the area were the       most probable cause, led       to specific revisions to the mitigation of Royal Navy activities including       a direct role for CSIP       scientists in early reporting of near-shore groups of pelagic cetaceans to       Royal Naval Command in       Portsmouth [f,g].
The 2008 MSE investigation also led to the       establishment of the Marine       Underwater Sound Stakeholders Forum (MUSSF) convened by the UK Government       (Defra and       Ministry of Defence) to specifically discuss and improve the environmental       mitigation of naval       activities and of which IOZ continues to form an integral part.
The MUSSF       was later subsumed into       the Underwater Sound Forum with additional input from the oil and gas       industry [g].
In relation to chemical contaminants, the CSIP and CEFAS (under Robin       Law) were specifically       funded to monitor long-trends trends in chemical contaminant exposure in       direct compliance with       several conservation agreements/legislation.
This CSIP-CEFAS underpinning       research utilises a       sentinel marine mammal apex predator - the UK-stranded harbour porpoise (Phocoena         phocoena).
CSIP-CEFAS data on accumulating levels of brominated       flame retardants in UK-       stranded porpoise blubber in the 1990s contributed directly to the EU-wide       ban of the commercial       penta- and octa-mix polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) products in 2004       [h].
Following that       PBDE ban, CSIP underpinning science showed statistically significant and       consistent declines in       porpoise tissue concentrations of brominated diphenyl ethers (BDEs)       including the 2008-2012       period [h].
For organochlorine pesticides, CSIP-CEFAS data shows       statistically significant and       consistent declines in organochlorine pesticide concentrations (such as       DDTs and dieldrin)       including 2008-2012 [h].
CSIP-CEFAS underpinning studies again       show a decline in HBCD       concentrations in UK-stranded porpoises including the 2008-2012 period [h].
Collectively, these       long-term studies show that the EU bans (or ongoing risk assessment for       HCBD) resulting from       CSIP underpinning science have been highly effective in reducing the       bioaccumulation of several       classes of chemical pollutants (including organochlorine pesticides and       brominated flame       retardants) in a sentinel marine top predator and in the wider European       marine environment [h].
In contrast, and despite being banned for over three decades,       underpinning scientific studies for       PCBs have shown that concentrations in UK-stranded harbour porpoises have       remained stable       since 1997 and regularly exceed established thresholds for mammalian       toxicity including the REF       period [i].
The impact of our research on PCBs in marine top       predators is that urgent scientific,       policy and management steps are urgently needed to try to reduce their       concentrations and       associated impacts [h,i].
