 In an increasingly urban society often alienated from nature, CORG's impact activity is designed to encourage an exploration of the complex relationship between humans and animals by presenting new research on the past relationships.
Since 2007 three activity pathways have have been designed to attract audiences traditionally unaware of the type of research under scrutiny.
1.
Developing new audiences for zooarchaeological research One pathway, Guerilla Archaeology (GA) (5.3), works with creative arts organisations to deliver interdisciplinary workshops at music and arts festivals.
GA provokes public response by enabling individuals to co-create a past rooted in CORG's research.
Provocative topics and performances (Shamans vs Goddesses, Animal Symbolism and Sacrifice, Farmers vs Hunters, Animals and Artefacts) that relate to CORG research are used to interact with 15-35 year-olds (identified as the group most alienated from science, Public Attitudes to Science, 2011, RCUK).
The reach of GA is documented by visitor counts, outputs and images (5.4) with over 8,000 people attending workshops to date, and more than 5,000 participating in either a creative or discursive event.
Since April 2012 social media and digital resources have logged more than 16,000 visits to the GA website, and hundreds regularly follow and comment on GA activities via social media (e.g.
individual Facebook posts reach 1.5K, 800 Twitter followers).
As an example, in 2012 GA created interdisciplinary workshops (Shamanic Street Preachers) focused on research into the early prehistory of British human:animal relations, supported by online resources, `gateway' artefacts and artistic collaborations.
Our production of experimental recreations of Mesolithic antler head-dresses engendered a broader debate among those participating on shamanic/ritual and practical interpretations of animal remains, including a feature within the TimeTeam `Mesolithic Tsumani' programme (broadcast June 2013).
Other GA workshops in 2012-13 (5.3, 5.4) were delivered at five British music festivals (Glastonbury, Green Man (5.5) Secret Garden Party, Wilderness (5.6), Shambala) and to a wider urban audience in shopping centres, museums, art centres and galleries.
Research indicates that festival participants derive from a broad array of social, economic and cultural groups with an average age of 28 years (UK Festival Report 2012).
Although GA targets 15-35 year-olds, we interact with an increasing number of 35 plus (e.g.
Glastonbury 2013 profile: 25-39 38%, 40-64 36%) and a similar proportion of males and females (51% to 49%).
Secret Productions (who organised two of the events) attest that the response to the mixture of art, science and creativity Guerilla Archaeology use `has been fantastic and attracted large audiences.
The collaboration between academic staff and creative artists ... provided festivalgoers with a novel and unexpected way of encountering research and brought an entirely new dimension to our various events.
Face-to-face conversations, provocations and interactions provide a level of accessibility, authenticity and audience impact that speakers alone cannot hope to achieve' (5.6).
The significance of our impact is further evidenced in the statements of 98% of workshop participants who agree that CORG research (delivered via GA workshops) has changed the way they think about animals and report an increased understanding and appreciation of the human:animal relationship.
Qualitative analysis has revealed an enhanced sense of history and tradition &#8212; As one participant commented, `I can see now that people in ancient times were not simply savages &#8212; they were more civilised than we are now &#8212; they had respect and never wasted a thing, if they killed an animal they would use every bit of it (M, 40-64)' The most common words in our feedback clouds are `interesting, inspiring, enlightening and educational' (5.3).
2.
Provoking reflections on past, present and future relationships with animals Another pathway, Future Animals (started 2009, partnered with Amgueddfa Cymru National Museum Wales (ACNMW)), led to a series of intensive workshops and exhibitions exploring human:animal relations via the medium of art and was targeted at 14-16-year-olds.
Working with an artist, participants in three workshops were challenged to design the pets and farm animals of the future, in response to our research that explored animal manipulation in the past.
These `Future Animal' images then formed the springboard for a discussion of the ethics of ancient, modern and future animal breeding.
Survey and filmed interviews revealed an increased awareness of historical, biological, cultural and ethical aspects of domestication.
`Future Animal' images, accompanied by an explanatory film, were presented to the public in a NMW exhibition (spring 2010) and the Museum Education Officer comments that it was `a highly successful project in bringing together academics, teachers, artists, museum staff, university postgraduates and young people.
The use of art and archaeology to explore the ethics of animal breeding was truly innovative' (5.1).
The public response was captured via an invitation to produce their own `Future Animals' for display and an estimated 1500 annotated images of animals were produced.
Discussion has also been generated by a live-streamed TEDx 2012 talk by Mulville (5.2), with a direct audience of more than 1600.
`Future Animals' and TEDx have also featured in debates on perceptions of wild animals at a `SciScreen' at Chapter Arts Centre, Cardiff, a public forum that discusses contemporary developments in science and facilitates debate on the wider social and cultural implications of these advances.
The resources created have led to participatory workshops at scouts/guides events, and in schools (as far afield as Turkey and Kazakhstan), museums and universities.
[5.3] 3.
Stimulating artistic responses to human animal relationships Alongside working with museum and festival curators (5.1, 5.5, 5.6), CORG has worked with visual artists (e.g.
Paul Evans: Future Animals, Shamanic Street Preachers, Mind in the Cave) and re-enactors, and changed their practices.
Evans (5.5) joined CORG as a Leverhulme funded Artist-in-Residence and explored skeletal form, the symbolic meaning of animals, the zooarchaeological process and the materiality of osteological remains, and has become an important part of the GA team.
Evans reports `My collaboration with Dr Mulville and Guerilla Archaeology has had a substantial impact on my professional practice ... my understanding of the human:animal relationship has been substantially broadened and enriched ...
In fact every conversation triggers a new set of ideas and new avenues to explore &#8212; a genuinely rhizomatic and inspiring network of knowledge and ideas that, as long as the relationship continues, will provide enough material for a lifetime of creative practice' (5.7).
He presents his work in a series of highly successful blogs (e.g.
Osteography (Leverhulme) 32,000 hits) and has produced artworks, public exhibitions (e.g.
Animal Magic, June 2013, Derby Museum), workshops, and seminars.
CORG has also worked with musicians (Dylan Adams: Shamanic Street Preachers) and shamanic ethnographers /practitioners (e.g.
Dr Henry Droselda: SSP) whohave expanded their artistic practices to incorporate our research themes within their work.
Our interest in animals as artefacts and materials has also inspired creativity in re-enactors, costumiers and crafts people (5.8).
