     4.1.
Impact claims     This research has generated positive impact at the following levels:             Economic &#8212; through organisational beneficiaries having access         to improved (H&amp;S) processes;        Public policy and services &#8212; through informing HSE         guidance/website and UK/US armed forces personnel;        Society &#8212; through enhanced workplace welfare and the reduction         of costs to society from workplace H&amp;S incidents;        Health and Welfare &#8212; human beneficiaries whose quality of life         has been protected through mitigation of workplace risks;        Practitioners and services &#8212; organisational beneficiaries whose         H&amp;S regimes have benefited from technical guidance; and        The Environment &#8212; groups of individuals that gain from improved         workplace safety.
4.2.
Impact evidence     The products of CBIE's continuing research into plant and machinery       health and safety management are now universally accepted as being a prime       source of reliable professional practice standards and health and safety       guidance.
Hand-arm vibration.
Edwards and Holt designed the hand-arm       vibration test centre (HAVTEC) which provides freely accessible       independent data on power tools vibration emissions.
This source is highly       respected, endorsed by the construction industry and major hire companies       such as A-Plant and utilised internationally by a broad spectrum of public       and private sectors organisations.
Edwards is the sole academic       representative on the HSE's Noise and Vibration Partnership group (a       position held to this day) and Holt is a regular peer referee for HSE       vibration related publications, technical guidance and web content.
BBUSL       and Ashstead Plant Hire Limited, Speedy Hire and GAP (who between them       represent 80 percent of the UK plant and equipment hire market) and now       use HAV guidance documents throughout their outlets designed on this       research.
An `at-a-glance' A1 HAV poster especially intended for the       workplace designed by Edwards and Holt, is also used in such outlets and,       among research institutes, professional practices, government bodies, The       US Department of Defense [sic] and international industry.
CBIE's excavator stability research led to the production of a technical       report that was submitted to the OPERC trade body for publication and       distribution amongst sponsoring organisations.
The results and       recommendations of this work have extensively been used by several       companies within the utilities (including Morgan Est., Scottish and       Southern Electricity, BBUSL and Morrison Utilities) sector to change and       modify systems, procedures and processes that mitigate machine turnover       risk.
Tangential impact has also facilitated an improvement in the       training and competence assessment of operatives and management, to       equally mitigate risks through people's workplace mind-set and actions.
Organisational procurement processes now actively seek to purchase the       most inherently safe-by-design machines which equally have resulted from       impacting OEMs to engineer-in solutions.
Research on excavators being used as cranes has led to the publication of       two industry best practice standards that have been widely adopted and       endorsed by extensive array of prestigious blue chip companies.
These       companies include JCB, BBUSL, Costain, Mentor FLTT, Morrison Utilities,       Hewden Plant Hire and Finning (Caterpillar) UK.
In turn, this guidance has       influenced innovative manufacturing design (among sponsoring companies),       contributing to a reduction in fatalities involving these machines within       industry and provided industry with comprehensive training and educational       materials with which to implement safer systems of working.
It has also       influenced HSE policy.
