     Impact from this body of research can be divided into primary and       secondary impact.
Primary impact can be identified particularly in respect of the       influence of the research reports prepared for the DTI and BIS.
The findings of the 2005 report (2) were utilised in preparing the       Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, which implement       the UCPD into domestic law.
The Regulations repealed around 30 existing       pieces of consumer law and thereby greatly simplified this area of       legislation.
The partial Regulatory Impact Assessment published with the       consultation on the Regulations (URN 06/2122) contains a list of measures       to be repealed, and this was carried through into the regulations       (Schedules 2 and 4 to the 2008 Regulation contain a list of legislation       that was amended or repealed, which is based on the measures indentified       in the 2005 report).
This list reflects the recommendations made in the       report to simplify the overall regulatory landscape (having dismissed the       alternative of amending many measures to comply with the requirements of       the UCPD).
Between 2006 and 2010, Professor Twigg-Flesner (together with Deborah       Parry and Rick Canavan in some instances) were involved in a number of       meetings at the DTI/BIS to discuss the potential for further-reaching       reform of consumer law, building on the research undertaken in 2005.
These       discussions related, in particular, to the need to consolidate and       simplify the law relating to the sale and supply of goods.
As a result of       the discussions, in 2010 BIS commissioned research (1), and the resulting       report has influenced work (evidenced by references in consultation       documents and Explanatory Notes) leading towards the introduction of the       Consumer Rights Bill (draft bill published on 12 June 2013), which will       consolidate and simplify many of the provisions of the law relating to the       sale and supply of goods in one Act.
Since the report was finalised,       Professor Twigg-Flesner has been involved in further meetings with       officials at BIS about the potential scope for reform, based on the       research findings.
Secondary impact relates to the continuing involvement of       Professor Twigg-Flesner in advising BIS and the Law Commission on a number       of consumer law reform projects during the review period.
For example, the       research on the UCPD (especially in (2)) formed the basis for discussions       about the Law Commission's advice on a private right of redress (November       2008) and further pre-consultation discussions on consumer redress for       misleading and aggressive practices.
Based on published research (3) and (4), Professor Twigg-Flesner was       invited by House of Lords Select Committee on the European Union       (Sub-Committee G) to give written and oral evidence for its enquiry into       the proposed Consumer Rights Directive.
The written memorandum (published       in HL Paper 126-II, Evidence for 18th report, 2008-09 session)       was based on research (4) and (5), and oral evidence given on 26 March       1999 (transcript in HL Paper 126-II, pp.4-18).
His evidence was referred       to repeatedly in the final report (see Section 5) and the broad       conclusions of the report reflect the evidence given.
Underpinning report (1) was a collaboration with Geraint Howells       (University of Manchester) (who jointly edited the report with Professor       Twigg-Flesner), Andrew Bell and Annette Nordhausen Scholes (both       Manchester), and Chris Willett (De Montfort University).
Underpinning report (2) was a collaboration with Geraint Howells (then       Lancaster University) and Annette Nordhausen (then University of       Sheffield).
