     By disseminating research in practitioner oriented outlets and by       pro-actively engaging with policy-makers,       practitioners and service providers of RP, Johnstone has been able to       create opportunities       for putting the findings from his academic research into practice.
Dissemination of research       through papers in practitioner-oriented outlets (e.g.
source 1) and       presentations at numerous       practitioner conferences has helped secure a broader recognition of the       importance and practical       application of Johnstone's research (these include: `How Communities can       be Properly Involved in       Delivering Justice', National Association for the Care and Resettlement of       Offenders (NACRO),       Annual Conference, London, November 2005; `Policy oriented research on       restorative justice',       COST Action A21 Restorative Justice Developments in Europe, Final       Conference, November       2006, Warsaw Academy of Management; `Restorative Justice &#8212; Panacea or       misunderstood Tool?
',       International Probation Centenary Conference, Brewery Conference Centre,       May 2007; The       Challenges facing Restorative Justice in Europe', European Forum for       Restorative Justice,       Summer School, Barcelona, July 2009).
This has created opportunities for       direct collaboration with       users of RP, ranging from internationally-renowned activists to local       practitioners.
This approach       has helped ensure that Johnstone's research is relevant and accessible to       key stakeholders, such       as the Youth Justice Board, the Prison Service, Probation Trusts, and       Schools.
These general activities created opportunities for specific       collaborations with stakeholders and       users.
In 2008 Johnstone entered into a research partnership with the       Goodwin Development Trust       with the aim of auditing and evaluating RP in a local context.
This       research and findings would       underpin a report containing practical guidance for the GDT and other       organisations wishing to       implement restorative approaches in the workplace (see source 2).
In       particular, the research       identified the adverse impact on the use of RP from the absence of an       effective implementation       strategy.
It also identified the importance of securing RP in workplace       culture.
Johnstone initiated a KTP with Hull CC with the specific aim of building       on the previous findings       and helping Hull CC measure and improve the use of RP across the City       (source 3).
In particular,       Johnstone sought to enable `local' practitioners to take advantage of new       ways of thinking and       techniques about how to handle conflict and troublesome conduct.
The       research proceeded in       three stages.
Firstly it sought to ensure its relevance by collecting       local data from various services       experimenting with RPs and using this to develop a systematic measure of       `restorativeness' in Hull.
Secondly, it used ideas from Johnstone's general research and experiences       of working with other       users to create a restorative practices database which would (i) help       practitioners and service       developers to use RPs appropriately and effectively and (ii) provide tools       for management       evaluation of the impact this was having.
Thirdly, the research ideas and       outputs were       disseminated amongst local users through over a dozen seminars, workshops       and meetings       between 2008 and 2010.
Key participants and users of the research are       service providers in       policing, youth justice and schools over a 2 year period.
The ultimate beneficiaries of the research are 57,000 children and young       people (and increasingly       many adults) in Hull, and professionals working with them.
As a result of       the research and more       effective use of RP, people in Hull are increasingly using restorative       language and practices at       home, in schools and in other settings.
Service and business leaders       report that this is resulting in       significant reductions in youth offending; reduced truancy,       improved attitudes in classrooms and       improvements in educational attainment in Hull; higher levels of       well-being and happiness, and       improvement to internal workplace arrangements (the latter documented in       underpinning research,       pieces 4 &amp; 5).
For example, the business leaders who form the Hull and       East Yorkshire Bondholder       scheme link the effective and appropriate use of RPs with outcomes such       as:            a saving in policing costs, with a RP based system for young offenders         which cost         &#163;259,000 to introduce yielding a saving of &#163;3.5 million;       reduced entrants into the Youth Justice System by twice the national         average;       a 23 per cent reduction in custodial sentencing;       school engagement with difficult students and families at 95 per cent,         (pre-RP figures were         0-47 per cent);       classroom disruptions were reduced by 90 per cent;       savings of nearly &#163;60,000 per term in supply teaching costs;       anecdotal evidence of improved relationships and healing of rifts         between neighbours;         (see sources 5 &amp; 6)          These benefits have resulted from the guidance on appropriate and       effective use of restorative       practices advanced in the research, as informed by robust research into       international restorative       justice values and principles, and international standards of service       delivery.
