     Reforming international fisheries law is a long, difficult process.
It       begins by securing recognition of the problem at international and       domestic levels.
This requires the development of compelling case for       reform, one that is politically, economically and legally feasible.
This       case study shows how research on fisheries regulation conducted at the       University of Hull has informed high level political discussions and       shaped governmental attitudes towards the fisheries regulation.
It reached       and informed the views of civil society organisation (CSOs) and has       contributed to regulatory change.
Between 2007 and 2009, Barnes participated in the Commonwealth Fisheries       Programme (CFP).
This was designed to shape Commonwealth fisheries policy       and to promote sustainable fisheries and improve livelihoods of coastal       communities in developing countries (Source 1).
It was sponsored by the UK       Department for International Development, Australia's AUSAid, the       Commonwealth Human Ecology Council, and the Commonwealth Policy Studies       Unit.
Central to this programme was a state of the art report on       sustainable fisheries, compiled by 26 experts in different fields of study       &#8212; `From Hook to Plate': (Publication 1, Section 3).
As a known       expert on international fisheries law, Barnes was invited to contribute by       identifying legal impediments to sustainable fisheries regulation in the       Commonwealth.
The research fed into the CFP study tour (2008-9) to a dozen       developing States with the aim of promoting sustainable fisheries.
The       final research findings provided the case for and basis of options for       improving the international regulation of fisheries, subsequently taken by       a number of bodies.
Barnes' contribution to the Report identified and called for certain       measures:            participation of all Commonwealth States in key treaties &#8212; the UN         Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982, the UN Fish Stocks Agreement         1995, and the FAO Compliance Agreement (publication 1, p. 39);       capacity building to support implementation of the law, including         tackling IUU fishing (publication 1, p. 40);       the adoption of alternative regulatory measures (publication 1, p.         40).
These conclusions informed and influenced the position of numerous CSOs       (Sources 4 and 5).
The Port of Spain Statement 2009, representing the       views of over 800 CSOs across the Commonwealth called upon the       Commonwealth member states to endorse the recommendations in the `From       Hook to Plate' Report.
It called for States to commit to strengthening and       implementing international and regional obligations and mechanisms for the       protection, conservation and sustainable use of marine resources and       ecosystems, including systems for data collection on small scale, address       overfishing, control Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing,       and abuse of flags of convenience (Source 2, para 49).
Following the presentation of the report and the Port of Spain Statement,       the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) Communiqu&#233; 2009 was       adopted, representing the values and positions of the 49 countries that       attended the CHOGM (Source 3 below).
The communiqu&#233; was influenced by       Barnes' research and report which raised awareness, shaped political views       and helped secure recognition of the need for reform and strengthening of       certain legal commitments (Source 4 below).
The 2009 Communiqu&#233; was the       first to directly address the regulation of fisheries.
It specifically       responds to the issues raised in the research and report, acknowledging       that "the unsustainable exploitation of the world's fish stocks posed a       threat to food security and could lead to long-term economic losses of       depleted stocks" (para.
80).
The Heads of Government also "expressed       concern at the plunder caused by Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated       Fishing (IUU), in violation of, inter alia, the UN Convention on       the Law of the Sea and the FAO Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries"       (para.
80).
Finally, they "recognised that many developing states were       particularly vulnerable to illegal fishing by foreign fleets" (para 80).
In light of these problems, as presented in the report, the Heads of       Government agreed "that urgent action was needed to strengthen fisheries       and marine management in member states waters, particularly in the case of       the more vulnerable member states."
These issues remain on the       Commonwealth policy agenda and were reiterated in the Perth Declaration on       Food Security adopted at the CHOGM in 2011.
(Source 5 paras 7, 11, and       14).
Since the project started, a number of Commonwealth states have adopted       measures to tackle IUU fishing.
In 2009 Mozambique adopted a National Plan       of Action to address IUU fishing.
(Source 6).
As influenced by the       research, the Caribbean Regional Fisheries Mechanism adopted the Castries       Declaration on IUU Fishing on 28 July 2010 (Source 7, 8).
In 2010,       Mauritius adopted a National Plan of Action on IUU fishing (Source 9).
