     Holloway's music has had a broad and sustained social and cultural impact       through live performances, radio and television broadcasts, CD sales, and       internet download or streaming services (iTunes, eMusic, Spotify etc).
According to Jonathan Dove, his work suggests `limitless possibilities for       what music could be, how far it can go, how it can be made.
It is daring,       it is reckless, it is adventurous, it is romantic, it is       extraordinary...It shines a light out towards the horizon' (Section 5a,       dated 12.XI.11).
The `daring' and `recklessness' are inextricably bound up       with the allusive practices used so widely in Holloway's works: practices       which promote accessibility and reach in themselves, since listeners       familiar with the sources cited have an immediate key to interpreting the       new piece.
Along with certain other composers of his generation, Holloway       has played an important role in broadening the scope of contemporary       concert music and releasing it from the straitjacket of post-war       modernism.
Gilded Goldbergs has had eight performances since 2008 in       the UK, the USA (Carnegie Hall) and Germany, as well as broadcasts on BBC       Radio 3 and New York Public Radio (WQXR).
It has been issued on partial       (Dunelm DRD0243) and complete (Hyperion CDA67360) commercial recordings:       recognition of the latter, although pre-2008, as Gramophone Record       of the Month and Sunday Times Disk of the Week undoubtedly       strengthened its impact within the assessment period.
Ronald Haak's Amazon       customer review of the complete CD, from 2013, illustrates the work's       enduring appeal to the non-specialist: `I get a big kick out of this       album.
It uses the original score very respectfully to give us the grounds       for cavorting around and murmuring "w-o-o-o, I didn't look for THAT to be       in there!"
while it lightens our steps around the house...Simple listening       wins me over.
Lots of originality and high spirits.
And the 2nd CD is       free, so it's not a terribly big gamble for breaking into responsibly       charted new territory, is it?'
(Section 5b, dated 21.V.13).
The German       performances post-2008 were of a ballet version of the work (choreographed       by Nacho Duata for Compania Nacional de danza de Madrid), further       broadening the impact of this work by bringing it to an audience beyond       the concert hall.
Gilded Goldbergs' basis on such a famous       and canonic pillar of Western art music &#8212; and one that even amateur       pianists may access directly through playing &#8212; further enhances its reach.
Since 2008, Holloway's orchestral transcription of Debussy's two-piano       work En Blanc et Noir has been performed on seven occasions       (several of which were broadcast on the radio) by five separate orchestras       in Holland, France, Spain, the UK and the US.
Reviewers' comments pinpoint       the qualities that ensure its accessibility to non-specialist listeners:       `The initial opulence of Holloway's orchestration gives way to growling       darkness, followed by an uncertain scherzo: unnerving music, beautifully       done.'
(The Guardian [Section 5c], dated 3.II.12); `The British       composer has recast it with the &#233;lan of a master orchestrator...By the       time Holloway reached the extended central Lento the work's origins were       forgotten and a shining coloration had taken hold' (Classical Source       [Section 5d], dated 2.II.12).
C'est l'extase and Reliquary are       orchestrations of songs by Debussy and Schumann to which Holloway has       added linking sections for orchestra.
Both received high-profile       premieres.
In the case of C'est l'extase, the soloist was       Ren&#233;e Fleming, an artist whose every performance attracts huge attention,       which added significantly to the reach of this work: `Fleming captivated       from the first phrases of `C'est l'extase.
'...Holloway's orchestrations       usher you in, linking the songs, illuminating the view and affording the       soloist a spacious backdrop' (Section 5e, dated 9.I.13).
The San         Francisco Chronicle described the work as `a beautiful and often       imaginative treatment of familiar material...Holloway's treatment offered       a revelatory exploration of Debussy's musical style' (Section 5f, dated       11.I.13).
The BBC Proms premiere of Reliquary also prompted       re-evaluation of Schumann's original song cycle: `These songs have been so       undervalued!...The song cycle appeared transformed' (Section 5g, dated       9.IX.10).
This illustrates how, beyond its direct impact, Holloway's music       exercises another kind of indirect impact: it changes the way in which       familiar items of the classical repertory are experienced.
The same applied to Holloway's Fifth Concerto for Orchestra,       which references several other works, in particular Schoenberg's Five       Orchestral Pieces.
Again this strongly colours listeners' perceptions of       the music: `To enter Holloway's imaginative world is to delve into an       encyclopaedia.
There's a large (and acknowledged) debt to Schoenberg here,       but also echoes of Strauss, Ligeti, even Holst.
Similarly, the harmonic       spectrum veers from dark atonality to perky major-chord endings' (Section       5h, dated 8.VIII.11); `The piece...relishes orchestral textures,       superimposing them in densely woven layers.
Schoenberg's Five         Orchestral Pieces are an acknowledged influence.
But rather than the       confrontationalism of that gritty masterpiece, the idiom is closer to the       post-impressionism of Ravel, Zemlinsky and even Bax.
That makes for five       aurally beguiling studies ...a richly rewarding set of orchestral       tableaux, and a fine vehicle for the BBC Scottish to show its agility and       refinement' (Section 5i, dated 5.VIII.11).
The `Composing China' project, for which the orchestral work In China       was commissioned, was organised by the NCPA.
Five composers were invited       to write new orchestral pieces in response to two weeks spent travelling       in the country.
Holloway began working on his contribution immediately,       with all the material in the piece being in place by September 2012, as       well as some of the orchestration.
In addition to the live performance       itself (at the prestigious closing concert of the NCPA's Spring season       2013), which was heard by around 1600 people, the screening of a two-part       television documentary bears witness to its cultural importance and       extraordinary reach: this was shown on 9.IV.12 and 7.IV.13 on Fenghuang       weishi (Phoenix TV &#8212; a network with an estimated global audience of 300       million worldwide, including 150 million in mainland China [Section 5j]).
In China formed part of a very high-profile intercultural initiative       and so had a political significance beyond the purely musical.
It also had       considerable impact as the first exposure of Holloway's work and ideas to       a mass audience in a country (and beyond this, a global Chinese community)       where they had been hitherto unknown.
