     The research described above has impacted performance and the       understanding of performance       in complementary ways.
At one end of the spectrum it has brought to light       repertoire that lay       dormant for centuries.
Rankin's work on the Winchester Troper has resulted       not only in       transcriptions of long-neglected pieces but also, crucially, in better       understanding of how they       could be performed.
Since 2008 this body of knowledge has been made       available through editions,       recordings and public performances.
Building on the experience gained       through Ensemble Gilles       Binchois's landmark concert in honour of Edward the Confessor (Westminster       Abbey, 2005),       Rankin has worked within the assessment period with two further       internationally renowned groups,       Dialogos and Ensemble Discantus, greatly expanding the range of the       Winchester polyphonies to       have been disseminated in concert.
A recording of Winchester repertory       issued by Dialogos in       2009 (Abbo abbas; Ambronay Editions, AMY 017) was elected best       Early Music CD of 2009 by       Audio           Cl&#225;sica; Fanfare (January/February 2010 issue; see       Section 5a) described it as `not to be       missed'.
Rankin provided transcriptions for nine of the disc's twelve       pieces, only one of which had       previously been recorded.
In all, this programme has now been performed in       over fifty concerts       throughout Europe and North America in venues including Harvard       University, the Sorbonne and,       most recently, the Thoronet Festival (July 2013).
A further programme,       `Music for a King', first       given by Ensemble Discantus at the 2012 Ravenstein Festival, was broadcast       on France Musique       on 7.IX.12 and recorded early in 2013 for release on the aeon       label; it has already been given ten       times in concert, in venues including the Mus&#233;e de Cluny, Paris, while       extracts have been       disseminated on YouTube (Section 5b) and Facebook (Section 5c).
Winchester       polyphonies have       also been the focus of a summer course (July 2012; Fondation Royaumont,       France).
In each case,       Rankin devised the programmes, provided the performing materials, and used       insights gleaned       from her research to coach the groups in appropriate performance styles.
The director of one       internationally renowned early-music ensemble has written of Rankin that       `without her       transcriptions of the Winchester polyphonies and her generous work with       the performers, our       knowledge of the earliest roots of our medieval musical heritage would be       seriously incomplete,       and the concert audience in many countries would not have been able to       discover this important       musical repertoire' (Section 5d).
In short, Rankin's research has       revolutionised perceptions of       early-medieval sound worlds for both performers and audiences.
Rink's research has helped change perceptions not only of how music might       be performed,       but also of the nature of performers' interpretive choices.
In his case,       the focus has been on       canonic repertoire.
Rink's edition of Chopin's Second Piano Concerto       presents a reliable Urtext       based on a single `best source', while offering performers variants from       other authorised sources,       along with original fingerings and expressive indications; this achieves       both fidelity to Chopin's       intentions and the freedom of choice fundamental to his performance style.
OCVE is making       available for the first time a comprehensive body of primary Chopin       sources; by highlighting       differences between sources, it enables performers and teachers to       construct their own interpretive       approaches.
One eminent pianist has written: `I regularly use these       resources myself for preparing       performances, and refer to them internationally in masterclasses, as well       as hearing them referred       to in other classes by some very senior and distinguished performers'; he       adds that they result in       `informed performances [that] are increasingly heard worldwide, affecting       audience perceptions       and being passed on in turn to younger students' (Section 5e).
Both the       concerto edition and       OCVE have been the focus of presentations ranging from masterclasses       (e.g., Jerusalem, 3.I.10       and 4.I.10; circa 50 in the audience [hereafter `c.50' or equivalent];       London, 25.X.10, c.75) to       lessons to schoolchildren (e.g., Singapore, 25.X.12, c.40; Cambridge,       2010-13, c.80).
All of these       sessions began with a presentation on problems raised by Chopin sources;       tuition focused on       philological issues and on performance practice.
Rink also employed this       research while lecturing       in China (Shanghai Conservatory, 18.III.13 and 19.III.13, c.85; Nanjing       Normal University, 22.III.13,       c.120); Madrid (Universidad Complutense, 4.V.12, c.50);       Alcal&#225; (Aula de M&#250;sica, 5.V.12 and       6.V.12, c.25); Paris (Biblioth&#232;que Polonaise, 26.XI.10, c.80); Korea       (Seoul National University,       21.X.10 to 23.X.10, c.100); and London (Purcell Room, 6.II.10, c.300).
Chopin's symbolic       importance in Poland lends particular significance to the use of Rink's       Chopin editions in a high-       profile concert in Warsaw (26.II.10; also broadcast on Polish Radio).
Details about OCVE have       also been disseminated through `The Virtual Chopin', a fifteen-minute film       produced by Cambridge       University Communications Office in 2013 and accessible on YouTube since 1       March (Section 5f).
By the end of July this had already achieved almost 8,000 hits, attracting       comments such as the       following from individual users: `Reaching out this way is very beneficial       to the large audience that       otherwise would simply remain ignorant', and `I think this is a wonderful       new departure ...
Classical       music needs to attract younger generations[,] and younger people do not       have the same sort of       unquestioning reverence that older music lovers have' (comments dated       March 2013; Section 5g).
As explained on the project website (Section 5h), the research of Wickham       and Hawkins       integrates artistic practice with scientific method in order to develop       and apply cognitive       approaches to the perception of polyphonic music.
Enhancing understanding       of the psychological       processes underlying both polyphony and textual comprehension, this       research aims also to inform       compositional approaches to the communication of text through music; a       highly respected       composer and blogger described it as `some of the best interaction between       music and science       I've seen in a long time' (July 2013; Section 5i).
The first stage of       their work involved concerts and       presentations at Brunel (15.VI.11, c.60), Cambridge (28.X.11, c.120;       24.X.12, c.170) and       Huddersfield Universities (9.II.12, c.100).
These were built round the       performance of a new       composition, Roger Go To Yellow Three, with libretto by Wickham       and music by Christopher Fox       (Brunel University).
The work brings the research process into the concert       hall by systematically       manipulating performance parameters and assessing word intelligibility       through questionnaires       answered by audience members as they listen.
These responses feed into the       research, while the       project enhances public engagement with scientific research through the       medium of music.
The       research was featured in an interview involving Wickham, Fox and Tom       Service on Music Matters       (BBC Radio 3, 4.II.12, c.30,000).
Its success led to a second Wellcome       Trust grant (Large Arts       Award, 2012-14), and a new work and tests, Tales from Babel, with       a team led by Wickham and       Hawkins.
Collaboration with practising clinicians in a major hospital       centre followed a performance       presentation to the Addenbrooke's Hospital Audiology Group (24.V.13,       c.30).
The Head of       Audiology described the project as `a significant contribution in public       understanding of the ability to       hear in complex auditory environments'; he added that `the insights that       they glean are going to be       of fundamental importance in designing improved interventions for hearing       impaired people', and       spoke of `an ongoing conversation out of which it is intended that we have       a particular work stream       of collaboration, using music specifically designed for the benefit and       enjoyment of hearing       impaired users of both cochlea implants and sophisticated modern hearing       aids' (Section 5j).
Related performance presentations have taken place in Manchester (Wellcome       Trust Medical       Humanities Symposium, 23.IX.12, c.120), Cambridge (14.III.13 and 5.IV.13,       c.215), London (British       Neuroscience Association; 8.IV.13, c.35), and at the Cheltenham Festival       (7.VII.13, c.120).
Subsequent performances are booked throughout the UK.
These are expected       to reach a live       audience of 2,000 and a further 50,000 through broadcast media, social       networking, and online.
This process is currently being extended through a fully funded PR       campaign; the latter has       already included a discussion on In Tune (BBC Radio 3, 8.IV.13,       c.40,000).
