     Scott's core scientific research on family change, gender role       inequalities, and work-family balance has sought to communicate the       findings and their implications clearly and accessibly in order to       facilitate take-up by non-academics.
The accessibility of Scott's earlier       research was testified by an unsolicited letter she received from David       Willetts (16/12/04), the then Shadow Secretary of State for Work and       Pensions stating "I am trying to make sense of the debate about the extent       to which attitudes are shaped by the cohorts to which people belong or       alternatively shaped by the stage in the life cycle.
Your essay `Family       Change: Revolution and or Backlash in Attitudes' is one of the most       interesting and valuable studies of the subject".
He indicated that he       would like further information.
This led to a further correspondence and a       meeting to discuss related research, which he acknowledged as influencing       his own work in an interview for the BSA Network and by citations to       Scott's research in his 2010 book `The Pinch' (Section V:i ).
The ESRC Research Priority Network on Gender Inequalities in Production       and Reproduction (GeNet) had the critical mass to make a significant       impact on policy makers, government commissions, NGOs and charities, as       well as fostering greater awareness in the general public though media       coverage and use of knowledge brokers.
One of the things especially       commended by the ESRC Evaluation report (2011) was the extraordinary       interest that the purposive GeNet (www.genet.ac.uk)       website attracted with over quarter of a million hits per year at its       peak, and which is now archived for future generations through the British       Library.
Scott as GeNet director co-ordinated efforts to ensure GeNet research was       used by Government Commissions and NGOs.
One of the key issues for       evidence based research concerned the factors that underpinned the gender       pay gap and what could be done to ameliorate such inequalities.
For       example Scott provided evidence in for the 2006 Women and Work Commission       which emphasised the persistent constraints of childcare and domestic       labour that impede gender equality in employment; the same issues were       picked up in the 2009 Report on `Shaping a Fairer Future' which reviewed       progress on the Commission's recommendations, three years on (Section         5:ii).
Scott co-organised with the Women and Equality Unit a       conference held at the Department of Trade and Industry on Women and       Employment (over 150 participants) to mark the 25th Anniversary       of the Women and Employment Survey in 2005, emphasising the overwhelming       research evidence for the importance of mandatory pay disclosure.
The       subsequent impact and success of the cumulative research evidence on       mandatory pay has been mixed, in part because of the change in Government.
However, the Equality Bill (2010) does make provision for mandatory pay       disclosure in Section 28 (albeit that this has still to be implemented by       the Coalition government).
It is an issue that the Equality and Human       Rights Commission continues to press; EHRC reports cite various GeNet       publications, including work that is relevant to the research evidence       base that underpinned their inquiry into gender discrimination in the       financial sector, where pay gaps are marked (Section V: viii).
GeNet was very successful in media dissemination and public engagement in       ways that sparked new public debate.
The University of Cambridge's       External Communication team provide support to publicise the Network's       research.
After a press release on `Gender Equality on the slide' (2008),       Scott gave interviews on the BBC World Service (with the current President       of Liberia, Africa's first female elected president), BBC Radio 4 and over       15 local radio stations &#8212; several of which encouraged `phone-ins' and       `bloggings' to debate `the changing gender roles of women and men' (Section         V: iv).
Scott also took part in a Cambridge Festival of Ideas       seminar about the Long Term Legacy of the Recession which was recorded as       a Guardian podcast; and discussed gender inequalities with a sold-out       audience of 100 at the Guardian sponsored Hay-on Wye Festival (May 2010       and May 2012).
Evidence that such outreach sponsors new public debate can       be found in its reporting on Mumsnet blogs (Section V: v) and by       reference in popular books on current affairs/parenting e.g.
Shattered       by Rebecca Asher 2011; Half-a Wife by Gaby Hinsliff 2012 (Section         V: vi).
Another important way of reaching the public was through working with       independent charity organisations.
Scott was invited to give a plenary       address to the Family and Parenting Institute's Annual conference at       Church House (in 2009), along with Ed Balls the then Secretary of State       for Children, Schools and Families), stressing the social costs of gender       inequalities in parenting.
The address has been made available on Youtube,       with 135 viewings (Section V: iii)     The international impact of the GeNet research is evident from the award       of a further grant (2008-9) from the European Commission to identify       institutional `best practice; for the promotion of gender equality in       science.
The grant led to identification of `best practice' guidelines to       evaluate schemes whereby higher education and research organisations are       seeking to reduce gender inequalities e.g.
Athena SWAN awards (Section         V:vii ).
