     The impact of this research is evident in four main areas:     1 The research has been actively taken up by professionals and       practitioners in the       publishing industry as well as by governments and used as a key resource       for reflecting on       business practices and strategies and developing policies.
Books in         the Digital Age and the article       in the Chronicle for Higher Education in the US, `Survival       Strategies for Academic Publishing', were       much discussed by senior managers in the university presses and other       academic publishers       [sources 1, 2]; they had an impact both on the strategic thinking of       university presses and on the       understanding and practices of editors: `It definitely changed my       awareness', said the Editor-in-Chief       at Oxford University Press; `at conferences and on campus visits, I lay       out Thompson's       thesis constantly to scholars wondering about the role of commercial       publishers in the scholarly       publishing world, particularly with regard to works of original       scholarship'.
Merchants of Culture       has been widely read and discussed by professionals working in trade       publishing and is seen by       many as the best guide to understanding their industry.
For example, Sealy       Yates, a literary agent,       describes it as `a must-read for anyone currently working in any position       in trade publishing.'
Thompson is often invited to present the main findings of his research to       meetings of the main       professional bodies and events in Britain, Europe and Latin America.
He       gave keynote       presentations at the 34th and 37th Buenos Aires Book       Fairs (2008, 2011), the Bienal do Livro de       Sao Paulo (2010), the Swedish publishers association (2011), the Danish       publishers association       (2011), a gathering of the leading Norwegian publishers (2011), the annual       conference of the       Independent Publishers Group in the UK (2012) and a conference with key       figures in the Brazilian       publishing industry (May 2013).
HIs work has been taken up and used by       many publishing houses       in different countries to inform and shape their strategic thinking.
For       example, a Director of       Gyldendal, the largest publisher in Denmark, said: `Publishers in Denmark       have read with great       interest John Thompson's unique and important books on publishing, which       have become key       reference points for those of us who work in the industry...
It is       relatively easy to apply Thompson's       analysis in actual practice, not least because he establishes a precise       terminology and conceptual       framework that enable us as publishers to understand better and more       clearly what we do.
This in       itself is very valuable, because you have to be able to form a clear and       accurate view of what you       are doing at the moment in order to be able to change and adapt to a new       and emerging reality'       [source 3].
Thompson was invited to give a presentation to senior managers       at Aschehoug, one of       the largest publishers in Norway, after which the CEO said: `We have       bought a number of copies of       Merchants of Culture for key staff in our house, for our board and       for our owners.
Your work has       had, and continues to have, an impact on our way thinking about the       complicated mission of       running a publishing house of our kind.
It has been internalized in our       mindset so that we have it       as an important part of our frame of reference'.
The book has been used by       start-ups &#8212; both       traditional print publishers and digital publishers &#8212; as a crash course in       publishing.
The co-founder       and CEO of a leading digital start-up in the UK put it like this: `Your       book was a revelation for us,       providing exactly the insight that we needed to formulate our strategy and       to understand the       competitive landscape we were entering.
The book is essential reading for       everyone in the       company and I have recommended it to many of our digital publishing peers'       [source 4].
His co-founder       concurred: `Merchants of Culture is a very important practical       guide to navigating the shark       infested waters of the publishing world, and I recommend it to everyone I       come into contact with in       that benighted industry.
It is a rare combination of serious academic       research with actually useful       and directly actionable information.'
Merchants of Culture also       had a direct impact on, and is cited       extensively in, a report commissioned by the Norwegian government on the       position of small and       medium-sized publishers in Norway, Rapport om sm&#229;forlag, and a       report on book pricing       commissioned by the Norwegian Ministries of Culture and Education, Til         bokas pris [sources 5, 6,       7].
The report on book pricing, which draws directly on Thompson's       analysis of price competition       and the role of supermarkets in the UK, was discussed in the public debate       in Norway and was       influential in the development of the proposal for a Norwegian Book Law       presented to the       Norwegian parliament in 2012.
2 The research has also had an impact on related professionals who depend       on the       publishing industry, such as writers of fiction and general interest       nonfiction.
Many writers have a       limited understanding of the industry, even though they may depend on it       for their career and       livelihood.
Thompson's research has been welcomed by writers and writers'       organizations as a       valuable guide to the industry and a way of informing their actions and       understanding.
He has       been invited to give accounts of his findings in magazines that are widely       read by writers, such as       Poets &amp; Writers and Brooklyn Rail.
He was invited to       give the keynote address at the Annual       General Meeting of the Norwegian Nonfiction Writers and Translators       Association in 2011, which,       according to a leading authority on the book business in Norway,       `definitely was of importance for       authors' understanding of the situation in international publishing'.
Thompson has received many       letters from writers attesting to the fact that his research has changed       their understanding of the       industry and helped them to make better decisions and career choices.
For       example, a children's       book writer in Australia said: `Have just read Merchants of Culture       and finally been able to put       together all the pieces of the publishing industry that have been so       puzzling...
I can't tell you how       enlightened I am by your publishing insights.
I can finally make some       informed career decisions'.
A New York Times best-selling fiction writer wrote: `I've just       finished reading Merchants of Culture       and I wanted to tell you how much I enjoyed it...
Since I now have an       extensive publishing and       agent team, it is so helpful to know the demons that haunt them so that I       can both perform my own       role as author better and interpret more accurately why a certain piece of       advice may have been       imparted'.
And this from a poet in the US: `I have been a writer for 20       years and can honestly say       your book illuminated so much for me.
It has explained the marginalized       feeling I can sometimes       have as a writer and, oddly enough, it was comforting to see it so clearly       explained...
I hope you       will continue your study of this fast-changing field.
We, the writers,       need you to help us stay       informed and, as such, empowered'.
3 Thompson's research has been taken up by libraries and other       organizations that are part       of the book supply chain and key players in the information economy.
For       example, the Library of       Congress in Washington D.C. invited Thompson to be part of a small group       of 15 leading       researchers working on the social impact of the digital revolution to       advise the Library on the       development of a new strategic plan to guide investment decisions related       to the Library's       collections and services for the next 25 years.
Thompson presented his       analysis of the       transformation of the publishing industry and the likely future trends in       publishing and information       dissemination to senior managers at the Library of Congress in July 2012       and his analysis has       been incorporated into the development of the Library's Digital Revolution       initiative &#8212; `you have       definitely influenced our thinking', commented one senior manager at the       Library of Congress.
4 The research has also had an impact on public debates about changes in       the publishing       industry and the implications of these changes for literary culture and       the future of the book.
The       dramatic changes affecting the world of publishing have given rise to a       great deal of public interest       and concern, and Thompson is often turned to by the media as an expert.
Merchants         of Culture       has been widely and very positively reviewed in the general press &#8212; `A       superb history and analysis       of publishing and bookselling' (New Statesman, Books of the Year);       `The best account we have of       what happened to publishing' (The Observer); `authoritative' (The         Guardian) (see &#167;3 above for       further references).
Thompson has appeared on radio programmes in the UK       (Thinking Allowed,       BBC 4 [source 8]) and Australia (The Book Show, Australian Broadcasting       Corporation [source 9])       which reached large audiences.
His 2011 Adam Helms Lecture, sponsored by       the University of       Stockholm and the Swedish Publishers' Association, was attended by a large       audience in       Stockholm and was filmed and broadcast on Swedish television [source 10].
Thompson has been       interviewed on the BBC 4 Today Programme twice &#8212; once in relation to his       presentation on the       making of bestsellers at the LSE Literary Festival (February 2011) and       again as an expert       commenting on the merger of Random House and Penguin (November 2012).
His       presentation on       the transformation of the publishing industry at the Hay Literary Festival       in May 2012 was attended       by a large audience, as were similar presentations in New York (October       2012), Antwerp (March       2013), Lisbon (October 2013), Rio de Janeiro (November 2013) and       elsewhere.
Interviews with       Thompson have appeared in numerous newspapers around the world including       the Toronto Star,         La Vanguardia (Spain) and O Estado de Sao Paulo (Brazil).
Through these and other forms of       public engagement, many of which have been made available online,       Thompson's research has       furthered the public understanding of the social, economic and       technological transformations       currently affecting the oldest and one of the most important of our       cultural industries.
