     The study linking privatization to mortality created an awareness of the       potential role of privatization on health outcomes in the general public       and the economic policy community.
The main article published in the Lancet       was reported by over 200 media outlets globally.
These included including       key opinion shaping outlets for economic policy makers: the article was       debated in the Financial Times (by Jeffrey Sachs), the New         York Times (by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz), and in the Economist.
It was also debated by the general public on the NYT's website.
The       articles on pharmaceuticals in Poland reached a high position on the media       agenda, as suggested by both their widespread coverage in popular and       specialized media in Poland and the fact that in some instances they       formed front-page stories.
They were discussed by all major stakeholders       involved in developing pharmaceutical policy in Poland.
For example,       Stanislaw Karczewski, Vice-Chairman and a member of the Health Committee       of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, referred to the article on his       websites (Karczewski 2011).
The president of the Association of Innovative       Pharmaceutical Companies stated: `The report...is an important document       because it not only offers a diagnosis of the situation, but shows the       underlying causes.
What is key for us, though, are its conclusions and       recommendations' (Toczyski 2012).
The article was also commented on in the       official bulletin of the Chamber of Physicians and Dentists: `They [the       authors] seem to be saying to decision-and lawmakers in the field of drug       reimbursement: "We can see you, you are in a candid camera"' (Knypl 2011).
At the end of 2012, the Minister of Health announced the overhaul of the       Agency for Health Technology Assessment, which was criticized in our       articles.
It is of course difficult to prove that this step was influenced       by the publications or their coverage.
The article by King linking IMF programmes to Tuberculosis received       global media coverage and was viewed online 21,592 times, and downloaded       2,880 times (as of 27/09/13).
Kentikelenis' work that extended this       research to Greece has also received wide coverage in national and       international media, and has had an impact on policy and public debates.
His research formed the basis of an invited talk at a World Health       Organization conference that led to the formulation of the organization's       policy proposals to its members.
A Member of the European Parliament, Jo&#227;o       Ferreira, asked the European Commission: `The steep decline in living       conditions affecting the population of Greece is already being seen by       specialists as an authentic "tragedy", this term being used in a study...       headed by Alexander Kentikelenis...
Does the Commission intend to ignore       the social consequences of these programmes for much longer?'
The Greek       Minister of Health and various other officials responded to this work in       the press and in academic journals.
This work and the subsequent popular       pressure led to the introduction of policies designed to offset some of       the effects of the crisis.
Kentikelenis is now in contact with the social       affairs committee of the Greek Parliament and the WHO on these issues, as       well as with NGOs in Greece and other European countries that have used       his work to challenge government policies.
For example, a Reuters article       on Portuguese health policy reported: `Kentikelenis... said... "The       government will think twice now before cutting further in [health       spending].
Such spending has to be countercyclical.
People need it the       most in downturns, not when the economy is growing."'
Stuckler and Basu's book The Body Economic has received       widespread media coverage and influenced the policy debate.
The       influential FT columnist Harry Eyes wrote that this book is `a       powerful indictment of the unnecessary suffering and rising mortality       rates associated with austerity policies unsoftened by remedial social       programmes.'
Eyes continues: `I hope the finance ministers read it, and       try mixing with the ordinary people, who are the only ones who can bring       about economic recovery'.
A Guardian feature by Jon Henley under       the headline `recessions hurt but austerity kills' generated 420 public       comments on their website.
The charity Royal Society for the Encouragement       of Arts held a public lecture by Stuckler on `austerity kills' on 22nd       May 2013 which has had more than 1578 viewings on YouTube (as of       25/9/2013).
CNN picked up on the research, reporting `If austerity had       been a clinical trial, it would have been stopped.'
Stuckler has also       given much testimony on the health impact of austerity to legislative       bodies and international institutions including The House of Commons       (`Financial crisis and public health', United Kingdom House of Commons, 1       July 2009); and the World Health Organization (`The Body Economic', Oslo,       Norway, World Health Organization, Health system in times of global       economic crisis, ministerial conference, 16 April 2013).
