     The historical approach adopted and developed by Professors Bankoff,       Coultard and Haughton,       and their collaborators in other HEIs, has had its clearest impact through       three forms of       dissemination:     (1) Advisory Reports: the research yielded two reports       commissioned by local and national       governments.
Firstly, a contract report of flooding was prepared for the       Ministry of Agriculture and       Forestry in the case of the 2004 event in the North Island of New Zealand       ([i] in section 5).
This       contract report examined the social impact and community response to the       floods, particularly       evaluating the farm community's `vulnerability' and `resilience' in the       face of the worst flood to hit       New Zealand in 20 years.
Secondly, Hull City Council commissioned Bankoff       and colleagues to       form an Independent Review Body (IRB) to compile an Independent Report on       the June 2007       inundation [ii].
An Ofwat statement on this event noted how this Report       was critical of Yorkshire       Water and the way the Humbercare scheme (an investment in Yorkshire       Water's piped drainage       system and terminal pumping stations) had been implemented, and how       Ofwat's own report was       `committed to review the issues that the Hull Independent Review Body       (IRB) report raised,       including the changes made to Hull's drainage arrangements in 2001 and       more recent years and       how the system operated during the June 2007 floods'.
(2) Mass Media Coverage: A series of newspaper articles       popularised many of the ideas about       the need for taking a long-term approach to understanding social       vulnerability in the Philippines [iii-ix].
Most of the articles appeared in the Philippine Daily Inquirer,       the most widely read and       circulated daily newspaper in the Philippines with over 2.7m readers       nationwide and over 50 per       cent of market share [source: www.inquirer.com.ph/abt.asp       - accessed 24 Aug 2012].
In particular,       influential articles devoted to `learning to live with disasters' and       `building resilience and adaptation'       drew directly on Bankoff's research, as disseminated in his lecture tour       in the Cordillera region of       the Philippines in 2008.
Other opinions and commentaries appeared in the Philippine         Star and       Manila Standard, further extending the reach of the research       findings.
Similarly, studies of flooding in Manila have informed various newspaper       accounts, thereby raising       public awareness of the benefits of utilising historical analysis to       mitigate social vulnerability in the       face of natural disasters.
In one case, Manuel L. Quezon III, currently       Undersecretary of the       Presidential Communications Development and Strategic Planning Office       (PCDSPO), credited       Bankoff's research with correctly forecasting the areas of the city       inundated in the wake of       Typhoon Ondoy in 2009 based on historical analysis.
In another article on       the imperative of climate       change, Nereus Acosta, three-term Congressman for Bukidnon and       Presidential Advisor for       Environmental Protection drew upon Bankoff's research on the need to       understand the interplay of       `hazards and history' and to avoid being trapped by `a culture of       disaster' [x].
In November 2013, Bankoff contributed expert analysis to radio programmes       concerning the       preparedness of the Philippines for natural disasters in general, and       Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) in       particular [xi].
(3) NGO Fora: The historical approach to understanding social       vulnerability has informed the work       of NGOs in the Philippines, especially those focused on disasters.
For       example, Bankoff was a       keynote speaker at the `Forum on Opportunities and Challenges for       Disaster' held on 8 August       2008 at the College of Social Work and Community Development UP Diliman,       which was attended       by more than 80 participants drawn from various NGOs, together with       students and teachers from       different colleges and people's organizations, UNICEF and other       institutions [xii].
