     Public interest in the palaces and gardens of the now-defunct state of       Prussia has rendered Potsdam one of Germany's most popular tourist       destinations since re-unification.
The Friederisiko exhibition and       accompanying events have enhanced these attractions, and helped to       increase the number of paying visitors and overnight guests to record       highs.
The exhibition took place in the Neues Palais, Germany's largest       surviving eighteenth-century palace and part of Potsdam's UNESCO world       heritage site.
The Palais, which was opened for this event in its entirety       for the first time since 1939, was visited by 348,796 people (c. 50,000       more than had originally been estimated), making Friederisiko the       single most popular historical exhibition in Germany in 2012.
Biskup's       involvement was facilitated by financial assistance and workload       adjustment from the History Department.
His research informed the       projection of the exhibition to the public by the German media ([i] in       section 5).
The exhibition catalogue, with three chapters by Biskup, sold       15,590 copies and was made `book of the month' in October 2012 by       S&#252;ddeutsche Zeitung and TV/Radio corporation Norddeutscher Rundfunk,       Hamburg [ii].
Berlin's tourist agency, `visitBerlin', promoted the       exhibition and accompanying events as destinations, and major travel       agencies, such as Studiosus and Kulturreisen, organised special cultural       trips in close co-operation with the SPSG (http://www.studiosus.com;       www.Kulturreisen.de).
There were       particular tours for children, for whom a special website was designed (http://www.schloessergaerten.de/).
An interview with Biskup formed the basis of an article in the 2012 issue       of Reisewelten, the journal of the Brandenburg tourism agency, TMB       GmbH, to advertise the exhibition to potential visitors.
Many visitors       stayed for several days in the Berlin/Potsdam area, and the exhibition and       accompanying events are credited with an increase in overnight stays in       Berlin's and Brandenburg's hotels, despite the unusually wet summer.
For       the first time ever, Potsdam hotels and guest houses recorded more than 1       million overnight stays in 2013, an increase of 13.6%, while the federal       state of Brandenburg recorded more than 11.5 million overnight guests, an       increase of 4% [iii].
The re-staging of Frederick's `Carrousel' tournament       played an important role in the exhibition.
It was meticulously       reconstructed by the H&#246;fische Festspiele Potsdam GmbH, and staged       in July 2012 in a series of performances outside the Neues Palais attended       by 5192 visitors over four evenings, with 91% per cent of the available       tickets sold.
The accompanying programme booklet, containing an essay by       Biskup setting the tournament in its historical context, sold over 2100       copies.
Approximately 32% of the Carrousel visitors came from outside the       region of Berlin- Brandenburg, and travelled more than 50km to the event,       whereas 75% of those involved in the staging of the event came from the       Potsdam region, which thus benefitted economically from the Carrousel       [iv].
Biskup served as historical advisor, and delivered a public lecture       on the site before the premiere [v].
The media interest generated by the Frederick II tercentenary provided an       excellent opportunity to reflect upon, and reconfigure, the public image       of the king.
A range of media partners, notably the German national TV       station ZDF, regional TV broadcaster RBB, radio stations Kulturradio         RBB and Inforadio, as well as national paper Die Welt,       covered the opening of the exhibition and special events like the       `Carrousel'.
The attention generated by the tercentenary also included       coverage of Biskup's conference contributions by the German press [vi], as       well as of his research on Frederick II's aristocratic libertinism, which       was the subject of a dedicated article in the S&#252;ddeutsche Zeitung       in July 2012 [vii].
German press and radio also reported on the UK       Tercentenary lecture and concert in October 2012, which Biskup organised       with Katrin Kohl (Oxford) under the auspices of Oxford's Faculty of Modern       Languages.
Here, research on Anglo-Prussian relations was particularly       highlighted, which re-assessed the cultural preferences of the famously       `francophile' king [viii].
A significant outcome of this interaction with the media was a revision in       public perceptions of Frederick.
Whereas he had been afforded a central       role as the ultimate German hero in the jubilees celebrated by Imperial       Germany in 1912 and Nazi Germany in 1936, West German academics and media       used the 1986 anniversary of his death to highlight the problematic nature       of the policies he pursued through military aggression [ix].
This       deployment of his reign as a warning to the present, however, only turned       the earlier praise of `military virtues" on its head without changing the       framework.
The 2012 tercentenary events went beyond these perspectives for       the first time, and served to re-shape the public image of the king, while       specifically questioning if he had any relevance to contemporary Germany.
The S&#252;ddeutsche Zeitung noted how Biskup's `highly original'       research had contributed to shaping a very different image of the iconic       king [vii].
Reporting on one of Biskup's conference contributions, the Frankfurter         Allgemeine Zeitung pointed out that Frederick's sophisticated use of       ceremonial made him look very different from the conventional picture of a       military hero [ix].
By problematising as well as strictly historicising       the figure of Frederick II, the exhibition, accompanying events, and books       finally separated the king's historic significance from any `exemplary'       function for the present, and thus put an end to long- lasting attempts at       linking Frederick and German national identity.
This is particularly       relevant as, following re-unification, the staging of the 2006 World Cup,       and the fall-out of the financial crisis of 2007, a new German       `patriotism' is being discussed across Europe, and the question of its       historical `roots' is more prominent than ever.
The Frederick tercentenary       has contributed to the belief that a `return to Prussia' and `Prussian       values' is not an option [x].
