     Knowledge and understanding of North Atlantic fisheries and marine       environmental history       generated by the MHSC has impacted beyond the academy in four ways:     (1) Marine policy: the MHSC's main role in the HMAP and INCOFISH       projects was to develop       and manage a Data Store (www.hull.ac.uk/hmap),       which contains 28 datasets assembled from a       variety of historical sources by research teams working in over 25       countries across the globe.
The       data are served through the global Ocean Biogeographical Information       System (OBIS,       http://iobis.org/mapper/) and are       freely available.
Some 336 data downloads were recorded from       February 2012 to October 2013, while there were over 70,000 visits to the       web pages between       August 2006 and October 2013 ([i] in section 5).
The datasets have been       used for GIS mapping,       data manipulation and statistical review.
They are integral to the       `Historical Atlas of Marine Life'       hosted by the University of New Hampshire, one of the HMAP partners (http://hmap.sr.unh.edu/).
In       the context of the INCOFISH project, the datasets, together with the       MHSC's fisheries and       marine environmental history expertise, informed the development of policy       tools relating to long-term       fish stock measurement, ecosystem modelling, Marine Protection Area       regulation, taxonomic       recognition, international and EU specific legal instruments, and the       `Fish Ruler', a simple, highly       effective measuring device designed to dissuade consumers from buying fish       that is short of a       `sustainable length' because such purchases impair stock abundances now       and in the future [ii].
Such tools formed part of the knowledge transfer from North-West Europe to       South America,       South-East Asia and Africa that was central to INCOFISH.
The impact of       this transfer was such       that the EU identified INCOFISH as one of the 40 `success stories' (out of       10,300 projects) of its       Framework 6 initiative [iii].
(2) Heritage strategy: Research expertise in fisheries history       underpins the MHSC's role in the       Holderness Coast FLAG (Fisheries Local Action Group) programme.
Collaborating with a range of       stakeholder partners &#8212; East Yorkshire Council, Bridlington Harbour       Commissioners, East Yorkshire       Living Seas, Hornsea Museum &#8212; the MHSC leads the `Seawards Heritage'       project, which is       specifically designed to raise awareness of the value of the district's       heritage to contemporary       fisheries businesses, as well as highlighting the ways in which the       fisheries history of the       Holderness coast can realise the tourist potential of the area.
In       addition to contributing an       historical dimension to various of the sister projects, the MHSC has       devised an advisory report to       inform local government policy regarding the management of East       Yorkshire's heritage [iv].
(3) Expert testimony: Starkey's research expertise in fisheries       history was utilised in the       resolution of a legal dispute between the States of Jersey and the       Bailiwick of Guernsey in 2010-11.
Commissioned by the legal firm of Ouzantes, Starkey (with Professor       Richard Barnes, Law       School, Hull), wrote a 6,000-word report that was presented on behalf of       the plaintiffs to inform the       Court's decision as to the amount of compensation that Guernsey was       required to pay to Jersey in       respect of the illegal exclusion of Jersey fishers from Guernsey waters       during the 2002-2007       period.
This entailed analysis of the evolution of legislation and       customary rights relating to the       Public Right to Fish, which dates back to Magna Carta, and an analysis of       historic trends in fishing       effort and catch rates in the disputed waters [v].
Educational impact beyond the academy: the MHSC's research       expertise in fisheries and marine       environmental history has reached a range of public audiences through       various means during the       REF 2014 census period.
During 2008-09, over 3,200 people from Hull       community groups,       businesses and schools participated in events in Blaydes House, an       eighteenth century merchant's       residence that has been renovated and equipped to serve as the physical       base of the MHSC [vi].
Among these participants were schoolchildren from over a dozen primary and       secondary schools       for active learning workshops on the theme of Hull's historic interests in       the fisheries and whaling.
The `Far Horizons' website, which includes pages designed specifically for       schools, experienced       over 32,000 `hits' during 2009-2013, while the `British Arctic Whaling'       (BAW) has been accessed by       over 18,000 visitors [vii].
At least 50 fisheries and whaling history       lectures have been delivered to       non-academic audiences by Robinson, Starkey and Barnard since 2007 [viii],       while over 2,000       people viewed the exhibition of images on the theme of whaling and       seafaring created by       Hondartza Fraga (artist-in-residence) and her research collaborators       (Barnard, Starkey) [ix].
Robinson's fisheries history research expertise has informed a number of       TV and radio       programmes; for instance, he was historical advisor on "Who Do You Think       You Are" (Kevin       Whateley, great grandson of a fish merchant in North Shields), screened in       March 2009; historical       advisor, Channel Four programme on the impact of railways in Victorian       Britain (Hull to       Scarborough, presented by Michael Portillo); Historical Advisor and       Interviewee, "Available Light       Productions", a BBC 4 Programme on the Fisheries of Britain, part of a       short series on `The Sea'       [x].
